
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Griswold, B. J. (Bert Joseph), 1873-1927. The pictorial history of Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2013).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0997
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				FRONTISPIECE
				
			
			
			
				
					THE PICTORIAL HISTORY OF FORT WAYNE
						INDIANA
					
					A REVIEW OF TWO CENTURIES OF OCCUPATION OF
							THE REGION ABOUT THE HEAD OF THE MAUMEE RIVER
				
				
				By
					B. J. GRISWOLD ILLUSTRATED
					WITH HALFTONE ENGRAVINGS AND THREE HUNDRED PEN DRAWINGS AND MAPS
						BY THE AUTHOR
				
				
				ALSO THE STORY OF THE TOWNSHIPS OF ALLEN
						COUNTY BY MRS. SAMUEL R. TAYLOR
				
				CHICAGO
					Robert O. Law Company
					1917
			
			
			
				VERSO
				Copyright, 1917, by B. J. Griswold
			
			
			
				Introduction
				THE probability that the scattered fragments of the story of Fort Wayne
					otherwise would be lost to the children of tomorrow suggested the writing of this
					book.
				It is a narrative worthy of preservation—a story to inspire that true love of home
					which is the foundation of the purest patriotism and citizenship.
				The record begins with the appearance of the first adventurous Frenchman among the
					savages of ancient Kekionga and closes with the story of the departure of Fort Wayne's
					patriotic sons for the blood-stained battlefields of France, there to give their lives
					that the world may be made "safe for democracy." Three centuries intervene. The search for
					the actors in the great drama has uncovered many new names and heroic deeds; it is with
					pride that we introduce them now.
				If "the love of country is the highest and purest affection of the soul," let us implant
					that love in the lives of our youth through the re-telling of the story of the deeds which
					have made possible the blessings of today.
				The writer of this book came to Fort Wayne in 1903, "a stranger in a strange land,"
					knowing naught of the romantic story which soon was revealed to him through the study of
					written and unwritten fragments and the narratives of the representatives of the "first
					families." Someone, he felt, should gather these disconnected facts into a comprehensive
					whole. Convinced that the task might be deferred until too late to save the fading,
					crumbling records, he determined to make the work a personal undertaking—not with
					the impossible result of producing a literary treasure but with the hope that the desired
					end would overshadow the faultiness of the means of expression.
				With my earnest thanks to all the friends who have given unsparing assistance in the
					preparation of the book, I dedicate it to the service of a more firmly grounded love of
					home and country.
				Fort Wayne, Indiana, August 15, 1917.
			
			
			
				ILLUSTRATIONS
				
				
					PORTRAITS
					
							A
							Abbott, William T.
								442
							Allen, Colonel John
								201
							Anderson, Calvin
								390
							Aveline, Francis S.
								243
							Ayres, Dr. Henry P.
								354
						
					
							B
							Bailey, Peter P.
								351
							Barbour, Myron F.
								324
							Barnett, James
								247
							Bass, Colonel Sion S.
								457
							Bayless, Sol D.
								351
							Benoit, Rt. Rev. Julian
								356
							Berghoff, Henry C.
								560
							Bigger, Governor Samuel
								393
							Bird, Ochmig
								427
							Borden, Judge James W.
								341
							Bourie, Louis T.
								438
							Bourie, Mrs. Louis
								227
							Brackenridge, Judge Joseph
								301
							Brandriff, Alfred D.
								417
							Brenton, Samuel
								394
							Brooks, Dr. William H.
								358
						
					
							C
							Carson, Judge William W.
								285
							Case, Charles
								400
							Cass, General Lewis
								367
							Celeron, Bienville de
								47
							Chapeteau, Angeline
								176
							Champlain, Samuel de
								27
							Chapman, John
								371
							Colerick, David H.
								297
							Comparet, Francis
								247
							Croghan, Major George
								201
						
					
							D
							Dawson, John W.
								341
							Dawson, Judge Reuben J.
								310
							Denny, Major Ebenezer
								192
							Drake, Moses, Jr.
								458
							DuBois, John B.
								354
						
					
							E
							Edgerton, Alfred P.
								446
							Edgerton, Joseph K.
								386
							Edsall, Samuel
								267
							Edsall, William S.
								267
							Elskwatawa
								182
							Engelmann, Mrs. Archangel
								356
							Evans, S. Cary
								192
							Ewing, Charles W.
								262
							Ewing, Colonel George W.
								262
							Ewing, Judge William G.
								259
						
					
							F
							Fairfield, Captain Asa
								324
							Fay, Judge James A.
								442
							Ferry, Lucien P.
								307
							Ferry, Mrs. Lucien P.
								225
							Fleming, William
								417
							Fry, Jacob
								304
						
					
							G
							Girty, Simon
								77
							Grice, Jesse
								560
							Griffith, Captain William
								211
							Griggs, Mrs. Jane T. 
								285
							Griswold, Mrs. Angeline
								176
						
					
							H
							Hamilton, Allen
								259
							Hamilton, Andrew Holman
								446
							Hanna, Colonel Hugh
								271
							Hanna, Judge Samuel
								243
							Hanna, Robert B.
								193
							Harding, Daniel F.
								560
							Harmar, General Josiah
								98
							Harrison, William Henry
								211
							Heald, Mrs. Rebekah Wells
								178
							Hedekin, Michael
								310
							Higgins, C. R.
								193
							Hoagland, Pliny
								380
							Holman, Joseph
								271
							Hosey, William J.
								560
							Humphrey, Colonel George
								455
							Hunt, John Elliott
								192
							Huxford, Dr. Merchant W.
								306
						
					
							J
							Jenkinson, Major Joseph
								218
							"Johnnie Appleseed"
								371
							Johnson, Colonel Richard M.
								218
							Johnston, Colonel John
								169
						
					
							K
							Kamm, John J.
								487
							Kaough, William
								193
							Keil, Frederick W.
								193
							Kil-so-quah
								180
							King, William
								449
							Kiser, Peter
								353
						
					
							L
							LaFontaine, Chief Francis
								350
							LaSalle, Sieur de
								29
							Lasselle, Hyacinth
								71
							Lawton, General Henry W.
								455
							Little Turtle
								162
							Lotz, Henry
								367
						
					
							Mc
							McJunkin, Alexander
								425
							McCulloch, Judge Hugh
								316
						
					
							M
							Maier, John G.
								386
							Me-te-a
								180
							Miller, Edward C.
								193
							Miner, Byron D.
								327
							Morgan, Oliver P.
								316
							Morss, Samuel E.
								503
							Morss, Samuel S.
								394
							Muhler, Charles F.
								560
							Munson, Charles A.
								503
						
					
							N
							Nelson, I. D. G.
								327
							Noel, Smalwood
								274
							Nuttman, James D.
								452
						
					
							O
							Oakley, Chauncey B.
								560
						
					
							P
							Page, William D.
								193
							Parker, Christian
								316
							Peltier, James C.
								176
							Peltier, Louis C.
								176
							Peltier, Mrs. James
								176
							Peltier, William H. W.
								176
							Pontiac
								61
							"Prophet, The"
								182
						
					
							R
							Randall, Franklin P.
								346
							Randall, Perry A.
								561
							Reed, Colonel Hugh B.
								452
							Revarre, Anthony, Jr.
								176
							Richardville, Chief
								233
							Rockhill, William
								280
							Rockhill, Wright W.
								193
							Rudisill, Henry
								297
						
					
							S
							St. Clair, General Arthur
								114
							Scherer, Henry P.
								560
							Schmitz, Dr. Charles E.
								335
							Smart, James H.
								478
							Smith, William S.
								417
							Stapleford, Edward
								304
							Stockbridge, Nathaniel P.
								367
							Sturgis, Dr. Charles E.
								386
							Suttenfield, Mrs. Laura
								225
							Swinney, Colonel Thomas W.
								255
						
					
							T
							Taber, Cyrus
								241
							Tecumseh
								184
							Tigar, Thomas
								320
							Tipton, General John
								255
						
					
							V
							Van Geisen, Munson
								400
							Vermilyea, Jesse
								275
						
					
							W
							Wallace, Governor David
								405
							Wayne, Major Gen. Anthony (Frontispiece)
								123
							Wells, Captain William
								165
							Wells, Jane T.
								285
							Wells, Rebekah
								178
							Whistler, George Washington
								231
							Whistler, Major John
								233
							White Loon
								176
							Whitlock, Major Ambrose
								131
							Williams, Jesse L.
								320
							Wood, George W.
								335
							Woodworth, Dr. B. S.
								390
							Worden, Judge James L.
								400
						
					
							Z
							Zollinger, Colonel Charles A.
								405
						
				
				
					MAPS
					Maumee-Wabash Portage
						20
					How the Rivers Were Made
						21
					Where the Mastodon Roamed
						23
					Where the Mound Builders Lived
						23
					Three Main Water Routes
						26
					Earliest Maps Showing the Rivers
						28
					Where the First French Forts Stood
						34
					Where the Last French Fort Stood
						43
					Notable Voyage of Celeron
						49
					Revolution in the West
						69
					Northwest Territory
						79
					Where Miami Town Stood
						85
					Harmar's Ford
						99
					Map of Fort Wayne Site, Drawn in 1790
						100
					Harmar's Operations
						105
					Battle of the Site of Fort Wayne, 1790
						109
					St. Clair's Battlefield
						116
					Where St. Clair's Army Was Slaughtered
						117
					Map Showing the Movements of General Wayne's Army (1793-4)
						125
					Wayne's Route Along the Maumee
						126
					Battlefield of Fallen Timber
						129
					Wayne Trace
						133
					Where the Two Stockaded Forts were Located
						139
					Wayne County in 1796
						146
					Fort Wayne and Surroundings, Map of Major Whistler
						156-157
					First Government Survey of the Region of Fort Wayne
						160-161
					Greenville Treaty Boundary Line
						169
					Where Little Turtle is Buried
						177
					Where the Fort Dearborn Massacre Occurred
						182
					Captain Wells's Farm
						186
					Map of the Siege of Fort Wayne, 1812
						207
					Harrison's Movements Before and After the Siege
						209
					Where Major Jenkinson's Men Were Massacred
						220
					Indian Reservations in Allen Conty
						239
					Historic Spots in Spy Run
						241
					Original Area of Allen County
						252
					Riley's Map of the Military Tract
						262
					
					Original Plat of Fort Wayne
						267
					County Addition to Fort Wayne
						267
					Feeder Canal and Its Connection with Wabash and Erie Canal
						325
					Route of Wabash and Erie Canal Through Fort Wayne
						339
					Indiana's Vast Plan of Public Improvements
						342
					Territorial Expansion of Fort Wayne
						358
					Location of Ruins of Waash and Erie Canal Acqueducts in Fort
							Wayne
						382
					Pioneer Railroads of Northern Indiana and Ohio
						429
					Camp Allen
						458
					Fort Wayne's First Baseball Grounds
						468
				
				
					GENERAL
					The First White Man
						17
					Relics of Pre-Historic Man
						22
					The Mastodon
						22
					Remains of Extinct Peccary
						24
					Where the First French Forts Stood
						34
					Signature of Sieur de Vincennes (Francois Morgane)
						36
					Burning of French Post Miami
						38
					Where the Last French Post Stood
						43
					French Relics Dug Up on the Site of Fort Wayne
						52
					Steel Tomahawks
						54
					Scalping Knives
						59
					Sword Found in Lakeside
						68
					A Relic of the Indian Wars
						75
					Two "Turtle" Relics
						81
					Harmar's Ford Today
						99
					Grim Remainders of Harmar's Battle
						101
					Curious Relic of Harmar's Battle
						107
					Signature of Major Denny
						112
					Wayne Trace "Marker"
						133
					General Wayne's Camp Bed
						141
					Ruins of Last Blockhouse
						143
					Letter Written by the First Commandant of Fort Wayne
						145
					Andirons of the Old Fort
						146
					Two Wayne Relics
						148
					Wayne Coat of Arms
						148
					Buttons from the Uniforms of Soldiers of Old Fort Wayne
						151
					Wayne's Body in Two Graves (Letter)
						152
					Whistler's Drawing of Fort Wayne
						156-157
					Anthony Wayne Flag
						162
					Greenville Treaty Signatures
						165
					Signature of Captain Wells
						169
					Signature of Colonel Johnston
						169
					Governor Hull's Plea for Major Whistler
						175
					Little Turtle's Grave in 1860
						176
					The Coming of Angeline Chapeteau
						176
					Fort Wayne in 1815
						177
					Historic Old Apple Tree
						178
					Is This the Washington Sword?
						184
					The Home of Kil-so-quah
						186
					Signature of John P. Hedges
						186
					General Hull's Fatal Letter
						188
					Little Turtle Tablet
						190
					Signature of Lieutenant Ostrander
						190
					Signature of Captain Heald
						190
					First Brick Building Erected in Fort Wayne
						192
					Captain Wells's Letter Which Foretold the Savage Outbreak
						195
					Harrison's Call for Volunteers to Save Fort Wayne
						199
					Signature of Major Croghan
						201
					Captain Rhea Foresaw the Siege of Fort Wayne
						203
					When Harrison Said Goodbye to His Troops at Fort Wayne
						205
					Cannon Balls Fired from Fort Wayne
						207
					A Commandant's "Love" Letter
						216
					Where Major Jenkinson's Men Were Massacred
						220
					Chief Richardville Monument
						225
					Chief Richardville's Safe
						227
					When Whistler Rebuilt Fort Wayne
						229
					Mrs. Suttenfield's Table
						231
					Signature of Major Whistler
						233
					What a Very Early Historical Work Said About Fort Wayne
						245
					Last Council House
						249
					Signature of Dr. Turner
						249
					Signature of Alexis Coquillard
						249
					Charter of Wayne Lodge Masons
						253
					Judge William N. Hood's Commission
						257
					Presidents' Signatures to Fort Wayne Land Grants
						260
					Signature of John McCorkle
						262
					Fort Wayne's First Rocking Chair
						280
					The Story of the Fugitive Slaves
						291
					When Henry Rudisill Came to Fort Wayne
						293
					Rudisill Mill
						299
					Allen County's First Court House
						301
					"County Seminary" Receipt for Tuition
						305
					Fourth of July Invitation of 1834
						308
					Letter from a "Father of the Canal"
						312
					Canal Construction Contract
						314
					Early Copy of Fort Wayne's First Newspaper
						318
					Fort Wayne's First Church Building
						324
					A Newspaper Quarrel of the Thirties
						329
					Fort Wayne's First Bank Building
						330
					A Social Affair of 1835
						330
					When the Early Families Entertained
						332
					Hugh McCulloch's Record of His First Bank Salary
						334
					Rockhill House
						344
					Mayer House
						346
					Fort Wayne's First Public School Building
						346
					Chief LaFontaine's Chair
						350
					Courthouse Square in the Forties
						352
					Chief LaFontaine's House
						353
					Original Draft of the City Charter
						359
					Wabash and Erie Aqueduct at Fort Wayne
						364
					General Winfield Scott's Letter
						365
					Orff (Edsall) Mill
						366
					The Hedekin House
						368
					"Johnnie Appleseed's" Grave
						371
					Letter Written by "Johnnie Appleseed"
						371
					Why Henry Clay Could Not Attend the Canal Celebration
						372
					Daniel Webster's Tribute to the Wabash and Erie Canal
						374
					A Page from the Canal Collector's Record Book
						378
					Stoves of the Forties
						380
					Crumbling Ruins of the Canal
						382
					Private Currency of the Forties
						385
					An Order from Mayor Huxford's Court
						389
					Extracts from Letters of Henry Cooper
						391
					Grave of Governor Bigger
						393
					Plank Road Poster of 1849
						399
					Ruins of Locks of Wabash and Erie Canal
						402
					Methodist College
						404
					Junction of the Rivers in Civil War Times
						412
					Invitation to the First Railroad Excursion
						422
					Colerick's Hall
						425
					Souvenir of Fort Wayne's First Public Schools
						425
					Some Old Railroad Tickets
						427
					Original Clay School Building
						433
					Jefferson School
						434
					Fragment of a Letter of Colonel George W. Ewing
						435
					Reminder of a Forgotten Bank
						436
					Before-the-War Social Affair
						444
					Seal of the City of Fort Wayne
						449
					"Pennsylvania" Station
						454
					Aveline House
						457
					Fourth Court House
						461
					Operation of Trains in Civil War Times
						464
					Municipal "Shinplaster" Currency
						467
					Relic of the Wood-Burning Locomotive Days
						468
					Judge McCulloch's Commission as Secretary of the Treasury
						475
					First Hoagland School, Remodeled
						478
					Old High School
						482
					Entrance to "The Rink"
						487
					Old Fort Wayne, Drawn after the Model of Isaac Bush
						556
					Dr. Slocum's Conception of Old Fort Wayne
						557
					Fort Wayne Centennial Hymn
						559
					Reservoir Park, Scene of the Pageant of 1916
						561
					Fort Wayne Flag
						561
					Views of Pageant Grounds, 1916
						576
					Fifth (Present) Courthouse
						576
					Stirring Scenes of 1917
						577
				
			
			
			
				TABLE OF CONTENTS
				
					CHAPTER I. The First White Man of the Maumee.
						A Lakeside Fantasy
						17
					CHAPTER II. The Portage That Made Fort Wayne.
						The importance of an understanding of the word "portage"—Its value
							to the discoverer—How the Maumee-Wabash portage joined the Great Lakes to the
							Mississippi and the Gulf of Mexico—Resume of the story of the development of the
							"carrying place"—The Fort Wayne rivers—The great glacier—Pre-glacial
							man—The mastodon—Extinct animal life—The Mound Builders in Allen
							county
						20
					CHAPTER III.—1614-1682. Savage, Adventurer, Explorer
							and Priest.
						Ancient French records of the Maumee-Wabash development give us the
							story of the early days of exploration and the struggles between the French, the
							English and the Indians—Value of the records of the Jesuits—The Miamis and
							their allies in Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin—Kiskakons and Ottawas on Fort
							Wayne site—Iroquois, from the east, procure firearms and wage a war of
							extermination upon the Miamis and western tribes—Are forced
							back—Twightwees at Kekionga—Characteristics of the Miamis—Their
							allegiance to the French and latterly to the English—Coureur de bois—The
							Jesuits—Samuel de Champlain on the Maumee?—The earliest maps—La
							Salle and the never-ending dispute
						25
					CHAPTER IV—1683-1732. Kekionga During the "Golden Era"
							of French Rule.
						The peaceful mission of the French in the Maumee-Wabash
							valleys—Opposition to the encroachment of the English traders—The
							demoralization of the fur trade by the Miami-Iroquois war—Restoration of peace
							followed by the establishment of a stronger post on the site of Fort Wayne—Jean
							Baptiste Bissot, Sieur de Vincennes, and his great plan to "monopolize" the
							Miamis—Cadillac invades the Maumee-Wabash valleys—Tattooed savages at the
							site of Fort Wayne—Buffalo and bear—Francois Margane establishes Ouiatanon
							and commands Post Miami (Fort Wayne)—Vincennes founded—Margane burned at
							the stake
						32
					CHAPTER V.—1733-1749. The Last French Posts on the Site
							of Fort Wayne.
						Longueuil's troops at the head of the Maumee—The Chief Nicolas
							(Sanosket) uprising—Capture of Post Miami (Fort Wayne)—Its partial
							destruction by fire while Douville, the commandant, is absent—Dubuisson rebuilds
							the fort—The remarkable voyage of Captain Bienville de Celeron—The
							duplicity of LaDemoiselle, chief of the Piankeshaws—Bonnecamps describes the
							conditions at Post Miami (Fort Wayne)—Chief Cold Foot undeceives Captain
							Celeron—Raymond builds a new fort on the St. Joseph River
						42
					
					CHAPTER VI.—1750-1760. Surrender of the French Post
							Miami (Fort Wayne) to the English.
						Celeron assumes command at Detroit—Increasing alarm at Post Miami
							(Fort Wayne)—Raimond's cry of alarm—"No one wants to stay here and have
							his throat cut!"—The smallpox scourge—Death of Chiefs Cold Foot and
							LeGris—Captain Neyon de Villiers sent to comamnd Post Miami—The audacity
							of John Pathin—His arrest—Complaint of the English—Retort of the
							French—Two men of the Post Miami garrison captured and scalped—Langlade
							leads in the assault on Pickawillany—Death of LaDemoiselle—Cannibalistic
							red men—Surrender of Detroit ends the French rule in the
							valleys—Lieutenant Butler receives the surrender of Post Miami (Fort
							Wayne)—Ensign Robert Holmes in command
						51
					CHAPTER VII.—1761-1765. Massacre of the British at Post
							Miami (Fort Wayne)—Morris and Croghan.
						The beginning of the Conspiracy of Pontiac—Holmes warned of the
							plot—He discovers the war belt at Kekionga—Holmes betrayed to his death by
							the Indian maiden—Shot from ambush—Captain Morris's
							version—Survivors tell of the plot as planned and executed by Jacques Godefroy
							and Miney Chene—Welch and Lawrence, the traders, and their account of the
							murder—Ouiatanon falls—Morris at Pontiac's camp—He reaches the site
							of Fort Wayne—Captured and thrown into the fort—Tied to the stake to be
							tortured—Saved by Chief Pecanne—Escapes to the fort—Colonel
							Bradstreet's expedition—Savages bring in the white captives—Colonel George
							Croghan reaches the site of Fort Wayne
						57
					CHAPTER VIII.—1766-1779. Miami Town (Fort Wayne) and
							the Revolution.
						The savages renew their allegiance to the English—Sir William
							Johnson fears the Indians may aid the colonists—Would reclaim the site of Fort
							Wayne—Hamilton in authority at Detroit—Sends out scalping parties to raid
							the American settlements—McKee, Elliott and the Girtys—George Rogers
							Clark's brilliant capture of Kaskaskia, Cahokia and Vincennes—Celeron flees from
							Ouiatanon—Hamilton's army moves up the Maumee to the site of Fort
							Wayne—Conference with savage tribes—Valuable goods stored at the Miami
							village—Proceeds to Vincennes
						67
					CHAPTER IX.—1780-1789.
							The Massacre of La Balme—Washington Foresees Fort
							Wayne. French traders at Miami Town (Fort Wayne) advance the cause of
							England in their war against the American colonists—The Lasselles, Beaubien and
							LaFontaine—Hyacinth Lasselle, the first white child born on Fort Wayne
							soil—The village thrown into consternation upon the approach of
							LaBalme—His identity and mission—Inhabitants flee to places of
							safety—LaBalme confiscates the property of anti-American traders—The camp
							on the Aboite—Little Turtle leads in the night attack—Slaughter of
							LaBalme's men—Washington would establish a fort on the site of Fort Wayne
						74
					CHAPTER X.—1789-1790. Life in Miami Town (Fort Wayne),
							the Anti-American Center of the West.
						Extracts from the journal of Henry Hay, of Detroit, a British partisan,
							who sojourned in Miami Town during the winter of 1789-1790—The social life of
							the village—Savages bring in many captive 
							Americans—Others are tortured and scalped—Wild scalp dances of the savages
							in Lakeside—Little Turtle and LeGris—Religious worship among the whites of
							the village—People summoned by the ringing of cowbells—Richardville as a
							youth—His mother—Early merchandising described as a "rascally scrambling
							trade"—John Kinzie, the Girtys, James Abbott, La Fontaine and Lorraine—Hay
							would not risk his "carcass" among the "renegades" (Americans)—Prisoners at
							Chillicothe village—The town flooded
						85
					CHAPTER XI.—1790. The Battle of the Site of Fort
							Wayne—"Harmar's Defeat."
						General Josiah Harmar as a soldier—His mission to France—Is
							sent to expel George Rogers Clark from Vincennes—Benedict Arnold and Dr. Connoly
							disturb the west—Major Hamtramck sends Antoine Gamelin to the site of Fort Wayne
							to pacify the savages—Failure of his mission—Cannibalistic feast at the
							head of the Maumee—St Clair sends Harmar against the Miami villages (Fort
							Wayne)—Deplorable condition of the army—Reaches the Miami villages and
							destroys them with fire—Hardin's detachment led into ambush—A terrible
							slaughter at Heller's Corners—The army at Chillicothe on the Maumee—The
							retreat to Cincinnati halted to allow Hardin to return—Plan of the battle on the
							site of Fort Wayne—The fatal error—Slaughter of Wyllys's regulars at
							Harmar's ford—Fierce engagement on the St. Joseph—The retreat—
							Washington's comment
						98
					CHAPTER XII.—1791. St. Clair's Defeat Imperils the
							West—Washington's Apprehensions.
						Harmar's failure to establish a fort at the head of the
							Maumee—Consequences of the campaign—Washington summons St. Clair and
							outlines his plan—Generals Scott and Wilkinson and Colonel Hardin invade the
							Wabash region—Ouiatanon destroyed—St. Clair's army weakened by
							desertions—Poor equipment—Harmar predicts St. Clair's defeat—Forts
							Hamilton and Jefferson established—Army goes into camp on the fateful night of
							November 3, 1791—"The bloodiest battlefield of American pioneer
							history"—Washington in a rage—Savages rejoice and prepare for the coming
							of the next leader of the Americans
						114
					CHAPTER XIII.—1792-1794. "Mad Anthony" Wayne, Savior of
							the West—"Fallen Timber."
						Disheartening conditions in the west—Washington's
							problems—General Anthony Wayne chosen to lead the third expedition against the
							Indians—Washington's opinion of Wayne—Death of Colonel Hardin—Peace
							messengers tortured to death—Wayne trains his army and proceeds to Fort
							Washington (Cincinnati)—Joined by Harrison, Whistler, Lewis and Clark—The
							army at Greenville—British build two forts on American soil—Captain
							William Wells joins Wayne—The army reaches the Maumee—How Wayne deceived
							the savages—Fort Defiance erected—Blue Jacket leads the savages—The
							death of William May—Wayne's story of the battle of Fallen Timber—Sharp
							correspondence between Wayne and Major Campbell, commandant of the British Post
							Miami—The Americans destroy British property and vast acreages of corn—The
							result of Wayne's victory
						121
					CHAPTER XIV.—1794. The Building and Dedication of Fort
							Wayne.
						Wayne's Legion departs from the vicinity of the British
							fort—Incidents of the march to Fort Defiance—Illness of the
							troops—The final lap to the goal of their hopes—The army reaches the site
							of Fort Wayne—How the prospect impressed the soldiers—Wayne selects a
							location for the fort—Work on the buildings and the palisades is
							commenced—The "strike" of the volunteers—Wayne  urges haste to avoid the coming cold—Courtmartial of offenders—Corporal
							Reading sentenced to death—The spy in the tree-top—Unruly soldiers steal
							beef—Wayne well pleased with the fort—An account of the
							dedication—Colonel Hamtramck names the post "Fort Wayne"—Hamtramck is
							given command of the post—Destitute condition of the troops—Wayne's "shoe"
							order—Departs for Greenville—His letter to General Knox
						138
					CHAPTER XV.—1794-1805. The Fort in the Wilderness.
						Colonel Hamtramck and the incorrigible troops at Fort Wayne—The
							chiefs sue for peace—A winter of suffering—Wayne prepares for the treaty
							council—Little Turtle pleads for the retention of the site of Fort Wayne and the
							Maumee-Wabash portage—Wayne's diplomatic refusal—The treaty
							signed—Wayne's departure—Visits the president—Sent to
							Detroit—His death—Starving Indians at Fort Wayne—Hamtramck goes to
							Detroit—Major Thomas Pasteur succeeds to the command of Fort
							Wayne—Conditions during his administration of affairs—Colonel Hunt
							commands Fort Wayne—Birth of John Elliott Hunt—Marriage of Miss Ruthie
							Hunt and Dr. Abraham Edwards—Colonel Hunt transferred to Detroit—Captain
							John Whipple in command of Fort Wayne—Major Pike—Governor Harrison resents
							the activities of Captain William Wells—Would remove Wells from the Indian
							service—Colonel John Johnston, Indian agent—Wells and Little Turtle visit
							eastern cities—Quakers come to teach the Indians the art of
							agriculture—Fort Dearborn established by Major John Whistler
						150
					CHAPTER XVI.—1806-1812. The Quiet Before the Savage
							Storm.
						Tecumseh and "The Prophet" unite the savages in a conspiracy to destroy
							the settlers—Captain Wells reports conditions at Fort Wayne—Baptiste
							Maloch and Angeline Chapeteau—Captain Nathan Heald commands Fort Wayne—His
							romantic courtship of Rebecca Wells—Lieutenant Ostrander's letter—Congress
							gives Wells the present Spy Run. and Bloomingdale districts—Harrison's 1809
							treaty at Fort Wayne—Lieutenant William Whistler—Colonel Johnston's
							troubles—Captain James Rhea in command of Fort Wayne—His weakness of
							character—The celebration of the 4th of July, 1811—The "big elm"—The
							battle of Tippecanoe—Savages deceive Colonel Johnston—He is succeeded by
							Major Stickney—War against England is declared—Rhea foresees Indian
							war—The death of Little Turtle—The Fort Dearborn massacre—Stories of
							the survivors
						174
					CHAPTER XVII.—1812. The Siege of Fort Wayne.
						The massacre of the Fort Dearborn garrison and the surrender of Detroit
							to the British leave Fort Wayne in a position of peril—General Winchester to the
							west—Harrison's commission—How Logan, the Shawnee, saved the women and
							children of Fort Wayne—Me-te-a reveals the savage plot to Antoine Bondie, who
							tells the story to Major Stickney—Rhea scouts the idea of savage
							trickery—The murder of Stephen Johnston—Bondie foils the plans of Chief
							Winamac—"I am a man!"—Rhea, the drunken commandant—The siege opens
							with severity—William Oliver's exploit—Harrison's report to the war
							department—The relief army moves forward—Flight of the savages—The
							arrival of Harrison's army at Fort Wayne—The arrest of Rhea—He resigns in
							disgrace—Destruction of the Indian villages—The arrival of General
							Winchester—Harrison relinquishes the command and departs for Ohio
						198
					
					CHAPTER XVIII.—1812-1813. British Army Under Muir, Sent
							Against Fort Wayne, is Turned Back.
						Captain George Croghan at Fort Wayne—Revolt of Captain Ward's
							men—Winchester's rosy view of the future—Death of Ensign
							Leggett—Winchester's army puts to rout the expedition under Major Muir, designed
							to destroy Fort Wayne—Suffering of the Kentucky troops—General Tupper's
							disobedience—Harrison's inspiring address—The battle of the River
							Raisin—Death of Colonel Allen—The siege of Fort Meigs—Harrison finds
							Fort Wayne in peril—Colonel Richard Menter Johnson sent to protect
							it—Johnson's men massacred by savages within sight of the fort—Closing
							incidents of the war of 1812 in the west—Death of Tecumseh
						214
					CHAPTER XIX.—1813-1815. Jenkinson and Whistler,
							Commandants—Rebuilding Fort Wayne.
						Major Jenkinson in command at Fort Wayne—A savage attack on his
							convoy—Major Whistler succeeds Major Jenkinson—The Suttenfields and the
							Bouries—The residents of the fort—How the Fourth of July was celebrated in
							1814—Whistler declares the fort was "an ill-constructed thing at the
							first"—Purposes to rebuild the stockade—When John Kinzie's scalp was
							valuable—Hostile chiefs plan attack on the forts—Whistler fears for "the
							poor devils" in the Indian camps—"No whiskey, no soap"—Whistler rebuilds
							the fort—John W. Dawson's observations concerning the building and
							reconstruction of Wayne's and Hunt's forts—Description of the fort buildings and
							surroundings
						223
					CHAPTER XX.—1816-1820. The Evacuation of Fort
							Wayne—Wild Gatherings of Savages.
						Richardville becomes the most wealthy Indian in the west—Major
							Vose succeeds Major Whistler in command of Fort Wayne—Religious services in the
							fort—Doctor Trevitt and Lieutenant Clark—Vose builds the council
							house—The beginning of decisive canal activity—James Barnett and Samuel
							Hanna—The fort is abandoned by the troops—Lonely situation of the
							pioneers—Captain Riley's prophecy concerning Fort Wayne—Rev. Isaac McCoy
							braves the perils of western travel and establishes the first Protestant mission and
							the first school—The voyage from Terre Haute—Rev. Mr. Finney's account of
							the annuity distribution to the Indians—Unprincipled traders—Rumsellers
							described as "robbers. thieves and murderers"—Scenes of debauchery—Major
							Long's unkind description of the "worthless population" of Fort Wayne
						237
					CHAPTER XXI.—1821-1823. Platting the Town of Fort
							Wayne—Allen County Organized.
						Doctor Turner, John Hays and Benjamin B. Kercheval, Indian
							subagents—The first postoffice—Kercheval and Hanna, postmasters—The
							American Fur Company—Alexis Coquillard, Francis Comparet, James Aveline, the
							Ewings, the Hoods, William Rockhill, General John Tipton, the Swinneys, Paul Taber and
							others locate in the village—"Father" Ross—The first secret order, Wayne
							Lodge of Masons, organized within the fort—Why General Harrison blocked the way
							against the establishment of a town in 1805—The government decides to sell the
							lands about the fort—The land office—Captain Vance and Register
							Holman—Allen Hamilton—John T. Barr and John McCorkle—Robert Young
							surveys the original plat of Fort Wayne—Ewing's tract—Why the original
							streets run askew—Allen county is organized
						251
					
					CHAPTER XXII.—1824. Pioneer County Government—The
							First Lot Buyers.
						Settlers pour into the village of Fort Wayne—Arrival of the
							commissioners to establish the government of Allen county—Ewing's Washington
							Hall and Suttenfield's tavern—The first officials of Allen county—Grand
							jury activities—The first attorney's license, trespass suit, divorce case,
							naturalization grant, tavern license and marriage license—Barr and McCorkle's
							plat of the town is accepted—Valuable gifts to the county—The original
							lot-buyers—The county library—Fate of the institution—Wells's
							pre-emption is opened—The first brick building—A near-war between the
							Miamis and the Ottawas assists in the foundation of two fortunes
						265
					CHAPTER XXIII.—1825-1828. Beginnings of the Wabash and
							Erie Canal.
						How the authorities obeyed the laws—The first murder
							case—The log jail on the courthouse square—The debtors' prison a faulty
							bastile—The County Seminary—The canal "fever"—Judge Hanna reveals a
							plan to David Burr—The canal survey is authorized—Engineers succumb to
							attacks of fever—Judge Hanna in the legislature—Congress passes the canal
							bill—A close call—The "feeder" canal—An early lawyer's
							story—The first gristmill—Pioneer enterprises—A disastrous
							flood—The Ewings establish extensive fur trade—Fort Wayne loses the
							government land office
						277
					CHAPTED XXIV.—1829-1831. The Village
							Incorporated—"Underground Railroad"—The First Courthouse.
						The village decides to incorporate—The original town
							trustees—Laws governing the river ferries—Fort Wayne a "station" on the
							"underground railroad"—The slaves pass through the village—Earliest
							permanent Catholic and Protestant churches—The Big Leg murder—Keel boats
							on the Maumee—Trade over the St. Mary's—The government authorizes the
							state to sell the military tract at Fort Wayne—The doom of the old
							fort—Taber's addition platted—The first courthouse—Cheap rent at the
							"transfer corner"—The steamboat from Defiance—A cruel winter
						288
					CHAPTER XXV.—1832-1834. Canal Construction
							Begins—The First Newspaper—The First Fire Company.
						Congress and the canal—The Indiana legislature appoints a board of
							canal commissioners—Jesse L. Williams, chief engineer—Fort Wayne thrills
							with new life—Beginning of construction work is celebrated by the people on
							February 22, 1832—The awarding of the construction contracts—Opening of
							the canal land office—Construction of the "feeder"—The first newspaper,
							the Sentinel, established by Tigar & Noel—Hugh McCulloch—His first
							impressions of Fort Wayne—"The Phenomenon"—Pioneer mail service
						303
					CHAPTER XXVI.—1835-1837. Canal Celebration of
							1835—The "Irish War"—The First Bank.
						The canal is opened between Fort Wayne and "Flint Springs"
							(Huntington)—A gay Fourth of July celebration—Oratory at the "feeder" dam
							at the St. Joseph—The feud of the factions of Irish workmen on the
							canal—David Burr summons militia and averts a bloody clash between the
							"Corkonians" and the "Fardowns"—A hastily organized military company—The
							voyage by night to the scene of trouble—The belligerents
							disperse—Establishment of the first bank—"Four kegs of
							specie"—Charles McCulloch's story of the bank—A woman's description of a
							pirogue journey over the Maumee—Hard times in the valley—The first church
							structures—Early taverns—The first cookstove—How the pioneer rats
							came to town
						322
					
					CHAPTER XXVII.—1838-1839. Boat Yards and Other Pioneer
							Enterprises—Early Hotels.
						The state of Indiana "goes wild" over the internal improvement
							program—The canal begins to earn money—Early factories and boat
							yards—Names of some of the earlier boats which plied the canal—An estimate
							of Alexander McJunkin, schoolmastetr—"Rockhill's Folly," a step in advance of
							the times—History of the hotel—The Palo Alto (Mayer) house—Other
							pioneer hotels—Churches
						337
					CHAPTER XXVIII.—1840-1842. Fort Wayne City
							Incorporated—The First Officials and Their Work.
						The town votes to become a city—Franklin P. Randall prepares the
							charter—George W. Wood, the first choice of the voters to serve as
							mayor—The new city officials confronted by many vexatious problems—Rapid
							growth of the town—Canal troubles—Indiana's fatal misstep—The
							earliest bands of music—Building of the second courthouse—The organization
							of the Fort Wayne Guards—Establishment of the Fort Wayne Times—Joseph
							Morgan chosen to succeed Mayor Wood—The failure of them silk culture
							enterprise
						348
					CHAPTER XXIX.—1843. The Great Canal
							Celebration—General Cass's Address.
						The canal is opened between Toledo and Lafayette—The memorable
							Fourth of July, 1843—Commodore Perry's cannon booms a welcome to the
							visitors—The Toledo Guards—The parade—The exercises at the Swinney
							farm (Swinney park)—General Cass's memorable address—Peter Kaiser and the
							barbecue—The toasts—General Cass receives a "ducking"—Promoters of
							the celebration—The packets and the freight boats—Early boat
							owners—Passenger and freight rates—Henry Lotz. mayor—The first daily
							mail—Highway building—The first daguerreotypes—"Johnnie
							Appleseed."
						362
					CHAPTER XXX.—1844-1845. The Miamis, "Hunted Like Wild
							Animals," Taken to the West.
						Flooded conditions in the spring of 1844—The "Post" and the
							"Orwick"—The first land drainage—The removal of the remnants of Miami
							nation to the western reservations—"The trail of death"—Savages taken
							through Fort Wayne on canal boats—Deplorable scenes—Whiskey destroys the
							lives of many—The favored chiefs—Richardville "play safe"—John M.
							Wallace, mayor—William Stewart, postmaster—High rates of postage—The
							first Catholic school
						376
					CHAPTER XXXI.—1846-1847. Troops to
							Mexico—Methodist College—Concordia.
						Allen county sends three companies of volunteers to the Mexican
							war—Troops take their entire passage by water—Founding of the Methodist
							college—Its development and disappearance—Lutheran Male
							Academy—Concordia College—The Hedekin house, a well-known hotel of canal
							days—Merchant W. Huxford, mayor—The third courthouse is erected on the
							public square—Beginning of the end of the Wabash and Erie canal—"White
							dog," "blue dog" and "blue pup"—A story of disappointment and despair—The
							last of the waterway
						388
					CHAPTER XXXII.—1848-1850. The First Telegraph
							Service—The Scourge of Cholera.
						Fort Wayne secures telegraphic connection with the outside
							world—Chester Griswold, the first telegraph operator—Wire troubles—A
							week of "no service"—The cholera scourge brings death to hundreds—Heroes
							of the epidemic—The cause—The "black swamp"—  California "gold fever" is contagious—Fort Wayne victims—Some
							of the "Forty-niners"—William Stewart, mayor—Arrival of the steam
							propeller, "Niagara"—Samnuel Stophlet, postmaster—The earliest
							dentist
						397
					CHAPTER XXXIII.—1851-1852. The Building of the First
							Railroad—A Plea for Immigration.
						Jesse L. Williams suggests a great railroad project—The beginning
							of the Pittsburgh. Fort Wayne & Chicago railroad—Allen county votes
							financial aid—Construction work begins—The first
							locomotive—Discouraging failures—Tribute to Judge Hanna—A line west
							from Fort Wayne—Subscriptions paid in land and labor—The first railroad
							excursion to Fort Wayne—Banquet and speechmaking—Railroading before the
							war—The launching of the "H. H. Stout" A plea for immigration—The vote to
							exclude the negroes—Dr. Philip G. Jones, mayor—"Egging" the anti-slave
							editor—Court of common pleas—The earliest "bloomers" cause a
							near-riot
						408
					CHAPTER XXXIV.—1853-1854. While the "Free" Schools
							Fought for Existence.
						The discouraging beginning of the public schools—The first board
							of education and its problems—The opening of the first schools—Citizens
							vote against proposition—George A. Irwin—Schools close for want of
							financial support—E. S. Green and James H. Smart, superintendents—The
							first graduates—Charles Whitmore, mayor—The Hamilton bank—Colerick's
							hall—Wayne township library—Beginning of artificial gas
							service—Illuminating the streets—When Fort Wayne went "dry"—The
							first daily newspapers—First county fair—Origin of the name "Summit
							City"—A "roast" of the city market—John G. Maier, postmaster—Mad
							Anthony Guards
						419
					CHAPTER XXXV.—1855-1856. The Execution of Madden and
							Keefer—Workingmen's Library.
						Two murderers put to death in the jail inclosure—A tale of
							horror—The building of the Wabash railroad—The earliest
							photographs—The Workingmen's Institute and Library—Organization of the
							fire department—Major Curtis and his bank—Valuable storage—Horace
							Greeley's apology—Early slavery discussion
						432
					CHAPTER XXXVI.—1857-1859. "Regulators" and
							Criminals—Railroad Shops—Lindenwood Cemetery.
						Desperadoes terrorize northern Indiana—"Regulators" capture and
							hang Gregory McDougall "with order and decorum"—The haunt of the
							criminals—Kekeonga Guards, the Perry Regulators; the New Haven Vigilants, the
							Adams Township Rangers and the St. Joe Detectives—Samuel S. Morss,
							mayor—Charles Case, congressman—Bishop Luers and the Fort Wayne
							diocese—"Planking" downtown streets—Beginning of "Pennsylvania" railroad
							shops—Tollgate receipts—Lindenwood cemetery—Franklin P. Randall,
							"war" mayor—The first city directory—The city seal
						440
					CHAPTER XXXVII.—1860-1861. Ovation to
							Douglass—Knights of the Golden Circle—Enlistments for the Civil War.
						Vast crowds greet Stephen A. Douglas, opponent of Abraham
							Lincoln—The parade—Nature's amphitheater—Douglas pleads for "half
							slave, half free" policy—Opposition to the war—Knights of the Golden
							Circle—Patriotic demonstrations—"Indiana for the Union!"—The news
							from Fort Sumter—Allen county's pledge—  The
							first enlistments—Flag raising at the Wabash railroad shops—Hugh
							McCulloch's address—Camp Allen—Henry W. Lawton—An exciting city
							election—Building of the fourth courthouse—Troubles of the builders
						451
					CHAPTER XXXVIII.—1862-1863.
							Police—Baseball—The First Park—"Shinplaster" Currency.
						The homecoming of the dead—Enlistments for the war—Patriotic
							women and children—Political riots—The first police force—The
							beginnings of baseball—The development of the game—Joseph K. Edgerton,
							congressman—Old Fort Park purchased—The First National
							bank—"Shinplaster" currency issued by the city—Hugh McCulloch named by
							President Lincoln to serve as the first comptroller of the currency of the United
							States—Secretary of the Treasury—The success of his service—The Fort
							Wayne Gazette—The Aveline house
						463
					CHAPTER XXXIX.—1864-1866. Strikes and Early Labor
							Unions—The First Street Paving—The State Fair.
						The strike of the employes of the Pittsburgh. Fort Wayne & Chicago
							railroad—Troops sent to protect property—The earliest labor
							unions—The railroad men and the printers—Fincher, the
							organizer—Bitter opposition to Lincoln's policies—Helping the needy
							families of the soldiers—North Side (Lawton) park purchased by the
							city—Fort Wayne entertains the Indiana State Fair—The Pomological
							Society—The first street paving—James L. Worden, mayor—The original
							Kekionga baseball team—The town "goes mad" over the coming national
							game—The Kekiongas spread the fame of Fort Wayne—In the first National
							League—Peter P. Bailey, postmaster
						470
					CHAPTER XL.—1867-1870. A Den of Thieves—The
							Beginning of Hospitals—Building of Four Railroads.
						A reign of lawlessness—Burning of the rendezvous of the
							criminals—Henry Sharp, mayor—Beginning of three hospitals, Hope, St.
							Joseph and Lutheran—The criminal court—The first observance of Memorial
							day—Building of four lines of railroads—The disastrous flood of
							1867—The Fort Wayne Journal—Olympic theatre, Hamilton's and Ewing's
							Hall—"The Ghost at the Vault"—Wallace A. Brice and his history of Fort
							Wayne—Westinghouse and his airbrake—The Rink (Academy of Music)—J.
							J. Kamm, postmaster—Washington Haskell and his original bicycle
						480
					CHAPTER XLI.—1871-1874. The First Horse-Drawn Street
							Cars—Equal Suffrage—Free Mail Delivery.
						The first street car ride—Development of the original
							system—Organization of the first society for the advocacy of woman
							suffrage—Free mail delivery—Charles A. Zollinger, mayor—The fair
							grounds at the present Swinney park—Race meets—The Fort Wayne Light
							Guards—The town well a costly "hole in the ground"—Bishop
							Dwenger—The Lauferty and Cheney banks—The Fort Wayne Daily News
						490
					CHAPTER XLII.—1875-1878. Railroad Strike—Rival
							Medical Schools—Lawlessness.
						Industrial controversies precipitate a general strike of railroad
							employes—Mayor Zollinger reads the "riot act"—Officials in clash with
							strikers—Troops sent to quell the outbreak—Settlement of  difficulty—Rival medical schools and their
							differences—The grand jury's report—Grave robberies arouse alarm and
							indignation—First graduates of medical schools—Superior court is
							established—The great meteor—James H. Smart, superintendent of
							schools—Olympic (Bijou) theatre
						498
					CHAPTER XLIII.—1879-1884. Water
							Works—Telephone—Electric Lighting—Political Disturbances.
						The proposition to use the "feeder" canal as a means of city water
							supply precipitates a warm fight—Moses Lane's plan—J. D. Cook's plan is
							adopted—The first pumping station—The first telephone system proves to be
							a financial failure—The Western Union venture—Absorbed by the "Bell
							company—Development of the "Bell" and "Home" systems—Building of the
							Nickel Plate railroad—The first electric lights—Beginning of the Fort
							Wayne Electric Works—The execution of Samuel McDonald—Crowds prevent James
							G. Blaine and William McKinley from speaking—Rival torch-light
							processions—The Masonic Temple—Knights of Labor—The first
							typewriter—A world championship baseball game
						506
					CHAPTER XLIV.—1885-1890. Natural Gas—The State
							School—South Wayne Tangle.
						When Fort Wayne was a "natural gas" town—Wanton waste—First
							company formed in 1885 fails to find gas within the city limits—Citizens invest
							heavily in Salamonie company, which lays ninety-eight miles of pipe to convey gas from
							Blackford county to Fort Wayne—Charles F. Muhler, mayor—Beginnings of the
							plant of S. F. Bowser & Company—James B. White, congressman—The
							Robertson episode in the legislature—Founding of the Indiana School for Feeble
							Minded Youth—The South Wayne tangle—The first Labor day
							celebration—Daniel L. Harding, mayor—The first football game—The
							beginning of golf—Marvin Kuhns, desperado
						516
					CHAPTER XLV.—1891-1894. "Trolley" Cars—Strike of
							Street Railway Men—City Building—Public Library.
						Electrically-driven street cars supersede the horse-drawn
							cars—Development of the system—Slattery storage battery—Wayne
							Knitting Mills—The city building—Allen County Orphan Home—Strike of
							the street railway employes—Prominent deputy sheriffs—The public
							library—The new city charter—Chauncey B. Oakley, Mayor—Dedication of
							soldiers' monument—The Woman's Club League—The Wayne Club
						524
					CHAPTER XLVI.—1895-1899. Centennial Celebration of the
							Building of Wayne's Fort—The Sixth Courthouse—The First Automobile.
						Fort Wayne celebrates the one hundredth anniversary of the establishment
							of George Wayne's fort—The central committee—Perry A. Randall, general
							chairman—The parades and drills—The sham battle—Building of the
							sixth courthouse—Temporary quarters for county offices—The laying of the
							cornerstone—The first automobile—William D. Page, postmaster—Troops
							for the Spanish-American war—Memorial to General Henry W. Lawton—The
							Citizens' Trust Company—The first rural mail delivery
						532
					CHAPTER XLVII—1900-1908. Interurban
							Railroads—Commercial Advancement.
						he building of five electric lines gives Fort Wayne a place of
							prominence as an interurban center of the middle west—Henry C.  Berghoff mayor—Police court—Newton W. Gilbert
							congressman—William J. Hosey mayor—German-American National
							Bank—Lincoln National Life Insurance Company—Clarence C. Gilhams
							congressman—Municipal Electric Lighting and Power Plant—Anthony
							Hotel—Loss of twelve lives in the burning of the Aveline Hotel—Scottish
							Rite Cathedral—Cyrus Cline congressman—Robert B. Hanna
							postmaster—Activities of nine years of progress
						539
					CHAPTER XLVIII—1909-1915. Civic
							Awakening—"Indiana's Second City"—Track Elevation—The Flood of
							1913.
						Legislature authorizes Fort Wayne to proceed with civic
							improvements—Revision of park laws—The work of Charles Zueblin, Charles
							Mulford Robinson, George E. Kessler, Metcalf and Eddy and others—Growth of the
							park system—City Forestry Department—Fort Wayne awarded second place among
							Indiana cities in point of population—Jesse Grice mayor—The Boy
							Scouts—Weather Bureau—Art Smith, aviator—Elevation of railway
							tracks—The disastrous flood of March, 1913—The Rotary Club—The
							Palace theatre—The new county farm—Lincoln Highway
							celebration—Commercial, religious and civic advancement
						546
					CHAPTER XLIX—1916-1917. Indiana's
							Centennial—Coliseum—Y. M. C. A.—Troops to the "Border."
						Fort Wayne celebrates the one-hundredth anniversary of the admission of
							Indiana to statehood—The committees—The Industrial Exposition—The
							parades—Wm. H. Taft guest of honor—Harmar's Ford "marker"—The great
							Historical Pageant, "The Glorious Gateway of the West"—Donald Robertson and
							Wallace Rice—The six great scenes of the pageant—The Centennial
							Hymn—The Fort Wayne flag—Two companies of troops sent to the Mexican
							border—The Anthony Wayne monument—The Municipal Coliseum—Young Men's
							Christian Association building—History of the organization—Fort Wayne
							Anti-Tuberculosis League—"Fort Recovery," tuberculosis camp—Perry Randall
							fresh-air school—Erie-Michigan barge canal—Monument to Perry A.
							Randall—The "Johnnie Appleseed" tablet—The Vocational Public
							Schools—Infantile paralysis epidemic—The Presidential
							election—Strike of street railway employes—The Boy Scouts—Civic
							health parade—News—Rotary swimming pool—Nearly one hundred miles of
							paving—St. Joe river dam and park
						555
					CHAPTER L—1917. Fort Wayne's Answer to the Call to War
							with Germany.
						Patriotic response to the President's call to service—Fort Wayne
							military district leads the nation in number of men who enlist for the war—The
							Lexington Day demonstration—Resolutions of loyalty—Enlistments for the
							Regular Army—The departure of Battery D—Battery B, the second
							unit—Company E, First Infantry—Company B, signal Corps—Recruits for
							the navy—The Navy League branch—The Motor Reserve Corps—The
							Officers' Reserve Corps—Council of Patriotic Service—Allen County Council
							of Defense—Splendid response to Red Cross Appeal—Central Red Cross supply
							depot—Fort Wayne Red Cross chapter—The Red Cross hospital
							unit—Selective conscription registration—The "Liberty"
							parade—Registration of "Alien Enemies"—The "Liberty" bond sale—Y. M.
							C. A. fund over-subscribed—Catholic War Fund—The "War" gardens—The
							adoption of "Eastern" time—War activities—Conclusion
						571
					The Story of the Townships of Allen County
						587
					Index
						707
				
			
		
		
			
			
				THE PICTORIAL HISTORY OF FORT WAYNE
				
					CHAPTER I. The First White Man of the Maumee.
					A LAKESIDE FANTASY.
					WHEN, three centuries ago, the naked, painted savage, paddling his
						bark canoe with the flow of the St. Mary's turned his course into the counter-current of
						the St. Joseph, and there greeted his feather-bedecked brother approaching from the
						northward, he displayed in triumph the fruits of the hunt and challenged the other to
						show evidence of superior skill with the bow.
					The challenge was never answered.
					
						THE FIRST WHITE MAN.
						The illustration of the "coureur de bois," or wood-ranger, is after a drawing by
							Frederick Remington, which appears in Vol. II of President Woodrow Wilson's "A History
							of the American People." It is reproduced by permission of the publishers, Harper
							& Brothers. The first white man to paddle his canoe along the south shore of Lake
							Erie and thence up the unexplored Maumee was doubtless of this reckless, adventurous
							type.
					
					With simultaneous movement, each nimble-witted son of the forest grasped his weapon and
						turned in alarm to behold a sight new and terrifying. To the southward, rounding a bend
						in the Maumee, scarce an arrow-shot distant, appeared a strange canoe. The Kiskakons1—for they were of that
						ancient clan—were not concerned in the movements of the two red men at the paddles
						of the mysterious craft. It was the third man whose appearance brought the quick
						heartbeat and threw over them a spell of silence. Slowly the canoe lessened the distance
						which separated it from the attentive Kiskakons. Suddenly the watchers were brought to a
						sense of danger; but the savages in the  approaching canoe
						dispelled momentary fears by standing, with outstretched arms, while they proclaimed in
						resounding calls that the mission of the visitors was one of peace and friendship. The
						people of the Kiskakon village, startled by the commotion, approached cautiously and
						marvelled at the sight of the stranger. He was clothed in garments of unknown material;
						he carried in his hand a thing of steel and wood—his substitute for bow and
						arrow—but, above all, he was of a strange and unknown race. His face seemed white
						in comparison with those of his inspectors, and his light brown hair and blue eyes
						proclaimed him to be a visitor from afar.
					At last—after the lapse of untold centuries—The First White Man had
						arrived!
					To the wild people of the forest he appeared as a messenger from the gods. He might
						have been; but he wasn't. He was, in truth, the advance spirit of destruction—the
						forerunner of the hordes of the whites who would one day, with magic power, tear the
						boundless wilderness from the grasp of the Red Man and scatter the remnants of his
						people to the obscure corners of the earth.
					As he stepped ashore and bestowed upon the wondering savages his gifts of sparkling
						beads and bits of shining metals, The First White Man saw before him not the beautiful
						place of homes which we call Lakeside, but only the smoke rising from the fires of the
						village of the Kiskakons, hidden by the trees and the high banks of the river. He heard
						not the "honk-honk" of the whizzing automobile or the "clang-clang" of the
						pay-as-you-enter trolley car, but only the intermingling of unknown tongues and the call
						of the wild fowl.
					His mission?
					To seek a refuge from civilization—to find a home among the savages—to
						remain a while; perchance to wed an Indian belle—to seek a new place of abode
						whenever he chose to think that the power of the law "away back there" in New France
						might seek to grasp him and return him for punishment for his misdeeds—to live the
						care-free life of the wilderness—to become a savage in all but color. He was of
						the type of the men who occupy an important place in the story of the frontier—the
						coureur de bois, or wood-ranger.
					His name?
					What matters it? He was but one of many of his kind. But he was the first—the
						very first—and his coming marks the beginning of the narrative of the thousands of
						men and women whose lives make up the story of Fort Wayne. But, to gain the truth,  we must know something of the land to which The First White
						Man came, for, until we do, we can neither judge of his environments nor account for his
						deeds.
					NOTE ON CHAPTER I.
					(1) The Kiskakons, the "Short-Tailed Bear"
						clan of the Ottawas, doubtless had a village on the site of the present Lakeside (Fort
						Wayne) antedating the Miami occupation. Dr. Reuben G. Thwaite believes that the word
						Kekionga, by which the settlement was known at a later period, is a revision of the word
						Kiskakon, or Kichkagon, which means "to cut," referring, he believes, to the abbreviated
						tail of the bear for which the clan was named. (See "Jesuit Relations," vol, xxxiii,
						page 273; Fort Wayne Public Library). Jacob P. Dunn, the Indian historian, says:
						"Kis-ka-kon means 'clipped hair,' and was given to these Indians because they shaved the
						sides of the head and trimmed the remaining locks like the mane of a Roman
						horse."—"True Indian Stories," page 268, Fort Wayne Public Library. "Kiskakon
						signifies 'cut tails.'"—Pierre Margry.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER II. The Portage That Made Fort Wayne.
					The importance of an understanding of the meaning of the word, "portage"—Its
						value to the discoverer—How the Maumee-Wabash portage joined the Great Lakes to
						the Gulf of Mexico—Resume of the story of the development of the "carrying
						place"—The Fort Wayne rivers—The great glacier—Pre-glacial
						man—The mastodon—Extinct animal life—The Mound Builders in Allen
						county.
					THE STORY of the beginnings of the city of Fort Wayne is the record
						of the most famous portage in America. Though the word portage has found no place in our
						present-day speech, it throbs with lively interest on the very instant we grasp its
						meaning; for the mere mention of it brings to our imagination the phantom pageant of the
						explorer and the adventurer, the black-robed Jesuit Father and the blood thirsty savage,
						the 
							THE MAUMEE-WABASH PORTAGE.
							The student of the history of Fort Wayne must thoroughly understand the point
								embodied in the accompanying diagrammatic map which shows the almost continuous
								water route between the mouth of the St. Lawrence and the mouth of the Mississippi.
								The only interruption in this route is a stretch of land about eight miles in width,
								extending westward from the present city of Fort Wayne and separating the waters of
								the St. Mary's river from those of the Little river and the Wabash. In the centuries
								past, when the rivers and lakes were the only routes of general travel and trade,
								the site of Fort Wayne was, naturally, the great central point, for, across this
								piece of ground, or portage, were conveyed the canoes and the articles of trade
								belonging to the Indian, the French and the British. 
								French and English soldier, and the trader and pioneer, who fade once again into the
								past as memory fails and we awaken to the reality of things as they are.
						
					Let us all, then, know the meaning of the word, that we may read the story with a
						common interest—the story of the land over which the stars and stripes have
						supplanted forever the colors of France and England and where the hum of the wheels of
						industry and the voices of happy children have taken the place of the clash of arms and
						the war-whoop of the painted savage.
					A portage, or "carrying place," is a pathway between two rivers coursing in generally
						opposite directions.
					In the days when the inland lakes and the rivers formed the highways of travel between
						distant points, it was a most fortunate discovery to find a carry place where the
						voyager could draw his canoe ashore, lift it to his shoulders and take it to a near-by
						stream, there to launch it and continue his way. The Indian tribe which controlled such
						a carrying place held a strong claim over its enemies in war and trade. The savages
						understood this and contended for it just as the whites who came upon the scene fought
						and struggled for a century to control the portage which marks the site of Fort
						Wayne.
					
						HOW THE RIVERS WERE MADE.
						The outline map indicates the general area of the great glacial lake which, as it
							subsided, left at its borders the deposits of earth and stone (moraines) which
							determined the courses of the rivers and made the site of Fort Wayne in succeeding
							centuries the battle ground of nations who struggled to possess it because of its
							commanding position.
					
					It is easy to picture the earliest white traveler as he accidentally enters the mouth
						of the Maumee,1 after coursing
						from the eastward along the southern shore of Lake Erie. Continuing on up the stream,
						his observation of the shore lines tells him he has entered a river, but this does not
						turn him from his determination to explore the region. Day after day, he pushes forward,
						until, finally, he reaches a point where two rivers—which we now know to be the
						St. Mary's and St. Joseph—join to form the river which has brought him on his way.
						And here he finds an Indian stronghold, the ancient village of the Kiskakons, on the
						site of Fort Wayne. The savages point out to him the pathway which leads from the St.
						Mary's across the woodland and prairie to a smaller stream, called in later years Rivere
						Petite or Little river. He carries his  canoe across the
						six or seven miles of the portage, launches it, and finds that he is borne out into the
						Wabash, thence into the Ohio, and finally upon the broad waters of the Mississippi. It
						is natural to picture such a traveler—French, of course,—returning to the
						centers of civilization in New France (Canada) to tell of his discovery and to spread
						the news of the great abundance of fur-bearing animals in the Maumee-Wabash valleys.
						This first adventurer, his identity undetermined, discovered the shortest route of
						travel between the mouth of the St. Lawrence and the mouth of the Mississippi. Some give
						the honor to Robert Cavalier, Sieur de LaSalle.
					
						RELICS OF PREHISTORIC MAN IN ALLEN COUNTY.
						The above selections from the widely-famed private museum of Indian and historic
							relics of L. W. Hills, of Fort Wayne, are specimens of the handiwork of races
							antedating the Indians. Nos. 1 and 2 (a "bird" and a "tube") were found in a gravel
							pit near Maysville, Indiana, by John Zimmer. No. 3, a "bird," formerly owned by John
							Bichart, was found in the same locality. No. 4, of similar form, was unearthed on the
							Emerick farm. All are made of stone.
					
					The present history aims to indicate to a satisfactory degree the growth of interest in
						this particular portage, but it would seem to be helpful to suggest the main points of
						the coming chapters as they deal with this most important pathway of pioneer
						commerce.
					Here, during the ages beyond the memory of the whites, existed the strongest Indian
						settlement of the middle west.
					Here the earliest French explorers and traders established fortified trading posts
						which they controlled until the coming of the English.
					Here the savages overthrew the English and entered upon the years of frontier warfare
						which continued from the days of Pontiac until the building of Wayne's American
						fort.
					
						THE MASTODON.
						Remains of the mastodon have been found in several portions of Allen county.
					
					Here flourished an immense fur trade, the  contention for
						the control of which precipitated the French and Indian war.
					Here, in vision, Washington saw an important point for the United States to establish
						its strongest western post, for the accomplishment of which purpose he sent Harmar, St.
						Clair and Wayne.
					Here, with the restoration of peace, arose the city of Fort Wayne, inspired to
						greatness by the building of the Wabash and Erie canal, which paralleled the portage and
						supplanted it, only to give way in later years to the steam railroad and the electric
						interurban line.
					And now let us speak for a moment of the rivers—these first highways of travel,
						without which there could have been no portage.
					The courses of these historic streams were determined in the glacial age of the world's
						physical history.2 When the great
						mass of ice, moving southwesterly from the region of Hudson's bay, finally became
						converted into a vast lake which slowly passed away and 
							WHERE THE MASTODON ROAMED IN ALLEN COUNTY.
							Remains found in the vicinity of Fort Wayne indicate that the region was a favorite
								habitat of prehistoric animals. Henry Rudisill found in Spy Run (1) the tooth of an
								extinct animal, the American elephant. In 1867 the skeletons of three mastodons were
								found in the soft earth in Perry township (2); these were placed in the Chicago
								Academy of Sciences and were destroyed in the great fire of 1871. The tusk of
								another specimen, found in Lake township (3) measured eleven feet in length and nine
								inches in diameter. Remains of another mastodon were found in Cedar Creek township
								(4). The most recent discovery, in 1912, was that of the skeleton of a mastodon on
								the S. R. Alden farm, a portion of the Richardville reservation (5), immediately
								southwest of Fort Wayne.
						
						
							WHERE THE MOUND BUILDERS LIVED IN ALLEN COUNTY.
							
									Four mounds in Perry township, two on a line north and south about forty
										feet apart; two others about the same distance apart, extending east and west.
										Excavators found human bones, arrowheads, copper ornaments and charcoal.
									Four miles south of the above, on the Coldwater road, is an oblong mound in
										which were found a perforated section of slate, and a stratum of baked
										earth.
									At Cedarville are located three mounds 100 feet apart, running nearly
										parallel to the St. Joseph river.
									A circular mound containing fragments of pottery, stone implements and
										flint.
									A semi-circular mound with ends at the river bank; arc, 20 feet. Large trees
										falling in decay, exposed pottery, flint and other articles.
									At the mouth of Cedar creek is the most southerly of the mounds in Allen
										county.
								
						
						 left a deposit of its earthy elements, the rivers, as we
						see them today, were left to tell of the ancient visit of the glacier.
					
						REMAINS OF EXTINCT PECCARY FOUND IN FORT WAYNE.
						In 1912, the remains of an extinct animal known as the platygonus compressus, of the
							peccary family, were unearthed by workmen in a gravel pit near Swinney park. The
							specimen came into the possession of George A. Jacobs, 1302 Washington boulevard west,
							and was submitted by the writer to the National Museum for identification. The skull
							is shown herewith. The full skeleton is that of an almost identical specimen, the
							platygonus leptorhinus, reproduced from the article, "The Pleistocene Period and Its
							Vertebrata," by Oliver P. Hay, in the 1911 report of the Indian Department of Geology
							and Natural Resources;" Fort Wayne Public Library.
					
					There are reasons to believe that the region was inhabited by human beings previous to
						the coming of the glacier—at least, men lived in portions of the present Ohio
						before the sea of ice spread its destructive elements over the region to the
							eastward.3 Certain it is that
						the mighty mastodon4 roamed the
						region about the site of Fort Wayne, and here, too, were other forms of animal life, now
						extinct. That ancient, mysterious race of men whom we call the Mound Builders, chose to
						live in this vicinity, and the relics of their dwellings are a mute testimony of their
						mysterious presence.5
					But it is not with the Mound Builder and the mastodon that our story deals. The real
						actors in the drama, appearing, at the first, with the same surroundings of scenery
						which formed the settings for the unknown comedies and tragedies of the past, shift upon
						the stage of action new backgrounds of hope, aspiration, defeat, triumph, and progress.
						And the close of this book is but the beginning, for the greater actors, we doubt not,
						are to come in a day which is not ours.
					NOTES ON CHAPTER II.
					(1) The Miami names of the Fort Wayne
						rivers are: St. Joseph, Ko-chis-ah-se-pe, or Bean river; St. Mary's,
						Mah-may-i-wah-se-pe-way, or Strugeon creek, because of the large number of sturgeon that
						formerly abounded there in the spawning season; the name Maumee is a form of Miami. See
						Dunn's "True Indian Stories," Fort Wayne Public Library.
					(2) See "Maumee River Basin," Dr. Charles
						E. Slocum. vol. i, page 6; Fort Wayne Public Library; also Annual Report of the Indiana
						Department of Geology and Natural Resources, 1905.
					(3) See Ohio Archaeological and Historical
						Society's Publications, vol. i, page 257, Fort Wayne Public Library.
					(4) See article on the mastodon in Helm's
						History of Allen County, by the late Col. R. S. Robertson; Fort Wayne Public
						Library.
					(5) See article on Prehistoric Remains,
						Helm's History of Allen County, by the late Col. R. S. Robertson; Fort Wayne Public
						Library.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER III—1614-1682. Savage, Adventurer, Explorer and
						Priest.
					Ancient French records of the Maumee-Wabash development gives us the story of the
						early days of exploration and struggles between the French, English and
						Indians—Value of the records of the Jesuits—The Miamis and their allies in
						Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin—Kiskakons and Ottawas on Fort Wayne
						site—Iroquois, from the east, procure firearms and wage war of extermination upon
						the Miamis and western tribes— Are forced back—Twightwees at
						Kekionga—Characteristics of the Miamis—Allegiance to the French and latterly
						to the English—The coureur de bois—The Jesuits—Samuel de Champlain on
						the Maumee?— The earliest maps—LaSalle and the never-ending dispute.
					FOR MANY YEARS, a veil of seemingly impenetrable mystery hid from
						view all certain knowledge of the movements of the earliest whites in the Maumee-Wabash
						valleys, due to a large extent to the fact that during the entire period of the French
						occupation, all documents relating to governmental affairs were forwarded first to
						Quebec and Montreal, in the province of Canada, and from thence to the mother country.
						Here they were deposited by a generation passed away, and not, without pressure, to be
						unearthed by the Frenchman of today who cares not to revive the memory of a faded vision
						of western empire.
					It is only through the great personal sacrifice of patriotic men and women of America
						that the truth has come to us of the present day. In the expenditure of fortunes, the
						scattered papers in the archives of France, England and Canada, as well as in the
						colonial records of America, have been made available, and their work of arrangement,
						annotation and translation, has given us the treasures from which we build our
						story.
					The first accounts of conditions in the middle western portions of America are given to
						the world through the records of the stalwart Jesuit Fathers, who, though they thwarted
						some of the greatest attempts to explore and settle the western lands discovered by
						LaSalle and his contemporaries, worked with grim determination to make of the savages a
						great Christian nation which should purify the world.1 From the records of their movements, we gain our best
						knowledge of the Indians in Indiana at the time of the appearance of the first
						whites.
					Gabriel Dreuillettes, stationed at the mission of St. Michael on the west shore of Lake
						Michigan, reported as early as 1658 that a colony of 24,000 Miamis occupied a portion of
						the southwest  corner of the present state of Michigan and
						northwestern Indiana. The invasion of the region by the Iroquois about 1670, with
						firearms provided by the Dutch of New Amsterdam, was the beginning of a long period of
						years of warfare between the Iroquois and the various branches of the Miami nation. The
						region of Green Bay, in Wisconsin formed the center of later settlements of the latter
						tribes. It appears that at this time—1682—the site of Fort Wayne was
						occupied by the Kiskakons and the Ottawas, branches of the Miamis, for it was in this
						year that Jean de Lamberville, writing to Count de Frontenac, governor of Canada,
						expressed the fear that an Iroquois army of 12,000 would completely annihilate "the
						Miamis and their neighbors the Siskakon [Kiskakon] and Ottawa tribes on the headwaters
						of the Maumee."2 By the year
						1700, the Miamis 
							THE THREE MAIN WATER ROUTES OF THE FRENCH PERIOD.
							Before the days of the canal and the railroad, the rivers were the great highways
								of travel between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi. The map shows the three
								routes most largely used.
						
						 had obtained firearms from the French, and there is a
						tradition that they met and vanquished their foes near the site of the present Terre
						Haute.
					In 1765, long after the French had settled in the Maumee-Wabash valleys, the
						confederacy of the families of the Miami tribe was composed of two hundred and fifty
						Twightwees (Twightwighs or Twixtwees, as written by the English), situated at Kekionga;
						a settlement of three hundred Ouiatanons on the Wabash, near the present Lafayette,
						Indiana; and three hundred Piankeshaws, on the Vermillion river.
					
						SAMUEL DE CHAMPLAIN.
						Champlain was the governor of New France (Canada) and founder of Quebec. His name is
							the first of the line with the Maumee region. He is believed to have seen the Maumee
							in 1614 or 1615. When Great Britain compelled his surrender in 1629, he was carried a
							captive to England; he returned to Canada and died there in 1635. The portrait is
							after an old print.
					
					All students of the Indians pay tribute to the high character of the Miamis, especially
						during those periods in which they were free from the contamination of the habits of
						their more enlightened white brothers. Father Claude Allouez refers to them as gentle,
						affable and sedate, with a language in harmony with their dignity.
					During the time of the disputed possession of the Maumee-Wabash valleys by the French,
						the Miamis were of daring explorers to be connected friends of the French and foes of
						the English; but when the American colonists threw off the yoke of the government of the
						mother country, they transferred their support to the English who convinced them that
						the United States sought to rob them of their lands and their freedom and to bring upon
						them degradation and extermination. They fought against a fear of ultimate ruin, and the
						fierceness of their opposition reveals the intensity of their effort to discourage and
						terrify the American invader and cause him to abandon his desire to inhabit the
							west.3
					The "action" of the story begins with the relation of the deeds of the first men to
						arrive upon the scene—men whose names are a matter of record. We doubt not that
						the care-free coureur de bois4
						was the earliest to come, bringing an influence which was far from uplifting, and making
						hard the purifying service of the Jesuit Father who soon followed him.
					
					What name, then, shall we attach to the first known man who saw the Maumee?
					One eminent historian is bold enough to say that Samuel de Champlain, who had already
						discovered a water route between the St. Lawrence river and Georgian Bay, by way of the
						Nipissing river, and whose knowledge of the coasts of these regions is given to the
						world in the earliest maps of the Great Lakes, "probably" 
							EARLIEST MAPS SHOWING THE FORT WAYNE RIVERS.
							All of the above maps are traced from the pages of Vol. IV of Winsor's "Narrative
								and Critical History of America," published by the Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, by
								whose permission they are here presented. The reader who desires further information
								on the subject is referred to the above work, obtainable from the Fort Wayne Public
								Library.
							Map E.—Samuel de Champlain's map (1632), of which this is a small portion of
								the central part, shows: 1—Maumee river; 2—St. Mary's river; 3—St.
								Joseph river. It probably is the earliest recorded map of the Fort Wayne
								streams.
							Map F.—The Covens and Mortier map (probably 1654) shows: 1—Maumee
								river; 2—Lake Huron; 3—Lake Erie; 4—Lake Ontario; 5—St.
								Lawrence river; 6—Cape Cod; 7—Long Island.
							Map G.—The Nicolas Sanson map (1656) shows: 1—Maumee river;
								2—Site of Fort Wayne; 3—Lake Michigan; 4—Lake Huron; 5—St.
								Lawrence river; 6— Long Island; 7—Cape Cod; 8—Chesapeake bay.
							Map H.—Louis Joliet's map (1674) shows: 1—Site of Fort Wayne;
								2—Maumee river; 3—St. Joseph river; 4—St. Mary's river;
								5—Ohio (or Wabash) river; 6—Lake Ontario; 7—Lake Michigan;
								8—Misssissippi river; 9—Missouri river; 10—Lake Huron;
								11—Georgian bay; 12—St. Lawrence river; 13—Green bay;
								14—Wisconsin river; 15—Illinois river.
						
						 saw the placid waters of the Maumee as early as 1614 or
							1615.5 Champlain was the
						founder of Quebec and the first governor of New France (Canada). Certain it is that
						Champlain's map of 1632 indicates the Maumee, the St. Mary's and the St. Joseph rivers,
						and certain also is it that "he passed by places he has described in his book which are
						no other than Detroit and Lake Erie."6
					
						ROBERT CAVALIER, SIEUR DE LASALLE.
						That this foremost of all French explorers of North America traversed the site of
							Fort Wayne in his journeys between Lake Erie and the Mississippi is the belief of many
							students of the early French period of the Maumee-Wabash valleys.
					
					Encouraged by the accomplishments of Champlain and the Jesuits who did valiant service
						in reporting the condition of the newly-discovered countries to the westward, the home
						government of France supported other expeditions the success of which is shown by the
						maps of the Great Lakes region bearing dates of the seventeenth century and forming
						fascinating objects of study today. Among those of greatest interest to us, for they
						include the Fort Wayne site, with its rivers, are the maps of Nicolas Sanson (1656),
						Pere du Crexius (1680) and Louis Joliet (1672-1674).
					
						LASALLE AND THE PORTAGE.
						The ancient dispute concerning the movements of Robert Cavalier, Sieur de LaSalle,
							must receive its share of attention at this turn of the story, because the future
							searcher for the truth may find that LaSalle really trod upon the soil on which the
							city of Fort Wayne arose. There are likely reasons for the belief that the explorer's
							journal, which was lost in the wreck of his sailing vessel, the Griffon, on Lake
							Michigan, contained positive proof that LaSalle not only traversed the Maumee-Wabash
							valleys and their portage, but that it was a common route of travel of the explorer
							and his companions. In a communication of 1680, LaSalle reported to the Canadian
							governor that "there is at the head of Lake Erie ten leagues below the strait [Detroit
							river?] a river [Maumee?] by which we could shorten the route to the Illinois very
								much."7 Two years later, he
							wrote, at a time when the opposition of the Jesuits had reached a distressing point,
							that his enemies doubtless were aiding in prolonging the war of the Iroquois  against the Miamis "in hope that the war would ruin me by
							putting an end to the trade of Fort Frontenac [Quebec] or that it would enable them to
							have a constant pretext for complaint against me; for," he explains—and his
							explanation is eagerly quoted by those who would prove that LaSalle refers to his
							former use of the Maumee-Wabash portage—"I should not then be able to go to the
							Illinois country except by way of the Lakes Huron and Illinois [Michigan] because the
							other routes which I have discovered by the end of Lake Erie and the southern shore of
							that lake would become too dangerous on account of the frequent encounters with the
							Iroquois who are always about those parts."
						In further explanation of his choice short-cut route, LaSalle says in another
							communication: "The river which you have seen marked on my map of the district to the
							south of that lake is, in fact, the way to get to the river Ohio, or Beautiful river.
							* * * This way is the shortest of all." And then he enters upon a description of the
							route which appears to show how the traveler passes over the portage from Lake Erie to
							Lake Chautauqua; thence into a tributary of the Alleghany river, from which stream the
							voyager makes his way into the Ohio and finally into the Mississippi.8
						But, it will be observed, LaSalle wrote of the other "routes" which he had
							discovered, and merely spoke of this one as "the shortest of all."9 And so, the question remains open and we
							shall ever cherish the hope that the feet of the great explorer pressed the soil of
							Fort Wayne in those days of toil and struggle against the discouraging elements of the
							wilderness as well as against the intrigues of human enemies.10
						NOTES ON CHAPTER III.
						(1) See Francis Parkman's "The Jesuits
							in North America."
						(2) History of Indiana, Logan Esarey,
							page 12.
						(3) Many works on the western Indians
							are to be found in the Fort Wayne Public Library. Dunn's "Indiana," Slocum's "Maumee
							River Basin" and articles on the subject in the publications of the historical
							societies of Indiana and Ohio, however, provide the most reliable information
							concerning the tribes connected with the history of Fort Wayne.
						(4) The coureur de bois, or wood-ranger,
							was, as a rule, lawless in every view of civilized life. He won his way with the
							savages, who granted him every license. He was defiant, and beyond the control of
							state or church. The efforts of the French government to control these first
							adventurers to invade the west is suggested in the memoir of M. Talon to King Louis
							XIV, in 1670, in which he said: "They are excluded by law from the honors of the
							church and from the communities if they do not marry within fifteen days after the
							arrival of the ships from France [with women imported for the purpose]."
						(5) Dr. Charles E. Slocum, "Maumee River
							Basin," vol. i, page 463.
						(6) New York Colonial Documents.
						(7) Pierre Margry, "Decouvertes des
							Francais dans l'Amerique Septrionale," vol. ii.
						(8) That this route was well known and
							used in later years is shown by the fact that Captain Celeron, in 1749, took his army
							over that portion of it extending from Lake Erie to the mouth of the Great Miami
							river. (See Chapter V).
						(9) E. L. Taylor, of Columbus, Ohio,
							writing in vol. xvi, of the Ohio Ohio Archaelogical and Historical Society
							Publications expreses the opinion that LaSalle, after traversing the Chautauqua Lake
							and Ohio river route, surely returned by another way. "It was necessarily by way of
							the Great Miami and the Maumee, or by way of the Scioto 
							and Sandusky rivers," says he. "No other routes were at that time open to him.
							Whichever of these routes he may have taken, he was the first white man to have passed
							over it. The probabilities are that he went by way of the Great Miami and the Maumee
							[traversing the site of Fort Wayne] to Lake Erie, but it is not certain, and not much
							can be claimed for it."
						(10) Throughout his years of
							exploration, LaSalle had met the bitter opposition of the Jesuits who, according to
							his narrative, contrived in every way to thwart his plans. "As to what you tell me,
							that even my friends say that I am not popular," he wrote, in 1682 to the
							representative of the crown, "I do not know who they are, for I am not aware of any
							friends of mine in this country." Upon one occasion, Nicolas Perrot served him a
							deadly poison, and later confessed the deed. "I have pardoned him, nevertheless, in
							order to avert giving publicity to an affair the mere suspicion of which might stain
							their [the Jesuits'] reputation," he wrote. "The Jesuits sent to France one of their
							lay brothers called Joliet, with a map made from hearsay, and this lay brother
							attributed to himself the honor of that discovery," writes Abbe Renaudot, friend of
							LaSalle. * * * "No one but M. de LaSalle was capable of having made the discovery."
							The same writer charges Father Louis Hennepin with plagiarism in claiming as his own
							LaSalle's description of the lands of his discovery.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IV—1683-1732. Kekionga During the "Golden Era" of
						French Rule.
					The peaceable mission of the French in the Maumee-Wabash valleys—Opposition to
						the encroachment of the English traders—The demoralization of the fur trade by the
						Miami-Iroquois war—Restoration of peace followed by the establishment of a
						stronger post on the site of Fort Wayne (1697)—Jean Baptiste Bissot and his great
						plan to "monopolize" the Miamis—Cadillac invades the Maumee-Wabash
						valleys—Tattooed savages at the site of Fort Wayne—Buffalo and
						bear—Margane establishes Ouiatanon and commands Post Miami (Fort
						Wayne)—Founds Vincennes—Margane burned at the stake.
					SCHOOLCRAFT tells us that the Indians of the northwest often referred
						to "the days of the French supremacy as a kind of golden era, when all things in their
						affairs were better than they now are."
					The early Frenchman came to the Maumee-Wbaash valleys on a misson of peace. His nature
						fitted him well to the unconventional life of the wilderness. He chose a wife from among
						the dusky belles of the forest and became an Indian in thought and deed. He busied
						himself in trapping the fur-bearing animals which abounded in countless numbers and he
						paid a good price to his dark-skinned companions, for their co-operative labor.
					Never, after the Frenchman was driven from the Maumee-Wabash valleys, did the red man
						find another such true companion. When the Englishman came, he scorned close social
						relationship with the savage, and finally, with the gaining of his confidence, implanted
						in his mind the belief that the sole object of the westward movement of the new American
						pioneer was to rob him of his lands. Thus was the benevolent policy of Washington made
						to appear that of a robber and a thief, with the resultant bloodshed and turmoil which
						brought discouragement to the whites and ultimate loss of everything dear to the heart
						of the child of the forest. Furthermore, the passing of the "golden era" of the French
						occupation marks the coming of the Indian's deadliest enemy—whiskey.
					We have followed the Frenchman from the period of his landing on American soil, groping
						his watery way up the St. Lawrence, beholding with wonder the cataract of Niagara as he
						carried his birch bark canoe to launch it upon the waters of Lake Erie, and finally we
						find him paddling up the Maumee to his destination at the forks of the St. Joseph and
						St. Mary's. It is now our interesting  task to consider his
						movements, with the site of Fort Wayne as a center of his activities, and to share with
						him his hopes and his fears.
					Little did our first Frenchman know that the English colonist on the Atlantic coast
						would one day also push his way to the westward and come upon him with the boldness of
						one who holds an ownership and who looks upon all others as intruders and trespassers.
						But a well-developed fear of this very condition had spread to the mother country long
						before the close of the seventeenth century. Lefebore de LaBarre, governor of Canada,
						writing to Nicholas Colbert in November, 1682, declared he was not at all interested in
						LaSalle's discovery of the mouth of the Mississippi, but that he was "for turning to
						account what we possess, preventing the English from destroying our trade, but without a
						quarrel, and subduing the Iroquois. That," he added, "is quite a sufficient task for
						three years." In truth, it was the impossible task of a lifetime. For already had come
						the beginning of the end of the rule of France in all North America.
					In increasing numbers, the English pushed their way to the west, seeking always the
						friendship of the Indians through their ability to offer greater rewards than the French
						could afford1 in return for the
						valuable peltries which constituted the sole trade of the region. The keenest minds
						among the French were now busy with plans to keep back the Englishman and to preserve
						the friendship of the savage.
					"If you will pay some attention to the country occupied by the English [the eastern
						colonies], and that which they intentd to occupy." observed LeMoyne d'Iberville, "to the
						forces they possess in these colonies, where there are neither priests nor nuns and all
						propagate their species, and to the forces they will have in thirty or forty years [by
						the years 1730 or 1740], you can have no doubt that they will seize upon the country
						which lies between them and the Mississippi, one of the finest countries in the
							world."2
					
						THE STRUGGLE TO CONTROL THE FUR TRADE.
						The true basis of the controversy was the effort to control the fur trade. "If the
							English once get possession of the River Colbert [Mississippi], for which they are
							striving with all their might, but which they cannot succeed in doing if we anticipate
							them," declared Abbe Jean Cavalier, brother of LaSalle, "they would become masters,
							also, of the Illinois, the Outaouacs [Ottawas] and all the tribes with whom the French
							people in New France [Canada] carry on trade. Our colony would then be destroyed."
						D'Iberville sought the privilege of establishing a post on the  lower Wabash and three others on the western rivers, besides forming an
							army of 12,000 savages to attack the English settlements in Maryland, Virginia and
							Carolina. The government frowned upon the latter suggestion, but acquiesced in his
							plan to form a settlement on the Wabash.3 One day in 1709, the site of the city of Fort Wayne was the
							scene of the movement of D'Iberville's colony, passing from Detroit to the lower
							Wabash in the newly-created province of Louisiana.4 Following these adventurous pioneers came other groups of
							colonists, one of the most important of which was under the guidance of M. de
								Tressenet.5
						This plan failed in its great object. De la Motte Cadillac,6 founder of Detroit (Post Ponchartrain) complained
							to Count Ponchartrain that "the forces of the French are too much scattered; they live
							too far apart"7 for mutual
							protection. Cadillac had established his post at Detroit as a purely commercial
							venture—"to maintain the trade in beaver skins"8 for shipment to Montreal and thence to France.9 With like intent, Francois
							Morgane 
								WHERE THE FIRST FRENCH FORTS STOOD.
								A map drawn by Father Jean Bonnecamps while on the site of Fort Wayne in 1749
									(forty-five years before the coming of General Wayne) shows that the French fort
									of that period (Post Miami) stood on a site which may now be described as a point
									on the right bank of the St. Mary's river, a short distance north of the Nickel
									Plate railroad tracks (see map). The commandants in succession appear to have been
									Jean Baptiste Bissot, Sieur de Vincennes (1697), Francois Morgane, Sieur de
									Vincennes (1725), Ensign Douville (1734), Ensign Dubuisson (1747), M. de Raimond
									(1748). Raimond, in 1750, abandoned the place and erected the last French fort on
									a site at the junction of the present St. Joe boulevard and Delaware avenue, on
									the St. Joseph river, a point also within the present city of Fort Wayne.
							
							 (Margane or Morgan), who later succeeded to the
							seigniory and title of Sieur de Vincennes, established a number of trading posts along
							the banks of the Maumee and Wabash rivers and gave attention to the strengthening and
							repair of those which already had been established.10
						Meanwhile, the English were giving earnest thought to the best method of driving out
							the French and securing the good-will of the savages. "The English and the Indians are
							in good correspondence," wrote Colonel Ingoldsby to the British Trade Commissioners in
							1697, "but the French outdo us much in carressing them." How well the picture
							describes the contrasting traits of the contending forces of the
							whites!—sentiment pitted against cold-blooded commercialism, in which the former
							was gradually broken down and the latter swung into triumph.
						J. Chetwynd, P. Doeminique, M. Bladen and E. Ashe, composing an English commission to
							review the situation in America in 1721 for their king, gave this information in their
							report: "From the lake [Erie] to the Mississippi they [the
									French] have three different routes. The shortest is up the river Miamis or Ouamis
									[Maumee] on the southwest of Lake Erie, on which river they sail about 150 leagues
									without interruption, when they find themselves stopt by another landing of about
									three leagues which they call a carrying place, because they are generally obliged
									to carry their canoes over land in these places to the next river, and that
									[river] where they next embark is a very shallow one called La Riviere de portage
									[Little river]; hence they row about 40 leagues to the river Oubache [Wabash] and
									from thence about 120 leagues to the river Ohio, into which the Wabash falls, as
									the river Ohio does about 80 leagues lower into the Mississippi, which continues
									its course for about 350 leagues directly to the bay of Mexico."
						During the progress of the Iroquois war against the Indians of the west, the sympathy
							of the British with the Iroquois, had brought to the Miamis and their allies the
							strong military leadership of LaSalle, who, during 1682 and 1683 "was all through
							Indiana and Illinois urging the tribes to unite and join him at Fort St. Louis [site
							of Peoria, Illinois]."11 The
							bloody struggle continued, however, until the close of the year 1697; indeed, the
							lasting peace between the warring nations came not until eight years after the tragic
							death of LaSalle.12 But now the
							Indian war was at an end. The French, who had withdrawn to the region about Detroit or
							to the westward and northward to the lakes, returned to their business in the
							Maumee-Wabash valleys and sought the protection of the authorities at Quebec. It is at
								 this time that we first come upon the names of men
							intimately connected with the development of the story of the spot on which Fort Wayne
							now rests.
					
					
						THE FIRST FRENCH COMMANDANTS.
						Heading that list is the name of Jean Baptiste Bissot, Sieur de Vincennes.13
						Authorities differ as to the time of the building of the first French fortifications
							on the site of Fort Wayne, known for a long period as Post (or Fort) Miami. Neither is
							it known whether or not Bissot was the builder. One historian is positive that "their
							Post Miami, at the head of the Maumee" was "built about 1680 to 1686," and that it was
							"rebuilt and strengthened in 1697 by Captain de Vincennes [Bissot]."14 The writer discovers Margry telling us that
							"in the spring [1696], d'Ailleboust d'Argenteuil had orders to take command of the
							soldiers who were to go up [from Detroit] to Missillimackinac [Mackinac], and the
							Sieur Bissot de Vincennes [accompanied by Legardeur de Courtmanche] was directed to go
							to the Miamis," but it is clear from the context that the Miamis, at this time, were
							gathered about the southeastern shore of Lake Michigan and that Vincennes made his way
							to their villages by way of the straits of Mackinaw.
						
							SIGNATURE OF SIEUR DE VINCENNES (FRANCOIS MORGANE).
							Two letters written to the French government by Francois Morgane, Sieur de
								Vincennes, commandant of Post Miami (Fort Wayne) from 1725 to 1731, are reproduced
								in fac simile in the Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. III. in
								connection with Jacob P. Dunn's article on "The Mission to the Oubache (Wabash)."
								The above signature is reproduced from one of them. Translation—"Your very
								humble and very obedient servant, Vinsiene. Of the Fort of the Wabash. This 21
								March, 1733." The post was not named for its founder until three years after his
								tragic death; formerly it was known as "Au Oubache," "Post des Piaguichats," "Little
								Ouiatanon," and, latterly, "Oposte."
						
						But we do know that with the removal of the Miamis to the site of Fort Wayne, the
							beautiful place of their beloved Kekionga, at the union of the three rivers, came to
							the Maumee this first known hero of our story. This was probably in 1697. Bissot's
							activities were hastened by an aggressive move of the English. Governor Benjamin
							Fletcher, of New York, who aroused the fears of Frontenac, governor of Canada, by
							sending a large party of traders to the west with rich gifts for the savages,
							whereupon the French governor found himself "under the necessity of sending a much  larger number of Frenchmen, regulars and militia, than he
							at first supposed, to expel the enemy [English] from that post [Miami], if they had
							seized it, or to prevent them from entering." Sieurs de Manteth and Courtmanche, in
							charge of the expedition were ordered "to think more of fighting than of trading."15 They found the post still in
							the hands of their own people, and the garrison under the command of Bissot, who, we
							find, was re-appointed to the control of the station in 1706.
						That the report of the conduct of Bissot was such as to offend the home government is
							revealed in a letter from the French throne written by M. de Ponchartrain at
							Versailles in June, 1706, and addressed to M. de Vaudreuil, then governor of Canada.
							"You ought not to have sent Sieur de Vinsiene to the Miamis nor Sieur de Louvigny to
							the Missilimaquina [Mackinac]," he declared, "as they are all accused of carrying on a
							contraband trade, * * * and His Majesty desires that you cause Sieur de Vinsiene to be
							severely punished."
						Bissot, like many another leading spirit of all times, doubtless had fallen the
							victim of the spite of his enemies who knew that he had been "expressly forbidden to
							trade in beaver,"16 (which
							skins were always always reserved for the enrichment of the home government) and who
							had reported a real or alleged failure to observe his instructions. He was a favorite,
							however, with the Canadian governor, who had written the king two years earlier that
							"Sieur de Vinsiene, my lord, has been former commandant of the Miamis, by whom he was
							much beloved. This," he explained, "led me to select him in preference to any other to
							prove to that nation how wrong they were to attack the Iroquois—our allies and
							theirs—without any cause; and we, M. de Beaucharnois and I, after consultation,
							permitted the said Sieur de Vinsiene to carry some goods and to take with him six men
							and two canoes."17
						From this time forward, Bissot, with the exception of a brief period during which his
							activities called him to other scenes,18 held the command of the post until 1719. During this time, the persistent
							efforts of the British to gain a foothold in the rich valleys of the Maumee and the
							Wabash determined him upon a course of action which, in the magnitude of its scope and
							the uniqueness of its possibilities, stands out strongly among the events of the time.
							Bissot's plan involved the migration of all the Miamis from the region of the Maumee
							and the Wabash to a new tribal center, a choice spot on the St. Joseph river of Lake
							Michigan, at the site of the present city of South Bend, Indiana; there to guard them
							by force of arms from the influence of the British traders who were appearing in
							ever-increasing numbers. How well the scheme  might have
							served its great purpose is problematical, for the death of Bissot, on the eve of its
							consummation forever discouraged the plan.
						Sieur Dubuisson, sent by the governor of Canada to complete the work as designed by
							Bissot, failed to carry it to a finish. "I learn from the last letters that have
							arrived from the Miamis," wrote the disappointed Vaudreuil to the Council of Marine in
							1719, "that Sieur de Vinsiene, having died in their village [Kekionga], these Indians
							have resolved not to remove to the river St. Joseph; this is very dangerous, on
							account of the facility they have of communicating with the English, who are
							incessantly distributing war belts in secret."19 Upon the death of Bissot, the British redoubled 
								BURNING OF THE FRENCH POST MIAMI (SITE OF FORT WAYNE)
									1747.
								During the period of the Chief Nicolas conspiracy, in 1747, while the commandant,
									Ensign Douville, was absent at Detroit, the savages attacked the post situated on
									the St. Mary's river in the present city of Fort Wayne and partially destroyed it
									with fire. The post was rebuilt, and later, in 1750 a new fort was established on
									the left bank of the St. Joseph river. The drawing is after an old woodcut.
							
							 their efforts to win the favor of the Miamis; at this
							time a large number of firearms and quantities of ammunition were given to the savages
							in exchange for furs.20
						It is interesting now to consider the British view of the situation which is well set
							forth in a letter of Colonel Caleb Heathcote, addressed to Governor Robert Hunter, of
							Virginia, who declared that "it is impossible that we and the French can both inhabit
							this continent in peace, but that one nation must at last give way to the other. So,"
							he observes, "'tis very necessary that without sleeping away our time, all precautions
							imaginable should be taken to prevent its falling to our lots to move."21 The student of American history
							who may have been difficult to understand the causes of the French and Indian war,
							will gather from a study of conditions in the west at this period the true reason for
							the conflict which ultimately broke in all its fury and determined the final exclusion
							of France from the North American continent.
					
					
						THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE IN 1718.
						A picture of conditions about the confluence of the St. Mary's and the St. Joseph at
							this time comes down to us from the letter of a French officer, writing in 1718. "The
							Miamis are sixty leagues from Lake Erie and number four hundred, all good-formed men
							and well tattooed," he writes. "They are hard-working, and raise a species of maize
							unlike that of our Indians at Detroit. It is white, of the same size as the other, the
							skin much finer, and the meal much whiter. This nation is clad in deerskin, and when a
							woman goes with another man, her husband cuts off her nose and refuses to see her any
							more. They have plays and dances; wherefore they have more occupation. The women are
							well clothed, but the men use scarcely any covering, and are tattooed all over the
							body." The writer adds in description of the region to the southwest, along the
							Wabash, that "from the summit of this elevation nothing is visible to the eye but
							prairies full of buffalo."22
							Another writer of the same year adds strength to the correctness of the latter
							remarkable statement in the claim that along the Maumee river, at the mouth of the
							Auglaize, near the present city of Defiance, Ohio, "buffaloes are always to be found;
							they eat the clay and wallow in it."23 Five years earlier, Father Gabriel Marest, a French missionary, wrote of
							the region to the southward that "the quantity of buffalo and bear found on the
							Oubache [Wabash] is incredible,"24 and LaSalle in 1682, describing the region of the Ohio, says: "The
							multitude of buffalo is beyond belief. I have seen twelve hundred of them killed in
							eight days by a single band of Indians."
						
						Six years after the death of Bissot, his more famous nephew, Francois Margane, was
							assigned to the command of the French stronghold on the site of Fort Wayne. Previous
							to this, in 1719 or 1720, Margane had established the important post of Ouiatanon on
							the Wabash near the present Lafayette, Indiana,—a position which was maintained
							as a center of French and Indian power for a period of more than seventy years,
							indeed, until it was wiped out of existence in 1791 by General James Wilkinson,
							between the periods of the St. Clair and Wayne campaigns. Today, its exact location is
							a subject of lively dispute.25
						But the period of Margane's command of the post at the head of the Maumee was not to
							be of long duration. His services were neeeded elsewhere. From the southern province
							of Louisiana came the demand for the advantage of his wise counsel and leadership in
							establishing a post on the lower Wabash, a point nearer to the Ohio river, where the
							movements of the British could more easily be controlled. The appeal for his
							co-operation, contained in the letter of M. de Boisbriant to the governor of Canada,
							is most interesting. "He can do more with the Miamis than anyone else," said he, and
							then followed the offer of "an annuity of three hundred livres [$55.50] which will be
							paid to him with his salary as a half-lieutenant."26 It was not until 1731, however, that the Canadian
							government consented to the transfer of Margane to the Louisiana portion of the
							Wabash. In this year, Margane established the post known by the various names of St.
							Vincent, Oposte, The Post "Au Oubache," "Post des Piquichats," and "Little Ouiatanon,"
							and which, three years after the death of its founder, came to be called Vincennes.
							The present Indiana city developed on this site.27
						The tragic death of Margane, who, with another French leader, D'Artaguiette, fell
							into the hands of savage foes and was burned at the stake five years after the
							founding of the post, was but an incident of the times when heroism counted for so
							little in a land where contending forces of whites alternately held and lost the
							friendship of the murderous savages into whose hands they had placed the powers of
							destruction.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER IV.
						(1) "The duty the French Company is
							obliged to pay to the king * * * enables the traders of New York to sell their goods
							in the Indian country at half the price the people of Canada can, and reap twice the
							profits they do." (London Documents, New York Colonial Documents, vol. v, page
							730.)
						(2) Pierre Margry.
						(3) It should be understood that at this
							time, the name Oubache (Wabash) was given to the present Wabash river and also to that
							portion of the present Ohio river from the mouth of the Wabash to the mouth of the
							Ohio, at the Mississippi. That portion of the Ohio above its confluence with the
							Wabash was sometimes called the Ohio and oftener known as the Beautiful river.
						(4) French America was divided into two
							great general provinces at this time, Canada and Louisiana, the separating line
							extending from east to west across the present state of Indiana near the site of Terre
							Haute.
						
						(5) "Memoir de la Marine et des
							Colonies," Bockwith's Notes on the Northwest, page 97.
						(6) Cadillac, in 1707, sallied forth
							from Detroit at the head of a body of troops, passed up the Maumee and across the
							portage to the Wabash, for the purpose of displaying the strength of the French arms
							as a means to discourage the communications between the English and the Indians on the
							White river.
						(7) E. M. Sheldon, "Early History of
							Michigan," page 85.
						(8) Pierre Margry.
						(9) The extent of the fur trade can best
							be grasped through the statement that Cadillac offered 10,000 livres for the exclusive
							right for its control at Detroit. In 1702, 20,000 skins were shipped from the Wabash
							and Maumee region, and in 1705, 15,000 hides and skins were shipped southward from the
							same sections. Between 1701 and 1704, 30,000 beavers were killed about Detroit.
						(10) "Maumee River Basin," vol. i, page
							87.
						(11) Dunn's "Indiana."
						(12) LaSalle was murdered by treacherous
							companions in 1697 while forcing his way northward from the present state of Texas
							where, while endeavoring to found a colony on the gulf coast, one of his ships was
							wrecked, and enemies in his own camp defeated his crowning effort in behalf of his
							government.
						(13) The widespread cloud of mystery
							which for many years enshrouded the identity of Jean Baptiste Bissot, Sieur de
							Vincennes, and his illustrious nephew, Francois Margane (Morgane or Morgan) has been
							lifted through the efforts of Edmond Mallet and others, who have given much time to
							the study of the genealogy of the families bearing the title of Vincennes. (See
							Mallet's article, "Sieur de Vincennes," in Indiana Historical Society Publications,
							vol. iii, page 58.) Francois Margane de la Valtrie, Sieur de Vincennes, was the full
							name and title of the second Vincennes, commandant at the site of Fort Wayne, whose
							name is preserved in that of the ancient Indiana city. Vincennes was a seigniory in
							the present Bellechasse county, Quebec, granted to the Bissot family in 1672. It
							passed from Jean Baptiste Bissot to Margane upon the death of the former, in 1719,
							proably in the present Lakeside.
						(14) Dr. Charles E. Slocum, "Maumee
							River Basin," vol. i, page 86.
						(15) New York Colonial Documents, vol.
							ix, page 569.
						(16) New York Colonial Documents, Paris
							Documents, vol. ix, page 676.
						(17) New York Colonial Documents, vol.
							ix, page 759.
						(18) In the summer of 1712, Vincennes
							made a boat voyage to Quebec, with a message from Sieur Dubuisson, then in command at
							Detroit, to Governor Vaudreuil. "The overwhelming work I have day and night in the
							public and private councils I hold with the savages," said Dubuisson, "prevents me
							from giving you full details." In explanation, he said the English were bribing the
							Indians to attack and destroy the fort at Detroit, the garrison of which consisted of
							but thirty men. There were only eight men at Post Miami (Fort Wayne) in this year, and
							these had accompanied Vincennes to Detroit to assist in defending the post.
						(19) New York Colonial Documents, vol.
							ix, page 894.
						(20) "Maumee River Basin," vol. i, page
							466.
						(21) New York Colonial Documents, vol.
							v, page 30.
						(22) Paris Documents, New York Colonial
							Documents.
						(23) New York Colonial Documents, vol.
							ix, page 891.
						(24) Judge Law's "Colonial History of
							Vincennes," page 11; Fort Wayne Public Library.
						(25) See article on "Ouiatanon," by
							Oscar J. Craig, Indiana Historical Society Publications, vol. ii, page 319.
						(26) "Jesuit Relations," vol. lxx, page
							316; Fort Wayne Public Library.
						(27) An erroneous impression, arising
							from the date of the founding of another post on the Ohio river has placed the time of
							the establishment of the post of Vincennes in 1702. Jacob P. Dunn, through the
							citation of the authority of manuscript letters of Margane, unearthed in Paris, shows
							clearly that the founding of the post at Vincennes took place in 1731. See Dunn's
							"Indiana," preface to enlarged edition, Fort Wayne Public Library. See also Dunn's
							"The Mission to the Oubache," Indiana Historical Publications, vol. iii.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER V—1733-1749. The Last French Posts on the Site of
						Fort Wayne.
					Longueuil's troops at the head of the Maumee—The Chief Nicolas (Sanosket)
						uprising—Capture of Post Miami (Fort Wayne)—Its partial destruction by fire
						while Douville, the commandant, is absent—Dubuisson rebuilds the fort—The
						remarkable voyage of Captain Bienville de Celeron—The duplicity of LaDemoiselle,
						chief of the Plankeshaws—Bonnecamps describes the conditions at Post Miami (Fort
						Wayne)—Chief Cold Foot undeceives Captain Celeron—Captain Raimond builds a
						new fort on the St. Joseph river—Cold Foot village—Growth of the fur
						trade—Description of life on the portage route—The introduction of
						whiskey—Joseph Drouet de Richardville—The first English post in the
						west—Raimond foresees disaster.
					THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE was the scene of growing bitter strife between
						the two powerful European nations which told of the waning power of France in the West.
						Slowly but certainly the English gained the alliance of the powerful leaders of the more
						easterly Indian tribes, and even the friendship of the Miamis for their French brothers
						became a doubtful matter.
					As early as 1733, Sieur de Arnaud was sent from Detroit to quell an outbreak among the
						Ouiatanons (Weas) on the Wabash. In vain did M. de Longueuil himself lead a strong force
						of Frenchmen across the site of Fort Wayne against a body of unfriendly savages and
						English gathered on the White river. The display of military power no longer held the
						savage in check.
					And then came the uprising of the Hurons (Wyandottes) under Chief Sanosket
							(Sandosket)1 known also as
						Nicolas, the first fierce savage outbreak against the French in the west. It resulted in
						the burning of several of the posts and the general demoralization of the French
						military forces in the Maumee-Wabash valleys.
					The earlier movements of Nicolas, under the direction of the English, were openly
						displayed in the massacre of five Frenchmen who were returning to Detroit from their
						trading posts on the White river, in the present Indiana.
					As soon as the emissaries of Nicolas reached the site of Fort Wayne, they deceived the
						Miamis into the belief that the post at Detroit, with its garrison, had fallen into the
						hands of the conspirators and that there remained no reason why the lives of the men at
						Post Miami (Fort Wayne) should be spared. The Miamis believed the report but were
						reluctant to massacre the Frenchmen at their post. They did, however, surround the fort,
						set it on fire,  and take captive the eight men who
						happened to be within the stockade at the time.2 Two of the men escaped and made their way to Detroit where
						the news of the affair caused alarm and put under way a general preparation to check the
						spreading disaffection of the savages.
					The stockade and buildings on the site of Fort Wayne were but partially destroyed. At
						the time of the attack, Ensign Douville was absent from the post over which he held
						temporary command. He had been sent from Detroit to the Miamis for the special purpose
						of inviting them to attend a conference at Montreal,3 and two of their chiefs, Cold Foot and Pore Epic (Hedgehog)
						had 
							WHERE THE LAST FRENCH FORT STOOD—SCENE OF THE HOLMES MURDER
								OF 1763.
							The landscape is a view looking up the St. Joseph river in Fort Wayne from a point
								near the Junction of St. Joe boulevard and Delaware avenue. On the high ground at
								the right, M. de Raimond erected the last of the French forts in 1750. Raimond at
								that time abandoned the site on the St. Mary's river near the present Nickel Plate
								railroad tracks. It was from the new fort that Raimond wrote in alarm to the French
								governor of Canada that "nobody wants to stay here and have his throat cut; if the
								English stay in this country we are lost—we must attack and drive them out."
								In 1760, the fort fell to the British. Ensign Robert Holmes, three years later, was
								murdered by the Indians and the men of the garrison were taken prisoners.
						
						 accompanied him as far as Detroit, at which place the news
						of the outbreak overtook him. He proceeded to Montreal alone, while the two friendly
						chiefs returned to their people.
					Sieur Dubuisson, leaving his post at Detroit, then hastened to the post on the site of
						Fort Wayne in response to penitent protestations from the Miamis that they had been
						deceived into a participation in the outbreak, and pleading for mercy because they had
						spared the lives of the men. The petition of the savages had been addressed directly to
						Longueuil, urging him to "send back some Frenchmen to them, and not to deprive them of
						their indispensable supplies, promising him that order would be restored in a short
						time. That officer yielded to their solicitation, with a view to deprive the enemy [the
						British] of the liberty of seizing a post of considerable importance."4
					Dubuisson was instructed, however, to form but a small establishment for the winter. He
						was supplied with thirty Frenchmen to garrison the post, as well as a like number to
						pass onward to the post at Oouiatanon, on the Wabash. The latter were instructed to
						rejoin Dubuisson in the spring and return with him and his force to Detroit.
					It appears that the few Miamis who remained in the region kept their promise of
						loyalty, but an overt act of characteristic savage cruelty occured at Post Miami soon
						after the arrival of Dubuisson and his men. One of the latter, captured by a lurking
						Iroquois, was scalped and the bloody trophy was carried in triumph to the camp of
						Nicolas.
					The larger portion of the Miamis showed their strong disaffection by refusing to return
						to their village of Kiskakon (Kekionga), but chose rather to gather at the strongholds
						of the enemies of the French. Only one chief—Cold Foot—and he without
						influence, remained faithful to the French garrison.5
					
						BIENVILLE DE CELERON VISITS THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE.
						The situation was such as to call forth the most drastic action on the part of the
							French if they would retain a hold on their possessions in the west. Acting upon
							orders, Dubuisson returned to Detroit, leaving Post Miami in charge of Captain M. de
							Raimond. This was in the spring of 1748. At this time, France determined upon a
							powerful stroke to announce to the world its possession of the entire west, with the
							Alleghany and Ohio rivers as the eastern and southern boundaries. On the 15th of June,
							1749, acting under the command of the home government, Captain Pierre Joseph Bienville
							de Celeron,6 with a command of
							two hundred French soldiers and thirty Indians,7 set out upon a voyage which was designed to  end for all time any dispute concerning the true ownership
							of the lands between the eastern colonies and the Mississippi.
						Passing from Lake Erie over the portage into Lake Chautauqua, the expedition entered
							the Alleghany river, and then coursed down the Ohio to the mouth of the Great Miami
							river (near the present Cincinnati), where Celeron buried the last of six leaden
							plates which bore the proclamation that France had taken formal possession of the
							land. Paddling their canoes up the Great Miami, the expedition, on the 29th of August,
							approached the village of a famous Miami chief of the Piankeshaw band, known as
							LeDemoiselle (Young Woman) because of his fondness for dress and ornaments. To this
							village of LaDemoiselle had fled many of the fugitive Miamis who had deserted Post
							Miami (Fort Wayne) at the time of the Nicolas outbreak. To regain their confidence,
							Captain Celeron decided upon a council with LaDemoiselle and Chief Baril, representing
							another band located on the White river, who was in the village at the time. Before
							proceeding to the town, Celeron dispatched messengers to the post of Captain Raimond,
							on the site of Fort Wayne, and requested, at once, the presence of an interpreter
							named Rois, and also as many horses as possible to assist the expedition in bringing
							their luggage across the portage from the Great Miami river to Post Miami. While
							wating here, the Miamis sent four of their chiefs to escort the expedition to
							LaDemoiselle's village. Arriving there, Celeron pitched his camp, set the guard and
							awaited the coming of the interpreter. "During this interval," he says in his record,
							"I sounded them to learn if they were disposed to return to Kiskakon [site of Fort
							Wayne], for that is the name of their ancient village. They had two hired English in
							their village whom I sent away before speaking to these people. On the 11th, tired of
							waiting for the interpreter and of seeing my provisions meanwhile being used up, I
							determined to give my talk by means of an Iroquois who spoke Miamis well."8
						With lavish distribution of gifts, Celeron made an earnest plea for the return of the
							Miamis to their village at the head of the Maumee. "In that country," said he, "you
							will enjoy the pleasures of life, it being the place where repose the bones of your
							fathers and those of M. de Vincennes [Bissot] whom you loved so much and who always
							governed you in such a way that affairs always went well. If you have forgotten the
							counsels he gave you, these ashes will recall them to your memory. Have pity on the
							dead who call you back to your village! I make an easy road to Kiskakon, where I will
							re-light your fires."
						The next day, LaDemoiselle responded by saying that the savages would not return
							until the following spring. Celeron was  bitterly
							disappointed, as he had hoped to make them a part of his company.
						On the 20th, the canoes were burned and the expedition departed overland for the post
							on the site of Fort Wayne, "each one carrying his provisions and baggage," writes
							Celeron, "except the officers, for whom I had procured horses and bearers." This
							strange expedition, as it approached the site of Fort Wayne was formed into four
							companies, each with an officer at the right and left.
						"On the 25th," says Celeron in his journal, "I arrived at M. de Raimond's who
							commands at Kiskakon, staying there only as long as it was necessary to buy provisions
							and canoes to convey me to Detroit." A more appreciable reference comes from the
							journal of the Reverend Father Jean de Bonnecamps.9 Describing first the march along the banks of the St.
							Mary's, wherein they "found large crabs in abundance," the priest's story continues
							with the account of the arrival here. He wrote: "The fort of
									the Miamis was in a very bad condition when we reached it. Most of the palisades
									were decayed and fallen into ruin. There were eight houses, or, to speak more
									correctly, eight miserable huts which only the desire of making money could render
									endurable. The French there number twenty-two; all of them, including the
									commandant, had the fever. Monsieur Raimond did not approve the situation of the
									fort and maintained that it should be placed on the bank of the St. Joseph a scant
									league from the present site. He wished to show me the spot, but the hindrances of
									our departure prevented me from going hither. All I could do for him was to trace
									the plan for his new fort. The latitude of the old one is 41 degrees, 29
										minutes."10
						This decaying fort stood on the right bank of the St. Mary's river in the bend of the
							stream a short distance north of the present Nickel Plate railroad bridges.
						It is not difficult to picture the commandant, ill with fever, seeking the advice and
							assistance of these visitors from a civilized section of the world, who declined to
							discommode themselves to aid him further than to give him a rough draught to guide him
							in the building of a new fort. But, perhaps, the depression of spirit extended also to
							the heart of Celeron. "On the 26th," said he, "I called to me Cold Foot, chief of the
							Miamis at Kiskakon, and other principal Indians, to whom I repeated, in the presence
							of M. de Raimond and the officers of our detachment what I had said at the village of
							LaDemoiselle and the answers I got from them. After listening with much attention, he
							[Cold Foot] arose and said to me: 'I hope I am deceived, but I am sufficiently
							attached to the French to say that LaDemoiselle will be false. My grief is to be  the only one who loves you, and to see all the nations of
							the earth let loose against the French."
						Cold Foot's prophecy was true. LaDemoiselle grew stronger in his opposition to the
							French and finally drew upon himself a tragedy which marked the beginning of the
							French and Indian war.
						Unable to secure a sufficient number of canoes to transport his company by water down
							the Maumee, Celeron sent some of his men overland to Detroit, at which place the
							expedition arrived eight days later.
						
							CAPTAIN PIERRE JOSEPH BIENVILLE DE CELERON.
							When the daring French leader, Captain Bienville de Celeron, reached the site of
								Fort Wayne in September, 1749, with his soldiers and Indian allies, to take
								possession of the country in the name of the king of France, he found the French
								fort "in a very bad condition." Father Bonnecamps, who accompanied the expedition,
								gives an interesting account of the entire voyage. The portrait is reproduced from
								the Garner & Lodge History of the United States, by permission of the
								publishers, John D. Morris & Co., Philadelphia. The original painting is in the
								Chateau de Ramezay, Montreal.
						
					
					
						THE LAST FRENCH FORT
						Whatever Captain Raimond may have thought of the refusal of the visitors to interest
							themselves in the location of his new fort, it is certain that he lost little time in
							beginning its erection. By the spring of 1750, this new home of his men, high above
							the surrounding territory, was ready for occupancy. While the former location was on
							low ground, the new fort occupied a commanding position on the east bank of the St.
							Joseph river (at the present St. Joe boulevard and Delaware avenue, formerly Baker
							avenue), where today the automobilist, as he hurries past the historic spot looks out
							upon a landscape to the westward very similar to that which gladdened the vision of
							these hardy Frenchmen, now made unromantic, of course, by the evidences of
							civilization.
						The coming years were destined to weave about this fort of Captain Raimond many
							thrilling tales of romance, horror and bloodshed. Here were to be enacted the scenes
							of the love story of the Englishman, Holmes, and its tragic climax of massacre; the
							tale of Morris who faced death at the stake; of Croghan and the remnants of the French
							and British during the days when the young republic was training a Wayne and a
							Harrison in the school of warfare.11
						With the abandonment of the old fort on the St. Mary's, the  discarded buildings of the post became the center of an Indian settlement
							known as Cold Foot village, over which Chief Cold Foot presided until his death, which
							came at a time when his friendship was most keenly needed by the French
							commandant.
						The reference of Father Bonnecamps to the "miserable huts" of Post Miami "which only
							the desire of making money could render endurable," is a reminder of the growing
							importance to the fur trade, the protection of which held these men to guard the
							Maumee-Wabash valleys against the British. The portage was a busy highway of travel in
							those days. A word picture of its activities is given by Francis Parkman, the
							historian of the French, who says: "From Vincennes one might
									paddle his canoe northward up the Wabash, until he reached the little wooden fort
									of Ouiatanon. Thence a path through the woods led to the banks of the Maumee. Two
									or three Canadians, or half-breeds, of whom there were numbers about the fort,
									would carry the canoe on their shoulders, or, for a bottle of whiskey, a few
									Miamis might be bribed to undertake the task."12
						Parkman's suggestion of the presence of whiskey among the savages at this time brings
							into the story an element which adds terror to the succeeding chapters of our
							narrative in which the savage plays a part. For it was at this point that the severe
							restrictions of the French against the introduction of intoxicants among the Indians
							were broken down, and from this time forward the taint of deadly "fire water" blackens
							the pages of the story of the frontier.
						The period of Raimond's administration brought to the region a number of celebrated
							men, among them Joseph Drouet de Richardville who was destined to leave an illustrious
							name through the medium of his son, Jean Baptiste de Richardville (Pe-che-wa), civil
							chief of the Miamis during the closing days of the strength of the tribe. He was the
							son of a wealthy French-Canadian trader of Kaskaskia and later of Vincennes. The
							advantages of the trade situation at the head of the Maumee drew him hither and he is
							often called the first permanent white settler of the site of Fort Wayne.
						Within a brief period after his arrival, Joseph Drouet de Richardville married
							Tah-cum-wah, a daughter of Aque-noch-qua, the reigning Miami chief. Tah-cum-wah13 was a sister of Little Turtle,
							"the greatest Indian of all times."
						Jean Baptiste de Richardville, son of Joseph Drouet de Richardville and Tah-cum-wah,
							was born in 1761, as he often stated, "near the old apple tree" in the present
							Lakeside (city of Fort Wayne).  "The associations
							clustering around this old apple tree, during his childhood days, gave the chief, ever
							afterward, a profound regard, approaching almost to reverence; hence he was
							instrumental in its preservation."14
						And in the meantime, despite the proclamations of Celeron and his like, the building
							of new French posts, the strengthening of their larger settlements and their boasted
							claims of possession of the frontier, the garrison of Captain Raimond in their new
							fort on the St. Joseph, awoke one day to the startling truth that the British had
							established a settlement but a few short miles to the east—at Pickawillany15 on the Great Miami—from
							whence troublesome emissaries were soon to harass the posts to desperation.
						It was the beginning of new and lasting trouble. Raimond knew it, and he was the
							first to predict the destruction of the hopes of his countrymen in the west.
						
							MAP OF THE NOTABLE VOYAGE OF CAPTAIN CELERON
							The map shows the route of Captain Pierre Joseph Bienville de Celeron in 1749. The
								expedition, intended to claim the land for France, in the name of the king, was
								composed of two hundred French soldiers and thirty Indians.
						
						
						NOTES ON CHAPTER V.
						(1) The chief village of Sanosket was on
							the site of the present Sandusky, Ohio, which derives its name from this source. This
							was the first of the three important conspiracies of the Indians against the whites in
							the west. It is well to remember that the Nicolas conspiracy contemplated the
							annihilation of the French, while the Pontiac outbreak was planned to destroy the
							English, and the conspiracy of Tecumseh and "The Prophet" was designed to drive the
							Americans from the west.
						(2) New York Colonial Documents, Paris
							Documents, vol. ix, page 891.
						(3) Douville did not return to the west.
							In March, 1756, he led in an attack on an English fort and there lost his life. (See
							Montcalm's report, New York Colonial Documents, vol. x, page 416.)
						(4) New York Colonial Documents, Paris
							Documents, vol. x. Charles Regnault, Sieur Dubuisson, was in command at Detroit in
							1710, between the administrations of Cadillac and LaForest. During his time, Detroit
							was attacked by Fox Indians. From 1723 to 1727, he was in command of the post on the
							site of Fort Wayne. He was twice married; the former wife was Gabrielle Michelle
							Binet, and the latter, Louise Bizard. (Michigan Pioneer and Historical
							Collection).
						(5) Pennsylvania Archives, vol. ii, page
							9.
						(6) The name of this officer is also
							written Blainville de Celeron and Celeron de Bienville.
						(7) London Documents, xxix; New York
							Colonial Documents, vol. vi, page 533.
						(8) Captain Celeron's Journal, in
							Margry, vol. vi.
						(9) Father Bonnecamps was a professor of
							hydrography in the Jesuit college at Quebec. His journal, in the original French and
							in translated form may be found in the "Jesuit Relations," Fort Wayne Public
							Library.
						(10) These early French forts, or posts,
							appear to have consisted of an enclosure made of palisades set closely together,
							sheltering a number of log houses clustered within. Bonnecamps refers to eight of
							these houses in the post on the St. Mary's. At the time Captain Morris was thrown into
							the fort on the St. Joseph, he was warned against entering any of the "French cabins"
							within. The American forts of the neighborhood were provided with corner block-houses
							from which the garrison could meet the fire of an enemy.
						(11) A number of relics of this old fort
							of the French have been found.
						(12) Parkman's "Conspiracy of Pontiac,"
							vol. i, page 162.
						(13) After the death of Joseph Drouet de
							Richardville, the widow married John Beaubien who thereby became a brother-in-law of
							Little Turtle and the father-in-law of Jean Baptiste de Richardville.
						(14) Helm's History of Allen County,
							page 20.
						(15) This town was sometimes called
							Tawixtwi and Twightwees (British name for the Miamis) Town. Here the British
							constructed a strong stockaded post which was the scene of the massacre of 1752. It
							was located on the Miami river, in the present Shelby county, Ohio, at the mouth of
							Loramie creek. The object of its establishment was to draw the Indians from their
							loyalty to the French at the site of Fort Wayne and elsewhere.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VI—1750-1760. Surrender of the French Post Miami
						(Fort Wayne) to the English.
					Celeron assumes command at Detroit—Increasing alarm at Post Miami (Fort
						Wayne)—Raimond's cry of alarm—"No one wants to stay here and have his throat
						cut!"—The smallpox scourge—Death of Chiefs Coldfoot and LeGris—Captain
						Neyon de Villiers sent to command Post Miami—The audacity of John Pathin—His
						arrest—Complaint of the English—Retort of the French—Two men of the
						Post Miami garrison captured and scalped—Langlade leads in the assault on
						Pickawillany—Death of LaDemoiselle—Cannibalistic red men—Captain
						Aubray and his troops—British succor the Indians—Unsuccessful effort to
						bring French farmers into the Maumee-Wabash valleys—The fall of Quebec and the
						surrender of Detroit, ends the French rule in the valleys—Lieutenant Butler
						receives the surrender of Post Miami (Fort Wayne)—Ensign Robert Holmes in
						command—Lieutenant Jenkins at Ouiatanon—The overthrow of French power in the
						west.
					WE HAVE OBSERVED with interest the visit of Captain Celeron and his
						train of Frenchmen and Indians to the site of Fort Wayne and the activities of the men
						of the little garrison who, between the more severe attacks of the fever, were able to
						complete their new fort on the St. Joseph. Celeron, upon his arrival at Detroit, was
						made the commandant of that central stronghold.
					At his lonely post on the St. Joseph, looking across into the present Spy Run, where
						were grouped a few log huts occupied by the traders, Captain Raimond breathed an
						atmosphere laden with an omen of disaster. Scarce half a mile to the southward, where
						the Maumee turns in its course toward the east, lay the village of Kekionga. Its Miami
						and Shawnee inhabitants—the few who remained after the many had fled to the
						villages of the foes of France—had failed of late to display the warmth of
						friendship which the French had so long enjoyed. The reason was not hidden from the
						commandant. He knew that the British, from their fortified settlement at Pickawillany,
						were constantly sending out emissaries to worry the weak garrisons and win to their
						cause the few savages who clung to their ancient village. To these, the English offered
						in return for their peltries twice the amount the French traders could afford to give.
						The taunts of the savages were galling in the extreme.
					One day, in desperation, Captain Raimond dispatched a messenger to Detroit with a
						letter in which he said:  "My people are leaving me for
						Detroit. Nobody wants to stay here and have his throat cut. All of the tribes who go to
						the English at Pickawillany come back loaded with gifts. I am too weak to meet the
						danger. Instead of twenty men, I need five hundred * * * We have made peace with the
						English; yet they try continually to make war on us by means of the Indians. They intend
						to be masters of all this upper country. The tribes here are leaguing together to kill
						all the French, that they may have nobody on their lands but their English brothers.
						This I am told by Cold Foot, a great Miami chief, whom I think an honest man, if there
						be such thing among the Indians. * * * If the English stay in this country, we are lost.
						We must attack them and drive them out."1
					To add to the distress of mind of the commandant of Post Miami, an epidemic of smallpox
						spread over the Maumee-Wabash region during the winter of 1751-2 and carried away as its
						victims two of his true Indian friends, Chief Cold Foot and Chief LeGris,2 as well as many of the Miamis who
						formed the Cold Foot village.
					
						FRENCH RELICS DUG UP ON THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE.
						These three relics of the seventeenth century days of the occupation of the site of
							Fort Wayne by the French—a medallion bearing the date 1693, a copper kettle and
							a copper box are of incalculable historical value. The medallion and the kettle are
							the property of Kenton P. Baker, 1008 Delaware avenue. In 1870, while he was
							superintending some work of excavation at the junction of the present Delaware avenue
							and St. Joe boulevard, Henry J. Baker, sr. (grandfather of Kenton P. Baker), uncovered
							the kettle shown here. It was found to contain some Indian arrowheads and the large
							brass medallion of which the picture shows the two sides. The indentations of the
							kettle were made by the adz in the hands of the workman who unearthed the relic.
						The place of finding the reminders of the French occupation, is the site of the last
							French fort, erected in 1750. It would seem that the medallion and the kettle have
							reposed within the limits of the present city of Fort Wayne for a period of nearly two
							centuries. The medallion was for a time the property of Mrs. C. E. Stapleford, now a
							resident of Colorado Springs, Col. Mrs. Stapleford ascertained, through correspondence
							with the mayor of Bordeaux, France, that Guil (William) de Nesmond, whose portrait
							appears on the medallion which was issued in commemoration of his death in 1963, was a
							member of a noble family in France. It is interesting to note that an exact duplicate
							of this medallion, found in the same locality, is the property of Byron F. Thompson,
							residing north of Fort Wayne.
						The small copper box, with a hinged, embossed cover, undoubtedly a relic of the
							French occupation, is owned by L. W. Hills. It was unearthed by boys while at play in
							the vicinity of the site of the French fort.
					
					
					But Raimond appears to have completed the period of his usefulness at Post Miami, for
						he was summoned to Detroit, to give way to a new commandant, Chevalier Neyon (Noyan or
						Nyon) de Villiers.3
					Soon after his arrival, Villiers was aroused by the alarm that an Englishman had, in
						truth, been so bold as to force his way into the fort where a number of savages were
						gathered, that he might induce them to turn against the French and capture the post. In
						the nick of time, Villiers secured the intruder, who fought desperately to escape. The
						capture of this man—John Pathin—together with the taking of three others by
						the French near Detroit—was about the first effort at retaliation which the French
						had undertaken. The news of the affair reached Governor George Clinton, of New York, who
						demanded to know the cause of the warlike act.
					"The capture of these four Englishmen [Luke Arrowin, Thomas Borke, Joseph Fortiner and
						John Pathin] ought not to surprise you," responded the Marquis de la Jonquiere, at
						Montreal. "'Tis certain, sir, that they did not risk coming, so to say, under his M. G.
						Majesty's cannon, except with sinister views. * * * As for John Pathin, he entered the
						fort of the Miamis to persuade the Indians who remained there to unite with those who
						had fled to the Beautiful [Ohio] river. He has been taken in the French fort. Nothing
						more is necessary. The little property that was taken belonging to these persons has
						been claimed by the Indians as plunder. * * * John Pathin could enjoy the same freedom
						[as the others, who had been released] but he is so mutinous, and uttered so many
						threats, that I have been obliged to imprison him at Quebec."4
					In the midst of the disturbance, two of LaDemoiselle's savages crept close enough to
						the French fort to capture two of the men of Villier's garrison. Their scalps were
						carried in triumph to the camps of the foes of the French.5
					While conditions at the head of the Maumee and throughout the Wabash valley grew more
						alarming for the French, there was increased activity at the English settlement at
						Pickawillany. Christopher Gist, sent on an exploring expedition to the west in the
						interest of the Ohio Land Company (of which George Washington was a member) visited the
						place in February, 1751. His journal tells of the activity of the village and of the
						re-construction of the post—the first established by the English in the west, and
						which was designed to prove a menace to the Kekionga and Detroit strongholds of the
						French.
					But the scenes were soon to shift. Celeron, commandant of Detroit, had been directed by
						Governor Jonquiere, of Canada, to  proceed to Pickawillany
						and accomplish its destruction. Whether Celeron shirked the undertaking or was too
						deliberate in his preparations, it does not appear, but it is true that another arose to
						the occasion and accomplished the work which had been outlined for him.
					
						STEEL TOMAHAWKS.
						During the reign of terror on the frontier, the British furnished the savages not
							only with their firearms and ammunition, with which to fight the foes of Great
							Britain, but also with scalping knives and tomahawks of steel to displace the Indian
							knife and tomahawk of stone. The three specimens shown, representing distinct forms of
							steel tomahawk, were found on the site of the city of Fort Wayne. A—Made to be
							riveted to a wooden handle. B—Squaw ax. C—A pipe tomahawk; the wooden
							handle served as a stem of the pipe, and the head of the instrument as the bowl. A and
							C are from the collection of the late Colonel R. S. Robertson; B is from the
							collection of L. W. Hills.
					
					This leader was Charles Langlade. The Indians at Kekionga, no less than the garrison at
						the post, were taken by surprise one day in June, 1752, when a small army of French and
						two hundred Chippewas and Ottawas, came rapidly up the Maumee and turned westward into
						the St. Mary's on their way to the portage point nearest the Pickawillany post. It was
						the army come to drive out the English. Langlade had gathered his followers from the
						Green Bay region and piloted them to Detroit, where their assistance was offered to the
						commandant. Celeron accepted their service, supplemented the force by the addition of a
						few French regulars and Canadians, under M. St. Orr (or St. Orr), and directed the
						expedition against Pickawillany.
					No word had reached the British post to warn it of the approach of the attacking party.
						"Langlade," says one writer, after describing the landing of the canoes on the bank of
						the St. Mary's, "led his painted savages through the forest to attack La Demoiselle and
						his English friends."6 The
						assault was spirited and decisive. "Among the Indians who had been captured was the
						principal chief of the Piankeshaws, called 'Old Britain' [La Demoiselle], on account of
						his friendship for the British; he was killed, cut in pieces, boiled and eaten in full
						view of the fort, after which the French and their allies moved away."7
					The effect of the fall of Pickawillany was to awe the Miamis to the extent that they
						again turned to the French, although Captain William Trent, of the English, assembled
						them at the destroyed  village but a few weeks later and
						made a lavish distribution of gifts. The decision of the Pennsylvania legislature to
						give "the sum of two hundred pounds as a present of condolence to the Twightwee [Miami]
						nation," failed to restore their loyalty.
					Further east, affairs between the British and French were assuming a serious aspect.
						Major George Washington, after his ineffectual journey to carry a message from Governor
						Dinwiddie to the French posts, ordering their evacuation, met with moderate success in
						an encounter at Great Meadows, and this event is often referred to as the opening affair
						of the French and Indian war, regardless of the assault at Pickawillany.
					And so were precipitated the hostilities which closed in the complete overthrow of
						France in the New World.
					During this period of turmoil, the lands at the head of the Maumee were the scene of
						the action of French troops passing chiefly to the eastward from the Louisiana region.
						Many of these came up the Wabash, crossed the portage and proceeded down the Maumee.
						Notable was the expedition of Captain Aubray, in 1759, who, with three hundred French
						regulars and militia and six hundred Indians, carried great quantities of flour for the
						assistance of Forts Venango and Niagara. The army passed from the Maumee along the south
						shore of Lake Erie. Captain Aubray was among the French captured by the British at the
						fall of Fort Niagara in the summer of 1759.8
					The early successes of the French suggested to Captain Celeron at Detroit the
						advisability of peopling the Maumee-Wabash valleys with French farmers, and to this end
						the government agreed to give to each family thus consenting to locate and engage in
						tilling the soil, the following equipment: A gun, a hoe, an axe, a plowshare, a scythe
						and a sickle, two augurs, a sow, six hens, a cock, six pounds of powder, twelve pounds
						of lead and other favors. Only twelve families consented to move.9 Certainly it was no time. to choose a home on
						the frontier. Frequent encounters occurred between the sympathizers of both parties to
						the great quarrel, that did not cease even with the capitulation of Quebec in September,
						1760, which formally closed the French and Indian war.
					
						THE ENGLISH FLAG FLOATS OVER FORT WAYNE SITE.
						The quiet surrender of Detroit in the 29th of November, to Major Robert Rogers,
							automatically threw the entire Maumee-Wabash region into the hands of the British. The
							garrison of the lonely post on the site of Fort Wayne awaited with interest the
							appearance of the British leader authorized to take the fort. He was not long in
							coming. A detachment of twenty rangers  from the famous
							"Royal Americans," under command of Lieutenant Butler10 rode up to the fort in December, 1760, and received its
							formal transfer.
						"I ordered that if possible a party should subsist at the fort [Miami] this winter
							[1760-1]," says Rogers in his report, "and give the earliest notice at Detroit of the
							enemy's motives in the country of the Illinois."
						Ensign Robert Holmes11 appears
							to have accompanied Butler's rangers to Post Miami, there to serve at intervals until
							his tragic death three years later.
						A second detachment, under Lieutenant Edward Jenkins, passed onward to Ouiatanon and
							received the surrender of that post. Nothing was now left to the French in the entire
							west, except the posts of Kaskaskia, Cahokia and Fort Chartres, on the
							Mississippi.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER VI.
						(1) Francis Parkman, "Montcalm and
							Wolf," vol. i, page 82.
						(2) He is not to be confused with the
							Chief LeGris, proprietor of the Miami village in Spy Run preceding the Harmar
							expedition and who signed the treaty of Greenville.
						(3) Villiers was the youngest of seven
							brothers, six of whom, it is said, lost their lives in the wars in Canada. He held the
							post on the site of Fort Wayne during 1751 and 1752, when he was transferred to Fort
							Chartres, on the Illinois bank of the Mississippi, ninety miles above the mouth of the
							Ohio. In August, 1756, Villiers commanded an escort of provisions sent from Fort
							Chartres to Fort Duquesne; arriving in Pennsylvania with twenty-three Frenchmen and
							thirty Indians, he attacked and destroyed Fort Grandville. Returning to Fort Chartres,
							he was named to succeed Captain Macarty as its commandant, a position he held until
							June 15, 1764, when he received the cross of St. Louis as a reward for his fidelity
							and services. M. Gayarre confounds him with his brother, Coulon Villiers, called the
							great Villiers, to whom Washington surrendered in 1754.
						(4) New York Colonial Documents, vol.
							vi, page 733.
						(5) Dunn's "Indiana."
						(6) Parkman's "Montcalm and Wolf," vol.
							1, page 85.
						(7) Colonial Documents, vol. vi, page
							730. It is believed by some historians that the main body of the French stopped at
							Post Miami (Fort Wayne) and that an attack on Pickawillany was made by the savages
							without their leadership, this conjecture being based upon the account of one writer
							that only two Frenchmen were observed on the scene.
						(8) Daris Documents, xvi; New York
							Colonial Documents, vol. x, page 989.
						(9) Dr. Charles E. Slocum, "Maumee River
							Basin," vol. i, page 102; see also Parkman's "Montcalm and Wolf," page 77.
						(10) That Butler remained for some time
							at the post is suggested by a letter written by Captain Donald Campbell, the first
							commandant at Detroit, to Colonel Bouquet: "Lieutenant Butler and his rangers are
							living among the Ottawas at the Miami post. At the post where he is stationed, he is
							but nine miles from the Wabash." Campbell complains of the large amounts of supplies
							used at the posts on the St. Joseph and the Wabash. "Major Rogers has about stripped
							us in supplying the adjoining posts," he writes. "I designed to send a large quantity
							of ammunition to the Posts of Miamis, St. Joseph and Ouiatanon for the subsistence of
							the garrisons, as the transportation is so difficult. This I cannot do as I wish, for
							want [of] ammunition. I wait for an officer from Niagara, to send off [to] the
							garrison of Ouiatanon. If the major does not send one, I shall be obliged to have a
							sergeant at Miamis, which is not the general intentions surely that these posts should
							be commanded by a sergeant."
						(11) In searching for information
							concerning Robert Holmes, whose tragic death forms the climax of one of the most
							romantic tales of the English occupation of the west, the writer finds that his title
							is given during the same periods of time as Ensign and Lieutenant. He had been
							actively engaged against Quebec, serving as a scout in charge of fifty men in the
							region of Lake Champlain. His efforts were designed to harass the French and mislead
							them as to the enemy's intentions. On the way to the west with Major Rogers to receive
							the surrender of Detroit, Holmes's boat formed the rear guard for the flotilla of
							fifteen whaleboats which conveyed the men to their destination. Arrived at Detroit,
							Major Rogers placed Colonel Beletre and the other English prisoners in charge of
							Holmes and thirty rangers. It is evident that during a portion of the year 1761 Holmes
							was absent from his post, for we find a written record of Major William Walter to the
							effect that he has "Ensign Holmes, with two Sergeants, ten Corporals and sixty men
							assitsing in the building two vessels for Lake Eri."
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VII—1761-1765. Massacre of the British at Post
						Miami (Fort Wayne)—Morris and Croghan.
					The beginning of the Conspiracy of Pontiac—Holmes warned of the plot—He
						discovers the war belt at Kekionga—Holmes betrayed to his death by the Indian
						maiden—Shot from ambush—Captain Morris' version—Survivors tell of the
						plot as planned and executed by Jacques Godefroy and Miney Chene—Welch and
						Lawrence, the traders, and their account of the murder—Ouiatanon
						falls—Morris at Pontiac's camp—He reaches the site of Fort
						Wayne—Captured and thrown into the fort—Tied to the stake to be
						tortured—Saved by Chief Pecanne—Escapes to the fort—Colonel
						Bradstreet's expedition—Savages bring in the white captives—Colonel George
						Croghan reaches the site of Fort Wayne—Savages raise the English
						flag—Croghan describes the villages—Pontiac gives up the fight and leaves
						for the west—His tragic death.
					DURING the two years following the fall of the French posts,
						comparative quiet prevailed throughout the west. But while the British were comfortably
						surveying their possessions, mischief was forming in the cunning brain of a master mind
						of the savages—Pontiac, chief of the Ottawas.
					Inspired by his lessons of the defeat of General Braddock, in which he played a
						prominent part; by the encouragement of French leaders who still sought the downfall of
						the British, and by the complaints of the savages of many of the tribes which
						participated in the French and Indian war, this "Napoleon of the western Indians"
						planned the most remarkable conspiracy of massacre and overthrow of the whites ever
						conceived by a savage. That the plan failed was due only to the impetuosity of some of
						his associates.
					Following the war, the Indians, footsore and weary of strife, had been content to live
						off the bounties of the victors. But soon these bounties ceased, because there was now
						no rival to claim the affection of the Indians and, indeed, the British war tax had
						added greatly to the value of those articles which formerly were given with much
						freedom.
					In the fall of 1761, Pontiac sent his messengers to every village of the savages along
						the Ohio and its tributaries, throughout the upper Great Lakes region, and as far south
						as the lower Mississippi. With a tomahawk stained red, and with a war belt of wampum, a
						messenger visited each camp and settlement, where, after throwing down the tomahawk he
						delivered the message of the great chief.
					The quietest of secrecy surrounded the movements of the 
						savages to prevent the discovery of the plot. But one day in March, 1763, a friendly
						Indian sought Ensign Robert Holmes, at the post on the St. Joseph, and informed him that
						a messenger with a war belt had visited the village of Kekionga and, after making his
						speech, had left the belt in the hands of the Indians of that settlement. Alarmed by the
						report, the commandant made bold to visit the village and demand the delivery into his
						hands of the war-belt, together with the interpretation of the speech of the messenger
						who had come and gone. The savages "did as Indians have often done, confessed their
						fault with much contrition, laid the blame on a neighboring tribe, and professed eternal
						friendship for their brethren, the English."1
					Holmes reported the discovery to his superior, Major Henry Gladwyn, in command at
						Detroit, with the request that the word be forwarded to Sir Jeffrey Amherst. Not
						satisfied with the mere confession of the savages, however, Holmes continued his search
						until he found the fatal war-belt. Without hesitation, he wrapped it carefully with a
						letter which he dispatched by a trusty messenger to Major Gladwyn. Holmes was exultant.
						He felt that the trouble was now ended. On the 30th of March he wrote to Gladwn as
						follows: "Since my last letter to You, wherein I Acquainted You
								of the Bloody Belt being in this Village I have Made all the search I could about
								it, and have found it out to be True; Whereupon I Assembled all the Chiefs of this
								Nation & after a long and troublesome Spell with them, I Obtained the Belt, with
								a Speech, as you will Receive Enclosed; This Affair is very timely Stopt, and I hope
								the News of a Peace will put a stop to any further Troubles with these Indians who
								are the Principal Ones of Setting Mischief on Foot. I send you the Belt with this
								packet, which I hope You will forward to the General."2
					The "speech" to which Holmes referred in his letter was that spoken by the Indians as
						they delivered the war belt into his hands. He recalled the words as best he could and
						repeated them, as follows in the letter which he forwarded to Gladwyn: "This Belt was Received from the Shawnese Nation, they Received
								it from the Delawares, and they from the Senecas Who are Very Much Enraged against
								the English. As for the Indian That Was the Beginner of this we Cannot tell him, but
								he was One of Their Chiefs, and one That is Always doing Mischief, and the Indian
								that Brought it to this Place was a Chief who was Down at the Grand Council held in
								Pennsylvania Last Summer. We Desire you fo Send this Down to Your General and George
								Croghan, and Let them Find Out the man that was Making the Mischief. For our Parts
								we will be Still and take no More Notice of Their Mischief Neither will we be
								Concern'd in it, if we had Ever so Much  Mind to Kill
								the English, there is always some Discovery Made before we can Accomplish our
								Design. This is all we Have to Say only you must give Our Warriors some Paints, Some
								Powder & Ball and some Knives, as they are all Going to War against our Enemies
								the Cherokees."3
					The commandant, secure in the feeling that trouble was "very timely Stopt," little knew
						that the plans for the greatest conspiracy of murder in the history of America were
						being carefully completed in Pontiac's camp but a short distance down the Maumee.
					A romantic traditional story relates that in May a beautiful Ojibway maiden,4 in love with the Detroit
						commandant, Major Gladwyn, revealed to him the widespread plot of Pontiac to seize the
						entire west, and that the capture of Detroit post was planned for the following day.
						Thus warned, Gladwyn was enabled to hold the fort through a siege of several months,
						during which time Fort Sandusky, Fort St. Joseph, Fort Michilimackinac, Fort Ouiatanon
						and Post Miami passed into the hands of the savages.
					At the little fort on the St. Joseph river on the site of Fort Wayne, the garrison
						learned with fear of the further activities of the Indians. Nevertheless, Ensign Holmes,
						the commandant, was destined to be the first to lose his life. "And here," observes
						Parkman, "I cannot but remark on the forlorn situation of these officers, isolated in
						the wilderness, hundreds of miles, in some instances, from any congenial associates,
						separated from every human being except the rude soldiers under their command and the
						white or red savages who ranged the surrounding woods.
					
						SCALPING KNIVES, RELICS OF SAVAGERY.
						The blades of two scalping knives here shown in full size, are in the collection of
							the late Col. R. S. Robertson, now in the possession of his son, R. S. Robertson, Jr.,
							of Paducah, Ky., by whom they were loaned. They were found on the site of Fort
							Wayne.
					
					
					"On the 27th day of May, a young Indian girl,5 who lived with the commandant, came to tell him that a squaw
						lay dangerously ill in a wigwam near the fort, and urged him to come to her relief.
						Having confidence in the girl, Holmes forgot his caution and followed her out of the
						fort. Pitched on the edge of a meadow [in the present Lakeside], hidden from view by an
						intervening spur of woodland, stood a great number of Indian wigwams. When Holmes came
						in sight of them his treacherous conductress pointed out that in which the sick woman
						lay. He walked on without suspicion, but, as he drew near, two guns flashed from behind
						the hut and stretched him lifeless on the grass. The shots were heard at the fort and
						the sergeant rashly went out to learn the cause. He was immediately taken prisoner, amid
						exulting yells and whoopings. The soldiers in the fort climbed upon the palisades to
						look out, when Godefroy, a Canadian, and two other white men, made their appearance and
						summoned them to surrender, promising that if they did so their lives would be
							spared."6
					Such is the story as Parkman tells it, and we are given further "details" by Captain
						Robert Morris, who came to the village in the next year and who received the account
						from "the sole survivor" of the garrison. According to the tale of this man, whom Morris
						found chopping wood by the river bank, as the major's boat came floating by, the savages
						"killed all but five or six whom they reserved as victims to be sacrificed when they
						would lose a man in their wars with the English. They had all been killed except this
						one man," continues Morris, "whom an old squaw had adopted as her son."7
					Possibly this "sole survivor" thought he was telling the truth, but it develops that he
						was not the only one whose life was spared. Others who lived to relate the story, and
						who told it under oath, were James Barnes, William Bolton, John McCoy and James Beems,
						who, as they found their way to Detroit during the succeeding weeks, gave their
						testimony before Gladwyn's court of inquiry.8 The substance of their combined narratives, together with
						that of John Welch and Robert Lawrence, traders, showed that the Frenchmen in the plot
						took the lead in the affair, and that the conduct of the savages stands out in
						commendable contrast with that of their white associates.
					On the afternoon preceding the murder, Jacques Godefroy, Miney Chene and three
						companions named Beaubien, Chavin and Labadie, accompanied by a number of Indians,
						waited on the bank of the Maumee several miles below the fort, to make the first
						demonstration of their outlawry. Floating down the stream came two pirogues laden with
						peltries and propelled by John Welch  and Robert Lawrence,
						who were taking their property to Detroit. Hiding themselves in the brush, the Frenchmen
						instructed the Indians to induce the traders to come ashore. Here, Welch and Lawrence
						were seized, and their goods divided among the Frenchmen. Beaubien, Chavin and Labadie
						took their ill-gotten goods to Detroit, while Godefroy and Chene retained Welch and
						Lawrence as prisoners, and the party proceeded to Kekionga where they arrived after
						nightfall.
					
						PONTIAC.
						Under the direction of the great Ottawa leader the little garrison at Post Miami,
							site of Fort Wayne, fell into the hands of the savages in 1763, and the murder of the
							Commandant, Holmes, was successfully accomplished. The portrait is after an old print,
							as published in President Woodrow Wilson's "A History of the American People,"
							reproduced by permission of the publishers, Harper & Brothers.
					
					Holmes already had received warning from a friendly Frenchman that trouble was brewing.
						He immediately closed the gates of the fort and set his men at work making
						cartridges.
					The testimony of Robert Lawrence, one of the captive traders, develops the story from
						this point. Lawrence and Welch were first taken to a spot remote from the village and
						tied securely to stakes driven in the ground. The place of their captivity was probably
						in the eastern part of the present Lakeside. Two guards remained with them, while the
						others went into the village.
					"After they were some time gone," says Lawrence, "Mr. Welch asked where they were gone.
						They told him, to murder Holmes—in his room, if they could. In the night, two
						Indians returned to where we were tied and [we] were led in that condition to the
						cabins. In the morning, May 27, they had contrived to get Mr. Holmes out of the fort,
						waylaid, and killed him, and brought his scalp to the cabins."
					This plain statement of the plan of a cold-blooded murder—of the all-night
						attempt to force the commandant to risk his life, and of its final consummation only
						when the false appeal came to the finer qualities of kindness and mercy—reveals
						the depths of the depravity of the conspirators.
					Eight men were left in the garrison when the shots which killed Holmes startled them,
						and a sergeant rushed out to ascertain the occasion of the shooting. He was immediately
						seized, but before the  Indians or their friends could gain
						entrance to the fort, the men closed the gate and secured it. Godefroy and the savages,
						with the captive Welch, then appeared before the fort and demanded that the men come
						forth and earn the preservation of their lives, or else suffer death in the burning of
						the stockade and the buildings. Godefroy, who could not speak English, gave the word of
						command through Welch. Finally, the gate was opened and the men appeared. They
						immediately were taken prisoners. Private Barnes, as he stood before Godefroy, was
						commanded through the medium of Welch, to remove from his shoes two silver buckles
						which, he said, would be taken by the Indians if he (Godefroy) failed to appropriate
						them to his own use.9 Godefroy
						then announced that a party would be formed at once to proceed to the little post of
						Ouiatanon, on the Wabash, near the present Lafayette, Indiana, and capture the garrison
						under Lieutenant Edward Jenkins. The murderers took with them two prisoners from Post
						Miami as evidence that the fort on the St. Joseph had fallen into their hands.
					The party reached Ouiatanon on the evening of May 30. "They were to have fell on us and
						killed us last night," wrote Jenkins in his report to Gladwyn on the 1st of June, "but
						Mr. Maisongville10 and Lorain
						gave them wampum not to kill us, & when they told the Interpreter that we were all
						to be killed, & he, knowing the condition of the fort, beg'd of them to make us
							prisoners."11
					Lorain, evidently, carried the message to Gladwyn, for Jenkins adds that "he can tell
						you all."
					Jacques Godefroy then made his way to Sandusky where he fell into the hands of Colonel
						John Bradstreet who had been sent to the west to pacify Pontiac's savages. The guilty
						wretch expected to be put to death, but it happened that just at this time another
						emissary of the British, Captain Robert Morris, was setting out from Detroit to visit
						the Indians at the scene of the murder of Holmes, and Godefroy was given a chance to
						"make good" by serving as his guide and protector. Believing that Morris had saved his
						life, Godefroy became, in reality, the preserver of the life of Morris.
					
						THE THRILLING EXPERIENCE OF CAPTAIN MORRIS.
						Morris was a captain in the Seventeenth regiment of British infantry, and had come to
							Detroit with Bradstreet. Fortunately, he was of a literary bent, and the tale of his
							experiences before and after he reached the site of Fort Wayne has been preserved in a
							small volume of the captain's efforts, published in England after his return home.
						At this time, Pontiac, sullen in the failure of his great  conspiracy,12 took up his
							abode five miles from the Maumee, the trail leading out of the site of the present
							Defiance, in Ohio. To this camp, with messages of peace, Captain Morris, under the
							direction of Colonel Bradstreet, made his way with a company of Indians and Godefroy
							as guide. Disappointed and embittered, Pontiac received Morris with coldness, but
							saved him from imminent death by halting the fierce demonstration of his followers
							with the proclamation that the life of an ambassador should ever be held sacred. With
							Pontiac's consent, Morris and his escort finally were allowed to proceed up the Maumee
							to the site of Fort Wayne where the earlier perils were forgotten in the face of real
								danger.13
						Arriving at the lower point of the present Lakeside, the party of Captain Morris
							stepped from their canoes and proceeded up the east bank of the St. Joseph toward the
							fort. Morris remained in boat absorbed in the reading of Shakespeare's "Antony and
							Cleopatra," when he was rudely aroused by the arrival of a motley crowd of savages
							who, on failing to find "the Englishman" in the advance party, had sought him out. He
							was dragged forth and conducted with many indignities into the fort enclosure, where
							he was cautioned not to enter any of the French cabins therein.14 Here he was left for a short time, while the
							savages met in council to determine his future. He was then brought forth to torture.
							From the beginning, Godefroy—the man who had led in the betrayal of Holmes at
							this very spot—befriended Morris, as did also another Frenchman, St. Vincent,
							who had accompanied Morris from Detroit.
						Says the captain in his book: "Two Indian warriors, with
									tomahawks in their hands seized me, one by each arm. * * * They dragged me into
									the water [St. Joseph river]. I concluded their intention was to drown me and
									scalp me, but the river was fordable. They led me on till we came near the village
									[in Spy Run] and there they stopt and stripped me. They could not get off my
									shirt, which was held by the wristbands, after they had pulled it over my head,
									and in rage and despair I tore it off myself. They then bound my arms with my
									sash. * * * The whole village was in an uproar. Godefroy * * * encouraged
									Pontiac's nephew and the Little Chief's son to take my part. He spoke to Le
									Cygne's [a chief] son, who whispered his father and the father came and unbound my
									arms. Vesculair, upon my speaking, got up and tied me by the neck to a post. I had
									not the smallest hope of life, when Pecanne,15 king of the Miamis nation, and just out of his
									minority, having mounted a horse and crossed the river [St. Joseph], rode up to
									me. When I heard him call out to those about me, and felt his hand behind my neck,
									I thought he was going to strangle me out of pity [to avoid the tortures to which
									the captain previously referred, but are here omitted] but he untied me, saying,
									'I give this man his life. You want  English
									meat—go to Detroit or the Lake, and you'll find enough. What business have
									you with this man's flesh who has come to speak with us ?'"
						Captain Morris, on being released, sought refuge in the fort, where he was befriended
							by a Frenchman named l'Esperance who lodged him in his garret. To this refuge came two
							young women, said to have been sisters of Chief Pecanne, who showed him kindnesses.
							Those who had bound him, however, awaited his reappearance, and a band of Kickapoos,
							arriving after the excitement had abated, threatened to put the captain to death if
							the Miamis failed to do so.
						Bradstreet's instructions to Morris contemplated his proceeding onward to the Wabash
							towns, but the plucky Englishman, after his experience here, decided to await an
							opportunity of escape. It came in due time, and he, with Godefroy disappeared into the
							wilderness and reached Detroit after the passage of many days.
						At this time, Colonel Henry Bouquet, of the British, advancing from Pennsylvania at
							the head of six hundred troops, marched to the strongholds of the Senecas, Delawares
							and Shawnees, in Ohio, demanding that they not only cease their depredations but that
							before the passage of twelve days they deliver into his hands all the persons in their
							possession—"Englishmen, Frenchmen, women17 and children, whether adopted into their tribes, married
							or living among you under any denomination or pretense whatever." Colonel Bouquet
							returned to Fort Pitt, but one detachment of his army pushed to the westward and
							followed the left bank of the St. Mary's river to the site of Fort Wayne. Everywhere,
							the message of Bouquet was spread, and the savages appeared to fear the consequences
							of their failure to comply with the colonel's terms. Soon the Indians commenced to
							arrive at Bouquet's camp with their captives, until a total of thirty-two men and
							fifty-eight women and children from Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Ohio, who had been
							taken in the savage raids, were surrendered into the hands of Bouquet. Many of these
							were relatives of the members of the rescue camp, and the reunion was the occasion of
							the most touching emotional scenes.
						The savages of the lower Wabash came not under the influence of the expedition of
							Bouquet, and so, in order to convince them of the attitude of the British, Sir William
							Johnson, in 1765, chose Colonel George Croghan to visit these tribes, by whom he was
							well known. Colonel Croghan left Fort Pitt May 15th. After losing two of his men, who
							were shot by Indians in ambush, the colonel, wounded, was captured and taken to
							Vincennes. Fortunately he met here a number of leading Indians whom he formerly had
								 befriended, and he was allowed to proceed up the
							Wabash river to Ouiatanon and then to Post Miami (Fort Wayne). While at Ouiatanon, the
							chiefs of the Miamis came to him and "renewed their Antient Friendship with His
							Majesty & all His Subjects in America & Confirmed it with a Pipe," writes
							Colonel Croghan in his journal. Continuing, he says: "Within a
									mile of the Twightwee [Miami] village [Kekionga], I was met by the chiefs of that
									nation who received us very kindly. The most part of these Indians knew me and
									conducted me to their village where they immediately hoisted an English flag that
									I had formerly given them at Fort Pitt. The next day they held a council, after
									which they gave me up the English prisoners that they had. * * * The Twightwee
									village is situated on both sides of a river called St. Joseph. This river where
									it falls into the Miami [Maumee] river about a quarter of a mile from this place
									is one hundred yards wide, on the east side of which stands a stockade fort
									somewhat ruinous. The Indian village consists of about forty or fifty cabins,
									besides nine or ten French houses, a runaway colony from Detroit during the late
									Indian war [the Pontiac uprising]. They were concerned in it, and being afraid of
									punishment, they came to this spot where ever since they have spirited up the
									Indians against the English. All the French residing here are a lazy, indolent
									people, fond of breeding mischief and spiriting up the Indians against the
									English, and should by no means be suffered to remain here. The country is
									pleasant, the soil rich and well watered."
						As he proceeded to Detroit, which place he reached August 17, and where Colonel
							Bradstreet awaited the coming of the chiefs for a council, Croghan was accompanied by
							all the English prisoners released to him at the various points which he visited.
						The spectacle of the return of the white captives to the British and of complete
							submission of the savages to the will of Colonel Croghan (who reported that the Miamis
							"expressed great pleasure that the unhappy differences which embroiled the several
							nations with their brethren [the English] were now so near a happy conclusion"),
							filled Pontiac's cup of bitterness to the brim. To Croghan, the chief declared that he
							would no longer give his life to the fighting of the whites.
						Sad at heart, the great warrior departed for the west, where, near the site of St.
							Louis, in Missouri, he was treacherously stabbed to death by a Peoria brave—an
							act prompted, it is said, by an Englishman named Williamson—which precipitated a
							war of extermination of the Peorias.
						
						NOTES ON CHAPTER VII.
						(1) Francis Parkman's "The Conspiracy of
							Pontiac," vol. i, page 197.
						(2) Parkman's "The Conspiracy of
							Pontiac," vol. i, page 189.
						(3) From the Gladwyn Papers, Burton
							Historical Collection, Detroit.
						(4) "The Ojibway maiden, Catherine, is
							unquestionably a myth. Recent discoveries show beyond a doubt that the information
							came from Angelique Cuillier (also called Beaubien), and that her lover, James
							Sterling, who later became her husband, was the actual informant."—Landmarks of
							Wayne County and Detroit," page 90, Robert B. Ross and George B. Catlin.
						(5) "Mrs. [Laura] Suttenfleld,
							deceased," wrote the late Colonel R. S. Robertson, "stated that she became acquainted
							with this woman [the squaw who betrayed Holmes], in 1815, when she had a son, a man of
							some years, who, the squaw said, was Saginish [English], and from the age of the man,
							the inference was drawn that he was the son of Holmes. After leaving here, the woman
							took up her residence in the Raccoon village. She lived to a great age, and as known
							to many of the early settlers of Fort Wayne."
						(6) Parkman's "The Conspiracy of
							Pontiac," vol. i.
						(7) Morris adds that he met this man in
							New York at a later time, where he was employed as a boatman.
						(8) This account is compiled from the
							Gladwyn Papers in the Burton Historical Collection, Detroit.
						(9) Barnes relates that at a later time,
							in Detroit, when Godefroy was a prisoner, Godefroy paid him for the buckles which he
							had stolen.
						(10) This man was probably the Francois
							Maisonville whose name appears in the list of French residents of the village on the
							site of Fort Wayne in 1769. He was here as late as 1778, when Hamilton's army passed
							over the site from Detroit on the way to its capture at Vincennes. He had taken
							several American prisoners but was himself captured by George Rogers Clark's men who,
							according to Hamilton's report, would have killed him but for the intercession of his
							brother, Alexis Maisonville. Francois Maisonville was taken to Virginia as a
							fellow-prisoner of Hamilton; he committed suicide while in confinement. Alexis
							Maisonville, according to Hamilton, was "the person best able to give him information
							of the country and the character of the inhabitants" between Detroit and
							Vincennes.
						(11) Parkman's "The Conspiracy of
							Pontiac," vol. i, page 287.
						(12) Detroit, after a severe siege, had
							been relieved by Colonel John Bradstreet, and Fort Pitt weathered the storm under the
							protection of the troops of Colonel Henry Bouquet.
						(13) En route up the river, the
							travelers met an Indian riding a beautiful white horse which, they were told, had been
							the property of General Braddock, and which had been taken from the field of battle at
							the time of the ambuscade.
						(14) The post had been without a
							garrison for a period of about eighteen months—ever since the Holmes massacre.
							It was at this time, and until it crumbled into ruins, tenanted by Indian and French
							"of the worst sort," as they were described by Sir William Johnson in a report dated
							this same year. (New York Colonial Documents, vol. vii, page 716.)
						(15) Pecanne was an uncle of Chief Jean
							Baptiste Richardville (see Chapter X).
						(16) The thrilling narrative of Captain Morris, as quoted from his "Miscellanies
							in Prose and Verse, is given in "Early Western Travels," vol. i, page 301; in "Western
							Annals," page 180, and in Parkman's "The Conspiracy of Pontiac," vol. ii; Fort Wayne
							Public Library.
						(17) "No female captive is ever saved by
							the Indians from base motives or need fear the violation of her honor. The whole
							history of the wars may be challenged for a solitary instance of the violation of
							female chastity."—Schoolcraft, "Travels in the Central Portion of the
							Mississippi Valley," page 394.
						(18) It will be recalled that the savages at Post Miami (Fort Wayne) in their
							speech to Ensign Holmes, asked him to send their message and the war belt to "your
							general and George Croghan, and let them find out the man [Pontiac] that is making the
							mischief." Colonel Croghan's account of this remarkable expedition is recorded in
							"Early Western Travels," by R. G. Thwaites, vol i, page 151; "Annals of the West,"
							page 185, and "The Wilderness Trail," vol. ii, by Charles A. Hanna. All are to be
							found at the Fort Wayne Public Library. The name of Colonel George Croghan is ofttimes
							confused with that of Major George Croghan, a nephew of George Rogers Clark, who
							figures in local history of 1812.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VIII—1766-1779. Miami Town (Fort Wayne) and the
						Revolution.
					The savages renew their allegiance with the English—Sir William Johnson fears
						the Indians may aid the colonists—Would reclaim the site of Fort
						Wayne—Hamilton in authority at Detroit—Sends out scalping parties to raid
						the American settlements—McKee, Elliott and the Girtys—George Rogers Clark's
						brilliant capture of Kaskaskia, Cahokia and Vincennes—Celeron flees from
						Ouiatanon—Hamilton's army moves up the Maumee to the site of Fort
						Wayne—Conference with savage tribes—Valuable goods stored at the Miami
						village—Proceeds to Vincennes—The army passes over the ancient
						portage—How the beavers helped—The defeat of Hamilton—DePeyster, the
						tory, assumes command of the scalping parties—Rum demoralizes the savages.
					WITH the passing of Pontiac, the savages gradually assumed a show of
						friendship for the British which became a vital attachment as soon as the Indians
						realized their dependence for subsistence upon their former antagonists—or rather
						upon those against whom they had fought with the hope of driving them from the Indian
						lands.
					A new element, too, was gradually creeping into the controversy—the revolt of the
						American colonists against the British oppression. The Indians, who classed all of the
						enemies of the French as British—as, indeed, they were, broadly
						speaking—failed to understand the grounds for possible rupture between the
						colonists and the home government. The problem of holding them as firm allies in case of
						a break became a matter of deep concern to the British, who saw a possible chance of
						their turning to the colonists and assisting them in their fight for independence in
						case the war should come. That the British feared the outcome is expressed by Sir
						William Johnson, in charge of Indian affairs in America, as shown by his letter written
						ten years before the Declaration of Independence.
					"I have given them an answer with the utmost caution," he said, "well knowing their
						disposition, and that they might incline to interest themselves in the acair or fall
						upon the inhabitants in revenge for old frauds which they cannot easily forget."
					Nor did the alarm of Sir William subside with the approach of the period which preceded
						the outbreak of hostilities, for we find him, as late as 1771, observing that "if a very
						small part of these people have been capable of reducing us to such straits as we were
						in a few years since [during the Pontiac uprising] what 
						may we not expect from such a formidable alliance as we are now threatened
						with?"—a feared coalition of several of the western tribes.
					The reclaiming of the site of Fort Wayne at that time also was a matter of concern to
						Sir William, who sought the co-operation of the home government to strengthen and
						re-occupy the post at the confluence of the St. Joseph and St. Mary's.
					"St. Joseph [a post on the St. Joseph river which flows into Lake Michigan] and the
						Miamis [site of Fort Wayne] have neither of them been re-established," he wrote. "The
						former is of less consequence for trade than the latter, which is a place of some
						importance. At the Miamis there may be always a sufficiency of provisions from its
						vicinity by the river of that name1 in the proper season, to protect which the fort there can, at small expense,
						be rendered tenable against any coupe de mains."
					The outbreak of the Revolution found Sir Guy Carleton established at Detroit as the
						civil governor of the British possessions in America, and Captain (afterward Colonel)
						Henry Hamilton, of the Fifteenth Regiment of British troops, holding the dual office of
						lieutenant-governor and superintendent of Indian affairs. Under the Quebec act, which
						was so odious in the eyes of the colonists as to merit their condemnation in the
						Declaration of Independence, the entire region northwest of the Ohio river was made
						subject to the absolute power of the governor and lieutenant-governor and a council of
						twenty-three persons.
					
						SWORD FOUND IN LAKESIDE.
						The illustration is a re-drawing of a picture in Vol. I. of the "History of the
							Maumee River Basin," from the copyright of Dr. Charles E. Slocum, by his permission.
							The sword was found in Lakeside (Fort Wayne) and came into the possession of L. W.
							Hills; it is now a part of the Slocum collection. The specimen is twenty-two inches in
							length. "Probably," says Dr. Slocum, "this weapon was made by a French armorer for a
							savage warrior who presented a bone of one of his human victims for a handle."
					
					Hamilton, whose personality overshadowed every other factor in the governmental affairs
						of Canada, entered promptly upon a policy of extermination of American settlers3 in the west, "whose arrogance,
						disloyalty and imprudence," he said, "have justly drawn upon them this deplorable sort
						of war."4
					Parties of savages, under the leadership of British soldiers and adventurers, were soon
						scouring every quarter of Pennsylvania, Ohio and Kentucky, where defenseless American
						pioneers might be captured and brought to Detroit, or whose scalps formed a kind of gory
						tribute  to please the enemies of the proposed
							republic.5 Hamilton's official
						reports of these bloody raids form a sickening page of the story of the time.6
					
						McKEE, ELLIOTT AND THE GIRTYS, TRAITORS.
						To add to the distressing conditions, Captain Alexander McKee, Matthew Elliott and
							Simon Girty7—men whose
							names are written in the history of the frontier as synonyms of
							outlawry—deserted the American stronghold, Fort Pitt, and made their way to
							Detroit where they offered their services to Hamilton, a man whose policies they were
							well qualified to promote.
						This action of the traitors brought to the fore one of the most daring and
							picturesque characters of the time—Major George Rogers Clark, of Virginia. The
							plans of Clark were twofold: 
								THE REVOLUTION IN THE WEST, BEFORE THE COMING OF HARMAR ST.
									CLAIR AND WAYNE
								The map shows the route of General George Rogers Clark from Pittsburgh to the
									capture of Vincennes and Kaskaskia (1778); the route of Colonel Hamilton from
									Detroit to his defeat at Vincennes (1778); and the route of La Balme from
									Kaskaskia and Vincennes to the scene of his massacre near the site of Fort Wayne
									after he had destroyed the Miami village, Kekionga (1780).
							 Were he to command the posts of Kaskaskia and Cahokia on the Mississippi,
							and Vincennes on the Wabash, he would not only gain possession of the most important
							of the centers of British power in the west—aside from Detroit—but their
							capture would, he hoped, destroy the plan of Hamilton to lead an expedition against
							Fort Pitt, which had been weakened by the desertion of McKee, Elliott and Girty as
							well as others whom they had influenced. How well Clark succeeded needs no detailed
							reference here. With four  hundred men, assigned to him
							by Governor Patrick Henry8 of
							Virginia, Clark floated down the Ohio to Fort Massac and marched overland to the
							bloodless capture of Kaskaskia and Cahokia, an accomplishment which was followed
							quickly by the taking of Vincennes.
						M. de Celeron (son of Captain Bienville de Celeron), the British agent at Post
							Ouiatanon, thinking to prevent the northward movement of Clark's army, incited the
							savages to an attack on the Americans, but a detachment under Captain Leonard Helm put
							Celeron and his followers to flight.9
						
							HYACINTH LASSELLE
							This portrait of the first white person born on the site of the city of Fort Wayne,
								is from a lithograph in Brice's "History of Fort Wayne," published in 1868. The
								father of Hyacinth Lasselle (Jacques Lasselle) Indian agent for the British, came
								from Montreal to Kekionga (site of Lakeside) in 1776. Hyacinth was born February 25,
								1777. The family fled to Montreal when La Balme invaded the Miami Village in 1780; a
								sister of Hyacinth (Marie Anne) fell from their canoe and was drowned. Hyacinth
								returned to Kekionga in 1795, Wayne's fort having been erected in the meantime. He
								removed to Vincennes, and upon the outbreak of the Indians preceding the battle of
								Tippecanoe, served in Harrison's army and attained the title of major general of
								militia. A famous but friendly trial concerning the holding of slaves by Lasselle
								occupied attention during his residence at Logansport, Ind., where he conducted a
								tavern. Lasselle died in Logansport, January 23, 1843.
						
						At this moment, Governor Hamilton was under indictment at Detroit for murder,
							determined by a grand jury called on demand of the outraged people of the little
							settlement. A storehouse in the town had been robbed and burned. A negress and a white
							man had been charged with the crime and adjudged guilty by a justice of the peace,
							Philippe Dejean, who sentenced them to death. As no one would consent to officiate as
							hangman, Colonel Hamilton offered liberty to the woman if she would act as executioner
							to the man. "Hamilton," says a late authority,10 "was so frightened at the knowledge that a warrant for
							his arrest was issued, that he gathered all the troops he could at Detroit, stripped
							the country of all the provisions he could carry and started for Vincennes, [by way of
							the site of Fort Wayne]."
						It is evident that Hamilton sought, by the overthrow of George Rogers Clark, to
							remove the stain from his name.
					
					
						HAMILTON'S ARMY AT SITE OF FORT WAYNE.
						On October 7, 1778, Hamilton's army, with fifteen large bateaux and numerous
							pirogues, laden with army supplies and  gifts for the
							Indians, departed from Detroit for the lower Wabash. The army consisted of 177
							whites—36 British regulars with two lieutenants; 79 militia, with a major and
							two captains; 45 volunteers and 17 members of the department of Indian affairs, and a
							large body of Indians, whose numbers increased as recruits were induced to join the
							campaign while en route along the Maumee and the Wabash.
						"On the 24th," says Hamilton in his official report, "we arrived at the Miamis town
							[Fort Wayne] after the usual fatigue attending such a navigation, the water [of the
							Maumee] being remarkably low. Here we met several tribes of the Indians previously
							summoned to meet there and held several conferences, made them presents, and
							dispatched messengers to the Shawnees, as well as the nations on our route, inviting
							them to join us or at least watch the motions of the rebels [Americans] on the
							frontiers, for which purpose I sent them ammunition."11
						Goods valued at $50,000 were deposited at the site of Foyt Wayne; these included a
							six-pounder cannon and a large part of the army supplies brought from Detroit intended
							for the comfort of the troops during the winter.
						With ox-carts in the lead, the British army, after Hamilton had held further councils
							with the leaders of the Indians, departed for the Wabash. The waters of Little river,
							en route, were shallow, and the progress of the army was rendered difficult in the
							extreme. Had it not been for the work of beavers in constructing dams across Little
							river the advance of the troops would have been still more arduous.
						"Having passed the portage of nine miles," wrote Colonel Hamilton, "we arrived at one
							of the sources of the Oubache [Wabash] called the Riviere Petite [Little river]. The
							waters were so uncommonly low that we should not have been able to have passed but
							that at the distance of four miles from the landing place the beavers had made a dam
							which kept up the water. These we cut through to give a passage to our boats, and
							having taken in our lading at the landing, passed all the boats. The beaver are never
							molested at this place by the traders or Indians, and soon repair their dam, which is
							a most serviceable work upon this difficult communication. With great labor, we next
							passed a swamp called les volets [the water plants], beyond which the little Riviere a
							Boete [Aboite] joins the one we made our way through. The shallowness of the water
							obliged us to make a dam across both rivers to back the waters into the swamp, and
							when we judged the water to be sufficiently raised, cut our dyke and passed with all
							our craft. The same obstacle occurred at the riviere a l'Auglais, and the same work
							was to be raised."
						The advance troops of Hamilton's army reached Vincennes 
							December 16 and demanded the surrender of the post. Clark was at Kaskaskia. The post
							at Vincennes was in command of Captain Helm, who, with four companions, surrendered
							the fort, when assured that its "entire garrison" should be granted all the honors of
							war. The American colors gave place to the banner of Great Britain.
						On February 7, 1779, after bringing his little army of 170 men through the flood
							waters between Kaskaskia and Vincennes, Clark appeared before the fort occupied by
							Hamilton's garrison. His vigorous attack resulted in the surrender the following day.
							At last the "scalp buyer" was brought low. With twenty-seven other officers and
							regulars, including his friend Dejean, Hamilton was taken to Virginia, condemned for
							"gross and most cruel atrocities," and, after being confined in the dungeon of the
							jail at Williamsburg for a period, he was allowed to depart for England.12
						A few days after the surrender of Hamilton, Clark took possession of all of the goods
							of Hamilton's army which had been stored at the site of Fort Wayne. Captain Helm and
							Major Legare met the convoy en route to Vincennes and captured forty officers and
							men.
						The defeat of Hamilton's great plan brought to Detroit as his successor Colonel Arent
							Schuyler DePeyster, a New York tory. Captain Richard Beringer, who was appointed to
							succeed to the temporary vacancy, proved to be unsuited to the position, but DePeyster
							appears to have met the situation with satisfaction. One of his first acts was a
							complaint that the savages had consumed in a very short time 17,520 gallons of whiskey
							which had utterly unfitted them for their scalping raids.
						It will be seen that in spite of Clark's brilliant success, the great stretch of the
							Maumee and Wabash valleys was still British territory—more strongly so than
							ever, for with the destruction of Hamilton's army, the British redoubled their efforts
							to clear the region of American "rebels." Indeed, this condition prevailed until the
							building of Fort Wayne sixteen years later. The interim provides the material for some
							of the most thrilling chapters of our story.
						
						NOTES ON CHAPTER VIII.
						(1) The word Maumee is a corruption of
							Miami (Me-ah-me).
						(2) New York Colonial Documents, vol. vii, page 974.
						(3) The penalty of loyalty to the
							American cause is shown by the British treatment of John Edgar, a prominent Detroit
							merchant, who was taken from his home, and brought to the southwest, over the site of
							Fort Wayne, and on to Kaskaskia to his banishment. His goods were confiscated. Later,
							the United States congress awarded him two thousand acres of land as a compensation
							for his loyalty.
						(4) "Some Delawares are this day arrived
							who are desirous of showing their intention of joining their brethren [in warring
							against the Americans] and have presented me with two pieces of dried meat [scalps],
							one of which I have given the Chippeways, another to the Miamis, that they may show in
							their villages the disposition of the Delawares," wrote Hamilton to Haldimand June 18,
							1778.
						(5) George Rogers Clark called Hamilton
							"the scalp buyer." Whether or not this title was merited may be judged from the
							contents of an intercepted message directed to Hamilton by one of his officers
							operating along the Ohio river: "I hereby send to your Excellency under care of James
							Hoyd, eight packages of scalps, cured, dried, hooped and painted with all the
							triumphal marks, and of which consignment this is an invoice and explanation: Package
							No. 1, 43 scalps of Congress soldiers, inside painted red with a small black dot to
							show they were killed by bullets; those painted brown and marked with a hoe denote
							that the soldiers were killed while at their farms; those marked with a black ring
							denote that the persons were surprised by night; those marked with a black hatchet
							denote that the persons were killed with a tomahawk. Package No. 2, 98 farmers'
							scalps; a white circle denotes that they were surprised in the daytime; those with a
							red foot denote that the men stood their ground and fought in defense of their wives
							and families. Package No. 3, 97 farmers' scalps; the green hoops denote that they were
							killed in the fields. Package No. 4, 102 farmers' scalps; eighteen are marked with a
							yellow flame to show that they died by torture; the one with the black band attached
							belonged to a clergyman. No. 5, 88 scalps of women; those with the braided hair were
							mothers. No. 6, 193 boys' scalps. No. 7, 211 girls' scalps. No. 8, 122 scalps of all
							sorts; among them are twenty-nine infant scalps, and those marked with the small white
							hooks denote that the child was unborn at the time the mother was killed. The chief of
							the Senecas sends this message: 'Father, we send you here these many scalps that you
							may see that we are not idle friends. We want you to send these scalps to the Great
							King that he may regard them and be refreshed.'" (This letter was carried to France by
							Benjamin Franklin and presented as a part of his appeal to France to help America in
							her protest against the British attacks on non-combatants.)
						(6) See Roosevelt's "Winning of the
							West," vol. ii, page 20.
						(7) There were four Girty brothers:
							Thomas lived at Pittsburg and remained loyal to the United States, Simon served as
							second lieutenant in the Continental army and later deserted from Port Pitt; after his
							villainous conduct toward his countrymen, he died in Canada in 1818, having been blind
							for several years. James married a Shawnee and became a trader with the Indians; he
							made the village at the head of the Maumee a center of his activities. George married
							a Delaware woman; he was located at the site of Fort Wayne during a considerable
							period, and died, while intoxicated, in the Shawnee village of Chillicothe on the
							Maumee two miles below Fort Wayne. During their period of service with the British,
							the Girtys received two dollars a day. Their savage conduct during this time has been
							excused by many on the ground of their early training while they were captives of the
							Indians. All were natives of Pennsylvania.
						(8) For a facsimile reproduction of
							Patrick Henry's instructions to George Rogers Clark, and of the notes which passed
							between Clark and Hamilton, see "Conquest of the Northwest," vol. i, by William H.
							English; Fort Wayne Public Library.
						(9) Hamilton, in his report, accused
							Celeron of treachery.
						(10) C. M. Burton, Detroit, in a
							pamphlet, "Early Detroit, a Sketch of Some of the Interesting Affairs of the Olden
							Time."
						(11) From the George Rogers Clark
							papers, page 116.
						(12) See "Narrative of Henry Hamilton,"
							American Magazine of History, vol. i; Fort Wayne Public Library.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IX—1780-1789. The Massacre of
						LaBalme—Washington Foresees Fort Wayne.
					French traders at Miami Town (Fort Wayne) advance the cause of England in their war
						against the American colonists—The Lasselles, Beaubien and
						LaFontaine—Hyacinth Lasselle, the first white child born on Fort Wayne
						soil—The village thrown into consternation upon the approach of LaBalme—His
						identity and mission—Inhabitants flee to places of safety—LaBalme
						confiscates the property of anti-American traders—The camp on the
						Aboite—Little Turtle leads in the night attack—Slaughter of LaBalme's
						men—George Rogers Clark would take Detroit—Washington prevented from sending
						troops—British lead savages in attacks on the settlements—Washington would
						establish a fort on the site of Fort Wayne—His letters—As president, he
						opens his program of conquest of the west—Colonel Hardin's raid inaugurates the
						period of warfare on the frontier.
					THE NEXT SCENE of the tragic story is laid in Miami Town—the
						name by which the village on the site of Fort Wayne was called at this period.
					The French residents of the place were nearly all traders, though some had been located
						here for many years and were engaged in various pursuits.1 All of them were warm friends of their former foes, the
						British—and for a mercenary reason. The utter discouragement of the Americans in
						their attempt to occupy the Maumee-Wabash valleys meant the preservation of the business
						of fur trading to the French. It was from the savages that they procured the furs which
						they sold at Detroit for the Montreal and European markets. Anything, therefore, which
						disturbed the activity of the Indians and turned them from trapping to the war-path
						tended to destroy their business. Hence, their devotion to the British cause.
					None but those holding a license issued by the British authorities was permitted to
						engage in the trading business in this region. Frenchmen were chosen in many cases as
						the representatives of the British government. Stationed here at the time in the
						capacity of British Indian agent was Jacques Lasselle,2 who had been appointed in 1776. To Jacques Lasselle and wife
						was born, in 1777, a son, Hyacinth Lasselle, to whom has been awarded the honor of being
						the first white child born on the site of Fort Wayne.
					The year that brought Lasselle to the head of the Maumee (1776) gave also to the region
						Peter LaFontaine and Charles  Beaubien, from Detroit. Both
						built log cabins in the village in Spy Run. Of the two, the name of LaFontaine is best
						known locally, because it is preserved in that of his grandson, Francis LaFontaine, the
						last of the line of Miami chiefs. In their marriage with Miami women and the
						identification of their interests with those of the Indians, LaFontaine and Beaubien
						declared their loyalty to the red men, which was amply proven five years later when they
						incited the savages to the massacre of LaBalme and his unfortunate followers.
					
						A RELIC OF THE INDIAN WARS.
						This sabre, thirty-four inches in length and well preserved, was found several years
							ago on the field of the defeat of Harmar on the site of Fort Wayne, by the late Carl
							Wolf, of New Haven, Indiana. The eagle head, at the end of the bone handle stamps it
							as an American weapon. It is now in the private museum of L. W. Hills, Fort Wayne.
					
					To the picture of the cluster of these French homes, add the villages of the Miamis and
						the Shawnees, and we have a fair scene of the semi-civilized conditions at the
						confluence of the St. Mary's and the St. Joseph rivers during the Revolution.
					The condition of society in the village is reflected in a letter written by George
							Ironside,3 a prominent trader,
						to David Gray at Vincennes. "We have a sort of dance here once a week during the
						winter," said he, "which has made us pass our time very agreeably." He adds: "Groosbeck
						is married to Miss Beaufait, and Rede is going to be married as soon as Rivard returns
						from the Ouias [Wea settlement on the Wabash] to Mad'le."
					The spirit of the times is suggested in further correspondence between Ironside and
						Gray. "The fate of Chapeau makes me uneasy of your getting clear of that cursed country
						[along the lower Wabash]," wrote Ironside. "For God's sake, if there is any risque, be
						wary how you undertake the voyage to the Miamis [site of Fort Wayne]."
					Ironside in a later letter to Gray tells of the Indians gathered about the "store" at
						the site of Fort Wayne, waiting for the return  of George
						Sharp, agent of the "Society of the Miami," who had received a large shipment of
						intoxicants. "He'll have a forte de affaire to keep the store from being plundered if he
						won't sell it," wrote Ironside. "As soon as he arrives, they [the Indians] think he will
						set up an Indian tavern in which he will be the waiter."
					To this place came Little Turtle, LeGris, Pecanne, and other savages who were one day
						to figure strongly in the story of the middle west.
					Little Turtle,4 called "the
						greatest Indian of all times," was as yet unknown to fame. But his time was about to
							come.5 A tragic event brought
						him from his place of obscurity and wrote, even though faintly, his name on the page of
						history. This affair is known as the LaBalme massacre.
					On the 3d of November, 1780, numbers of frightened savages created alarm in the quiet
						Miami Town by rushing in with the tale that an army of the "rebels" (Americans) was
						approaching rapidly from the southwest. There was no time to call in the scattered
						braves and traders for a defense of their homes—nothing to do but hasten to places
						of safety. Hurriedly abandoning the village, the men, women and children fled to the
						northward or across the St. Joseph, while others launched their canoes and pirogues upon
						the open river and paddled to places of safety. Among the families which chose the
						latter method was that of Jacques Lasselle; in some manner, one of the children, a girl,
						fell from the boat and was drowned.
					Soon the invaders poured into the villages and plundered the dwellings of the traders
						and a large storehouse belonging to Beaubien,6 remaining long enough to make thorough work of the
						destruction of the property of those whom they considered the most offensive enemies of
						the American cause.7 Then they
						retired to their camp for the night. They chose a spot a few miles to the west of the
						scene of their raid, an open space, on the bank of a small stream, known as Aboite8 (or Aboit) river or creek.
					The leader of this adventurous body of men was Augustus Mottin de LaBalme. He had
						served in France as a lieutenant-colonel of cavalry, and as a colonel in the colonial
						army during the latter part of the American revolution. LaBalme had come to America with
						the Marquis de LaFayette and entered at once into active service for the republic.
					Without announcement, he appeared in October, 1780, at Kaskaskia on the Mississippi,
						now under the American flag, where he was received with gladness9 by the French and the Indians who encouraged
						his plan to proceed to Detroit to capture that post for 
						the United States.10 Fired with
						the vision of a success which should equal or surpass that of Clark on the lower Wabash,
						LaBalme lost no time in gathering his followers and starting to the northward. A great
						demonstration attended the departure from Kaskaskia. The inhabitants en masse, as well
						as large companies of Indians, accompanied the expedition for a considerable distance on
						its way up the Wabash. At Ouiatanon, LaBalme went into camp with the hope that
						re-enforcements would reach him before his movement northward. Here he passed twelve
						impatient days. The four hundred men who were to have joined him failed to appear.
						Meanwhile, he feared, the anti-American settlements on the site of Fort Wayne might
						learn of the proximity of his detachment and prepare for defense. So he decided to make
						the raid on the offending villages and then go into camp and await the addition to his
						numbers before proceeding to Detroit.
					
						SIMON GIRTY.
						The savage deeds of the Girty brothers—Simon, James and George—darken the
							pages of pioneer history of the Maumee region. After their desertion of the United
							States cause during 1778 and 1779, the three, with McKee, Elliott and other traitors,
							entered heartily into the plans of the British commandant, Colonel Henry Hamilton, to
							carry forward a reign of terror to all foes of Great Britain. Simon was the most
							active of all as a party to the outbreaks of the savages about the Maumee during the
							campaigns of Harmar, St. Clair and Wayne. The portrait is after a print in Vol. VI of
							the "Ohio Archaeologolical and Historical Society's Publications," from a work of
							Prof. W. H. Venable.
					
					We have seen his confiscation of the villages, and now we find the small company of
							10311 men settling themselves
						for the night in their camp on the Aboite. The tragic fate of the expedition is soon
						told. While the men were arranging for a few hours of comfort, Charles Beaubien, the
						chief trader at Miami Town, who seems to have been the chief anti-American agitator of
						the region, was active in assembling the savages and laying plans for a fierce
						retaliation. That LaBalme's attack on the Miami village was directed against Beaubien is
						shown by a clause in a letter written by Richard Winston to Colonel John Todd to the
						effect that "'tis the general opinion that he will take Baubin [Beaubien], the general
						partisan at Miamis [Fort Wayne], and proceed thence to Fort Pitt."
					With the gathering of the shades of night, a large number of Indians, fully armed, were
						assembled at the village. A council,  directed by Beaubien,
						resulted in the choice of Little Turtle to plan and execute the attack on the camp of
						the invaders. Following the custom of savage warfare, to which LaBalme and his men
						appear to have been strangers, the Indians quietly surrounded the place, and then, with
						the terrifying warwhoop, fell upon the sleeping encampment. The scene is best imagined
						from the story of the results. During the few minutes that followed the opening of the
						attack, thirty or forty of the Americans, including LaBalme, were killed, a few escaped
						in the darkness, and the remainder, among whom was one "Mons. Rhy, who styles himself
							aide-de-camp"12 were taken
						prisoners. The Miamis lost five of their party.
					Such re-enforcements as may have been on the way to join LaBalme were turned back by
						the news of his destruction, and the Wabash valley, above the influence of Vincennes,
						remained in the hands of the British partisans.
					The LaBalme escapade sent a thrill of alarm throughout Canada. "It was certainly the
						beginning of a general attack against this province," wrote Governor Haldimand, at
						Quebec, to DePeyster, in command at Detroit, "which, from different intelligence I have
						received, I have every reason to think, will be attempted in the spring against these
						upper posts. Monsr. LaBalm's papers clearly evince the sentiments of the Canadians, and
						you will benefit by the discovery."
					An alarming feature of the hour was the revelation that the French in Canada knew of
						the expedition and were prepared to assist LaBalme when he reached Detroit. Thomas
						Bentley, at Vincennes, already had written to DePeyster—indeed, before the
						massacre of LaBalme's men—that "war belts have been sent off to the Shawnee and
						other nations by the French Colonel who came here about a month ago, which belts, from
						what I can understand, import that the savages should remain quiet and not go to war any
						longer, as the French are coming again amongst them, who are to drive both the Americans
						and the English out of the country and are to possess themselves of Canada and its
						dependencies."
					DePeyster, as soon as he heard of the proximity of LaBalme's expedition through the
						refugees from Miami Town, hastened to send troops to the head of the Maumee. "Upon the
						alarm," he wrote to Brigadier H. Watson Powell, "I ordered the Rangers to take post at
						the Miamis, to cover the cannon, which cannot be brought off till there is water. You
						will see, sir," he added, "that this excursion was no less than an attempt on Detroit,
						independent of the rebels. I shall not say how necessary troops are to be sent to this
						garrison, instead of weakening it for Michilimackinac. This is a numerous settlement.
						Should the enemy enter it, the Canadian  inhabitants would
						require good looking after, since Colonel LaBalm's papers fail not to say that the
						inhabitants of Post Vincent [Vincennes] have been invited by those of Detroit."
					
						THE NORTHWEST TERRITORY.
						The map shows the vast area of the original Northwest Territory, created by the
							"Ordinance of 1787." General Arthur St. Clair was made governor, with Marietta as the
							seat of government. Out of this area were carved the states of Ohio, Indiana,
							Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin.
					
					An interesting incident in connection with DePeyster's relation to the affair is
						revealed in his postscript to this letter. He says: "I have opened this dispatch upon
						the arrival of Colonel LaBalm's aide-de-camp, who says the Indians mistook him for the
						Colonel, who was killed in the action.13 I forward the young man to Niagara. He appears to be a very smart young
						gentleman, and a very intelligent one. He acknowledges their loss and says that the
						Colonel's little army consisted of four hundred men, and three had only got up to
						engage."
					It has been observed that LaBalme stopped at the Miami village to "take" Charles
						Beaubien, who, in turn, appears to have been the real organizer of the attacking party
						which "took" LaBalme, instead. Never before has the name of Charles Beaubien figured
						prominently in the written history of Fort Wayne. An understanding of succeeding events
						requires a better knowledge of the man.
					
						BEAUBIEN, THE ANTI-AMERICAN PARTISAN.
						Charles Beaubien came from Detroit to the Miami village at the head of the Maumee in
							1776 to operate a trading post under the protection of the authorities at Detroit.
							That he served the British to their entire satisfaction in his treatment of Americans
							is shown in the letter of Governor Haldimand of Canada to DePeyster, directly after
							the LaBalme massacre. "I approve much your permitting Monrs. Beaubien to remain
							amongst them [the Miamis]," said he. "His allowable resentment against the people of
							Post Vincennes and the benefit he will derive from the present situation, under the
							King's protection, may, if he is clever, be turned to good account."
						Beaubien14 already had made a
							name for himself because of his anti-American activities. From his home on the site of
							Fort Wayne,  he, with a young Frenchman named Lorimer,
							and a band of savages, made a raid into Kentucky where the party captured Daniel Boone
							and a number of his men in April, 1778. Boone was taken to Detroit, where the Indians
							refused to sell him to Governor Hamilton, giving as their excuse the claim that they
							desired to make him their chief. Boone escaped, was tried by courtmartial for
							surrendering his camp, and soon received a promotion to major in the American
							army.
						In September of the same year, Beaubien, with five Chippewas and fifteen Miamis,
							preceded Governor Hamilton's army to Vincennes, serving as scouts. In June, 1780, the
							Miamis pleaded with DePeyster to send them ammunition and supplies to enable them to
							carry on their war against the Americans, with Beaubien as their leader.
						Such was the man whom LaBalme sought to destroy.
						The news of the triumph of the savages and their British supporters determined George
							Rogers Clark, now promoted to brigadier general, to carry forward his plan to take
							Detroit. His appeal to General Washington for troops, however, met with the regretted
							response that "it is out of my power to send any re-enforcements to the westward."
							Clark's visit to Governor Thomas Jefferson of Virginia was also without favorable
							result. That Washington realized the need of troops in the west is shown by his letter
							of explanation to Jefferson written December 28, 1781, in which he said: "I have ever
							been of the opinion that the reduction of the post at Detroit would be the only
							certain means of giving peace and security to the whole frontier, and I have
							constantly kept my eyes on that object. But such has been the reduced state of our
							Continental force, and such the low ebb of our funds of late that I have never had it
							in my power to make the attempt."
						Atrocities of the bloodiest order now startled the entire frontier. An American
							expedition against Sandusky, under Colonel William Crawford, resulted in disaster, and
							its leader was burned at the stake. Emboldened by these successes, a horde of savages
							was gathered by Colonel Alexander McKee, Captain William Caldwell and the Girtys for a
							successful raid of the town of Bryan's Station, in Kentucky.
					
					
						WASHINGTON WOULD FORTIFY FORT WAYNE SITE.
						Immediately after the signing of the Treaty of Versailles, in 1783, which was
							supposed to bring to a close the Revolutionary war, Washington demanded of Governor
							Haldimand the evacuation of the British posts at Detroit, Michilimackinac, Niagara and
							Oswego,  in compliance with the terms of the treaty. The
							request was refused, on the ground that the treaty was provisional and had no specific
							application to the western posts. From that moment the mind of Washington centered
							upon the saving of the west to the Union.15 He determined to exert every power to compel Great
							Britain to evacuate the American posts, and as an opening wedge, he proceeded to use
							his influence to the end that a garrisoned fort should occupy the lands at the head of
							the Maumee, where 
								TWO "TURTLE" RELICS.
								Herewith are shown two curious Indian relics found at different times on the site
									of the city of Fort Wayne. The ladle is of a hard, fine-grained white wood,
									measuring about five inches in length. It is now in the private collection of
									Leslie W. Hills. It was found by boys who were assisting in some excavation work
									on the land platted by George Jaap in Spy Run, between Spy Run avenue and the St.
									Joseph river, where the Miami burying ground was located, and in the vicinity of
									the grave of Chief Little Turtle. The ladle was enclosed in a copper kettle. The
									iron handle of the kettle was rusted away, but the contents, thoroughly sealed,
									were in perfect condition. A turtle is carved in relief on the handle of the
									ladle. The second specimen is carved from bone and was found by the late J. W.
									Stockbridge in the neighborhood of Rockhill, Wayne and Berry streets. It now forms
									a part of the collection of Charles A. Stockbridge, a brother. The design of the
									turtle according to students of Indian life and customs, was of common use. Jacob
									P. Dunn says: "The Miamis have specific names for the most common
									turtles—at-che-pong for the snapping turtle, ah-koot-yah for the soft-shell
									turtle, we-neet-chah for the box turtle or tortoise, kach-ki-yot for the map
									turtle, and mi-shi-kin-noq-kwa, spelled by many writers me-che-can-noch-qua, for
									the painted terrapin." The name of the latter, the commonest of the turtles of
									this region, was the Indian title of Chief Little Turtle. "When it came to
									translation," adds Mr. Dunn, "the interpreters knew no specific English name for
									the painted terrapin, and, as it is a little turtle, never growing more than six
									or eight inches across, they conveyed the idea as well as they could by saying,
									"The Little Turtle." (Dunn's "True Indian Stories.")
							 the city of Fort Wayne now stands. But he was not yet in executive power.
							Possibly he had no thought that he would be honored with the presidency of the
							republic. Nevertheless, there remains the evidence that as early as 1785, Washington's
							plans were clear and positive. Writing to Richard Henry Lee, February 8, 1785, he
							said: 
							"Would it not be worthy of the wisdom and the attention of
									congress to have the western waters well explored, the navigation of them fully
									ascertained, and accurately laid down, and a complete and perfect map of the
									country, at least as far westerly as the Miamis running into the Ohio [the Great
									Miami] and Lake Erie [the Maumee], and see how the waters of these communicate
									with the River St. Joseph, [which empties into Lake Michigan], for I cannot
									forbear observing that the Miami village [site of Fort Wayne] points to an
									important post for the Union. The expense attending such an undertaking could not
									be great; the advantages would be unbounded, for I am sure Nature has made such a
									display of her bounties in those regions that the more the country is explored the
									more it will rise in estimation, consequently the greater will be the revenue to
									the Union. The spirit of emigration is great. People have got impatient and,
									though you can not stop the road, it is yet in your power to mark the way; a
									little while and you will not be able to do either. It is easier to prevent than
									to remedy an evil."16
						In so expressing himself, Washington advocated a "military" road to the west, a
							pathway for settlers protected by garrisons at convenient centers. Writing to Major
							General Knox, secretary of war, Washington recommended the placing "at Miami fort or
							village [site of the city of Fort Wayne] and dependencies, two hundred
								[soldiers]."17
						"What has already been quoted concerning the fortification of the Miami village [and
							other points] shows that Washington was the ultimate authority on the western problem.
							* * * When, during his first presidency, the Indian war waged by Harmar, St. Clair and
							Wayne attracted the nation's attention, no one knew better the country or the
							conditions that prevailed than did the man at the helm. For years, Washington kept up
							a private correspondence with military men on the frontier for the sole purpose of
							getting additional pieces of information concerning the rivers and portages of the
								west."18
						From the realm of suggestion, Washington, soon elevated to the presidency, put his
							recommendations into direct action. In 1789, addressing General Arthur St. Clair,
							governor of the newly-created Northwest Territory,19 Washington cautioned St. Clair against hasty action
							against the Indians who, as the president well knew, were acting under the influence
							of the British who had poisoned their minds with the belief that the sole purpose of
							the Americans was to rob them of their lands. However, Washington authorized the
							calling of militiamen to the number of 1,000 from Ohio, and 500 from Kentucky, if
							necessary, to control the situation and insure protection to the pioneers.
						On August 26, Colonel John Hardin—whose defeat in the battle  fought in the following year on the ground occupied today
							by the city of Fort Wayne has placed his name prominently on the pages of the history
							of the middle west—led 200 mounted volunteers in an attack on some of the Indian
							villages on the Wabash. Without the loss of a man, the raid resulted in the killing of
							six Indians and the destruction of an important village and much valuable property of
							the savages.
						This was the first blow by the Americans; it opened the wars in the middle west which
							were to cost the nation so dearly in the loss of lives and property.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER IX.
						(1) Upon the body of LaBalme, killed by
							Little Turtle's band in 1780, was found the following list of names of the white
							residents of the present Spy Run and Lakeside, with notations concerning the character
							of each: "On the south side [of the St. Joseph river—the stream runs in a
							southeasterly direction]: M. Labelle, father, the Beaubiens, north and south, M.
							Mazontel, Godet, kinsman of M. de Placey, Father Potier, a good old man, speaking
							Huron (Morrisceau mistrusts him), Melosche, a good Frenchman, Drouillard at the
							windmill, Montforton, keep an eye on as he is neither English nor honest; Baby,
							merchant at the fort; Adhemar, merchant, a dangerous man, M. Gregoire, English, a
							thorough scoundrel, Navarre, a treacherous man, and Antonny amounts to nothing,
							Beaubien, a profligate. On the north side: Messierus Chacehton, merchant, three
							fourths of a league from the fort to whose house the proud Commandant goes now and
							then. * * * Put a guard over Mons. Alexis de Maisonville, captain of militia, a
							two-faced man, hating the militia and a friend of England. * * * Mr. Barthelemy, Mr.
							Rivard, Mr. Lorrance, Mr. Gouin. of Detroit, Mr. Lascelle, Mr. Patteoin, Mr. Duplessy,
							and others, equally well disposed, and an American, called George, a partner of
							Israel, are of the party." The informant adds that these men trade "at the little fort
							of St. Joseph's and toward Fort St. Clair, which is about an equal distance from
							thence to Detroit; that is to say, about one hundred miles." (Michigan Pioneer and
							Historical Collection.) A record of the earlier residents (1769) contains the
							following: Capauchin, Baptiste Campau, Nicholas Perot, Pierre Barthe, Bergerson,
							Barthelmy, Dorien Francois Maisonville and Lorain. (See "Documents Relating to the
							French Settlements on the Wabash," collected by Jacob P. Dunn and published in the
							Indiana Historical Society's Publications, vol. ii,; Fort Wayne Public
							Library.)
						(2) The members of Lasselle family
							departed hastily upon the sudden appearance of the troops of LaBalme, in 1780, and
							made their way to Montreal. Hyacinth, in later years, located at Detroit, where two
							brothers already had preceded him, and then came to Fort Wayne and opened the first
							store within Wayne's fort. Afterward, as a resident of Vincennes and Logansport, he
							became widely known. During the period preceding the civil war, when Indiana was
							taking its place with the anti-slave states, Lasselle was arrested at Logansport,
							charged With slave-holding.
						(3) George Ironside and George Sharp are
							the subjects of treatment in Chapter X, of this work, in connection with the Journal
							of Henry Hay.
						(4) "The village where Little Turtle was
							born in 1752 was located on the north tributary of Eel river, twenty miles northwest
							of Fort Wayne, Indiana, in Whitley county, on lands now (1916) owned by William
							Anderson, in Section 9, Smith township (Whitley county). * * * The village stood on
							the west side of the river."—Calvin Young in Ohio Archaeological and Historical
							Society Publications, vol. xxiii, page 108.
						(5) Little Turtle, though not of
							imposing stature, was both brave and wise. He had also a remarkable dignity of manner
							that commanded respect, and, although not an hereditary chief, he soon rose to a
							position of leadership which he held until the day of the battle of Fallen Timber. His
							defeat of LaBalme gave him the confidence of the tribes which marked the beginning of
							his rise to power.
						(6) LaBalme knew of this store and its
							contents. The memorandum, found in his pocket, contained these words: "What is the
							nature and quantity of the goods at the Miamis? A thousand weight of powder and lead
							in proportion, arms, blankets, cloth, shirts and other goods of trade, of the value of
							about 50,000 livres, all in Baubin's store kept by Mr. LaFontaine and an old man.
							Another store kept by Mr. Moulton, a partner of Baubin, value about 50,000
							livres."
						(7) Col. DePeyster, at Detroit, reported
							that LaBalme, on November 16, 1780, entered the village, took several horses,
							destroyed the horned cattle, and plundered a store which he allowed to be kept there
							for the benefit of the Indians. See "Maumee River Basin," vol. i, page 144.
						(8) This little stream rises in Allen
							county, Indiana, of which Fort Wayne is the county seat, and flows in a southerly
							direction to join the  Wabash. Some have claimed that the
							name Aboite is derived from "abattoir," a slaughter house—because of the bloody
							event which gave it a place in history—but the name is merely a corruption of
							the French Riviere a Boitte, or river of minnows.
						(9) "He was received by the [French]
							inhabitants [at Kaskaskia] just as the Hebrews would receive the
							Messiah."—Virginia State Papers, vol. i, page 380.
						(10) That LaBalme's independent movement
							was not countenanced by the Virginia authorities is shown by the words of Richard
							Winston, writing from Kaskaskia to Colonel John Todd, October 21, 1780: "He passed
							about one month here without seeing Colonel Montgomery, nor did Colonel Montgomery see
							him."—Virginia State Papers, vol. i, page 380.
						(11) LaBalme's company included seventy
							or eighty Creoles, many of whom were traders and bush-rangers, rather than Indian
							fighters. It is believed that the savages, awed by the punishment so recently given by
							Clark, would not have interfered with the progress of LaBalme if he had proceeded
							peaceably to Detroit and without molesting the property of the French traders at the
							Miami village upon whom the Indians depended for their supplies. (John Todd Papers,
							Fergus Historical Series, No. 33, page 207, note.)
						(12) From Colonel DePeyster's letter to
							Governor Haldimand of Canada. LaBalme's personal effects, including his watch, set
							with diamonds, his arms, regimentals, spurs, commission and papers, were forwarded to
							Governor Haldimand by Beaubien.
						(13) DePeyster, in the body of his
							letter, had stated that "I expect the Colonel [LaBalme] in every hour." The aide's
							report that LaBalme supporters numbered four hundred men appears to have been greatly
							exaggerated.
						(14) Will H. W. Peltier, in 1916, said:
							"I believe Charles Beaubien was an uncle of my great grandfather, James Peltier I. His
							mother was a Beaubien, probably a sister of Charles. James Peltier I came from Detroit
							to the French village, Miami Town (or Kiskios or Kekionga, as the Indians called it),
							before Wayne's fort was built. We have always understood that he came as early as
							1787, seven years before the Wayne campaign, and it is reasonable to suppose that he
							was induced to settle here as a trader through the influence of Beaubien. James
							Peltier I was a messenger for the government, passing between Detroit and Fort
							Dearborn in the later years. I have often heard of his experience at Fort Dearborn
							just before the massacre. The Indians were friendly to him. One day in 1812, as he was
							approaching Fort Dearborn, they intercepted him and made him promise to leave the fort
							before a certain day, which proved to be the day on which they had determined to
							attack the garrison."
						(15) Washington's great faith in the
							development of the west is shown in his ownership at this time of 32,373 acres of
							ground in Ohio (most of it near the mouth of the Kanawha river). In 1770, he visited
							his properties and learned much concerning the perilous condition of the pioneers of
							the frontier. "Had not the Revolutionary war been just then on the eve of breaking
							out," says James S. Albach, "Washington would, in all probability, have become the
							leading settler of the west, and all our history, perhaps, have been changed." (See
							"Washington and the West"; Fort Wayne Public Library.)
						(16) Sparks's "Writings of Washington,"
							vol. ix, page 80.
						(17) Sparks's "Writings of Washington,"
							vol. ix, page 110.
						(18) Archer B. Hulburt, "Washington and
							the West," page 191.
						(19) On October 5, congress, by the
							passage of the "Ordinance of 1787," created the Northwest Territory, which included
							the present states of Ohio, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin, with General Arthur St.
							Clair as governor. The Ohio river soon became a great highway of travel for the
							pioneers. One of the largest companies came from New England under the leadership of
							General Rufus Putnam; this body of settlers founded Marietta, O., and here was
							established the first capital of the Northwest Territory.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER X—1789-1790. Life in Miami Town (Fort Wayne), the
						Anti-American Center of the West.
					Extracts from the journal of Henry Hay, of Detroit, a British partisan, who sojourned
						in Miami Town during the winter of 1789-1790—The social life of the
						village—Savages bring in many captive Americans—Others are tortured and
						scalped—Wild scalp dances of the savages in Lakeside—Little Turtle and
						LeGris—Religious services among the whites of the village—People summoned to
						worship by the ringing of cow bells—Richardville as a youth—His
						mother—Early merchandising described as a "rascally scrambling trade"—John
						Kinzie, the Girtys, James Abbott, LaFontaine and Lorraine—Hay would not risk his
						"carcass" among the "renegades" (Americans)—Prisoners at Chillicothe
						village—The town flooded—Narrow escape of George Ironside—Negroes
						brought from the Ohio—Virginia prisoner adopted by Chief Black Bird—News of
						St. Clair's preparations to wage war against the savages.
					THE NARRATIVE brings us now to the eve of the battle of the site of
						Fort Wayne, designated in American history as "Harmar's Defeat."
					
						WHERE MIAMI TOWN STOOD.
						The dotted lines show the location of some of the more southerly Spy Run streets of
							today. The shaded portion suggests the general location of the flourishing
							anti-American village of Miami Town, which was wiped out of existence by General
							Harmar's men in October, 1790. A chapter in this work dealing with the journal of
							Henry Hay, describes the daily routine of the wild life of the settlement just
							preceding its destruction.
					
					During 1789, the Maumee-Wabash valleys resembled a hive of angered hornets. Small bands
						of savages scattered through Ohio and Indiana vied with each other in the performance of
						deeds of cruelty. The Miami village at the head of the Maumee was the center of this
						fierce hatred of the Americans. Says a recent authoritative work: "There is a tradition
						that a secret society or fraternity of Miami warriors of approved courage and cunning
						met at stated intervals on the site of Fort Wayne and included in the program of every
						such entertainment the burning of at least one captive and in the banquet the eating of
						his flesh."1
					Whether this be true or not, it is certain that this village was  the heart of conspiracies of hatred and revenge and that the British
						partisans acquiesced in these wild carnivals of blood.
					In imagination we may take up our abode in this village of 1789,2 and see its every-day activities through the
						eyes of a man who sojourned here for a period of four months, during which time he made
						a full written record of the activities of the people and of his personal observations.
						The writer of this most enlightening journal was one Henry Hay, of Detroit.3 Evidently, he was in the employ of
						George Leith, a Detroit merchant, but the object of his visit is not revealed in the
						manuscript. As the reader gathers in the recorded thoughts of Henry Hay, let him look
						forward to the conditions which prevailed here in less than one year after the words
						were written—namely, the utter destruction of the place upon the arrival of
						Harmar's army.
					Quotations from Hay's journal, as dated, have been taken in their chronological order,
						with the addition of general quotations at the close. Hay writes as follows:
					"December 16th [1789]. * * * Arrived at the Miami Town about 10 o'clock, found the
						roads very bad. I visited Mrs. Adamhers4 family.
					"17th. Wrote to my brother, Meredith & Baby,5 gave them an account of my jants & this place
						etc—visited a couple more of the French familys at this place found them very
						decent & polite—particularly at Mr. Adamhers who gave me a very friendly
						invitation to their house sans ceremonie.
					"18th. Wrote Mr. Robertson6 with
						respect to my ½ pay certificates not being able to send them in by Mr. Sharpe7 who left this place for Detroit
						this day—but promised to get them made out the 25th Inst & forward them by the
						first opportunity. * * * I think upon the whole this is a very pretty place—the
						River that this town is built upon is called the River St. Joseph which falls into the
						Miami [Maumee] River very near the town at the S. W. end of it. This day a prisoner
						[American] was brought in here; Rather a elderly man was taken better than a month ago
						at a place called Little Miami—the Americans are making a settlement at that
							place8—this man was
						engaged to work for one John Phillips, one of the settlers, was out in a field about two
						miles from his masters, saving fother [fodder] for the cattle when he was taken. * * *
						The Indians who took him are Delawares.9 * * * Visited Mrs. Adamher and family this morning. This evening also visited
						Mr. Rivarr's10—Miss
							Rivarr11 is a very pretty girl,
						inclined to be stout, very fair, black eyes, but rather aukward. un peu a la Paysan.
					
					
						LITTLE TURTLE AND HIS SCALPING PARTY.
						"19th. * * * This day arrived here the Little Turtle12 a chief of the Miamias with his war party consisting of
							about fifteen or sixteen—they had made two prisoners a negro and a white man
							[Americans] the negro was left with a few whites at the Little Miami. The rest went
							out looking for more, they left their baggage & four Horses—during which
							time the Americans came on them, retook the negro, plundered the baggage, horses,
							&c. The Indians made off and joined the others. Went and paid a visit this
							afternoon to Mrs. Adamher—drank coffee with her. She showed me a further mark of
							her Politeness & attention, by telling me it was very difficult to get cloathes
							& Linnen washed at this place, begged that I would send her mine that her
								Ponnie13 wench should wash
							them.
					
					
						RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.
						"20th. Saw this day the rifle horn & Pouche Bagg belonging to the American that
							was murdered. * * * I find that this man was immediately killed after he was taken by
							one of the party who struck him twice or thrice in the back and side in consequence he
							said of having some of his relations killed lately. This is their way of retaliating.
							Paid a visit this morning to Mr. Payetts14 family, think nothing of Miss —— She's very
							brown. Passed an agreeable afternoon and evening at Mrs. Adamhers in company with Mrs.
							and Miss Rivare & Mrs. Ranjard; I played the flute and sang. Mr. Kinzie15 the fiddle, & all the
							ladies except two sang also. Mrs. Ranjard has a fine voice. * * * The French settlers
							of this place go to prayers of a Sunday morning, and evening at one Mr. Barthelmis16 which is performed by Mr.
								Payee,17 the people are
							collected by the Ringing of three cow bells, which three boys runs about with thro'
							the village, which makes as much noise as twenty cows would. I went this morning to
							their prayers, it being Sunday. * * * I forgot to mention the 19th inst. that on the
							arrival of the warriors the other side of the river [Lakeside], the Gree18 ordered a Pirogue (which
							happened to be just arrived from the forks of the river with wood) to be unloaded by
							some of the french lads who stood on the bank, and sent some of them over with it; on
							their arrival he Billeted them like Soldiers so many in each house according to the
							bigness of it, and took care to trouble the families as little as possible—we
							had six;—this he ordered in a very polite manner, but quite like a general or a
							commandant.
						21st. * * * This morning Mr. Leith told me the Gree [LeGris] was doing off
							immediately after breakfast with his people a hunting—& that this hunt was
							to bring in meat for me, and that  consequently I should
							be under the necessity of giving him a small two gallon keg—which I did; as rum
							is very dear at this place no less than 40/ a gallon. I borrowed it to be returned at
							Detroit. The reason I gave them the rum now is that they may not drink it about the
							village; it being against Major Murray's [the commandant at Detroit] positive orders
							to give Indians rum at this place or sell, etc. And as I'm for supporting those orders
							as much as lay in my little power was my particular reason for giving it to them at
							present; for they no doubt will not expect any more. If they do I must say they shall
							not get it from me—not only to prevent quarrels which might happen in the
							village if they got drunk and also supporting the Major's orders, but its an expense
							to myself which I shall not be able to support. * * * I was shown this morning the
							Heart of the white prisoner I mentioned the Indians had killed some time ago in the
							Indian country—it was quite dry, like a piece of dried venison, with a small
							stick run from one end of it to the other and fastened behind the fellows bundle that
							killed him, with also his scalp. Another party of Miamies and one Shawanie came in
							from war this day with one scalp, they danced over the river [in the present
							Lakeside], one with a stick in his hand scalp flying; it being their custom. Some of
							the warriors came over in the evening to our house. * * *
						"23. * * * I never observed 'till this morning that a Man may easily walk over this
							River it being very shallow. * * * There are two villages at this place one belongs on
							this side of the river [Spy Run] and one on the other [Lakeside]—the former
							belongs to the Gree [LeGris]—the other to Pecann19 who's now in Illinois, but in his absence is Commanded by
							his nephew one Mr. Jean Baptist Richerville, son of one Mr. Richerville20 of Three Rivers in Canada by an
							Indian woman21—This young
							man is a Trader here—his Father has wrote for him to go to him which he means
							[to do] next Spring. His mother is now gone into the Indian country (dans les Terre as
							the french term it) to trade; She lives with him when she's here—the young man
							is so bashful that he never speaks in council, his mother who is very clever is
							obliged to do it for him.
						"This evening the Grees Brother arrived from his hunting Ground—his name is the
							Deer. He formerly was the great Chief of this Village but chose to give it to his
							brother—he's very clever—his brother never does anything without
							consulting him.—Captain Johnny22 left this place this morning for his Village.
						"24th. * * * Several Potewatomies arrived here this afternoon with skins, meat
							&c. Visited Mrs. Adamher was pleased to  desire I
							should send her any linnen or anything else that I may want to mend. She asked me to
							go with her to the midnight [Christmas eve] mass—and also asked me if I would
							play the flute which I did. Mr. Kinzie and myself went to Mrs. Adamhers about 11
							o'clock—he brought his fiddle with him—we found a frenchman there who
							played with us.
						"25th. Came home this morning about two o'clock from mass; Mr. Kinzie and myself
							called first at Mrs. Adamhers on our return home, who gave us some venizon stake and
							roasted rackoon—Played the flute & Kinzie the fiddle with the french man
							this Morning at Mass; being a particular desire of the Peoples. We left our
							instruments at the house where prayer was said.
					
					
						TRADING A "RASCALLY SCRAMBLING" BUSINESS.
						"I cannot say much indeed for the Trade of this Place their's but few skins comes in,
							and almost every individual (except the engages)22 is an Indian trader, everyone tries to get what he can
							either by fowle play or otherwise—that is by traducing one anothers characters
							or merchandise. For instance by saying such a one has no Blankets another no strowde
							or is damned bad or he'll cheat you & so on—in short I cannot term it in a
							better manner than calling it a Rascally Scrambling Trade &c &c: * * * Play
							again this afternoon at Vespars.
						"26th. Got infernally drunk last night with Mr. Abbott23 and Mr. Kinzie. * * * Damnation sick this morning in
							consequence of last nights debashe * * * Kinzie and myself went to mass and played as
							usual—Mrs. Ranjard gave us a cup of coffee before mass to settle our heads. * *
							*
						"Mrs. Grie made us a present of a very large Turkey Cock weighing about 30 pounds, we
							propose having a Dinner among us Englishmen here. Mr. Abbott fetched some Maderia
							& Mr. Kinzie a piece of newly-corned pork—upon which we made a most
							excellent dinner at ½ past 3 o'clock after Kinzie & I played at Vespers as usual.
							After. K—— and I went to see Miss Rivarre & found the Miss Adamhers
							there, the old people were out of the way.
						"George Girty24 arrived here
							this day from his wintering ground which is only four miles from here—its called
							the Delaware Town—he so desired I should write in to Capt. McKee25 by the first opportunity to
							acquaint him that in consequence of the Miami Indians upbraiding the Delawares with
							telling them that the ground they occupy is not theirs and that upon which the
							Delawares answered, they were great fools to fight for lands that was not theirs and
							consequently would not go to war against the Americans any more. * * *
						
						"27th. Sunday. Kinzie and myself were invited to sup with a Mr. Barthelmie (the man
							of the house where prayer is said) last night with Mr. and Mrs. Adamher—Mr. de
								Sanlaren26 [later written by
							Hay as Saleron] a french gentleman a Trader at this place who formerly was an officer
							in the french Service before the taking of Canada &c &c. and Mr. Baptist
							Lassell—we had roasted Turkey and to my great surprise and indeed everyone else
							we had a roasted Loine of Veal—a kinde of wilde sallad which they have here all
							winter on the other side of the River which was very good & also some very [good]
							cocombers pickels cheese &c. Grogg the only drink—everything served up in
							the french stile.—
						"The weather very mild. * * * if it continues the Fur Trade will be very bad this
							year and no doubt its impossible for the Indians to hunt in this kind of weather; they
							may get a few Rackoon, Otter & Beaver with Traps. They only kill a few deer and
							Bears in this wett weather particularly Bears—but not equal to as when the snow
							is on the ground. * * * Played as usual at mass.
						"28th. * * * Made out my Half-Pay certificate this day—was sworn by Mr.
							Leith—Mr. Ironside27 made
							out the Bills of Exchange for me; So that everything is now ready to send to Mr.
							Robertson at Detroit by the first opportunity. * * *
						"This evening about five the Gree and his Brother in Law, the Little Turtle arrived
							from their wintering Place; they drank tea, also maderia. * * *
						"30th. * * * The Gree and Turtle visited us this morning. * * *
						"1 January 1790 Friday—It being New Year the Indians who are in great number
							more so indeed than I could ever have thought, also the Woman—came into the
							house in great numbers by three o'clock this morning which prevented Ironside & me
							from Sleeping—one lady came to shake hands with me when in bed—The House
							was quite full at Breakfast time—The Gree & Turtle came to visit us &
							breakfasted with us as usual. * * * Visited most of the Principal families of this
							place this morning & kissed all the ladies young and old. * * * *
						"2nd Jany. * * * a french man arrived from Maria Louisa's Trading Place about 25
							Leagues from here—this M. Louisa is mother to yon J. Baptist Richerville * * *
							He brought word that M. Antoine Lassell28 is made prisoner by the Ouias Indians. * * *
						"3 January Sunday The Gree and Turtle went off on horse back for their Wintering
							Camps after breakfasting with and thanking us for the reception they received from us
							during their  stay. I gave them a bottle of Rum. For it
							must be observed that they have nothing here to live upon—everything they
							possess and have is in the woods; they all come in in the Spring to the amount of four
							or five hundred.
						"5 Jany. * * * Mr. Lassell writes Mr. Adamher by this Tramblai [a trader] that he
							never traded better nor easier, that the Indians are perfectly quiet in that part of
							the Country—Such a Damnable lying Report [see January 2] I never experienced
							before in my life. * * *
						"9th Jany * * * I scated [skated] for the first time yesterday upon a marrai29 about ½ mile back of the
							village—this marrai falls into a creek which goes by the name of le Rouisso de
								Roill,30 which falls into the
							Miami [Maumee]. This creek takes its name from a Frenchman who once had a hut close by
							it.
						"13th. Yesterday about 2 o'clock arrived here Mr. Antoine Lassell accompanied by a
							french man and one Blue Jackett31 a Shawanie chiefe. * * *
						"16th. Played cards last night at Mr. [Antoine] Dufrenes in Company with all the
							principal people of the Village, did not come home untill this morning about 4 o'clock
							rather drunkish. * * * This day the Grie arrived about 2 o'clock. This evening Mrs.
							Adamher and Mrs. Ranjard made a Bouquet which we all presented to Mr. Dufresne in
							Honor of St. Antoine, he bearing that name—It was then carried from that to Mr.
							Adamher, Mr. Rivarr, Mr. Barthelmies, Mr. Selerons & then back again to Mr.
							Dufresne we danced in each house, the Ladies being with us.
						"17th. * * * This evening we had a dance at Mr. Dufresnes by Mr. Anto'n Lassells
							invitation w(h)ere all the descent [decent] Ladies of this place were Present.
					
					
						A PIONEER SOCIAL AFFAIR.
						"19th Sunday. I never enjoyed myself at a Dance better than I did last night. The
							Gentlemen & Ladies all appeared dressed in their best bibs & Tuckers, and
							behaved very descently not one of the men in the least in Liquor, & which is
							mostly the case in this place when they collect together. * * * I made tangrie for the
							Ladies and Grogg for the Gentlemen. * * * We danced some Dance Ronby, one particularly
							a very curious one—It was sung by Mrs. Rangard, the chorus was rather Bawdie. *
							* * As this is three nights now I have danced, I find myself very tired this morning,
							my feet much swelled—and what with dancing, catching cold & given the word
							of Command yesterday I am quite hoarse.—I forgot to mention that yesterday was
							rather a disagreeable day. * * * Mr. Adamher & Mr. De Seleron made their
							appearance  at the Ball with very fine fur caps on their
							heads adorned with a quantity of Black Ostrich Feathers—Cockades made with white
							tinsell Ribbon, amasingly large—As their was a great deal of Mudd Mrs. Payette
							who is an exceedingly large woman was sent for in a Carte, accompanied by her Husband
							and Daughter. * * *
						"22 * * * Several Putewatomies arrived this afternoon with Peltrie & a great
							quantity of meat—viz. Venison, Rackoons, Porcupine, Bare & Turkeys &c.
							the most of which Mr. Abbott bought; the blanket is what the Indians want most at
							present & no one else except Mr. Dufresne has any at this post but Mr. Abbott. * *
							*
						"23. * * * The Grie & Son arrived this afternoon from his wintering
							camps—He immediately sent for Mr. Ironside & me; when we went to him he
							addressed himself to me—Son says he, here is my Son your Brother who has brought
							you a little meat to make you some brothe which he beggs you will accept, I should not
							says he have come myself, but my Son who is very bashful asked me to come with him. *
							* *
						25th * * * we went and serenaded the young girls and women of the Village.
						27th. * * * Gros Loup, (a Mohicken Indian who has lived amongst the Miamis ever since
							his Infancy) gave me a love letter which he picked up in some place or other—Its
							dated New Madrid, May 6th, 1789 signed by J. S. Story and directed to Miss Betsy Gray,
							Ipswich Massechusech. * * *
						"28th. * * * Yesterday Evening arrived here a Mr. Lafontenne,32 a Trader who left this about 36 days
							ago—He went down the Wabache River then turned into the woods towards White
							River & their traded with the Indians.—he made 80 Deer Skins and about 500
							Rackoons.—which he brought upon the horses he took out his goods
							upon—however he did not trade all his goods away, for he fetch'd some
							back—Its very extraordinary that meat was so difficult to be had that he &
							the Indian that was with him were five days feeding on acorns on their return home.
							The fifth day in the Evening he sent the Indian on the lookout for Indian butts to
							purchase meat, who fell in with a large Rackoon Tree which he cutt down and found five
							in it, which was a great resource. * * *
						"31st. Sunday. * * * took a ride on a cariolle this day with Mr. J. B. Richerville,
							as far as Mr. James Girtys House which is about two miles.—Several Indians
							arrived this day from different places with peltry.—This afternoon arrived here
							Mr. George Girty from his wintering camp with two loaded horses of peltry.  Brought with him his wife & two sisters in law
							(Indians)—He confirms the intention of Delawares going to the Spaniards in the
							spring, but says not many of them. * * *
						"1st February. * * * Mr. James Girty told me this Evening that Capt. Johnny Chief of
							the Shawnees was collecting all the Indians together to a Grande Council—He also
							show'd me a red scalp which he got from a Delaware Indian; the meaning of this scalp
							he does not know as yet, but it seems it must be sent to Detroit by the first
							opportunity.
						"3d. * * * Mr. Abbott [to whom Hay already had referred as a "disaffected subject"]
							proposed my going with him as a Companion in the Spring to Fort Vincennes—I told
							him I could not think of venturing my Carcass to such as place as that, among a parcel
							of renegades [Americans]."
						Hay relates that a party of savages arrived with a prisoner, one McMullen, of
							Richmond, Virginia, whom the Indians painted black from head to foot. He was captured
							by the Indians of Mississinewa village. "The reason for bringing him here," says Hay,
							"is that he's given to a man of this [Chillicothe] village.33 Black Birde, Chiefe of the Chillicothe
							village is not at home. Theire will be a ceremony w(h)en he arrives to adopt the
							Prisoner." Hay adds: "They have washed his face—but not his boddy, which will be
							done & also cleanly dressed when the Chief arrives."
					
					
						MIAMI TOWN IS FLOODED.
						On the 17th of February, the rivers began to rise, and soon the village was partly
							submerged, transforming the higher lands into three islands. "We are obliged to make
							use of the Peerogues or canoes to go to see those people who live on the other two
							islands," wrote Hay on February 18th. The ice-choked river rose rapidly on the 19th
							and carried off a plank bridge which had been constructed between the "islands." On
							the 24th, the flood surrounded John Kinzie's house and "he desire he might bring his
							apprentices here & also stay himself." Soon the homes of most of the residents
							were under water. "We are obliged to put our trunks and things in the lofte," wrote
							Hay, who added, "Mr. Leith and Kinzie put up a stove in the loft of the Company's
								House34—Mr. Ironside
							and myself joined them this afternoon. Mr. Ironside and myself got under way in the
							Canoe to return to our Garrett, but we were unfortunate, just as we came to the
							rappidest part of the water, a whirl Pool very near overset the Canoe, Mr. Ironside
							who was steering, slipped backwards and fell into the water, the Canoe had then greate
							way & lucky anough arrived close to the upper part of the Picketts of Grave Yarde
							which I  immediately took hold of & held fast by them
							standing on the ribbon, pushing the Canoe off immediately with the lads that were in
							it, who got down the current in time to save him. He says when the canoe came up to
							him he was just gone. The lads took him in to one J. Morris—& came
							immediately back for me. I am not over-fond of canoes." Hay says that the water forced
							"J. B. Richerville" to abandon his house and go to his mother's, whose house "is very
							high from the Earthe, which prevents the water coming to it as soon as the
							others."
						On a later day, Hay observes: "There is an old French woman in this place of the name
							of Barthelmie who says she recollects when the banks of the river [St. Joseph] were so
							near to one another and consequently the River so narrow, that at low water the
							children used to jump over it."
						"This day," wrote Hay on March 10, "the Chillcothy young men came down from the place
							where The Town is to be built, they have already finished the Council House which by
							all accounts is a very large one."
						On the 12th of March occurred the death of one Lorraine,35 who "was the oldest inhabitant of this Place
							& Environs, he has been here &c 40 years."
					
					
						RAIDS ON THE WHITE SETTLEMENTS.
						"A party of Shawnees arrived from war36 at their village on the 19th," wrote Hay on March 21. "They have brought
							three prisoners and a negro man [Americans]. It seems that there was another party of
							them attacked a boat wherein there was an officer & about 21 men. They killed
							every one of them; Sank the Boat & hid every utensil they found in it, in the
							woods. They also took nineteen persons near Limestown which they have all Prisoners
							except 2 or 3. The first party were the Chilicothy People—& the others the
							Picowees. One of the above prisoners told Mr. Kinzie this morning the General [Arthur]
							St. Claire came down the Ohio, to the Big Miami [near the site of Cincinnati] about
							Christmas last. This man's name is John Witherington, comes from a place called
							Limestown. * * * Their was at least 40 souls taken & killed. This John
							Witherington's family is separated from him, he has a wife 7 months gone with child
							& 7 children, which some of the other Parties have got prisoners."37 That night, continues Hay, "the
							Miamis of the opposite side [Lakeside] danced from 7 oClock untill this morning at day
							breake; they were taken in what they call their Natt, which is with them, like the
							Colours of a Regiment, with us; they take it out to war with them, and when they
							return,  there is a ceremony of taken it into the Council
							House, Chiefs House or Place where they keep theire Trophies."
						Among the persons mentioned by Hay who do not otherwise figure in the story are
							Jacques Godefroy (probably the same man who led the conspiracy to murder Ensign Robert
							Holmes in 1763 and then became the protector of Captain Morris in 1764), Jean
							Cannehous, Lamoureux, Etienne Pantonne, Henri Rainbeare, Jaque Clairmont, Jean
							Coustan, Little Egg (a Miami), the Sirropp (an Indian), The Snake (Shawnee chief), The
							Porcupine, and The Soldier (chiefs who signed the Greenville Treaty), J. B. Lasselle,
							Ribidos, Francis Lasselle (nephew of Jacques, who with his family, fled when LaBalme's
							men took the town), B. Lasselle, Mr. and Mrs. Cicotts, LaChambre, Robedeux, The Wolf
							(a Shawnee chief), J. Forsythe, Sherlock, Montroilles and L. Dubois.
						Hay bade adieu to his friends at Miami Town and departed for Detroit on the 1st of
							April, 1790. There is nothing in his record to suggest that the French, English or
							savage occupants of the villages anticipated the calamity which befell them within ten
							months of that time, although they were fully aware of the movements which preceded
							the coming of Harmar. "John Thompson [a prisoner] told me their was a great talk of
							raising men to come against the Ind's," wrote Hay on March 2, 1790. "However General
							St. Clair who is now at the Bigg Miami [Cincinnati] with two boat loads of goods,
							means to call the Indians together at a council at Post Vincennes—But if the
							Indians do not come to a settlement with them, they mean to fight them."
						This and other councils were held. The savages, acting on the advice of the British,
							at Detroit, refused to listen to Washington's terms of peace, and the series of costly
							wars which form the following chapters of the story, ensued.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER X.
						(1) Logan Esarey, "History of Indiana,"
							page 102.
						(3) The original belongs to the Detroit
							Public Library. A copy furnished by C. M. Burton, appears in the Proceedings of the
							Wisconsin Historical Society, for 1915.
						(2) Miami Town, the French village,
							occupied the ground on the Spy Run bank of the St. Joseph river, extending to the
							southward nearly to the point of land formed by the confluence of the St. Mary's and
							the St. Joseph. The writer, in company with Jacob M. Stouder, after a careful reading
							of Hay's journal and a thorough study of the contour of the site in question, is
							convinced that this spot is the scene of Hay's description. The principal village of
							the Miamis occupied a site in Lakeside.
						(4) The identity of this family is not
							positively known. Dr. M. M. Quaife, superintendent of the Wisconsin Historical
							Society, says: "Probably the name should be spelled Adhemar. LaBalme, who plundered
							the traders at Miami Town (Fort Wayne) in 1780, lists one Adhemar, a merchant, as 'a
							dangerous man.' This meant, of course, that he was loyal to the British cause. In
							March, 1799, one Adhemar, who had been sent by Hamilton to Miami Town with ten
							pirogues and thirty men to get provisions forwarded from Detroit, was captured by
							George Rogers Clark. In 1788, St. Martin Adhemar was appointed one of the
							commissioners of the newly-created district of Hesse. William Robertson, the spokesman
							of the Detroit traders who memorialized Lord Dorchester against the new act, gave as
							the objection to Adhemar that he was settled at Vincennes, 'in the American
							states.'"
						
						(5) A prominent Detroit merchant.
						(6) William Robertson was a prominent
							merchant who settled at Detroit in 1782. 1786, George Leith (the employer of Henry
							Hay) wrote a letter to David Gray, then located in Miami Town (Fort Wayne) as a
							trader, in which he stated that Robertson was seeking the payment of a debt owed by
							Gray to Robertson. Leith added: "You know what kind of a man Robertson is; therefore,
							as a friend, I would advise you not to come to Detroit this summer if you have nothing
							pressing to bring you, as he will do everything in his power to detain you and give
							you trouble." (See "Letters from Eighteenth Century Merchants," compiled by
							Christopher B. Coleman, from the Lasselle collection, in the Indiana Quarterly
							Magazine of History.)
						(7) Wisconsin Historical Society
							Proceedings, 1915: "George Sharp, also a prominent trader at Detroit. Robertson
							describes him as 'of liberal education and highly respected.' Sharp was with Matthew
							Elliott when the latter ransomed O. M. Spencer at Grand Glaize. The picture Spencer
							draws of him is not flattering." In 1786, Sharp was located at the site of Fort Wayne.
							At that time he wrote in a letter to Paul Gamelin, at Vincennes, as follows with
							reference to a delayed shipment: "We try only to accommodate our customers and to give
							the goods here at the Detroit prices without risk or expense."
						(8) This town, on the Ohio river, a
							short distance below the site of Cincinnati, was called Columbia City. Its founders
							hoped to make it the metropolis of the west. It was absorbed by Cincinnati.
						(9) This matter-of-fact description of
							the capture of a lone and defenseless settler suggests the hazardous situation of
							every family which undertook to live on the frontier. Most of the prisoners brought to
							the Miami Town were from the regions of Ohio and Kentucky bordering the Ohio
							river.
						(10) Wisconsin Historical Society
							Proceedings, 1915: "The papers captured from LaBalme upon the destruction of his force
							near Miami Town in 1780, contained a list of French inhabitants of the place,
							including one Rivard."
						(11) Hay relates the story of the
							marriage of Miss Rivard to J. B. Lasselle on February 23.
						(12) Little Turtle was yet to make his
							reputation as a warrior although he had already led in the massacre of LaBalme and his
							followers.
						(13) A pani was a slave of the Indian
							race, usually procured from the Pawnee tribe. (Wisconsin Historical Society
							Proceedings, 1915.)
						(14) Possibly the same as listed by
							LaBalme as Paillet.
						(15) John Kinzie, whose name is
							connected inseparably with the story of Fort Dearborn (Chicago). He was located here
							as a trader.
						(16) "One of the oldest inhabitants of
							Miami Town [Fort Wayne]. His name is included in the 'census' of Indiana of 1769, and
							also in LaBalme's list of the inhabitants of Miami Town in 1780."—Wisconsin
							Historical Society's Proceedings, 1915.
						(17) Probably the priest, Louis Payet,
							who was born at Montreal in 1749 and came to Detroit in 1781."—(Wisconsin
							Historical Society's Proceedings, 1915.)
						(18) LeGris, one of the prominent Miami
							chiefs of the time; he was a signer of the Greenville Treaty in 1795.
						(19) Pecann, Pecan or Pecanne is the
							Miami chief who rescued Captain Morris at this point in 1764. He was an active chief
							of the Miamis, who signed the Treaty of Greenville and participated in the battles of
							the savages up to that time.
						(20) Joseph Drouet Richardville, Jean
							Baptiste Richardville became the successor of Little Turtle as the civil chief of the
							Miamis.
						(21) Ta-cum-wah, the mother of
							Richardville, was a sister of Little Turtle, a woman of keen intellect and business
							sagacity, as is suggested by the fact that by the year 1814, Richardville, through her
							influence, became the wealthiest Indian in the west.
						(22) A Shawnee chief, some of whose
							speeches are preserved in the Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collections.
						(22) An engage was an employe of the
							trader whose business it was to accompany the Indians on their trapping expeditions
							and guard the interests of his employer by preventing the Indians from selling the
							furs to other parties and to discourage other forms of trickery.
						(23) James Abbott, born in Dublin, 1725,
							became an extensive trader. He was the father of Robert, James and Samuel Abbott, the
							two former of Detroit and the latter of Mackinac. James Abbott, Jr., married Sarah
							Whistler, daughter of Major James Whistler, at Chicago, in 1804. Mrs. Abbott was
							Chicago's first bride.
						(24) George Girty was the youngest of
							the three notorious brothers—Simon, James and George—terrors to the
							Americans along the frontier. All were natives of Pennsylvania. George died near Fort
							Wayne, shortly before the outbreak of the war of 1812.
						(25) Colonel Alexander McKee, the
							traitor who deserted Fort Pitt in order to aid the British.
						(26) Dr. M. M. Quaife believes this man
							to have been a son of Pierre Joseph Celoron, former commandant of the post at Detroit,
							and who was afterward accused of treachery by Colonel Hamilton because of his retreat
							from the attack of George Rogers Clark.
						(27) George Ironside was a leading
							trader of the Maumee valley, born in 1760. He died at Amherstburg, Canada, in 1830. He
							was in the British Indian service for many years.
						(28) Antoine Lasselle had lived in Miami
							Town for nineteen years at the time of the writing of Hay's Journal. On the day of the
							battle of Fallen Timber, in 1794, Wayne questioned Lasselle and made the following
							report concerning him to the war department: "He says that he has resided for
							twenty-nine years in Upper Canada, twenty-one of which he has passed at Detroit and on
							this river [the Maumee], and that he has constantly traded with the Indians all that
							time; that he resided at the  Miami villages [Fort Wayne
							site] for nineteen years before Harmar's expedition, when he kept a store at that
							place, and used to supply other traders with goods." When captured, Lasselle was
							painted and dressed like an Indian. He was sentenced to be hanged and a temporary
							gallows erected, when Major John F. Hamtramck interceded and saved his life. Later he
							was a licensed trader at Fort Wayne for many years.
						(29) The present Spy Run creek which
							empties into the St. Mary's near the Spy Run bridge.
						(30) St. Mary's river.
						(31) Blue Jacket was the leader who
							succeeded to the command of the savages the night before the battle of Fallen Timber,
							after Little Turtle sought to induce the chiefs to make peace with Wayne. He was one
							of the signers of the Treaty of Greenville.
						(32) Probably Peter LaFontaine, who,
							with Charles Beaubien, incited the Indians to the attack of LaBalme. At that time
							LaFontaine was in charge of the warehouse of Beaubien, the principal trader at Miami
							Town.
						(33) The Chillicothe village was located
							a short distance down the Maumee, probably on the site of the present Catholic
							cemetery.
						(34) Hay refers to this warehouse as a
							Friponne.
						(35) Dr. Quaife: "The census of 1769
							includes Lorraine's name among the nine heads of families then at Miami Town. In 1763
							he, or another of the same name, was at Ouiatanon when the savages overpowered the
							English garrison. Lorraine and another Frenchman were instrumental in saving the lives
							of the captives."
						(36) At this time, preparations for the
							conquering of the savages under the direction of Washington, whose great object was
							the erection of a fort at the site of this village, were going forward, and many small
							encounters were occurring in the Ohio region.
						(37) This tragic event, receiving the
							sanction of Hay and the British sympathizers who fomented the action of the savages,
							is but one of many during this troublous period on the frontier.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XI—1790. The Battle of the Site of Fort
						Wayne—"Harmar's Defeat."
					General Josiah Harmar as a soldier—His mission to France—Is sent to expel
						George Rogers Clark from Vincennes—Benedict Arnold and Dr. Conolly disturb the
						west—Major Hamtramck sends Antoine Gamelin to the site of Fort Wayne to pacify the
						savages—Failure of his mission—Cannibalistic feast at the head of the
						Maumee—St. Clair sends Harmar against the Miami villages (Fort
						Wayne)—Deplorable condition of the army—Reaches the Miami villages and
						destroys them with fire—Hardin's detachment led into ambush—A terrible
						slaughter at Heller's Corners—The army at Chilicothe on the Maumee—The
						retreat to Cincinnati halted to allow Hardin to return—Plan of the battle on the
						site of Fort Wayne—The fatal error—Slaughter of Wyllys's regulars at
						Harmar's ford—Fierce engagement on the St. Joseph—The
						retreat—Washington's comment.
					GENERAL JOSIAH HARMAR, whose name is seldom spoken today except in
						its association with "defeat," deserves a kindly remembrance by the people of the old
						northwest, and especially should the people of Fort Wayne appreciate more truly his
						character as a military leader. Born at Philadelphia in 1753, and educated at Robert
						Prout's Quaker school, Harmar entered the Continental army in 1776. His services raised
						him successively to the offices of lientenant-colonel, brevet-colonel,
						brigadier-general, and general-in-chief of the United States army. During the
						Revolution, he served in General Nathaniel Greene's corps. To him was entrusted the
						carrying of the ratification of the final treaty of peace to France. Upon his return, he
						entered at once upon Washington's plans for the pacification of the western tribes.
					
						GENERAL JOSIAH HARMAR.
						The campaign of General Harmar, while commander-in-chief of the armies of the United
							States in 1790, which resulted in the battle on the site of the city of Fort Wayne,
							recorded in American history as "Harmar's Defeat," threw the entire west into a state
							of alarm. The victory of Little Turtle, in command of the savages, was the second
							event in his career as a war chief to lift him to the height of his fame.
						Portrait by permission of Charles Scribner's Sons.
					
					
					We have been impressed with the story of the conditions at the head of the Maumee as
						revealed in the preceding chapter. A review, then, of the principal events which
						preceded the famous battle of the site of Fort Wayne will introduce many of the problems
						which confronted General Harmar and made his work difficult, if not impossible, of
						accomplishment.
					General George Rogers Clark, whose commission had been withdrawn, acting with other
						independent spirits, decided to garrison the abandoned post at Vincennes, with the
						"determination that they [the Spanish merchants at Vincennes] should not trade up the
						river if they would not let the Americans trade down the Mississippi." This unwarranted
						act received the condemnation of 
							HARMAR'S FORD AS IT IS TODAY.
							This peaceful scene presents a view of Harmar's Ford at the Maumee river, looking
								from the south bank northwestward into Lakeside, from a point near the foot of
								Harmar street. The houses front on Edgewater avenue. On October 22, 1790, at this
								spot, where the regulars met the deadly fire of Little Turtle's braves, and at a
								point farther north, near the present Tennessee avenue, where the militia and the
								Indians clashed, 183 whites were killed, including Major Wyllys, Major Fontaine and
								ten other officers.
						
						 the Council of Virginia, and General Harmar was
						dispatched with a small force of United States soldiers to remove Clark and the men "who
						had in a lawless and unauthorized manner taken possession of Fort Vincennes." Thus was
						averted a probable conflict between the United States and Spain and France combined.
					The activities of such disturbing elements as Dr. John Conolly, Benedict Arnold
						(reported to be in Detroit to promote a Mississippi 
							MAP OF THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE DRAWN IN 1790.
							When General Harmar's army reached the site of the city of Fort Wayne in October,
								1790, one of the soldiers, Ebenezer Denny (later major in St. Clair's army) made a
								map of the region about the confluence of the St. Joseph and the St. Mary's rivers.
								This now forms a part of the journal of Major Denny, on record in the Pennsylvania
								archives. The above map is a re-drawing of Denny's record. While the course of the
								rivers is inaccurately shown, it is evident that the map-maker sought to indicate
								the location of the villages of the Miamis, the Shawnees and the Delawares,
								destroyed by Harmar, together with the cornfields, gardens and forests. Major Denny
								was a trustworthy soldier, as is proven by the fact that he was chosen as the
								messenger to convey to President Washington the news of the defeat of St. Clair's
								troops in 1791.
						 expedition) and others in the employ of the British kept the savages in a
						hostile state, so that congress in July, 1787, directed General Arthur St.
						Clair—or, if he were unable to give the matter his personal attention, then
						General Harmar—to meet the Indians on the Wabash and there explain fully the
						attitude of the United States government toward the tribes. General Harmar held the
						council, but with no decisive result.
					
					Major John F. Hamtramck—whose name is connected with the history of Fort Wayne as
						the first commandant of the post after its establishment by General Wayne—had been
						sent to assume the charge of Fort Vincennes. Acting in consonance with instructions from
						President Washington, Major Hamtramck commissioned Antoine Gamelin, a prominent
						Vincennes merchant, to make a visit 
							GRIM REMINDERS OF HARMAR'S BATTLE IN LAKESIDE (FORT WAYNE).
							These war mementos form an interesting part of the display of the relic room in the
								Allen county court house. 1, 2, 3, 4—Fragments of flintlock guns from the
								collection of the late Colonel R. S. Robertson; they were found in the St. Joseph
								and Maumee rivers at the fords which figured in the defeat of General Harmar,
								October 22, 1790. 5—Bayonet found at the St. Joseph ford, formerly the
								property of August Siemon. 6—Flintlock gun found in the St. Joseph river, near
								the old clubhouse of the St. Joe Athletic club. The gun was dug up from the river
								bed in 1894 by a Mr. Schafer, while hauling sand: Frank Budd secured it and took it
								to New York city, where it was seen by R. B. Rossington. Mr. Rossington bought it
								and brought it back to Fort Wayne.
						 of pacification to all of the Indian towns along the Wabash and at the head of
						the Maumee. We have Gamelin's record of his expedition; special interest centers in
						these paragraphs from his journal:
					"The 23d [of April, 1790] I arrived at the Miami Town [Fort Wayne]. The next day, I got
						the Miami nation, the Chaouanons [Shawnees], and the Delawares all assembled. I gave to
						each nation two branches of wampum, and began the speeches [supplied to him by Governor
						St. Clair and Major Hamtramck], the French and English traders being present, they
						having been invited by the chiefs and I having told them myself that I would be glad to
						have them present, having nothing to say against anybody. After the speech, I showed
						them the treaty concluded at Muskingum between His Excellency, Governor St. Clair, and
						sundry nations. This displeased them. I told them that the purpose of this present time
						was not to submit to them any condition, but to offer them the peace, which made their
						displeasure disappear. The great chief1
						 told me he was pleased with the speech; that he would
						soon give me an answer.
					"In a private discourse with the great chief, he told me not to mind what the
						Chaouanons [Shawnees] would tell me, since they had a bad heart and were the
						perturbators of all the nations. He said the Miamis had a bad name on account of
						mischief done on the Ohio river, but he told me it was not occasioned by his young men,
						but by the Chaouanons, his young men going only for the hunt."
					On the 25th, Blue Jacket, chief of the Shawnees and Delawares, at a private conference,
						declared to Gamelin that the tribes could not give an answer "without hearing from our
						father [the British commandant] at Detroit."2
					Gamelin was a Frenchman with a wide acquaintanceship among the Indians. His failure to
						touch the heart of the savage was a dark omen, indeed. Within three days after the close
						of his mission of peace to the French-Indian village on the site of Fort Wayne, a
						captured American prisoner was burned at the stake and eaten in the Miami town.3
					Governor St. Clair, while on a visit to the settlement at Kaskaskia, received the
						reports of Gamelin and General Harmar, telling of their failure to make peace with the
						savages. This determined him, immediately upon his return to Fort Washington, site of
						Cincinnati, to organize a strong expedition, under General Harmar, with special
						instructions to capture the Miami stronghold on the site of Fort Wayne and erect there a
						military fortification which would command the St. Joseph, the St. Mary's and Maumee at
						the point of meeting. At this time, General Harmar was made the commander-in-chief of
						the United States army.
					On the 4th of October, General Harmar's army departed from Fort Washington for the
						Miami towns. It was composed of 320 regulars and artillery with three light brass
						cannon; 1,133 Kentucky militiamen and a battalion of Pennsylvania infantrymen. From the
						journal of Major Ebenezer Denny is gained a conception of the deplorable condition of
						Harmar's army and its equipment. "General Harmar was much disheartened at the kind of
						people from Kentucky," writes Denny. "One-half certainly serve no other purpose than to
						swell the number. * * * The Colonels [Hardin and Trotter] disputed about the command. *
						* * There was much trouble in keeping the officers, with their commands, in proper
						order, and the pack horses, etc., compact."4
					
						HARMAR'S ARMY REACHES THE MAUMEE.
						The wealth of material provided for the weaving of the story of the movements and
							engagements of Harmar's army should make the telling of the story an easy one, but the
							many viewpoints of the  narrators bring difficulty into
							the task. We have chosen, in reviewing the story, to interweave the narratives of
							Major Denny and Captain John Armstrong, each of whom kept a daily record of events and
							of his observations thereon, and to add such comments of other narrators as may shed
							light upon the movements of the campaign.5
						On the 14th of October, the army having reached the St. Mary's river, Colonel Hardin,
							with a company of regulars and six hundred militia, was detached early in the morning
							to push for the Miami villages at the head of the Maumee, thirty-five miles away, to
							give battle to the Indians who, it was learned from a captured Shawnee, were preparing
							to evacuate their settlements.
						Hardin's detachment, reaching the Maumee, probably near the present Harmar street and
							to the eastward, in advance of the main body, found the villages6 on both banks of the St. Joseph deserted. The
							savages, in their departure, left a number of cows and vast quantities of grain and
							vegetables, including 20,000 bushels of corn. The main village, on the Lakeside shore
							of the St. Joseph, had been destroyed by fire by the Indians and traders as they
							deserted it, evidently to prevent the soldiers from enjoying the comforts of their
							abodes if they should remain during the approaching cold season. The precaution was
							unnecessary, however, as General Harmar, on his arrival, continued the work of
							destruction by consuming with fire all of the dwellings in the neighboring
							villages—185 additional buildings in all, according to the general's official
								report.7
						The men under Hardin, on their arrival at the Miami village,8 fell to plundering the ruins of the burned
							village and were with difficulty brought under control of their officers. Finally the
							army went into camp on this ground, and then cast about them to discover the
							whereabouts of the savages. Major McMullen and others reported that the tracks of
							women and children had been discovered on an Indian path leading out from the villages
							to the northwestward. General Harmar, supposing that the refugees, with their families
							and baggage, had gathered at some point not far from the settlements, determined to
							discover their encampment and bring them to battle. Accordingly, on the morning of
							October 18th, he detached Colonel Trotter, Major Hall, Major Ray and Major McMullen,
							with a force of three hundred men composed of thirty regular troops under command of
							Captain John Armstrong, forty of Major James Fontaine's light horse, and two hundred
							and thirty riflemen. The detachment was provided with three days' provisions and
							ordered to examine the country around the Miami villages.
						
						After the troops, under the command of Colonel Trotter, had moved about one mile from
							the encampment, the light horsemen discovered, pursued and killed an Indian on
							horseback. Before this party returned to the columns, a second savage was discovered,
							when the field officers left their commands and pursued the Indian, and left the
							troops for the space of about half an hour without any directions whatever. The flight
							of the second Indian was intercepted by the light horsemen, who despatched him after
							he had wounded one of their party. Colonel Trotter then changed the route of his
							detachment and marched in various directions until night, when he turned back to the
							camp at the Miami village. The unexpected return of Trotter, who had been ordered to
							reconnoitre for a period of three days, displeased Harmar, and upon the request of
							Colonel Hardin, the latter was allowed to take the troops out for the remaining two
							days.
						
							HARMAR'S OPERATIONS ABOUT THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE.
							The map shows (1) the route of Harmar's army and its arrival at Kekionga; (2) site
								of Fort Wayne, where the deserted Indian villages were destroyed by the troops; (3)
								the route taken by Colonel Hardin's troops to the site of Heller's Corners, (4)
								where the savages in ambush, under command of Little Turtle, slaughtered the
								regulars, under Hardin and drove the remnant back to the camp of the main army at
								the Maumee village of Chillicothe (6), Sick a heart, General Harmar led his army
								toward Fort Washington (Cincinnati), but when it halted for camp seven miles
								southwest of the site of Fort Wayne (7), Colonel Hardin, smarting under the chargin
								of the defeat of his men, was granted the privilege of going back to Kekionga to
								rout the savages. Returning, then, by the route (8), the detachment suffered defeat
								at the junction of the rivers (9); the fleeing survivors (10) rejoined the main army
								and the retreat to Fort Washington was ordered.
						
					
					
						THE MASSACRE OF HARDIN'S TROOPS.
						The men under Hardin9 moved
							off reluctantly, according to Denny. Five miles from the village, they came upon an
							abandoned Indian camp. From this point all of the companies except that of Captain
							Faulkner, were ordered forward, Colonel Hardin having neglected to give Captain
							Faulkner the order to march. The troops advanced  about
							three miles, when they discovered two Indians on foot, who threw off their packs, and
							made their escape in the thick underbrush. About this time, Colonel Hardin despatched
							Major Fontaine with part of the cavalry in search of Captain Faulkner, supposing him
							to be lost, and soon afterward, Captain Armstrong, who commanded the regulars,
							informed Colonel Hardin that a gun had been fired in front which might be considered
							as an alarm gun, and that he had seen tracks of a horse that had come down the road
							and returned. The colonel, however, moved forward, without giving any orders or making
							any arrangements for an attack; and even when Captain Armstrong discovered the camp
							fires of the Indians in the distance, and informed Hardin of the circumstance, that
							officer, declaring the Indians would not dare to fight, rode in front of the advanced
							columns until suddenly the detachment was attacked fiercely from behind the fires. The
							fusillade of musketry threw the troops into the wildest confusion.
						The attack of Little Turtle who led his braves in this fierce but brief encounter
							proved to be one of the bloodiest ambuscades of the annals of the west.
						With the first fire of the savages, the militiamen, with the exception of nine who
							remained with the regulars and were shot down, fled without firing a gun. This gave
							the Indians the freedom to center their deadly fire upon the regulars who stood their
							ground and made a brave resistance with the bayonet until twenty-two of the thirty
							were killed. In the midst of the melee, Captain Armstrong, Ensign Hartshorn and five
							privates managed to escape. The ensign was saved by falling behind a protecting log.
							Armstrong plunged into a swamp, where he sank up to his chin and there remained for
							several hours of the night within a short distance of the scene of the wild war dance
							of the victorious savages. Armstrong and Hartshorn remained hidden until such time as
							they could emerge from their places of concealment and make their way back to
								camp.10
						Details of the ambush, preserved in the letters of Thomas Irwin, one of the soldiers
							who were left behind through the neglect of Hardin to order the advance of Faulkner's
							detachment, throw new light on the affair and give a clear conception of the
							minuteness of Little Turtle's plan of the ambuscade. Says Irwin: "The trail Led through a Small or narrow prairie heavy timber on Both Sides.
									On the right of the timber and [omission] was within 20 Step of Sd trace The
									Indians had Kindled a fire at the far End of Sd prairie and Left some Trinkets at
									it which Called a halt when the front arrived at it the Indians that moment gave
									them a deadly fire from the right the men Sallied toward the Left and [omission]
									another from there out of the woods at that Side. The  ambuscade was planned as neatly as one sets a trap for a rat. * * * If there
									had been flankers out as Should have Been the Indians Could not have got so great
									an advantage."
						Detailing the movements of his detachment before it came upon the scene of the
							ambuscade, Irwin says: "The Col. * * * in a hurry forgot to
									give orders to our Company They had marched over one mile Before they found out
									the mistake our Company had marched in front the 1st day and in the rear the 2d
									after waiting a Considerable time we move to the trace found they had been gone
									Some time pursued after went with Major Fountain he stated that he had Been in
									advance found the Indians was retreating as fast as Possible he thought could Be
									Soon overtaken Stated the Col had Entirely forgot to give orders to our Company
									When he Started we had gone over half a mile with the Major meet 2 mounted men on
									the Retreat Each had a wounded man Behind him appeared to Be very Bloody they
									Called out for gods Sake retreat you will be all Killed there is Indians enough to
									eat you all up we then Could hear the firing and yelling went over a small river
									there met the poor fellows retreating and the Indians after firing and yelling we
									formed a line across the Trace and took trees intending to give them a fire if
									they Came up Col Hardin Col Hall and Major Fountain and one or 2 more on horseback
									halted with us the Indians came within 80 or 90 yards and halted I Expect they
									Seen the Men on horse Back Stop Then we stopped the pursuit and Covered the
									retreat tarried there untill Dark or until all the retreating party passed by us
									as none of them halted with us But the Sd officers it was after night Before we
									arrived in Camp * * * there was no Detachment sent out next Day to ascertain how
									many was Killed or to Bury the Dead * * * I was well acquainted with Col Hall Rode
									Behind him that night of Sd retreat across the river and was in his Camp next
									Morning."
						The disaster tended to add to the demoralized condition of the troops and
							consequently to the burden of the commander-in-chief.
						On the morning of October 19th, the main army of General Harmar moved from the
							present Lakeside down the north bank of the Maumee to the Shawnee village of
								Chillicothe,11 two miles
							distant, where the commander issued orders for the utter destruction of the remaining
							Indian villages and the food supplies of the neighborhood. He added this sharp
							criticism of the conduct of his troops: "The cause of the
									detachment being worsted yesterday was entirely owing to the shameful, cowardly
									conduct of the militia, who ran away and threw down their arms without scarcely
									firing a gun. In returning to Fort Washington, if any officer or man shall presume
									to quit the ranks, or not to march in the form that they are ordered, the general
									will most assuredly order the artillery to fire on them. He hopes the check they
									received yesterday will make them in future obedient to orders."
						In utter despair, General Harmar determined upon an immediate retreat to Fort
							Washington (Cincinnati). Accordingly, on  the morning of
							October 21, the army moved, and by evening had reached a point about seven miles
							southeast of Fort Wayne, where it went into camp.
						
							A CURIOUS RELIC OF HARMAR'S BATTLE.
							Of the treasured war relics picked up on the battlefield of the site of Fort Wayne,
								the one here pictured is perhaps the most interesting, if not the most valuable. It
								is a bayonet, found by the late Carl Wolf, of New Haven, Indiana, which was later
								secured by L. W. Hills, of this city. When the bayonet (A) became detached from the
								gun and fell to the ground it rested on the earth in such a position that the
								opening which fits over the muzzle of the firearm (AA) enclosed the tender shoot of
								a tree just issuing from the ground; the shoot grew up through the opening until it
								completely filled the space. Mr. Wolf cut off the shoot (C) and the root (B).
						
						Here, while the army was settling itself for the night, Colonel Hardin sought an
							interview with General Harmar. He informed the commander of his plan to bring victory
							out of defeat and accomplish the object of the expedition, by returning to the village
							sites and giving the savages a severe and final punishment which would bring them into
							subjection to the Americans and cause them to abandon their British alliance. The
							account of the result of this interview is quoted largely from the journal of Captain
							Armstrong:
						Harmar was reluctant to send back a detachment of the army, but Hardin urged the
							matter, pleading that, as he had been unfortunate on the earlier occasion, he wished
							to have it in his power to pick the militia and restore the honor of the men and
							retrieve his own reputation. Harmar, thereupon, consented to the detachment of four
							hundred men to return to the villages, while the remainder of the army awaited the
							outcome.
						Late in the night of the 21st, a corps of three hundred and forty picked militiamen
							and sixty regular troops under command of Maj. John P. Wyllys, were detached, that
							they might gain the vicinity of the Miami village before daybreak and surprise any of
							the Indians who might be found there. The detachment marched in three columns. The
							regular troops were in the center, at the head of which Captain Joseph Asheton was
							posted, with Major Wyllys and Colonel Hardin in his front.  The militia formed the columns to the right and left.
						The detachment did not reach the high ground overlooking the Maumee (probably in the
							vicinity of the present East Washington and Jefferson streets near Harmar) until some
							time after sunrise. The savages, however, had not discovered their presence and were
							busily engaged in unearthing the buried property in their ruined village in Lakeside.
							The spies reported this condition to Major Wyllys, who halted the regular troops and
							moved the militia on some distance in front where he gave his orders and plan of
							attack to the several commanding officers of the corps. Wyllys reserved to himself the
							command of the regular troops.
					
					
						THE PLAN OF BATTLE THAT FAILED.
						According to the plan of Wyllys, Major Hall with his battalion was to have taken a
							circuitous route to the westward (throught the lands in the heart of the present city
							of Fort Wayne), cross the St. Mary's river at the ford (near the present Wells street
							bridge) and there, in the rear of the villages wait until the noise of the attack of
							Major McMullen's battalion, Major Fontaine's cavalry and the regulars under Major
							Wyllys should inform him that the engagement had opened on the south. The latter were
							waiting to cross the Maumee, en masse, and thus drive the surprised savages to the
							westward, where they would encounter Hall's battalion. This, it was reckoned, would
							give time for McMullen and Fontaine to spread their troops along the east side of the
							Indian encampment and thus surround the savages, who would be mowed down by a
							crossfire from all sides.
						The plan was splendid in theory, but the human element, which can never be weighed or
							measured, made of it a tragic failure.
						Hall gained his ground unobserved. But one of his men disobeyed orders by firing upon
							a lone Indian before the commencement of the action. This gave the aroused savages in
							the village an opportunity to scour the entire neighborhood before the troops under
							Wyllys, McMullen and Fontaine were prepared to advance. Little Turtle and his
							nimble-witted warriors gave little heed to Hall, but centered their attention upon
							their nearer foes. Small bands of savages were soon seen running to the northeastward
							(from the present Lakeside toward Forest Park) and the militia, under McMullen, and
							the cavalry, under Fontaine, pursued them in disobedience to orders.
						This left Wyllys at the Maumee, unsupported. But the brave regulars, trained to face
							danger with the utmost courage, advanced boldly into the river and attempted to force
							their way up the Lakeside shore when a superior force of the Indians turned upon them
								 a deadly fire from the front. The brave Wyllys was
							one of the first to die. Few of the others escaped, and the writhing bodies of men and
							horses soon filled the river bed.
						To the northward (near the present Tennessee avenue) Major Fontaine at the head of
							the mounted militia was engaged in a hot fight with a band of the savages. The leader
							fell with a mortal wound, and many of his men died there.12
						In the meantime, Major Hall, who was about to cross from the west bank of the St.
							Joseph into the present Lakeside to support 
								THE BATTLE OF THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE, 1790.
								The map, designed to show the movement of the troops of Harmar's detachment
									during the engagement with Little Turtle and the savages October 22, 1790, shows
									the present streets in dotted lines. 1—Location of the divisions of Majors
									Hall, Wyllys, McMullen and Fontaine before the attack. 2—Position of Hall's
									troops when the first shot was fired. 3—Harmar's Ford, where Major Wyllys
									and his men, deserted by the militia under McMullen and Fontaine, were shot down
									by the savages. 4—Location of the troops of McMullan and Fontaine when they
									prevented a large body of Indians from escaping to the northward and drove them to
									a cross-fire position between Hall (5) and the combined troops of Fontaine and
									McMullen. The greatest number of fatalities occurred at the spots indicated by
									stars. General Harmar, in his official report makes special mention of the
									engagement near the French fort.
							
							 Fontaine's and McMullen's troops, found the savages
							driven into the river and directly between the two portions of the army.13 That the fiercest fighting took
							place here is shown by the report of General Harmar, who states that "the action was
							fought near the old fort and up the St. Joseph river," referring to the French fort on
							the east bank of the St. Joseph at the junction of the present St. Joe boulevard and
							Delaware avenue.
						Messengers from the scene of the battle hastened to General Harmar to advise him of
							the condition of affairs, and a battalion under Major Ray was ordered to the
							assistance of the retreating army. Major Ray met Hardin, who was hastening back to the
							camp of Harmar to urge him to send the entire army against the savages, but the
							commander, pointing out the poor condition of his troops, declined to grant the
								request.14
						The dispirited troops, alarmed lest the savages attack them in their camp, took up
							their line of march to Cincinnati on the 23d of October and arrived there the 4th of
								November.15
						The number of men lost in this campaign is given as 183 killed and 31 wounded,
							although it is very probable that some deserted and made their way back to
								Kentucky.16
						During this period, Washington had been rusticating at his Mount Vernon home, in
							utter ignorance of the outcome of the Harmar campaign. Washington Irving, describing
							the president's anxious state of mind at this time, says: "Week after week elapsed without any tidings. * * * It was not until the last
									of November that he received a letter from Governor George Clinton, of New York,
									communicating particulars of the affair related to him by Brandt, the celebrated
									Indian chief. 'If the information of Captain Brandt be true,' wrote Washington, in
									reply, 'the issue of the expedition against the Indians will indeed prove
									unfortunate and disgraceful to the troops who suffered themselves to be
										ambuscaded.'"17
						The court of inquiry appointed to investigate the conduct of Harmar exonerated him
							and he was appointed adjutant-general of the Pennsylvania troops, in which capacity he
							rendered good service in providing men for the succeeding campaigns of Generals St.
							Clair and Wayne.18
						The outcome of the campaign, considered from the most favorable angle, gave naught to
							the American government to increase its hopes of the pacification of the west. On the
							other hand, the savages, their spirit of revenge aroused to the white heat of the
							fiercest hatred, assembled at the site of their ruined villages and there, led to
							renewed defiance of the Americans through the fiery speech of Simon Girty, set about
							the work of preparation to meet the next American force which might be sent against
							them. In  a body, these savages, led by Little Turtle,
							LeGris and Blue Jacket, proceeded to Detroit,19 where they "paraded the streets, uttering their demoniac
							scalp yelps while bearing long poles strung with the scalps of many American
								soldiers"20 slain at the battle of the site of Fort Wayne.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XI.
						(1) Probably LeGris. It will be observed
							that Henry Hay, in his journal, gives precedence to the name of LeGris whenever that
							chief's name is mentioned in connection with Little Turtle.
						(2) Antoine Gamelin's Journal, American
							State Papers, Indian Affairs, vol. 1, page 93.
						(3) Tales of cannibalism among the
							savages of the Maumee-Wabash valleys are obtainable from various sources. E. F.
							Colerick, writing of early days in Fort Wayne, says: "I remember one Sabbath
							afternoon, in September, 1836, of taking a stroll with my aged friend, Jean Baptiste
							Bruno, an old Indian trader, who was then in his sixtieth year, hale and hearty. We
							had reached a beautiful spot—a small grove—when we were accosted by a
							shriveled old Indian woman, the only daughter of White Skin, the last head of the
							man-eating Indians. 'I knew her brother,' said Bruno, 'when I first came to this part
							of the country to trade with the Indians. They were known as the man-eating family.
							They had no friends that I knew of, except Father Badin, a French missionary who
							frequently visited them and helped them when they were in want." . . . John May,
							captured in 1790, was roasted alive and his flesh eaten. During the course of his
							speech in Fort Wayne at the time of the opening of the Wabash and Erie canal in 1843,
							General Lewis Cass stated that the present Swinney park was the scene of cannibalistic
							feasts. Jesse L. Williams, in his "History of the First Presbyterian Church of Fort
							Wayne," points out as another scene of these dreadful ceremonies of the savages "the
							extreme point of land just below the mouth of the St. Joseph river [Lakeside]."
						(4) The Journal of Major Ebenezer Denny
							(Fort Wayne Public Library) gives an intimate view of the expedition of Harmar from
							the "inside." Denny and Harmar were the warmest of friends, as is shown by a letter of
							Harmar to Thomas Mifflin, of Philadelphia, in 1789, in which the general said: "The
							bearer, Lieutenant Denny, is my adjutant; his long and faithful services claim my
							warmest regard for him." Born in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, in 1761, Denny became
							treasurer of Cumberland county, Carolina; entered the army; became an army contractor;
							was elected the first mayor of Pittsburgh; interested himself in banking enterprises,
							and was prominent in political affairs. He died at the age of sixty-one at
							Pittsburgh.
						(5) Major John Whistler, later to become
							a commandant of Fort Wayne and the builder of Fort Dearborn, served with Harmar and
							was also with St. Clair in the succeeding campaign.
						(6) In his official report, General
							Harmar described the villages at the head of the Maumee, as follows: "The savages and
							traders (who were, perhaps, the worst savages of the two) had evacuated their towns
							and burnt the principal village called the Omee [Miami] together with all the traders'
							houses. This village lay on a pleasant point [Lakeside] formed by the junction of the
							rivers Omee [Miami, or Maumee] and the St. Joseph. It was situate on the east bank of
							the latter, opposite the mouth of the St, Mary's, and had for a long time, been the
							rendezvous of a set of Indian desperadoes who infested the settlements and stained the
							Ohio and parts adjacent with the blood of defenseless inhabitants. * * * On Sunday,
							the 17th [of October, 1790,] we entered the ruins of the Omee [Miami] town, or French
							village, as part of it is called. Appearances confirmed the accounts I had received of
							the consternation into which the savages and their allies were thrown by the approach
							of the army. Many valuables of the traders were destroyed in the confusion, and vast
							quantities of corn and other grain and vegetables were secreted in holes dug in the
							earth and other places. * * * Besides the Omee village, there were several other
							villages situated on the banks of the three rivers. One of them, belonging to the Omee
							[Miami] Indians, called Kekaiogue, was standing and contained thirty houses on the
							bank opposite the principal village [it stood in Spy Run]. Two others, consisting
							together of about forty-five houses, lay a few miles up the St. Mary's [near the old
							county infirmary opposite Foster Park] and were inhabited by Delawares. Thirty-six
							houses occupied by other savages of this tribe formed another but scattered town on
							the east bank of the St. Joseph two or three miles north of the French village. About
							the same distance down the Omee [Maumee] lay the Shawnee town of Chillicothe,
							consisting of fifty-eight houses, opposite which, on the other bank of the river, were
							sixteen more habitations belonging to the savages of the same nation. All these I
							ordered burnt during my stay there, together with great quantities of corn and
							vegetables, hidden as at the principal village, in the earth and other places, by the
							savages who had abandoned them. It is computed that there were no less than 20,000
							bushels of corn, in the ear, which the army either consumed or destroyed."
						(7) John Kinzie, George Sharp and
							Antoine Lasselle were at the Miami  Town when Harmar's
							army approached. Following is an extract from a letter written by George Sharp to
							Colonel Alexander McKee from Glaize (site of Defiance) October 17, 1790, before he
							knew the fate which had befallen Harmar's troops: "I left the Miamies the 15th. The
							people in general had then saved a considerable part of their property, but the
							village was burned to ashes by the Indians, lest it offer shelter to their enemies. *
							* * Messrs. Kinzie and Lacelle were to remain in the environs of the Miamis four days
							at least after my departure, and promised to send me every intelligence of consequence
							to this place." Major John Smith, adding to the report, says in a letter to Captain
							LeMastre: "The traders have saved most of their movable goods; their corn has, for the
							most part, suffered in the fire."
						(8) "When We arrived, found what the
							prisoner Stated was True. 2 Indians happened to Be under the Bank of the river when
							the army came up. they tried to Escape. the troops Discovered them and about 100 guns
							were Discharged at them. One was found Dead the next Day in the Brush."—Thomas
							Irwin Notes, "Historic Highways of America," vol. viii.
						(9) "Colonel John Hardin was senior
							commander, but Colonel Trotter was a personal favorite of the men." (Logan Esarey,
							History of Indiana.)
						(10) The scene of this unfortunate
							encounter was near the point in Allen county called Heller's Corners, in Eel River
							township, about eleven miles north of Fort Wayne. The present Goshen road passes the
							place.
						(11) "From Judge Coleman, who settled on
							the farm now owned by Mrs. Phillips, in 1827, we learn that every evidence of former
							cultivation of the ground there [site of Chillicothe] was seen; there being no timber
							growing, evidences of ancient building, of gardening, such as asparagus, etc., and
							also there were found many old bayonets, gun barrels, knives, pack saddle frames,
							etc."—Fort Wayne Times, September 25, 1858.
						(12) "He [Major Fontaine] Charged right
							in among the Enemy, fired off his pistols and Drew his Sword Before they Could recover
							the Shock. George Adams * * * was near the Major at that time, that it happened. When
							the Enemy got over their surprise, ten or twelve Indians Discharged their guns at him.
							The Major kind of fell or hung on his horse. They then Discharged Several Guns at said
							Adams. He received Several Flesh wounds But recovered. By this time, the Militia with
							the regulars came up. The Indians fought with Desperation. Was Drove from their
							Encampment by the Militia and regulars Down the Bank into the river [St. Joseph].
							Colonel Hardin's men on the opposite Side which placed them Between two fires. The
							Indians charged on Hardin's troops having no Chance to Escape. Hardin's troops gave
							way and retreated the same way they went out and was not in that Battle any more. Some
							of the troops informed me that Major Fountain [Fontaine] was living when our troops
							Drove the Indians from the Battle Ground. Major McMillen [McMullen] collected the
							troops and tarried on the Battle Ground until the Indians had entirely Disappeared and
							not one was to be seen or heard. * * * My opinion is there was more Indians killed in
							that Battle than was killed when Genl Wayne defeated them in 1794. If Harmar had sent
							out a detachment of six hundred men next day to Collected the Dead and Buried them and
							ascertained how many of the enemy was killed I think there would have Been no risk in
							it. As it was the Indians was so completely cut up the Day of the Battle Such a move
							would have Been an honor and Credit to the Campaign. I can Never agree that Harmar's
							Campaign was a Defeated one."—From the Notes of Private Thomas Irwin. See
							"Historic Highways of America," vol. viii. Quoted by permission of the publishers, The
							Arthur H. Clark Co., Cleveland.
						(13) "Two soldiers, Captain Asheton
							says, signalized themselves on this occasion by gigging the foe, like fish, with their
							bayonets. * * * An affecting incident occurred here (at the St. Joseph river) that
							deserves to be noticed. An old Indian had two boys who rushed into the river by his
							side. One of them was shot down near him. He dropped his gun and seized him, no doubt
							in order to save his scalp from his enemies. The other was killed also. He drew them
							to the shore and sat down between them, where he was killed."—Recollections of
							David Hamilton Morris, first lieutenant of Captain Asheton's company in Harmar's
							army.
						(14) "I am clearly of the opinion that
							had the enemy made an attack upon our camp this evening or the following morning, the
							militia were so panic struck that few of them would have stood. The consequences that
							would have happened stared every person with horror—the sick and wounded and all
							the stores, artillery, etc., would have fallen a prey to the savages."—Major
							Denny: Draper manuscripts. "Indeed," said Ensign D. Britt, in his testimony before the
							court of inquiry, "the generality of them [the militia] scarcely deserved the name of
							anything like soldiers. They were mostly substitutes for others, who had nothing to
							stimulate them to their duty."
						(15) General Harmar considered the
							battle on the site of Fort Wayne to have been a success, if we may judge from the
							record in his journal. He wrote, under date of October 17, 1790: "The detachment under
							Major Wyllys 
								SIGNATURE OF MAJOR EBENEZER DENNY.
								Aide-de-camp to General Harmar and General St. Clair.
							
							 and Colonel Hardin performed wonders, although they
							were terribly cut up. Almost the whole of the federal troops were cut off, with the
							loss of Major Wyllys, Major Fontaine and Lieutenant Frothingham—which is indeed
							a heavy blow. The consolation is that the men sold themselves very dear. The militia
							behaved themselves charmingly. It is reported that not less than 100 warriors of the
							savages were killed upon the ground. The action was fought yesterday near the old fort
							up the river St. Joseph. The savages never received such a stroke before in any battle
							that they have had. The action at the Great Kanawha was a farce to it." In addition to
							the loss of Wyllys, Fontaine and Frothingham, the whites left on the battlefield
							Captains Thorp, McMurtney and Scott, Lieutenants Clark and Rogers, and Ensigns
							Bridges, Sweet, Higgins and Thielkeld, of the militia.
						(16) Robert Gavin, Sr., in a recent
							conversation with the writer, stated that his father, who came to Fort Wayne in 1849,
							"worked" the Comparet farm, in Lakeside, for several years, and that in turning over
							the soil, a large number of human bones were found. A. M. Harrington, who lived at the
							corner of Coombs and Begue streets, made it a fad to collect skulls from the
							battlefield, and his cellar showed many specimens of grim reminder of Harmar's fateful
							day. Mr. Gavin stated that the bones were gathered and buried in trenches so as to
							clear the land of their presence.
						(17) Michigan Pioneer History and
							Farmer's History of Detroit.
						(18) Severe criticism of the personal
							conduct of General Harmar brought to his defense some of the ablest men under his
							command. Major W. Ferguson, commanding officer of artillery, testified: "Report says
							he was intoxicated all the campaign, and unable to execute the important duties of his
							station. * * * I do declare that from leaving Fort Washington to our return, I never
							seen Gen'l Harmar intoxicated or so as to render him unfit for the execution of any
							duties. In him and his abilities as an officer I placed the greatest confidence.
							(Draper Manuscripts, Frontier Wars, vol. iv.) Ensign D. Britt, in his testimony,
							states that General Harmar succeeded in bringing friendly relations between Colonels
							Hardin and Trotter which weakened the expedition at the beginning. Lieutenant David
							Hamilton Morris, writing as late as 1842, said: "I regard General Harmar as a veteran
							soldier and an accomplished gentleman and especially as the sincere friend of the poor
							soldier."
						(19) The British authorities were moved
							to concern themselves in the protection of the Detroit merchants who, with strong
							petitions, pleaded for the aid of the home government to preserve their business
							interests in the Maumee-Wabash valleys. Sir John Johnson was addressed in August,
							1791, by means of a petition which contained these sentences: "As we understand you
							are about setting out [from Montreal] to Quebec, we [the merchants of Detroit] take
							the favorable opportunity of requesting the favor of your representing to His
							Excellency, Lord Dorchester, the present very alarming situation of the trade to the
							southward of Detroit, wherein we are very largely interested. * * * The traders
							suffered considerable loss last year in consequence of the burning of the Miami
							villages [site of Fort Wayne]. * * * The loss of their houses and part of their goods
							has been severely felt." The petition closes with an appeal to Lord Dorchester to
							advise the Indians to agree to a peace treaty with the Americans which would restore
							trade conditions. (Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collection.)
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XII—1791. St. Clair's Defeat Imperils the
						West—Washington's Apprehensions.
					Harmar's failure to establish a fort at the head of the Maumee—Consequences of
						the campaign—Washington summons St. Clair and outlines his plan—Generals
						Scott and Wilkinson and Colonel Hardin invade Wabash region—Ouiatanon
						destroyed—St. Clair's army weakened by desertions—Poor
						equipment—Harmar predicts St. Clair's defeat—Forts Hamilton and Jefferson
						established—Army goes into camp on the fateful night of November 3,
						1791—General Butler's proposal meets with resentment on the part of St.
						Clair—Slough discovers Little Turtle's lurking savages—Butler fails to
						inform the commander-in-chief—Savages attack the camp at daybreak—"The
						bloodiest battlefield of American pioneer history"—The retreat—Death of
						General Butler—Many women massacred—Denny carries the news to the
						president—Washington in a rage—Savages rejoice, and prepare for the coming
						of the next leader of the Americans.
					THERE has remained the feeling that if General Harmar, instead of
						conducting an aggressive warfare against the Indians, had built a strong fort at the
						head of the Maumee as soon as he arrived here, his would have endured as an honored name
						throughout the west. Such a move, followed by the establishment of supporting garrisons,
						might have accomplished all that Wayne succeeded in doing four years later. It is
						obvious that the army of Harmar was unfit for the work he tried to do. That these men
						could have built good forts and formed their garrisons seems altogether reasonable.
					
						MAJOR GEN. ARTHUR ST. CLAIR.
						Sent, in 1791, by President Washington, on a campaign against the allied tribes of
							the northwest, with explicit instructions to establish a chain of forts with the site
							of the city of Fort Wayne as the central stronghold, St. Clair's army was met by the
							savages under Little Turtle and defeated on "The bloodiest battlefield of American
							pioneer history." The disaster opened the way for Wayne's victorious campaign in 1793
							and 1794. The portrait is after the pencil sketch by Colonel John Trumbull.
					
					But history is not a recital of that which might have been.
					Washington summoned Governor St. Clair to Philadelphia. The conference was devoted to a
						discussion of the plans for a second expedition to be led by St. Clair in person. In
						order to conceal from the Indians and the British their movements  in preparation for the expedition, Washington directed St. Clair to despatch
						one or more invaders into the enemy's country. Consequently General Charles Scott, with
						800 Kentucky cavalrymen, was sent into the Wabash region, with the ancient settlement at
							Ouiatanon1 as the chief
						objective. This town, with several others, was destroyed by the troops of General Scott,
						General James Wilkinson and Colonel John Hardin. Many Indians were killed.
					Describing the town of Ouiatanon, General Scott said: "Many of the inhabitants of this
						village were French and lived in a state of civilization. By the books, letters and
						other documents found here it is evident the place was in close connection with and
						dependent upon Detroit."2
					Meanwhile, General St. Clair made active preparations to take an army from Fort
						Washington to the head of the Maumee and there build the fort which Harmar had failed to
							establish.8
					One onlooker, depressed by the memory of his own misfortunes, predicted the defeat of
						St. Clair's expedition. That prophet was Josiah Harmar.4
					On the 17th of September, 1791, after a vexatious delay, deeply annoying to the
						president, St. Clair's forces moved northward from Fort Washington (Cincinnati), with
						Brigadier General Richard Butler, second in command. Secretary of War Knox had written
						that the president "is greatly anxious that the campaign be distinguished by decisive
						measures." Weary of St. Clair's delay in leaving Fort Washington, the president
						authorized secretary Knox to inform him that "unless the highest exertions be made by
						all parts of the army, to repair the loss of the season, the expenses which have been
						made for the campaign will be altogether lost, and the measures from which so much has
						been expected will issue in disgrace."5
					Hundreds of the men and several officers deserted the army during the first few days of
						the march northward from Fort Washington.
					Nothing pictures the condition of the army more significantly than the following
						extracts from the journal of Major Denny, aide-de-camp to General St. Clair: "Unpardonable mismanagement in the provision department. * * * A
								number of the militia who had deserted were apprehended in Kentucky and confined in
								jails. * * * Two artillerymen attempted to desert to the enemy, were taken, tried
								and sentenced to suffer death; were hanged. * * Forage entirely destroyed; horses
								failing and cannot be kept up."6
					After establishing Forts Hamilton and Jefferson in Ohio on its march northward, as a
						part of the general plan to place a line of 
						fortifications extending from the Ohio river to the Maumee, at the site of the city of
						Fort Wayne, St. Clair's troops reached a tributary of the Wabash at a point about one
						and one-half miles east of the present Indiana-Ohio boundary. This spot, elevated from
						its surroundings, was chosen as an ideal place of encampment for the night of November
						3—a date long to be remembered in the history of the frontier. The army now
						numbered 1,400 regulars and militia and 86 officers. The weather was bitterly cold. The
						commanding general was ill with gout. An estrangement had sprung up between St. Clair
						and General Butler when the former refused to entertain the suggestion of Butler that he
						(Butler) be permitted to proceed with 1,000 men to the confluence of the St. Mary's and
						St. Joseph rivers and there establish the proposed central stronghold.
					
						PLAN OF THE ST. CLAIR BATTLEFIELD.
						The diagram shows the plan of the camp of the troops of General Arthur St. Clair
							which suffered defeat by the Indians in the morning of November 4, 1791. The city of
							Fort Recovery, Ohio, now occupies the site.
					
					The troops, busy with the preparations for the night, were innocent of the truth that
						hundreds of savages, under the leadership of Little Turtle, had come from the regions of
						the Maumee and the Wabash, and had surrounded the camp. It is the record of one of the
						soldiers—Thomas Irwin—that St. Clair "observed that he did not think the
						Indians were watching the movement of the army with a view to attack them other than to
						steal horses or catch a person if they had a chance."7 Alas! The moment of doom had already come!
					A night scouting expedition, led by Captain Slough, returned to report the discovery of
						the presence of the Indians in large numbers. General Butler, to whom Slough reported,
						failed to carry the fatal news to General St. Clair, who was confined to his quarters
						with illness—indeed, the commanding officer knew nothing of the scouting party
						until five days later.8
					Early on the morning of the fatal 4th of November, the army was aroused and entered
						upon parade before dawn. It was the plan to make a prompt start for the northwest, and
						to hold the  Indians at a safe distance while the fort
						which Washington longed to establish should be erected at the head of the Maumee.9
					
						THE "BLOODIEST BATTLEFIELD OF PIONEER HISTORY."
						The sun had not yet risen when the army was thrown into a state of consternation by
							the yells of the savages who advanced from all sides and at once commenced their
							fierce attack upon the startled encampment.10 With the Indians were many of their white
								sympathizers.11 Advancing
							under the shelter of shrubbery and the smoke of their own firearms and that of the
							whites, the savages poured their leaden hail into the camp for a period of nearly
							three hours.
						
							WHERE ST. CLAIR'S ARMY WAS SLAUGHTERED.
							The map shows the place of the defeat of St. Clair's army in 1791, while en route
								to the site of Fort Wayne to erect a fortification under instructions of
								Washington.
						
						Quoting from Denny's journal, we gain a strong picture of the scene: "Our left flank gave way first. Was at that time with the
									general [St. Clair] engaged toward the right; he was on foot and led the party
									himself that drove the enemy and regained the ground on the left.
								"The savages seemed not to fear anything we could do. They could skip out of
									reach of the bayonet and return, as they pleased.
								"The ground was literally covered with the dead. The wounded were taken to the
									center, where a good many who had quit their posts unhurt, were crowded together.
									It appeared as if the officers had been singled out; a very great proportion fell.
									The men being thus left with few officers, became fearful, despaired of success,
									gave up the fight, and, to save themselves for the moment, abandoned entirely
									their ground, and crowded in toward the center of the field, and no exertions
									could put them in order even for defense.
								"The enemy at length got possession of the artillery, though not until the
									officers were all killed but one, and he badly wounded, and the men all cut off,
									and not until the pieces were spiked. Exposed to cross-fire, men and officers were
									seen falling in every direction. A few minutes longer and a retreat would have
									been impracticable. Delay was death! No preparation could be made; numbers of
									brave men must be left to sacrifice; there was no alternative. Both officers and
									men seemed confounded; they could not move until it was told that a retreat was
									intended. The stoutest and most active now took the lead, and those who were
									foremost in breaking the enemy's line were soon left behind. At the moment  of retreat one of the horses saved had been procured
									for the general; he was on foot until then; I kept by him and he delayed to see
									the rear. The enemy pursued, though not for more than four or five miles; they
									turned to share the spoil. The road for miles was covered with firelocks,
									cartridge boxes and regimentals. How fortunate that the pursuit was discontinued!
									A single Indian might have followed with safety on either flank."
						The fugitive army did not halt until safely within and about the palisades of Fort
							Jefferson.
						The spoils of the camp were of high value to the savages. Their gleeful mistreatment
							of the dead and of the living is a tale of horror. "Perhaps never before nor afterward
							did any battlefield present a scene equal to that Wabash slaughter field. The dying
							were tortured and the dead frightfully mutilated."12
						Five hundred and ninety-three privates were killed in the engagement. Thirty-nine
							officers lost their lives, including General Richard Butler, one lieutenant colonel,
							three majors, twelve captains, ten lieutenants, eight ensigns, two quartermasters, one
							adjutant, and a surgeon. As the troops were leaving the field, Captain Edward Butler
							found his brother, General Butler, fatally wounded. He was propped up on a mattress in
							his tent, a loaded pistol placed in each hand, and left to his fate. As his friends
							left the tent by the rear, the Indians surged in at the front.13
						The wives of many of the soldiers, as well as other women, had accompanied the
							troops. One writer14 states
							that about 250 women were with the army, of whom fifty-six were killed in the battle,
							and but a few escaped subsequent death or captivity. The first whites to visit the
							field at a later day found the corpses of many women pinned to the ground by large
							stakes driven through their bodies.15
						Rightly has the scene of St. Clair's defeat been called "the bloodiest battlefield of
							pioneer American history."
						Major Denny, whose journal throws much light on this disastrous campaign, was chosen
							to carry the news of the defeat to President Washington. The difficulties of travel
							required that six weeks should elapse before the president received the message. The
							dispatch was handed to Washington as he entertained friends at dinner. Excusing
							himself at the conclusion of the repast, the president and his secretary, Tobias Lear,
							entered a private room.
						Says Washington Irving,16 in
							describing the scene: "The general walked slowly backward and
									forward. As yet there had been no change in his manner. Taking a seat on the sofa
									by the fire he told Mr. Lear to sit down; the latter had scarce time to notice
									that he was extremely agitated, when he broke out suddenly, 'It's all over! St.
									Clair defeated!—routed! The officers nearly all killed, the men by
									wholesale; the rout complete; too  shocking to think
									of, and a surprise into the bargain!' * * * 'Yes,' exclaimed he, 'here on this
									very spot I took leave of him; I wished him success and honor. 'You have your
									instructions from the secretary of war,' said I. 'I had strict eye to them, and
									will add but one word, Beware of a surprise! You know how the Indians fight us. I
									repeat, Beware of a surprise.' He went off with that, my last warning, thrown into
									his ears. And yet! To suffer that army to be cut to pieces, hacked, butchered,
									tomahawked, by a surprise—the very thing I guarded him against—O, God!
									O, God!' exclaimed he, throwing up his hands, and while his very frame shook with
									emotion, 'He's worse than a murderer! How can he answer to his country! The blood
									of the slain is upon him—the curse of the widows and orphans—the curse
									of heaven!' When his wrath had subsided, Washington said, 'This must not go beyond
									this room,' and later, in a calmer moment, he added, 'General St. Clair shall have
									justice; * * * he shall have full justice.'"
						St. Clair retained the confidence of Washington to the last of his days. He served
							for several years as the governor of the Northwest Territory and of Ohio Territory,
							and died at Greensburg, Pa., in 1818, in comparative poverty.
						The site of the city of Fort Wayne, to which vast numbers of the savages repaired
							from the scene of the battle, laden with rich spoils, became a scene of wild
							rejoicing; indeed, the entire Maumee valley was alive with savages exulting over their
							victory and preparing to carry on the conflict against the Americans.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XII.
						(1) Ouiatanon, established in 1719 or
							1720 by Francois Margane, Sieur de Vincennes, had been maintained as a French and
							British stronghold for nearly three-fourths of a century.
						(2) American State Papers, Indian
							Affairs, vol. i, page 129.
						(3) Secretary of War Knox, impressing
							upon General St. Clair the importance of his mission, had written him, on March 1:
							"The post at the Miami village [site of Fort Wayne] is intended for the purpose of
							awing and curbing the Indians in that quarter, and is the only preventative of further
							hostilities. The garrison which should be stationed there ought not only to be
							sufficient for the defense of the place, but always to afford a detachment of five or
							six hundred men to chastise any of the Wabash or other hostile Indians or to secure
							any convoys for provisions. * * * The establishment of said post is considered as an
							important object of the campaign and is to take place at all events. It is hardly
							possible, if the Indians continue hostile, that you will be suffered quietly to
							establish a post at Miami village; conflicts, therefore, may be expected. * * * The
							establishment of a post at the Miami village will probably be regarded by the British
							on the frontier as a circumstance of jealousy." (Michigan Pioneer and Historical
							Collection).
						(4) "He * * * predicted a defeat. 'You
							must,' said he [to Major Denny], 'go on the campaign; some will escape, and you may be
							among the number.'"—Journal of Ebenezer Denny, page 357.
						(5) American State Papers, vol. lv, page
							192.
						(6) That the savages and their allies
							were watching every move of St. Clair's army is shown by the following extract from a
							letter written by Simon Girty to Colonel Alexander McKee, October 28, 1791, as the
							army was moving northward from Fort Washington: "This is to let you know that 1,040
							Indians are this day going from here [site of Fort Wayne] to meet General Butler
							[Butler was second in command] and his army, with the intention to attack him on his
							march to this place. * * * The principal officers are St. Clair, Butler, Gibson and
							Duncan, all of whom you know as well as I." Both had known these American officers
							before they (Girty and McKee) deserted from Fort Pitt and cast their lots with the
							enemy. In the attack on St. Clair, the Indians were led by Little Turtle, of the
							Miamis, Blue Jacket, the Shawnee, and Buck-ong-a-helas, the most noted of the Delaware
							chiefs, with Little Turtle in supreme command. Tecumseh, the  famous Shawnee chief of later days, had command of the Indian scouts who
							followed and observed the operations of St. Clair.
						(7) See "Historic Highways of America,"
							vol viii, page 145.
						(8) St. Clair's Narrative, page
							55.
						(9) At this time, and, indeed until Fort
							Wayne was finally built, the plan to erect a fort at the confluence of the St. Mary's
							and St. Joseph rivers was a favorite topic of consideration at the seat of the
							national government. On December 26, 1791, Secretary Knox, in his official report,
							said: "It will appear, by reference to Report A, which accompanies this report, that
							the great object of the late campaign [St. Clair's] was to establish a strong military
							post at the Miami village [site of Fort Wayne], lying upon the river of that name
							[Maumee, called Miami at that time], which communicates with Lake Erie, and that
							subordinate posts were also to be erected on the river Miami. That by an examination
							of the position of the said Miami village, and its contiguity to, or connection with,
							the waters of the river St. Joseph, of Lake Michigan, and the river Illinois, and
							thereby the Mississippi, the Wabash and thereby the Ohio, the Miami of the Ohio, which
							at times, may afford considerable facility to transportation; it will appear that the
							said position with its proper communication, is greatly superior to any other in order
							to serve as a barrier to protect essentially a frontier of upwards of eleven hundred
							miles stretching from the upper parts of the Allegheny to the lower parts of the Ohio.
							That it was intended to garrison the said post at the Miami village [Fort Wayne] and
							its communications with one thousand or twelve hundred troops and have it always well
							stored with provisions, etc. That from the said number, a detachment generally might
							be spared of sufficient magnitude to chastise any of the neighboring villages or
							tribes separately who might have dared to commit depredations; or be a place to which
							mounted militia might suddenly repair, draw supplies and act in conjunction, in case
							of a combination of the several towns or tribes in acts of hostility."
						(10) The conflict took place within the
							limits of the present city of Fort Recovery, Ohio.
						(11) "It is worthy of note that William
							Wells [son-in-law of Little Turtle] who was soon to become a leader of the whites, is
							said to have slain several Americans with his own hands."—Roosevelt's "Winning
							of the West," vol. iv, page 79.
						(12) "Historic Highways of America,"
							vol. viii, page 157.
						(13) "Historic Highways of America,"
							vol. viii, page 157.
						(14) Caleb Atwater, "History of Ohio,"
							page 142.
						(15) Dillon's "History of Indiana," page
							283. Of the women who escaped, "Mrs. Catherine Miller, who died in Cincinnati about
							the year 1838, was so fleet of foot that she ran ahead of the army. She had a great
							quantity of red hair, that streamed behind as she ran, and formed the 'oriflamme'
							which the soldiers followed."—Lossing's "Pictorial Fieldbook of the War of
							1812," page 48. The volume to which this and other references are made is the property
							of John C. Heller, of Fort Wayne.
						(16) Washington Irving's "Life of
							Washington," vol. iv; see also George P. Custis's "Personal Recollections of
							Washington," and Henry C. Lodge's "Life of Washington."
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIII—1792-1794. "Mad Anthony" Wayne, Savior of the
						West—"Fallen Timber."
					Disheartening conditions in the west—Washington's problems—General Anthony
						Wayne chosen to lead the third expedition against the Indians—Washington's opinion
						of Wayne—Death of Colonel Hardin—Peace messengers tortured to
						death—Wayne trains his army and proceeds to Fort Washington
						(Cincinnati)—Joined by Harrison, Whistler, Lewis and Clark—The army at
						Greenville—Little Turtle leads in the attack on the builders of Fort
						Recovery—British build two forts on American soil—Captain William Wells
						joins Wayne—The army reaches the Maumee—How Wayne deceived the
						savages—Fort Defiance erected—Blue Jacket leads the savages—The death
						of William May—Wayne's story of the battle of Fallen Timber—Sharp
						correspondence between Wayne and Major Campbell, commander of the British Post
						Miami—The Americans destroy British property and vast acreage of corn—The
						result of Wayne's victory.
					WE NOW HAVE a clear conception of the conditions in the west which
						rendered most difficult and hazardous any further attempt by the United States to
						transform the frontier into an inhabitable region for the pioneer who gazed with longing
						eyes upon the opportunities which nature had provided for the tiller of the soil and the
						maker of the home.
					But there were other conditions which multiplied the difficulties and rendered the task
						of Washington most disheartening. So, before entering upon the review of the story of
						the invasion of the west by the "Legion of the United States," under the leadership of
						General Anthony Wayne,1 it may be
						well to look with impartial eyes upon the situation.
					The student of American history will recall that at this time "Citizen" Genet, the
						Frenchman, appeared in America with demands upon the new republic which Washington, with
						superior wisdom, declined to grant. Before the angered representative of France was
						recalled, there was every indication that if the United States had joined with France in
						a campaign to drive the Spaniard from the lower portion of the country, a war of
						gigantic proportions must have followed, with the United States and France engaged on
						the one side, against the Spanish, the British and the Indians on the other. At this
						critical time Washington chose "Mad Anthony" Wayne to proceed to the west with two great
						tasks in view—the pacification of the Indians and their separation from British
						control, and the protection of the Kentucky frontier against any demonstration of
						hostilities by the Spaniards of the south.2
					
					Wayne was at this time forty-seven years of age. While his choice gave general
						satisfaction, the friends of Richard Henry Lee,3 of Virginia, a warm friend of Washington, expressed keen
						disappointment that Lee had failed to win the favor of the president. When the
						discussion had reached its height, Washington explained his position in a clean-cut
						letter to Lee, in which he said: "How far the appointment of
								General Wayne is a popular or unpopular measure is not for me to decide. It was not
								the determination of a moment, nor was it the effect of partiality or influence; for
								no application (if that in any instance could have warped my judgment) was ever made
								in his behalf by anyone who could have thrown the weight of a feather into his
								scale; but because under a full view of all circumstances, he appeared to be the
								most eligible.
							"To a person of your observation and intelligence, it is unnecessary to remark that
								an appointment which may be popular in one place, and with one set of men, may not
								be so in another place with another set of men, and vice versa, and that to attempt
								to please everybody is to please nobody; because the attempt would be as idle as the
								exertion would be impracticable. G. W. [General Wayne] has many good points as an
								officer, and it is to be hoped that time, reflection, good advice and, above all, a
								due sense of the importance of the trust which is committed to him, will correct his
								foibles or cast a shade over them."4
					A memorandum in Washington's handwriting, preserved in the New York State Library,
						dealing with the qualifications of many who had been suggested as leaders of the new
						western army, thus measures the ability of Wayne to command the expedition: "More active
						and enterprising than judicious and cautious, no economist, it is feared; open to
						flattery—vain—easily imposed upon and liable to be drawn into scrapes; too
						indulgent (the effect, perhaps, of some of the causes just mentioned) to his officers;
						whether sober or a little addicted to the bottle. I know not."5
					Taking his "legion of 'boys and miscreants,' gathered from the slums of the coast
						cities," Wayne "trained them until their skill equaled, if it did not surpass, that of
						the most noted backwoods Indian fighters."6
					Before the arrival of Wayne's "Legion of the United States" at Cincinnati, a series of
						tragedies had occurred on the frontier. Colonel John Hardin, while acting as a messenger
						of peace to the savages, was murdered; Major Alexander Trueman, and two other
						messengers, Freeman and Girard, sent to the head of the Maumee, never returned. William
						May, captured on the site of Fort Wayne, was sold by Simon Girty to Matthew Elliott.
						After serving several months as a sailor on Lake Erie, May escaped and made his way to
						Wayne's headquarters. Later, in 1794, before the battle of Fallen  Timber, May was taken by the Indians and tortured to his death. Reuben
						Reynolds, another messenger, escaped, made his way to Montreal, and returned to the
						United States in safety.
					After several weeks of hard training on the ground south of Pittsburgh, Wayne took his
						army into camp twenty-two miles from that city, down the Ohio river, "out of reach of
						whiskey, which baneful poison is prohibited from entering the camp," as Wayne explained
						to Secretary Knox. In April the army floated down the Ohio to Fort Washington
						(Cincinnati) where the legion went into camp.
					
						REVOLUTIONARY PORTRAIT OF GENERAL WAYNE
						"One act of heroism (the storming of Stony Point) made his name famous for all time;
							and yet Wayne's exploits, each inspired by the same dauntless valor, seem almost
							forgotten by his countrymen. Wolfe, it is said, gave Canada to England; but Wayne gave
							the whole territory between the Ohio and the Mississippi, comprising four states, to
							that peaceful immigration of a noble civilization. His whole life was given
							ungrudgingly to his country."—Charles J. Stille, in his "Life of Major General
							Anthony Wayne."
					
					Among the noted men who joined Wayne was William Henry Harrison, the coming military
						leader and statesman; William Clark (brother of George Rogers Clark), and Meriwether
						Lewis, who were to gain fame as the leaders of the Lewis and Clark expedition to the
						northwest in 1803, and Lieutenant John Whistler (grandfather of James McNeill Whistler,
						the artist) and future commandant of Fort Wayne.
					On October 6, Wayne's army moved northward from Fort Washington. A band of savages
						attacked a convoy of twenty wagons loaded with grain and stores with the result that
						fifteen of the men lost their lives, and the savages secured seventy of the horses.
					An epidemic of influenza—the modern "la grippe"—seized upon the troops, and
						many of the officers and men, including General Wilkinson, were left at Forts Hamilton
						and Jefferson, when the army moved.7
					"Wayne Trace," the northern terminus of which is within the city of Fort Wayne, had its
						beginning with the northward movement of Wayne's army.
					Ending the first march of six days at the site of Greenville,  Ohio, where Wayne erected a fort named in honor of General Nathaniel Greene,
						the troops went into winter quarters and the Kentucky militia was dismissed for the
						season.
					
						MAP SHOWING THE MOVEMENT OF GENERAL WAYNE'S ARMY FROM THE TIME OF ITS DEPARTURE FROM
							FORT WASHINGTON TO THE SIGNING OF THE TREATY OF GREENVILLE.
					
					
					During the winter of 1793-1794 a detachment of the army, under Major Henry Burbeck,
						erected a strong fort on the site of St. Clair's defeat, twenty-three miles distant. It
						was named Fort Recovery. Six hundred skulls littered the ground, the grim evidences of
						the slaughter of the Americans the year before.8
					On June 30, 1794, while the troops under Major McMahon were engaged in working on the
						fort, the savages, under Little Turtle, made a fierce assault on the builders. The
						watchful Americans drove them off, but they returned the following day to renew the
						attack. Wayne reported to the secretary of war that the savages "were ultimately
						compelled to retreat with loss and disgrace, from the very field where they had, on a
						former occasion [the defeat of St. Clair], been proudly victorious."9
					The American loss was twenty-two killed and thirty wounded. Six American scalps were
						carried to the British headquarters and presented to Colonel Alexander McKee at his farm
						on the Maumee river near the newly established British fort.
					Throughout the spring of 1794, Wayne's army had undergone such a continuous round of
						training that, according to General Posey, "never in the Revolutionary war had he
						[Wayne] commanded such well-disciplined troops."10 Wayne's record as a drillmaster is unexcelled in the
						military annals of America.
					That the representatives of Great Britain in America still firmly believed that they
						could withhold the west from the possession of the Americans by keeping the Indians well
						armed and filled with hatred of the citizens of the United States, is clearly proven by
						a bold move undertaken while Wayne held his army at Greenville.
					Lord Dorchester, governor general of Canada, had announced at a council with the
						savages that he would not be surprised "if we are at war with them [the Americans] in
						the course of the present year." The first step taken by the British to provoke such a
						result was the erection of a strong post on American soil, called Fort Miami, near the
						site of the present city of Maumee City, Ohio, just west of Toledo, on the north bank of
						the Maumee river. This post was given a garrison of four hundred and fifty men,
						commanded at the first by Colonel Alexander McKee, and, later by Major William Campbell.
						Its equipment consisted of ten pieces of artillery. Another fort was erected on Presque
						Isle, an island within the mouth of the Maumee river, and belonging to the United
						States.
					President Washington, when he heard of the establishment of these forts on soil
						belonging to America, protested without effect  against
						the unfriendly conduct of the British whom a treaty of peace, signed at the close of the
						Revolution, should have barred from such a questionable move.
					Wayne knew of the existence of these forts and had already received his instructions
						from the secretary of war to "dislodge the party" if he thought best to undertake to do
						it. We shall see how wisely Wayne conducted himself when the moment of decision
						came.
					Major General Scott, with 1,600 mounted volunteers from Kentucky, joined the troops at
						Greenville July 16; the army now 
							WAYNE'S ROUTE ALONG THE MAUMEE.
							The map shows the route of General Wayne's army from the time of its arrival at the
								Maumee river at the site of Defiance, Ohio, until the building of the fort at the
								site of Fort Wayne, and the departure for Greenville. The drawing is from a copy of
								the original by Dr. Belknap. The map is reprinted by permission from "Historic
								Highways of America," Vol. VIII, copyrighted 1904, by the Arthur H. Clark Company,
								Cleveland, Ohio.
						 consisted of 2,000 regulars and this strong contingent from Kentucky, all
						eager to enter upon the campaign and to recover the ground lost by Harmar and St. Clair.
						The northward movement on July 28, 1794, filled the watching savages with dismay, for
						the feints of Wayne at road-building, with no intention of following any of the routes
						thus mapped out, caused a confusion of reports which routed any attempt at a
						satisfactory arrangement of battle. The rapid movement of Wayne's troops also left
						little time for the savages to design a plan of attack. As Little Turtle said, during
						the final council, on the eve of the battle of Fallen Timber, "Notwithstanding the
						watchfulness of our young men, we have never been able to surprise him."
					
					
						CAPTAIN WILLIAM WELLS JOINS WAYNE.
						Among the noted men of the frontier who now joined the forces of Wayne and became of
							great assistance to him was Captain William Wells,11 son-in-law of Chief Little Turtle, whose name will figure
							prominently in the further narrative of Fort Wayne.
						Frontier history furnishes no more interesting picture than that of the parting of
							Captain Wells and Little Turtle, when the former left the savages to join the
							Americans. The story as handed down by the Wells family is to the effect that Wells
							and Little Turtle were in entire accord in their views of the situation, and
							especially as to the necessity of bringing amicable relations between the Indians and
							the United States.
						"For this reason," says Jacob P. Dunn in his "True Indian Stories," "it was agreed
							that Wells should join Wayne and use his influence with the whites, while Little
							Turtle tried to bring about a more pacific frame of mind among the Indians. The two
							parted at a point some two miles east of Fort Wayne, long known as 'The Big Elm.' With
							clasped hands, and both men visibly affected, Wells said: 'Father, when the sun
							reaches the noon mark I shall leave you and go to my people. We have always been
							friends and always will be friends. Upon the field of battle we may meet again. Let
							the result be what it may, the purity of the motives prompting us, and our common love
							for the wronged Indians, must be our warrant; and we may well trust the Great Spirit
							for results that will vindicate our action this day.' Wells then made his way to the
							army of General Wayne."
						As the army moved northward, a brief stop was made on the banks of the St. Mary's
							river where Fort Adams was built. While urging haste upon the men who were taking from
							the forest the material to be used in the construction of the fort, Wayne was caught
							under a falling tree and pinioned to the ground. The accident "nearly put an end to
							his existence," but his injuries were not found to be of a serious nature. He was in
							condition to proceed when the work was completed.
						On the 8th of August, Wayne's army arrived at the Maumee, near the mouth of the
							Auglaize river, the site of the present Defiance, Ohio.12 Writing from this point, Wayne said: "I have the honor to inform you that the army under my command took possession
									of this important post on the morning of the 8th instant—the enemy, on the
									preceding evening, having abandoned all their settlements, towns and villages,
									with such apparent marks of surprise and precipitation, as to amount to a positive
									proof that our approach was not discovered by them until the arrival of a Mr.
									Newman, of the Quartermaster General's  department,
									who deserted from the army near the St. Mary and gave them every information in
									his power as to our force, the object of our destination, state of provision,
									number and size of the artillery, &c., &c., circumstances and facts that
									he had too good an opportunity of knowing, from acting as a field quartermaster on
									the march, and at the moment of his desertion. Hence I have good grounds to
									conclude that the defection of this villain prevented the enemy from receiving a
									fatal blow at this place, when least expected."13
						Wayne adds that he "made such demonstrations, for a length of time previously to
							taking up our line of march, as to induce the savages to expect our advance by the
							route of the Miami villages [site of Fort Wayne] to the left, or towards Roche de Bout
							["point of rock," at the foot of the rapids of the Maumee, near the site of Wayne's
							Fort Deposit] by the right, which feints appear to have produced the desired effect by
							drawing the attention of the enemy to those points, and gave the opening for the army
							to approach undiscovered by a devious route, i. e., in a central direction, which
							would be impracticable for an army, except in a dry season such as then presented.
							Thus, sir," he continues, "we have gained possession of the grand emporium of the
							hostile Indians of the west without loss of blood. The very extensive and highly
							cultivated fields and gardens show the work of many hands."
						Here Wayne directed the building of Fort Defiance.
						The savages were still in a confused state of mind, unable to discover Wayne's plans
							of campaign, and, in the absence of a united purpose, they decided to assemble their
							forces at a point on the north bank of the Maumee river almost within range of the
							guns of the newly established British Fort Miami, and to draw the enemy into a
							battlefield of their own choosing—a section of woods in which a great many trees
							had been felled by a tornado some time before. Wayne could not have chosen a better
							field for this purpose, for he had determined to introduce to the savages a method of
							warfare with which they were unfamiliar—the bayonet charge.
						Wayne's character stands out clearly in the words written to the secretary of war to
							the effect that "the safety of the western frontiers, the reputation of the legion,
							the dignity and interest of the nation, all forbid a retrograde manœuvre or giving up
							one inch of ground we now possess, until the enemy are compelled to sue for
								peace."14 "Yet, I have
							thought proper to offer the enemy a last overture of peace," he wrote, on August 11,
							"and, as they have everything that is dear and interesting at stake, I have reason to
							expect that they will listen to the proposition mentioned in the enclosed copy of an
							address despatched yesterday by a special flag, who I sent under circumstances that
							will ensure his safe return,  and which may eventually
							spare the effusion of much human blood. But should war be their choice, that blood be
							upon their own heads. America shall no longer be insulted with impunity. To an
							all-powerful and just God I therefore commit myself and gallant army."
						The daredevil methods of Wayne, which had drawn upon him the title of "Mad Anthony"
							during the Revolution, were displaced during the present campaign and the utmost
							caution characterized every movement.
						At this time the region of Fort Defiance was surrounded by vast fields of corn, the
							largest, according to Wayne's report, that he had seen "in any part of America from
							Canada to Florida."15
						Before proceeding on his march down the Maumee to attack the Indians in their forest
							stronghold, Wayne waited long enough to send to the camp of the savages two messengers
							of peace, an old Indian and a squaw, neither of whom returned. It is of interest to
							observe at this point that at a council of war on the 19th, a plan of battle presented
							by William Henry Harrison, then William Henry Harrison, then a young man of
							twenty-one, "was adopted by the veteran officers the moment it was submitted—an
							homage to skill and talent rarely awarded to a subaltern."16
					
					
						
							THE BATTLEFIELD OF FALLEN TIMBER.
							The map shows the plan of the field of battle known as Fallen Timber. The British
								fort—Post Miami—occupied a spot in the present city of Maumee, Ohio, a
								short distance west of Toledo.
						
						THE BATTLE OF FALLEN TIMBER.
						On the night before the memorable battle, the chiefs held a final council to
							determine whether or not to make peace with Wayne. They confidently expected the warm
							support of their British friends, near whose fort they were assembled, and who had
							supported their earlier campaigns. Little Turtle, in a speech before the assembled
							chiefs, playing well his part in the compact with Wells, is credited with saying: "We
							have beaten the enemy twice under separate commanders [Harmar and St. Clair]; we
							cannot expect the same good fortune always to attend us. The Americans are now led by
							a chief who never sleeps;17 the
							night and the day are alike to him, and during all the time he has been marching upon
							our  villages, notwithstanding the watchfulness of our
							young men, we have never been able to surprise him. Think well of it. There is
							something whispers to me, it would be prudent to listen to his offers of peace."
						The counsel of Little Turtle was scornfully rejected. His words had forever deposed
							him as the war chief of the savages. A new leader of the host, Blue Jacket, the
							Shawnee, rallied the tribes, numbering about two thousand fighting men, and
							preparations at once were made to meet the "chief who never sleeps."
						Wayne's army, thrilled with the prospect of an early and decisive encounter with the
							savages, advanced on the 16th of August, and followed the north bank of the Maumee for
							sixteen miles to the eastward. The army at the close of the day, went into camp at the
							site of the city of Napoleon, Ohio. Christopher Miller, a spy, returning from a
							conference with the enemy, brought the response that "if the commander-in-chief would
							remain at Grand Oglaize [site of Defiance] ten days, they would let him know whether
							they were for peace or war."
						Ten days! A strong British force from Detroit could reach the scene before the
							expiration of that period of time!18 The proposition was promptly rejected.
						The next day, William May, the faithful American spy, was captured by the Indians and
							tortured to his death.
						When the army reached a distance of forty-one miles from Fort Defiance, works were
							thrown up in which to store the heavy baggage of the troops to allow the men more
							freedom of action in the impending conflict. It was called Fort Deposit.
						The story of the battle of Fallen Timber is best told in the language of General
							Wayne, from whose official report the account is quoted: "It
									is with infinite pleasure that I now announce to you the brilliant success of the
									federal army under my command, in a general action with the combined forces of the
									hostile Indians and a considerable number of the volunteers and militia of
									Detroit, on the 20th instant [August, 1794], on the banks of the Miami [Maumee] in
									the vicinity of the British post and garrison at the foot of the rapids. * * *
								"At 8 o'clock on the morning of the 20th the army advanced in columns, agreeable
									to the Standing Order of March, the legion on the right, its right flank covered
									by the Miamis [Maumee], one brigade of mounted volunteers on the left under
									Brigadier General Todd, and the other in the rear, under Brigadier General Barbie.
									A selected battalion of mounted volunteers moved in front sufficiently advanced so
									as to give timely notice for the troops to of the legion, commanded by Major
									Price, who was directed to keep  form in case of
									action, it being yet undetermined whether the Indians would decide for peace or
									war.
								
									MAJOR AMBROSE WHITLOCK
									Major Whitlock was General Wayne's aide-de-camp when the army reached the site
										of the city of Fort Wayne. To Whitlock, Wayne gave the camp bed which the
										general used during the Revolution and the Indian campaign of 1792 to 1794, and
										which is now on exhibition in Fort Wayne. Whitlock was first in command under
										Major Hamtramck. He served as a lieutenant in the company of which William Henry
										Harrison was the captain. In after years, while Whitlock was in charge of the
										land office in Indiana, he founded the city of Crawfordsville. The portrait is
										from Lossing's "Pictorial Fieldbook of the War of 1812," to which the original
										was contributed by General Lew Wallace.
								
								"After advancing about five miles, Major Price's corps received so severe a fire
									from the enemy, who were secreted in the woods and high grass, so as to compel
									them to retreat. The legion was immediately formed in two lines, principally in a
									close, thick wood which extended for miles on our left, and for a considerable
									distance in front, the ground being covered with old fallen timber probably
									occasioned by a tornado which rendered it impracticable for the cavalry to act
									with effect, and afforded the enemy the most favorable covert for their mode of
									warfare. The savages were formed in three lines, within supporting distance of
									each other and extending for nearly two miles at right angles with the river. I
									soon discovered from the weight of the fire and extent of their lines, that the
									enemy were in full force in front in possession of their favorite ground, and
									endeavoring to turn our left flank. I therefore gave orders for the second line to
									advance and support the first, and directed Major General Scott to gain and turn
									the right flank of the savages with the whole of the mounted volunteers by a
									circuitous route; at the same time, I ordered the front line to advance and charge
									with trailed arms and rouse the Indians from their coverts at the point of the
									bayonet, and, when up, to deliver a close and well-directed fire on their backs,
									followed by a brisk charge, so as not to give them time to load again.
								"I also ordered Captain Mis Campbell, who commanded the legionary cavalry, to
									turn the left flank of the enemy, next to the river, and which afforded a
									favorable field for that corps to act in. All these orders were obeyed with spirit
									and promptitude; but such was the impetuosity of the charge by the first line of
									infantry, that the Indians and Canadian militia, and volunteers, were driven from
									all their coverts in so short a time that, although every possible exertion was
									used by the officers of the second line of the legion and by Generals Scott, Todd
									and Barbie of the mounted volunteers to gain their positions, but part of each
									could get up in season  to participate in the
									action, the enemy being driven in the course of one hour more than two miles
									through the thick woods already mentioned, by half their numbers.
								"From every account, the enemy amounted to two thousand combatants. The troops
									actually engaged against them were short of nine hundred. The horde of savages,
									with their allies, abandoned themselves to flight, and dispersed with terror and
									dismay, leaving our victorious army in full and quiet possession of the field of
									battle which terminated under the influence of the guns of the British garrison. *
									* *"
							
						Wayne makes special mention of the gallant conduct of Brigadier General Wilkinson,
							Colonel John F. Hamtramck, Aides-de-Camp Captains Butte and T. Lewis, Lieutenant
							William Henry Harrison, Major Mills, Lieutenant Covington, Lieutenant Webb, Captains
							Slough and Prior, Lieutenant Campbell Smith, Captain Van Rensselaer, Captain Rawlins,
							Lieutenant McKenny, Ensign Duncan, Captain H. Lewis and Captain Brock. "But whilst I
							pay this just tribute to the living," he adds, "I must not neglect the gallant dead,
							among whom we have to lament the early death of those worthy and brave officers,
							Captain Mis Campbell of the Dragoons and Lieutenant Towles of the light infantry of
							the legion, who fell in the first charge."
						The total loss to the Americans was thirty-three killed and one hundred wounded.
							Eleven of the latter died before the sending of the report. The loss to the Indians
							was double that of the Americans.
						With lightness of heart the troops set about the establishment of their camp within
							sight of the British fort. The duty of the care of the wounded and the burial of the
							dead tempered the outward demonstration of rejoicing; but each man felt that a
							decisive blow against the enemies of American progress in the west had been delivered
							by the small army of which he was a part.
						Directly a messenger from the British fort, with a flag, appeared. He bore a
							communication to General Wayne from the British commandant, Major William Campbell,
							who wrote: "Sir: An army of the United States of America, said
									to be under your command, having taken post on the banks of the Miami [Maumee] for
									upwards of the last twenty-four hours, almost within the reach of the guns of this
									fort, being a post belonging to His Majesty the King of Great Britain, occupied by
									his Majesty's troops, it becomes my duty to inform myself as speedily as possible
									in what light I am to view your making such near approaches to this garrison. I
									have no hesitation on my part to say that I know of no war existing between Great
									Britain and America."
						The tone of this note was such as to arouse the patriotic spirit of "Mad Anthony,"
							who replied in the following vigorous language: 
							"Sir: I have received your letter of this date requiring from
									me the motives which have moved the army under my command to the position they at
									present occupy, far within the acknowledged jurisdiction of the United States of
									America. Without questioning the authority, or propriety, sir, of your
									interrogatory, I think I may, without breach of decorum, observe to you that, were
									you entitled to an answer, the most full and satisfactory one was announced to you
									from the muzzles of my small arms yesterday morning in the action against the
									horde of savages in the vicinity of your post, which terminated gloriously to the
									American arms; but had it continued until the Indians, &c., were driven under
									the influence of the post and guns you mention, they would not have much impeded
									the progress of the victorious army under my command, as no such post was
									established at the commencement of the present war between the Indians and the
									United States. I have 
										"WAYNE TRACE."
										The famous "Wayne Trace," extending from the city of Fort Wayne to the city
											of Cincinnati, marks the pathway of General Wayne from the fort which bore his
											name to the site of Fort Washington. The upper map indicates the route taken
											by General Wayne and the lower drawing shows that portion of the route within
											the city of Fort Wayne. A sketch of the "marker" erected by the Daughters of
											the American Revolution in 1906, is also shown.
									
									 the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your most
									obedient and humble servant."
						This letter, and especially the phrase "&c.," referring, of course, to the
							British participants in the conflict, aroused the ire of Major Campbell, who retorted
							in these keen sentences of defiance:19
							"Although your letter of yesterday's date fully authorizes me
									to any act of hostility against the army of the United States of America in this
									neighborhood under your command, yet, still anxious to prevent that dreadful
									decision which, perhaps, is not intended to be appealed to by either of our
									countries, I have forborne, for those two days past, to resent those insults you
									have offered to the British flag flying at this fort, by approaching it within
									pistol shot of my works, not only singly, but in numbers, with arms in their
									hands. Neither is it my wish to wage war with individuals; but should you, after
									this, continue to approach my post in the threatening manner you are at this
									moment doing, my indispensable duty to my King and country, and the honor of my
									profession, will oblige me to have recourse to those measures which thousands of
									either nation may hereafter have cause to regret, and which, I solemnly appeal to
									God, I have used my utmost endeavors to arrest."
						Campbell's anger had been aroused by Wayne's minute inspection of the British fort,
							which, according to Wayne, was "a regular strong work, the front covered by a wide
							river, with four guns mounted in that face. The rear, which was most susceptible of
							approach, he added, "had regular bastions, furnished with eight pieces of artillery,
							the whole surrounded by a deep ditch."20
						Wayne responded to Campbell accusing him of "taking post far within the well-known
							and acknowledged limits of the United States, and erecting a fortification in the
							heart of the settlement of the Indian tribes now at war with the United States.
							Hence," he declared, "it becomes my duty to desire, and I do hereby desire and demand,
							in the name of the President of the United States, that you immediately desist from
							any further act of hostility or aggression, by forbearing to fortify, and removing to
							the nearest post occupied by his Brittanic Majesty's at the peace of 1783, and which
							you will be permitted to do unmolested by the troops under my command."
						Said Campbell, in his reply: "I certainly will not abandon
									this post at the summons of any power whatever, until I receive orders from those
									I have the honor to serve under or the fortunes of war should oblige me. I must
									still adhere, sir, to the purport of my letter this morning, to desire that your
									army, or individuals belonging to it, will not approach within reach of my cannon,
									without expecting the consequences attending it."21
						
						Wayne, in his report of the situation, records that "the only notice that was taken
							of this letter was by immediately setting fire to, and destroying, everything within
							view of the fort, and even under the muzzles of his guns. Had Mr. Campbell carried his
							threat into execution, it is more than probable that he would have experienced a
							storm."
						The destroyed property included the farm buildings of Colonel Alexander McKee,22 the British Indian agent, on
							the opposite shore of the Maumee. A vast area of corn was also consumed. The "madness"
							of "Mad Anthony" may have been held in check by a realization of the weighty
							consequences of an attack upon the British fort, but it is important to know that at
							that very moment he held on his person the supreme authority to open hostilities
							against the British if he had considered it best to do so.
						"If in the course of your operations against the Indian enemy," read his
							instructions, "it should become necessary to dislodge the party [the British
							garrison], you are hereby authorized in the name of the president of the United States
							to do it."
						Wayne's great victory was hailed with joy wherever the news reached the American
							settlements and cities. "Anthony Wayne," says Rufus King, "opened 'the glorious gates
							of the Ohio' to the tide of civilization so long shut off from its hills and valleys."
							Theodore Roosevelt declares that Wayne's "victorious campaign was the most noteworthy
							ever carried on against them [the Indians of the northwest] for it brought the first
							lasting peace on the border and put an end to the bloody turmoil of forty years'
							fighting. It was one of the most striking and weighty feats in the winning of the
								west."23
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XIII.
						(1) Major General Anthony Wayne was born
							in East Town, Pennsylvania, January 1, 1745. Early in life he became a land surveyor,
							and as an intimate friend of Benjamin Franklin, he took an active interest in public
							affairs. After his marriage to Mary Penrose in 1767, he became a farmer. Elected to
							the Pennsylvania convention and legislature in 1774, he served on the committee of
							safety, and in 1775 raised a regiment which did service in the campaign in Canada. He
							was wounded at the battle of Trois Rivieres, in January, 1776, and held the fortress
							of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence until May, 1777. After receiving his commission
							as brigadier general, he led a division at Brandywine, commanded the right wing at
							Germantown and made a dashing raid on the British lines and carried off a large
							quantity of supplies. His most brilliant achievement was the storming of Stony Point,
							on the night of July 15, 1779, a display of daring unexcelled in American history and
							for which he received a medal and the thanks of congress. By a bayonet charge, he
							rescued Lafayette in Virginia, made a daring attack on the whole British army at Green
							Spring and defeated the British and Indians in Georgia. After the war, he retired to
							his farm in Georgia. But the need of a great leader against the western Indians
							brought him forward in 1792, at which time he was made a major general. His defeat of
							the savages at the battle of Fallen Timber and the building of Fort Wayne in 1794,
							have given him a name as "the savior of the west." He died December 15, at Presque
							Isle (Erie) Pennsylvania, while returning from Detroit, where he had received the
							surrender of the fort from the British.
						(2) Interest is added to the situation
							by a thorough acquaintance with the circumstances of the ill-feeling between Wayne and
							St. Clair during the revolution, which culminated in the appointment of St. Clair to
								 succeed Wayne in command of the Pennsylvania line
							following the battle of Monmouth. (See letter of Wayne, Stille's "Life of General
							Wayne," page 186; Fort Wayne Public Library).
						(3) It was Lee who, in spite of his
							disappointment, retained his high regard for Washington, and, on the day of the
							funeral of the president uttered the words, "First in war, first in peace, and first
							in the hearts of his countrymen."
						(4) "Washington's Writings," vol. x,
							page 248.
						(5) Quoted in "Historic Highways of
							America," vol. viii, page 173.
						(6) John Randolph Spears, "History of
							the Mississippi Valley," page 351; Fort Wayne Public Library.
						(7) In the meantime, every effort to
							secure a peace treaty with the savages had been made. Small bands had entered into
							satisfactory agreements with Major John F. Hamtramck, at Vincennes; about fifty chiefs
							had signed a treaty at Philadelphia, and later General Putnam succeeded in closing
							terms of peace with about thirty tribes at Vincennes. But at the largest gathering of
							savages in the history of the west—during the council at the Maumee
							rapids—the savages rejected all proposals and their decision was made known to
							General Benjamin Lincoln, of Massachusetts, Beverly Randolph, of Virginia, and Timothy
							Pickering, of Pennsylvania, commissioners appointed by Washington to visit the west.
							As a climax, the savages reported to the commissioners that "if you seriously design
							to make a firm and lasting peace, you will immediately remove all your people from our
							side of the [Ohio] river."
						(8) "American Pioneer," vol. i, page
							294. See Slocum's "The Ohio Country," page 77.
						(9) Wayne's Report to Knox, July 7,
							1794.
						(10) John Randolph Spears, "History of
							the Mississippi Valley," page 351.
						(11) The parents of Captain Wells were
							pioneers in Kentucky. When the boy had reached the age of twelve years he was stolen
							by the Miamis and brought to the Maumee region, where he became a favorite of Little
							Turtle; later he married a daughter of the great chief. In 1792, he learned the
							whereabouts of his people, visited them with reluctance, and finally broke away from
							his Indian alliance and joined Wayne's army. Previous to this move he had informed
							Little Turtle of his intentions and urged him to use his influence with the other
							chiefs for a peaceful treaty with Wayne. This appeal was favorably considered by
							Little Turtle, but, as will be seen, his counsel was unheeded, and from that moment
							his power as a leader of the Miamis waned. Later, because of his great services to the
							government, Wells was given a grant of land which includes those sections of the city
							of Fort Wayne now known as Bloomingdale and Spy Run. It was at the home of Captain
							Wells at Fort Wayne that Little Turtle died in 1812, and in this same year Wells lost
							his life in the Fort Dearborn massacre. The west has produced no more interesting
							character than Captain William Wells, the hero of many a pioneer episode. For many
							interesting sidelights on the life and character of Wells, the reader is referred to
							the following works and others in the Fort Wayne Public Library: "The Story of Old
							Fort Dearborn," by J. Seymour Currey; "History of the Maumee River Basin," by Dr.
							Charles E. Slocum; "The Winning of the West," by Theodore Roosevelt; "Annals of the
							West," and Dunn's "True Indian Stories."
						(13) Quoted in the "Maumee River Basin,"
							vol i, page 207. Newman was later captured.
						(12) In his daily journal of the
							expedition, Lieutenant William Clark failed not to criticise every notable move made
							by General Wayne, of whom he spoke in the most uncomplimentary terms. After finding
							fault with Wayne's refusal to adopt the plans suggested to attack the Indians at the
							Auglaise river, Clark wrote: "This evening, as the camp was formed, we were alarmed by
							the discharge of several guns of volunteers who said [they had] seen and wounded an
							Indian; but he was not taken. Had this alarm been well founded, and the enemy on our
							heels, the old gentleman [General Wayne] would have been caught asleep, for he had
							already gone to bed to give ease to his infirmities, and was so fast in the arms of
							Morpheus as to give some trouble to wake him [to an] understanding of the bustle."
							Concerning the battle of Fallen Timber, Clark analyzed the result as a piece of luck.
							After the arrival of the army at the site of Fort Wayne, he wrote: "I rejoice at the
							bad policy of our enemy. We owe for this successful campaign of '94, much—but to
							Fortune we owe all." (From a copy of the original, in the Burton Historical
							Collection, Detroit).
						(14) American State Papers, Indian
							Affairs, vol. i, page 361.
						(15) See Slocum's "The Ohio Country,"
							page 109.
						(16) Lossing's "Pictorial Fieldbook of
							the War of 1812," page 54. Harrison served as Wayne's aide-de-camp during the entire
							campaign, and was a signer of the Greenville treaty.
						(17) The savages gave several
							descriptive names to Wayne, including "The Wind," and "The Blacksnake." Major
							Hamtramck, in a letter to Wayne in 1795, says: "I asked them for an explanation of
							your name ("The Wind"). They told me you were exactly like a hurricane which drives
							and tears everything before it." The name "Dandy" Wayne was often used by his soldiers
							because of the style and neatness of his dress.
						(18) That the savages were playing for
							time is proven by a letter of Colonel McKee to Colonel English. "The Indians * * *
							have returned an answer to General Wayne's speech," said he. "It is entirely
							calculated to gain a few days' time in hope that the Putiwatimies and Indians about
							Detroit may increase their strength." (Michigan Pioneer and Historical
							Collection).
						(19) That the troops confidently
							expected to be called upon to attack the British fort is shown by the following record
							in the journal of Lieutenant William Clark: "Remained in  camp the whole day, all full with expectation and anxiety of storming of the
							British garrison, which was all that remained for us to do, for the savages were no
							more to be found. * * * His Excellency [General Wayne] declared if he had ten days'
							provisions he would assail it." (Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collection.)
						(20) Major Campbell's real state of mind
							is revealed by a note which he dispatched to Colonel English, in command at Detroit,
							directly after the first passage, of notes between himself and Wayne. "I sincerely
							wish the governor [Simcoe] himself may soon arrive and take all responsibility upon
							him," he wrote. "I trust a reinforcement from you is not far off at present. * * * I
							have perhaps been more forebearing [toward Wayne] than an officer of higher rank would
							have been, but I considered my situation a very delicate one, and if I have erred, it
							has been on the safe side. What Mr. Wayne's people mean by burning all the Indian huts
							in the neighborhood and all the hay on Colonel McKee's island today I cannot say. He
							reconnoitered the fort today in all parts * * * but he will never do it again."
							(Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collection).
						(21) "If Wayne be permitted to establish
							himself at Detroit, it may occasion the loss of both Canadas," wrote Governor Simcoe
							to Lord Dorchester. The latter asked the governor as to whether "by calling all the
							force in your power to assemble, you would be in condition to resist Wayne's attack,
							should he attempt by force to take possession of the country," to which Simcoe
							replied: "I think no force in this country could resist Wayne's direct attack." Simcoe
							believed at this time that Wayne would return and accomplish the destruction of the
							British forts on the Maumee and at Detroit. Dorchester in a letter to Simcoe says: "I
							believe there are few instances of an invading army being suffered to penetrate so far
							as General Wayne has done without some check, or to retreat without being pursued."
							(Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collection).
						(22) McKee, reporting the loss of his
							property, in a letter to Joseph Chew, at Montreal, secretary of Indian affairs,
							September 20, 1794, said: "All the store houses, my own house, with many things that
							could not be removed, were burnt. * * * At present, I am waiting until the Indians,
							whose cornfields and villages are totally destroyed, shall determine where they and
							their families will set themselves down, it being a matter of the highest importance
							to the interest of Great Britain to prevent, if possible, their emigrating to the
							southern and western parts of the continent. They seemingly now have lost all hopes of
							the interference of [the British] government." In the bitterness of his situation,
							McKee declared the American losses at the battle of Fallen Timber to have been between
							300 and 400, with but 19 savages killed. He added the falsehood that "besides scalping
							and mutilating the Indians, who were killed in the action, they have opened the
							peaceful graves, exposed the bones of the consumed and consuming bodies, and, horrid
							to relate, have, with unparalleled barbarity, driven stakes through them and left
							them, objects calling for more than human vengeance." (Michigan Pioneer and Historical
							Collection).
						(23) Wayne's victory cost many Detroit
							citizens vast fortunes through the loss of property which had been ceded to them by
							the Indians on American soil. As an example, there is cited the instance of a letter
							written by Alexander Henry, at Montreal, addressed to John Askin, John Askin, Jr., P.
							McNeiff, John Askwith and Israel Rowland, at Detroit, in October, 1795, after the
							signing of the treaty of Greenville, which tells of the writer's visit to Alexander
							Hamilton, secretary of the treasury in Washington's cabinet, to plead for the
							restoration to his clients valuable lands which were being withheld from them.
							Hamilton sustained Wayne's decision that the lands belonged to the United States. "We
							have lost a fortune of at least one million dollars," said Henry in his letter. (From
							the original letter in the Askin Papers, Burton Historical Collection,
							Detroit).
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIV—1794 The Building and Dedication of Fort
						Wayne.
					Wayne's Legion departs from the vicinity of the British fort—Incidents of the
						march to Fort Defiance—Illness of the troops—The final lap to the goal of
						their hopes—The army reaches the site of Fort Wayne—How the prospect
						impressed the soldiers—Wayne selects a location for the fort—Work on the
						buildings and the palisades is commenced—The "strike" of the
						volunteers—Wayne urges haste to avoid the coming cold—Courtmartial of
						offenders—Corporal Reading condemned to death—The spy in the
						tree-top—Unruly soldiers steal beef—Wayne well pleased with the
						fort—An account of the dedication—Colonel Hamtramck names the post "Fort
						Wayne"—Hamtramck is given command of the post—Destitute condition of the
						troops—Wayne's "shoe" order—Departs for Greenville—His letter to
						General Knox.
					THE FIRST great object of Wayne's expedition—the defeat of the
						savages—was accomplished. The second—the establishment of Washington's
						long-dreamed-of fort at the head of the Maumee—was now to become a reality. The
						third—the winning of the various tribes of the Indians to a treaty of lasting
						peace—was reserved for the following year.
					Waving a farewell to the British garrison of Post Miami, the troops composing Wayne's
						legion departed from the scene of their triumph and looked to the westward as they took
						up the march toward the goal of their hopes, the place where the city of Fort Wayne now
						stands.
					The features of the progress of the triumphant army and an appreciation of the
						character of the men composing it are best gained from the narrative of one of the
						officers, Lieutenant Boyer, who made a record of the movement of the army from the time
						of its departure from Fort Greenville until its return to that post. Boyer's Journal
						appeared in The American Pioneer, Vol. I, edited and published by John S. Williams (1842
						and 1843).
					On the 15th of August the army reached the site of the present Napoleon, Ohio, where
						one savage was killed and two others wounded while attempting an attack upon the rear of
						the army. Many buildings and vast acreages of corn were destroyed by the troops as they
						continued their march toward Fort Defiance. Dr. Carmichael and Dr. Haywood were busy
						caring for the sick and wounded. Constant rain for several days made the progress of the
						army slow and tedious. Settling themselves for a period at Fort Defiance, Brigadier
						General Todd's brigade served as escort to a large number of pack horses sent to Fort
						Recovery to secure supplies for the troops. Three men of the camp were killed or
						captured while foraging for vegetables. Large numbers of the soldiers were taken ill.
						"Provision is nearly exhausted," wrote Boyer in September 4. "The whiskey has been out
						for some time, which makes the hours pass heavily. * * Hard duty and scant allowance  will cause an army to be low spirited, particularly the
						want of a little 'wet.'"
					On the 14th of September, the army took its departure from Fort Defiance, and followed
						the north bank of the Maumee a distance of eleven miles. The following day found the
						troops 
							WHERE THE TWO STOCKADED FORTS WERE LOCATED.
							From the most reliable sources of information it appears certain that the original
								stockade erected by General Wayne's troops in September and October, 1794, occupied
								a site which included a portion of lots 11, 12 and 13. Taber's addition to Fort
								Wayne, and that the new fort, erected in 1800 by Colonel Thomas Hunt and rebuilt by
								Majors Whistler and Vose, included lot 40—the present Old Fort Park. (See
								Chapter XIX).
						
						 camping on the river nearly opposite the present city of
						Antwerp, Ohio. The next evening brought the legion of Wayne within the borders of the
						Allen county of today, and that night the army encamped near the east line of Milan
						township.
					
						THE ARRIVAL AT THE SITE OF FORT WAYNE.
						From Private Bryant comes the story of the arrival of the legion upon the spot chosen
							by Washington as the site of the fort, the establishment of which was to mark the end
							of the Indian outrages in the west. Says Bryant: "The road, or
									trace, was in a very bad condition, and we did not reach our point of destination
									until late in the evening. Being very tired, and having no night duty to perform,
									I turned in as soon as possible and slept soundly until the familiar tap of the
									reveille called us up, just as the bright sun, the first time for weeks, was
									breaking on the horizon. After rubbing my eyes and regaining my faculties
									sufficiently to realize my whereabouts, I think I never saw a more beautiful spot
									and such a glorious sunrise. I was standing on that high point of land overlooking
									the valley on the opposite shore of the Maumee, where the river St. Mary's, the
									sheen of whose waters were seen at intervals through the autumn-tinted trees, and
									the limpid St. Joseph quietly wending its way from the north, united themselves in
									one common stream that calmly flowed beneath."
						Less sentimental are the observations of Lieutenant Boyer, who thus describes his
							first impression of the site of Fort Wayne: "The army halted
									on this ground at 5 o'clock P. M., being 47 miles from Fort Defiance and 14 miles
									from our last encampment. There are nearly five hundred acres of cleared land
									lying in one body on the rivers St. Joseph, St. Mary's and Miami [Maumee]; there
									are fine points of lands contiguous to these rivers, adjoining the cleared land.
									The rivers are navigable for small craft in the summer, and in the winter there is
									water sufficient for large boats, the land adjacent fertile and well-timbered, and
									from every appearance it has been one of the largest settlements made by the
									Indians in this country."
						Upon this ground the troops went into camp.
						"This day," writes Boyer on September 18, "the commander-in-chief reconnoitered the
							ground and determined upon the spot to build a fort." The chosen spot appears to have
							been a tract of ground represented today by lots 11, 12 and 13 Taber's addition. Lot
							11 is the location of the new building of the Western Newspaper Union, at the
							northwest corner of East Berry and Clay streets. Certain it is that the fort which
							succeeded the original structure occupied a site to the north of it and probably
							within a distance of three hundred feet, measuring the shortest space between the
							lines.
						Private Bryant, speaking of location of his camp on the morning of September 17,
							adds: "On this point it was decided to place the fort, as it overlooked and commanded
							a vast scope of the country round about, having a beautiful green sward of about ten
							acres in extent, with a background of heavy timber."
						Concerning the activities of General Wayne, as soon as the site of the fort was
							determined upon, Lieutenant William Clark, in his journal, wrote on September 14: 
							"The ground [has been] cleared for the garrison just below the
									confluence of the St. Joseph and St. Mary's. The situation is tolerably elevated
									and has a ready command of the two rivers. I think it much to be lamented that the
									commander-in-chief is determined 
										GENERAL WAYNE'S CAMP BED.
										Probably the most interesting and valuable item in the exhibit of historic
											mementos in the relic room of the Allen county court house, is the camp bed
											used by General Wayne during his western campaign. The bed, which is made of
											walnut and hinged in such manner as to permit it to be folded and placed in a
											small box, has an interesting history. After his Revolutionary war service,
											Wayne, who had used the bed during his campaigns, took it to his farm home
											near Waynesboro. In 1792, he brought it on his western expedition and used it
											until the time of his departure from Greenville where the famous treaty was
											effected. He then gave the bed to Major Ambrose Whitlock, who had served
											through Wayne's western campaign and had assisted in the building of the fort.
											After the death of Major Whitlock at Crawfordsville, Indiana, in 1863, the bed
											remained in the home until some time after the death of the widow, Elizabeth
											Whitlock, when it came into the possession of the nephew of the widow, James
											W. Binford, then living at Paris, Illinois. In 1890, Mr. Binford removed with
											his daughters to Washington, D. C. Two years later, Mrs. Amy R. Seavey, of
											Fort Wayne, while in Washington, learned of the relic and visited the
											Binfords. This resulted in the loan of the bed to the local Sons of the
											American Revolution for exhibition purposes during the centennial celebration
											in Fort Wayne, in 1895. Again, in 1902, through the efforts of the members of
											the Mary Penrose Wayne chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
											the daughters of the late James W. Binford loaned the relic, with the
											understanding that it should remain on exhibition in Fort Wayne until such
											time as a proper place could be made for it in the National Museum in
											Washington. It is considered a permanent feature of the Fort Wayne historical
											exhibit.
									
									 to make this fort a regular fortification, as a
									common picketed one would [be] equally as difficult against the savages."
							
						The actual work of construction, according to Boyer, was begun on September 24. The
							manner of the progress of the work is suggested by the words of Byrant and Boyer. The
							former observes: "We, the volunteers, were soon organized into squads, some with axes
							and others with spades, the axe-men to fell and hew the timber, and the spade men to
							dig the trench and fill the parapet. We axe-men proceeded up the hill to cut the heavy
							timber standing in abundance."
						Boyer says: "This day the work commenced on the fort which I am apprehensive will
							take some time to complete." On October 3, "every officer, non-commissioned officer
							and soldier belonging to the square" was engaged in "hauling trees on the hind wheels
							of wagons." The first day, the men got a gill of whiskey per man, which, Boyer
							observes, "appears to be all the compensation at this time in the power of the
							commander-in-chief to make the troops."
						An interesting incident of the building of Fort Wayne is related by Private Bryant:
								"It was on the morning of the first day we were at work
									felling the timber. A squad near where I was at work were engaged in felling a
									very large and very tall oak standing near the outer edge of the opening, which
									had been cut nearly through and tottering in mid-air, when a voice was heard
									overhead which somewhat startled the men at first; but on looking up, they beheld
									a 'red varmint' perched in the topmost branches. This fellow, no doubt, after
									finding he was caught, had made up his mind that it was death anyway, and
									concluded to take his chances and go with the tree. But as it began to tremble and
									shake, he got shaky himself, and, like Captain Scott's 'coon, had to come down and
									that in a hurry. The boys, as they watched him scramble down, ached to get a shot
									at him, but they dared not. He was a large, fine-looking Indian. In the belt
									around his naked waist was a knife and a tomahawk. He appeared perfectly
									undaunted; in fact, assumed an air of defiance, and, when marched off to
									headquarters, seemed well pleased that he had escaped being killed by the falling
									tree or the bullets of the soldiers. He was evidently a spy and had climbed to the
									top of the tree to see what was going on in camp, little dreaming that his
									adventure would result as it did. When the tree fell, a buckskin pouch was found
									filled with parched corn and jerked venison. He was held a prisoner for some
									weeks, and one morning it was announced that he was non
									est. How he escaped was a mystery that was never solved."
						That the labor was hard during the severest of the cold weather is shown by
							Lieutenant Boyer's observation, on October 4, that "the fatigues go on with velocity,
							considering the rations the troops are obliged to live on." The following day, Boyer
							writes that everything is quiet, "and nothing but harmony and peace, which is
							something uncommon." But trouble was soon to break in camp. Two days later, the
							volunteers, engaged in work on the fort, went on "strike" and refused to proceed with
							their labor. "They have stolen and killed seventeen beeves in the course of these two
							days  past," observes the lieutenant, who adds that the
							volunteers finally agreed to devote their energies to the construction of a
							blockhouse.
						Religious services in camp were conducted by the chaplain, Rev. Mr. Jones, who
							appears to have been the first Protestant minister to visit the site of Fort Wayne.
							Lieutenant William Clark's references to the work of the chaplain are not always of
							the most complimentary character. Writing under the date of Sunday, September 28, the
							lieutenant observes: "Agreeable to the order 
								RUINS OF THE LAST BLOCKHOUSE OF OLD FORT WAYNE, IN 1852.
								As far as the writer has been able to learn, the original daguerreotype from
									which the above pen drawing was made is the only existing photographic picture of
									any of the buildings which formed a part of old Fort Wayne. The daguerreotype is
									owned by Mrs. Adam Link, of Fort Wayne, who says of it: "The picture was made by Charles Stevens, of Kennebunk Port, Maine, who
											was here as the guest of his cousin, Mrs. O. L. Starkey, my mother, who was
											then Miss Hannah Fairfield. On the day the picture was made, 'Charley' Munson
											(later prominent in the affairs of the county, but then a mere lad) was
											driving his cow to the pasture in 'the old apple orchard,' in the present
											Lakeside. My mother and several others joined him for a walk. When they
											reached the ruined blockhouse, Mr. Stevens made the picture. The man at the
											top is John Fairfield, my uncle. The others, from left to right, are Amanda
											Henderson (Mrs. Bloomhuff) Addie Fairfield (Mrs. H. J. Ash), Priscilla
											Fairfield (Mrs. A. S. Hall), Hannah Fairfield (Mrs. O. L. Starkey), and
											'Charley' Munson."
								Miss Lizzie Johnson Says: "I am certain this building was torn down in 1852. On
									returning from a vacation in the summer of that year, we found everybody saying:
									'They've torn down the old fort.'"
								E. G. Anderson says of this building: "When we children came to Fort Wayne in
									1846, with my father, Calvin Anderson, first landlord of the Hedekin house, this
									log building was still in good repair and was occupied by two Irish families. The
									Carroll family and Mr. Donovon, with his children, Tim, Mich and Ellen, were the
									last to make their homes in the historic structure. The building faced the east,
									overlooking the Maumee."
								John H. Jacobs, of Spy Run avenue, also remembers this building well, as it was
									standing when he came to Fort Wayne. At the present time, there is a general
									feeling of deep regret that the fort was allowed to go into decay. The older
									residents explain the matter by the statement that the course of the Wabash and
									Erie canal required the destruction of one of the blockhouses and a palisade
									section, and that in the later years the ruined, dilapidated buildings became the
									rendezvous of undesirable citizens. The last building, shown in the illustration,
									was torn down by John Fairfield in 1852. Some of the wood was made into walking
									sticks which are preserved as relics.
							
							 yesterday, the [troops] were marched in order between
							the fort and the blockhouse, and there received a short sermon by our chaplain. The
							sublimity of his reasoning did not penetrate deep into the minds of our troops, as it
							wanted some connections." That the lieutenant, whose keen observation brought him
							prominently to the attention of the nation as a leader of the Lewis and Clark
							expedition of later years, was not wholly oblivious to the efforts of the chaplain, is
							shown by his quotation of the minister's text of Sunday, September 21: "If the Lord be
							for us, who can be against us?" This is probably the first recorded word of scripture
							spoken on the site of Fort Wayne.
						During these days, many problems appeared to worry General Wayne. Provisions were
							scarce, and prices high. "Brown sugar, one dollar; chocolate, one ditto; butter,
							three-fourths; mutton, one-fourth; salt, one dollar per quart; tobacco, one dollar per
							pound; whiskey, six and eight dollars per quart," wrote Lieutenant Clark, while
							Lieutenant Boyer makes this observation: "A keg of whiskey containing ten gallons was
							purchased this day for eighty dollars; a sheep for ten dollars. Three dollars was
							offered for one pint of salt, but it could not be obtained for less than six."
						Captains Springer, Brock and Gibson made successful trips to Greenville to secure
							food and supplies, but it was found impossible to meet the needs of the army. Wayne
							urged every possible element of co-operation and loyalty, from the beginning, in order
							to complete the fort before cold weather should add to the heaviness of the
							undertaking. Said he, in the orders of October 2: "The
									lateness of the Season and a Variety of other Pressing Circumstances, render it
									indispensibly Necessary that every Officer & Soldier not actually on Guard or
									other Duty, should turn out as a General Fatigue in order to complete the
									Fortification with all possible dispatch—Mr. Thorp will cause Guiding Poles
									to be put to the hind wheels of all Waggons in Camp this Afternoon, and repair all
									Axes and intrenching tools that may require repairs immediately—Every Man on
									fatigue is to receive one Gill of Whiskey per Day until further
							Orders."
						That the conduct of the volunteers was a source of deep concern to Wayne appears in
							Boyer's narrative of the 1st and 2d of October. He writes: "The volunteers appeared to be uneasy and have refused to do duty. They are
									ordered by the commander-in-chief to march tomorrow for Greenville to assist the
									pack-horses, which I am told they are determined not to do. * * * This morning,
									the volunteers refused to go on command, and demanded of General Scott to conduct
									them home; he ordered them to start with General Barber, and if they made the
									smallest delay they would lose all their pay and be reported to the war office as
									revolters. This had the desired effect, and they went off not in good
								humor."
					
					
						WAYNE'S TROUBLES WITH THE MEN.
						Trouble between the men was the occasion of several trials by courtmartial, while the
							fort was building. During the first week, Wayne, annoyed by the practice of the men
							discharging their firearms in the neighborhood of the fort, issued this forceful
							order: "Any Non Commission'd
									Officer or Soldier, or follower of the Army who shall be Detected in fireing in
									the Vicinity and hearing of the Camp * * * (unless at an Enemy) shall immediately
									receive 50 Lashes for a breach of the Order—Should any Commission'd Officer
									be so lost to Discipline as to Violate the Same, he shall be immediately arrested
									and tried for giveing a false alarm."
						The lawlessness of the troops is revealed also in Wayne's order of October 25, after
							the fort had been dedicated: "The alarming and Villainous
									excess to which Marauding, Plundering and Stealing have been recently carried on
									by the 
										A LETTER WRITTEN BY THE FIRST COMMANDANT OF FORT
											WAYNE.
										Two years and nine months before Wayne built his fort at the head of the
											Maumee Major John Francis Hamtramck was assigned to the charge of affairs at
											Vincennes. The above fragment of a letter from Hamtramck was addressed to
											Secretary of War Henry Knox. The original letter is in the war department at
											Washington.
									 unprincipled part of the Soldiery belonging to the Legion, is such as to
									require the most exemplary Punishment—The Commander in Chief therefore
									offers a Reward of Twenty-five Dollars to any Person or Persons who will discover
									the Principal or Principals concerned in killing any of the Cattle or Sheep
									belonging to the Publick, or to the Contractor (without proper
								Authority)."
						Matters finally reached such a state that Wayne was compelled to acquiesce in the
							death sentence pronounced by the judges who presided over the courtmartial of a
							commissioned officer. Already Captain Joseph Brock had been tried on charges preferred
							by Captain Benham; Cornet Blue, accused by Ensign Johnson, came before the court;
							Robert Bowles, arrested for misconduct, made a public apology to Contractor Sloan;
							James Murrow, master armourer, was sentenced to receive fifty lashes as a result of
							conviction on charges brought by Captain Brock, and was obliged to ask the pardon of
							Brock and Sergeant Porter; Private Charles Hyde was acquitted of charges preferred by
							Major Hughes; Private  Michael Burns received one
							hundred lashes for insulting Sergeant Reed, and Private David Johnson was given
							seventy-five lashes for helping to steal a cow.
						But the most severe blow fell upon Corporal James Reading. With Privates John Fay
							Miller, John Hassell and Elivine Crowell, he was convicted of complicity in the theft
							of a cow. Miller, Hassell and Crowell were each given a heavy fine and one hundred
							lashes, while Reading was condemned by Wayne to be "hanged by the neck until
							dead"—and thus he became the first man to receive a legal death sentence at Fort
							Wayne. This sentence was executed at Greenville on Sunday morning, November 30, 1794,
							"in front of the Legion," at which time John Keating also suffered the death penalty
							by shooting.
						During September, the troops engaged in constructing a "sloop" or "bateau," designed
							for use in transporting goods between Fort Wayne and Fort Defiance, over the Maumee.
							"The Ottaway sloop, loaded and set out this evening for Defiance," wrote Lieutenant
							Clark in his journal, on the 8th of October. "She had not proceeded 
								ANDIRONS OF THE OLD FORT.
								The wrought iron andirons, evidently the product of crude workmanship of the old
									fort blacksmith of an early day, are owned by the Baird brothers, of Eel River
									township, Allen county. They were found by Michael Horn during some work of
									excavation on the old fort site and given by his son Michael to Robert B.
									Baird.
							
							
								WAYNE COUNTY IN 1796.
								The shaded portion of the map shows the area of the original Wayne county of the
									Northwest territory.
							 one mile before she ran on a rock and capsized, losing a greater part of her
							load. She was again righted and proceeded on." Another boat of the flat-bottom style
							was launched on the Maumee October 17.
						Meanwhile, the work on the fort was pushed with all possible speed. Wayne spent some
							of his time in inspecting the neighborhood. That he was interested in ascertaining the
							location of the old French forts—now long since gone—is suggested by his
							speech made to Little Turtle and his allies at Greenville in the following year, in
							which he told of "tracing the lines of two forts at that point."
						Wayne appears to have been well pleased with the new fort. In a letter of September
							27, addressed to Secretary Knox, he said: "I have been induced td bestow much labor
							upon two forts [Fort  Defiance and Fort Wayne] of which
							the enclosed are draughts." He added: "I am free to pronounce them the most
							respectable now in the occupancy of the United States even in their present situation,
							which is not quite perfect as yet."
					
					
						THE DEDICATION OF FORT WAYNE.
						Finally came the momentous 22d of October, the day of the dedication of Fort Wayne,
							on the fourth anniversary of the battle at Harmar's Ford. The buildings were not yet
							finished, although, says Boyer, "all of the soldiers' huts are completed, except
							covering, and the weather is favorable for that work."
						From Private Bryant, already quoted, comes an account of the dedicatory ceremony.
							Says he: "The day the fortification was completed, a beautiful
									flagstaff was erected which we got into position as the sun, was declining beneath
									the golden horizon. Colonel Hamtramck then formed the entire forces of the
									garrison into line, and, while the drums and fifes struck up our favorite tune, a
									tune that had inspired the soldiers on many a hard-fought battle of the
									Rovolution— The white cockade and the peacock
											feather, The American boys will live forever; The drums shall beat
											and the fife shall play Over the hills and far away, General
									Wayne and staff rode up to the center of the line, taking a position at the foot
									of the flagstaff. He made us a speech in which he highly complimented the
									volunteers with whom he was soon to part, and thanked us for the valuable services
									rendered our country on the battlefields, and in the erection of this
									fortification. He then ordered the flag to be run up, and, as its broad stripes
									and stars floated in the twilight breeze, and for the first time over the
									stronghold of our enemies, we made the welkin ring with loud and prolonged cheers,
									which were succeeded by the deafening roar of cannon that aroused old Echo from
									his age of slumber. The fort was then, by Colonel Hamtramck, named Wayne, after
									our noble commander-in-chief. That night we got something to wet our throats
									which, on account of our great cheering, had become very I dry."
						The question as to whether the memory of Bryant was fault or some other disturbing
							element enters into his description of the event is raised by a reading of the records
							of the dedication as left by Lieutenants Boyer and William Clark, in their respective
							journals, and the preliminary announcement of the plans as given in Wayne's orderly
							book.
						Wayne, on the day preceding the dedication, announced that the ceremony would take
							place at 7 o'clock on the morning of October 22. Boyer says, under the latter date:
							"This morning at 7 o'clock * * * after firing fifteen rounds of cannon, Colonel
							Hamtramck gave it the name of Fort Wayne." Lieutenant Clark records that the event
							took place at 8 o'clock in the morning and that "Colonel Hamtramck took charge of the
							fort, after naming it after His Excellency, firing fifteen rounds and giving three
							cheers."
						
						It appears certain, therefore, that the ceremony took place near the hour of 7 or 8
							o'clock in the morning rather than during the hour when the flag floated "in the
							twilight breeze." Possibly, however, Private Bryant has been misquoted.
						The ceremony of dedication was concluded with the formal placing of the command in
							the hands of Major (later Colonel) John Francis Hamtramck, a man of high character and
							military power—a leader whose followers confided in him during life, and upon
							whose death these fellow-soldiers engraved upon his tombstone one of the most
							remarkable tributes ever paid to a military leader.
						Colonel Hamtramck had served with honor in the Revolution. At the time General Josiah
							Harmar was dispatched to the region 
								TWO WAYNE RELICS.
								The upper picture is that of an ax, carried on General Wayne's western
									expedition. The lower sketch shows a piece of the casket in which the general was
									first buried at Erie, Pa. Both are to be seen in the relic room of the court
									house.
							
							
								WAYNE COAT OF ARMS.
								The original design, in the possession of Hon. William Wayne, of Paoli, Chester
									county, Pennsylvania, was loaned to the owners of the Anthony Hotel in Fort Wayne
									to guide them in the use of the design in many forms about the modern
									hostelry.
							 of the lower Ohio, to succeed George Rogers Clark, whose later conduct
							displeased the Virginia authorities, Hamtramck became an active participant in his
							campaigns. In the region of Vincennes he had been attacked by a body of savages, in
							1787. He built Fort Knox (on the Wabash above Vincennes). It was he who sent Antoine
							Gamelin on his mission of peace to the savages in 1798, and carried an expedition
							against the Indians of the lower Wabash. Following the St. Clair campaign, he was
							active in attempts to secure peace treaties with the Indians, and then served with
							credit under Wayne.
						Under his command at Fort Wayne came the companies of Captains Kingsbury, Greaton,
							Spark, Reed and Preston, and the artillery company of Captain Porter.
						The destitute condition of the troops on the day of the dedication is brought
							forcibly to mind in Wayne's order concerning shoes issued to the troops on the
							following day and just preceding the march to Greenville. The order reads: "A return
							for Shoes Actually Wanted in the respective Sub Legions; under Marching orders  is to be made this Afternoon at 5 O'Clock, by the Pay
							Masters. * * * The number on hand being small, none but those that are Actually
							barefoot can be supplied at present."
						General Wayne and the main portion of the army marched away from Fort Wayne on the
							28th of October, and reached their former camping place at Greenville after an absence
							from the spot of ninety-three days. Wayne immediately reported conditions to Secretary
							Knox and added that "all this labor, and expense of blood and treasure will be
							rendered abortive and of none effect, unless speedy and efficient measures are adopted
							by the national legislature to raise troops to garrison these posts."1
						Here Wayne waited for the chiefs of the scattered tribes to come and accept the terms
							of peace which Washington authorized him to offer them.2
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XIV.
						(1) Brigadier General Philip Reade, U.
							S. A., retired, who has written the biographies of three hundred and nineteen officers
							of Wayne's Legion, states that between the years 17921 and 1797, eight of Wayne's
							officers were murdered by hostile Indians, four were killed in duels, thirteen were
							dismissed or cashiered, sixteen died in service, two committed suicide, and fifty-two
							resigned; total, one hundred.
						(2) Captain Joseph Brandt, the great
							Indian chieftain of the east, hastened to the west directly after Wayne's victory to
							attempt to assist the savages in deciding upon their future course. To Joseph Chew, at
							Montreal, secretary of Indian affairs, he reported October 22—the day on which
							Fort Wayne was dedicated—writing from Niagara: "I am just returned from the
							Miamis [Maumee] and Detroit, and am sorry to say that the Indians in that quarter are
							much in confusion, owing to their late bad success and in bad temper by not receiving
							any assistance from the English. I really believe if I had not gone up, most of them
							would have dispersed and gone to the Mississippi." (Michigan Pioneer and Historical
							Collection.)
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XV—1794-1805. The Fort in the Wilderness.
					Colonel Hamtramck and the incorrigible troops at Fort Wayne—The chiefs sue for
						peace—A winter of suffering—Wayne prepares for the treaty
						council—Little Turtle pleads for the retention of the site of Fort Wayne and the
						Maumee-Wabash portage—Wayne's diplomatic refusal—The treaty
						signed—Wayne's departure—Visits the president—Sent to
						Detroit—His death—Starving Indians at Fort Wayne—Hamtramck goes to
						Detroit—Major Thomas Pasteur—Colonel Hunt commands Fort Wayne—Birth of
						John Elliott Hunt—Marriage of Miss Ruthie Hunt and Dr. Abraham
						Edwards—Colonel Hunt transferred to Detroit—Major Henry Burbeck, Major
						Zebulon Pike and Captain John Whipple in command of Fort Wayne—Treaty of
						1803—Governor Harrison resents the activities of Captain William Wells—Would
						remove Wells from the Indian service—Colonel John Johnston, Indian
						agent—Little Turtle and Wells visit eastern cities—Quakers come to teach the
						Indians the art of agriculture—Fort Dearborn established by Major John
						Whistler.
					COLONEL HAMTRAMCK, on assuming command of Fort Wayne, appears to have
						"had his hands full." On December 5, 1794, he wrote to General Wayne at Greenville a
						suggestion of his troubles. Said he: "It is with a great degree
								of mortification that I am obliged to inform your excellency of the great propensity
								many of the soldiers have for larceny. I have flogged them until I am tired. The
								economic allowances of one hundred lashes allowed by government, does not appear a
								sufficient inducement for a rascal to play the part of an honest man. I have now a
								number in confinement and in irons for having stolen four quarters of beef on the
								night of the 3d instant. I could wish them to be tried by a general courtmartial, in
								order to make an example of some of them. I shall keep them confined until the
								pleasure of your excellency is known."
					As late as the middle of March, 1795, the troubles continued. "I had very great hopes
						that the man who deserted when on his pbst would have been made an example of," he
						wrote, on St. Patrick's day, "but weakness too often appears in the shape of leniety,
						for he was only sentenced to receive one hundred lashes, to be branded, and drummed out.
						This man, from his past conduct, was perfectly entitled to the gallows."
					However, many other encouraging reports passed from Hamtramck to Wayne during these
						months of waiting for the chiefs to assemble at Greenville. Nearly all of these leaders
						of the tribes came first to Fort Wayne to interview the commandant. Extracts from
						Hamtramck's letters deal with many whose names have already appeared in our narrative
						and who figure prominently in the following chapters. Referring to the visits of leading
						chiefs of the Chippewas, Ottawas, Sacs, Shawnees and Miamis, he said: "I have shown them
						the necessity of withdrawing themselves from the headquarters of corruption [the British
						post at Detroit] and invited them  to come and take
						possession of their former habitation, which they have promised to do." Richardville, he
						reported, had decided to establish a village on the Salamonie river and would "open the
						navigation of the Wabash to the flag of the United States."
					LeGris, who, as we have seen, was the village chief of Miami Town, in the Spy Run
						district of the present city of Fort Wayne, was one of the last to respond to the
						general invitation to the savages to meet the commandant. "LeGris, the village chief of
						the Miami nation, and one of the commanding trumps in McKee's game, has at last come
						in," wrote Hamtramck on March 27, 1795. "He stood out for a long time, but * * * with
						[Antoine] Lasselle, he has surrendered and I believe fully converted. * * He was four
						days with me, during which time I had an opportunity of examining him with great
						attention. He is a sensible old fellow, and no ways 
							BUTTONS FROM THE UNIFORMS OF SOLDIERS OF OLD FORT WAYNE.
							The drawings of buttons found on the site of the old stockade of Fort Wayne by
								those who became tenants of the buildings were made from originals owned by L. W.
								Hills and R. B. Rossington, of Fort Wayne, and by R. S. Robertson, Jr., of Paducah,
								Kentucky, to whom a large collection of specimens was given by his father, the late
								Colonel R. S. Robertson. The three collections contain buttons worn by soldiers of
								the First, Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Twelfth, Thirteenth
								and Fifteenth regiments of infantry, and a rifle regiment. "Those who wore them,"
								wrote Colonel Robertson, "have long since departed, leaving no other record of the
								pioneer heroes who opened, and held open, the 'glorious gateway of the west' till
								the army of civilization could enter and take possession and reap the fruits of
								their heroic daring."
						
						 ignorant of the cause of the war, for which he blames the
						Americans, saying that they were too extravagant in their demands in their first
						treaties."
					
						THE TREATY OF GREENVILLE
						The winter of 1794 and 1795 was a time of intense suffering among the Indians
							remaining in the Maumee valley because of the utter destruction of the crops by the
							invading American army and the failure of the British to meet the situation. This
							condition contributed greatly to the decision of the chiefs to answer the call of
							Wayne to meet him at Greenville to enter upon terms of peace. In preparation for the
							coming of the heads of the tribes; Wayne cleared a large space of ground and supplied
							a vast amount of clothing and other supplies for the savages to meet their physical
							wants and impress them with the government's kindly intentions. In small bands, the
							Indians began to assemble early in June, 1795, and the general council was opened on
							the 16th. Many of the chiefs, 
								WAYNE'S BODY IN TWO GRAVES.
								The manuscript from which the above fac simile is a portion was written by Lemuel
									G. Olmstead, of Fort Edward, New York, to J. A. Rice, of Chicago, father of
									Wallace Rice, author of the book of the Fort Wayne Pageant of 1916. Wallace Rice
									presented the manuscript to the Mary Penrose Wayne chapter of the D. A. R. The
									manuscript describes Mr. Olmstead's visit to Wayne's old home in Pennsylvania and
									tells of the circumstances of the placing of portions of the remains of General
									Wayne in two widely separated graves.
							
							 however, were tardy in arriving; these latter included
							Little Turtle and LeGris, who, with seventeen other Miamis, did not reach Greenville
							until June 23. The presence of Little Turtle brought face to face two great
							diplomatists—this keen thinker of the savages and General Wayne—each
							contending for every point in the debate which should give his people a superior
							advantage.
						The conference did not close until August 7, the prolongation resulting from the
							interposition of obstacles by Little Turtle, whose main contention was for the
							possession of the plot of ground at the confluence of the St. Mary's and the St.
							Joseph rivers, where Fort Wayne stands, "that glorious gate through which all the
							words of our chiefs had to pass, from the north to the south and from the east to the
							west."
						For one other thing did Little Turtle plead—a joint ownership of the famous
							Maumee-Wabash portage. "It was always ours," he declared. "This carrying place has
							heretofore proved, in a great degree, the subsistence of your younger brothers. That
							place has brought to us in the course of one day, the amount of one hundred dollars.
							Let us both own this place, and enjoy in common the advantage it affords."
						General Wayne replied: "I find there is some objection to the
									reservation [by the United States] at Fort Wayne. The Little Turtle observes he
									never heard of any cessions made at that place to the French. I have traced the
									lines of two forts at that point. One stood at the junction of the St. Joseph with
									the St. Mary's, and it is ever an established rule, among Europeans, to reserve as
									much ground around their forts as their cannon can command. This is a rule as well
									known as any other fact.
								"Objection has also been made respecting the portage between Fort Wayne and the
									Little River; and the reasons produced are that that road has been to the Miamis a
									source of wealth; that it has heretofore produced them one hundred dollars a day.
									It may be so; but let us inquire who, in fact, paid this heavy contribution. It is
									true the traders bore it in the first instance, but they laid it on their goods,
									and the Indians of the Wabash really, and finally, paid it; therefore, it is The
									Little Beaver, The Soldier, and The Sun and their tribes who have actually been so
									taxed."
						After some further parley, Little Turtle expressed himself as satisfied with its
							terms and the document was signed by 1,130 Indians, in addition to the American
							representatives present. The treaty provided for immediate delivery to the Indians of
							goods to the value of $20,000, and the promise of $9,500 worth of goods yearly,
							"forever hereafter." It also fixed the boundary lines between the Indian lands and
							those of the United States; this line began at the mouth of the Cuyahoga river,
							extended up that stream to the portage crossing to the Tuscarora, down that stream to
							Fort Laurens in Ohio, near Bolivar; thence westerly to a branch of the Miami at the
							head of the portage to the St. Mary's; thence to Fort Recovery, and thence to a point
							on the Ohio river, opposite the mouth of the Kentucky river. Fort Wayne was in the
							midst of the area of the Indian lands, but the treaty designated as American territory
							"a piece" six miles square1 at
							or near the confluence of the St. Mary's,  St. Joseph
							and the Maumee rivers as belonging to the United States. The city of Fort Wayne now
							stands within this reserved area. Similar tracts surrounding Defiance, Toledo,
							Fremont, Detroit, St. Mary's, Sandusky, Mackinac, Chicago, Peoria and Vincennes were
							reserved to the United States.
						His great work fully accomplished, Wayne transferred the command of his troops to
							General James Wilkinson, and bade farewell to his associates and departed for the east
							where he made a brief visit to his old home in Radnor, Pennsylvania.
						Everywhere, the people turned out en masse to give him welcome. Four miles from
							Philadelphia he was met by three troops of Philadelphia light horse. A cannon salute,
							the ringing of bells, a great fireworks display and other demonstrations of gladness
							characterized the reception of the returned warrior.
						President Washington, in a message to congress, referred in fitting terms to the
							achievements of Wayne and to the vast consequences likely to follow his victory.
							However, his rest from the active service of his country, was of short duration.
							Because of a division in the national congress during the consideration of the Jay
							treaty, the British proceeded with new plans to form an alliance with the Indians for
							a renewed invasion of the northwest. However, the appropriation for carrying the
							treaty into effect was finally passed by congress and President Washington chose Wayne
							as the government representative to visit the posts of Detroit, Niagara, Oswego and
							Miami, and attend to their transfer from British to American control. At Detroit,
							Wayne was received by noisy demonstrations by his former foes, the Indians; he
							remained at the post for more than two months. On the 17th of November he sailed from
							Detroit for Presque Isle, site of the present city of Erie, Pennsylvania, and when
							within a short distance of his destination he was suddenly seized with an attack of
							gout. For several weeks after reaching Presque Isle the general suffered intolerable
							agony. He died December 15, 1796, and his remains were interred in military ground of
							his own choosing.
					
					
						STARVING INDIANS AT FORT WAYNE.
						Colonel Hamtramck remained in command of Fort Wayne until June, 1796. Conditions at
							Fort Wayne previous to his transfer are pictured in a series of extracts from his
							letters to Generals Wayne and Wilkinson at Greenville.
						The destruction by the Americans of the food supply of the Indians created the
							serious problem of keeping many of the savages at the head of the Maumee from starving
							to death. "The issues [of supplies] to the Indians would be very inconsiderable," he
							wrote on December 13, 1795, "if it was not for about ninety old women and children
							with some very old men. * * * I have repeatedly tried to get clear of them, but
							without success." A month later, Hamtramck reported that he had notified the dependent
							savages that he could no longer supply them with food, because of its scarcity, but
							the warmth of his heart is shown by the added comment that "if other supplies could be
							got by land, I consider it politic to feed these poor creatures, who will suffer very
							much for want of subsistence." By the 10th of February, 1795, the  conditions were so bad that he was "compelled to give to them or see them
							die; it was impossible to refuse."
						The scarcity of wampum was the subject of another communication from Colonel
							Hamtramck, who found that the Indian substitute for money was necessary to the
							transaction of business with the red men. "I am out of wampum," wrote Hamtramck to
							General Wilkinson. "I will be much obliged to you to send me some; for speaking to an
							Indian without it is like consulting a lawyer without a fee."
						Wampum (also writen wampom, wam pame, wompam and wompi) was used as money and for
							ornament by the Indians. It was made of small shell beads, pierced and strung, or
							woven into belts. The shell was cut away, leaving only a small cylinder, shaped like a
							bugle.
						At this time, Fort Wayne was made the headquarters for the group of American posts in
							the west—Defiance, Sandusky, Adams, Recovery, Jefferson, Loramie, Head of the
							Auglaise and Michilimackinac. Colonel Hamtramck, with a detachment from Fort Wayne,
							moved down the Maumee in March, 1796, to counteract a demonstration by the British,
							intended to arouse the savages to revolt, and while encamped on the river, he received
							a message from General Wilkinson directing him to receive the transfer of the British
							Post Miami and then to proceed to Detroit to take command of the former British
							post—Fort Lernoult. Hamtramck arrived at Detroit July 13th, accompanied by
							Captain William Wells. Then occurred the relinquishment of the last British post on
							American soil. "Thus was accomplished," observes Dr. Slocum, "after a further struggle
							of thirteen years by the young republic, with the loss of much blood, what Great
							Britain should have at once surrendered at the close of the Revolutionary war, in
							1783, in accordance with the treaty of Paris."
					
					
						PASTEUR, HUNT, BURBECK, PIKE AND WHIPPLE COMMANDANTS OF FORT
							WAYNE
						Upon the departure of Colonel Hamtramck, Fort Wayne was placed under command of Major
							Thomas Pasteur, also a seasoned veteran of the Revolutionary campaign. His services
							extended over a period of two years.
						Major Pasteur was a native of North Carolina. His services in the Revolutionary war
							began as an ensign in the Fourth regiment of infantry from his state. His advancement
							through successive official positions placed him in the captaincy of a company of the
							First United States infantry in 1792, when Wayne's army was forming to invade the
							west. On the 4th of September, he was assigned to the First sub-legion of Wayne's
							army. At the close of Wayne's campaign, Pasteur was placed in command of Fort Knox in
							Ohio. On the 1st of November, 1796, at the time of his assignment to Fort Wayne, he
							had been entrusted with the command of the First regiment of United States infantry.
							In 1803, Pasteur was made major of the Second regiment of infantry. His death occurred
							in 1806. (See Heitman's Historical Register, 1903 Edition, Vol. I).
						The period of Pasteur's administration of affairs at Fort Wayne  was without marked change over conditions at the close of Hamtramck's
							command. The assignment of Colonel Thomas Hunt to Fort Wayne as the successor of Major
							Pasteur—his service beginning in May, 1798—gives to the story a welcome
							element of the more refined social life of the east, and, incidentally, the
							circumstance provides a number of romantic stories which cluster about the memory of
							the fort in the wilderness.
						
						Colonel Hunt had served with distinction in the Revolution. Born in Massachusetts, he
							became a member of Captain Craft's company of "minute men" at Lexington and Concord,
							in April, 1775. Later, he participated in the battles of Bunker Hill and Stony Point.
							Successive advancements found him in service as a major with Wayne in 1793. Following
							the western campaign, and the building of Fort Wayne, he went to Detroit and assisted
							Wayne in the transfer of the British post to the Americans. He was then sent to
							command Fort Defiance, and, later, Fort Wayne. Following his service here, extending
							from 1798 to 1800, he was given the command of the 
							posts at Detroit, Fort Defiance, Fort Industry and Fort Mackinac. He was a member of
							the Order of the Cincinnati, composed of American and French officers at the
							cantonments of the Continental army at the close of the Revolution in 1783.
						In 1797, just previous to the assuming of the command of Fort Wayne, the family of
							Major Hunt came from their Boston home to Detroit. On the 11th of April, in the
							following year, occurred the 
								A REPRODUCTION OF THE ONLY EXISTING ORIGINAL DRAWING OF OLD FORT
									WAYNE MADE BY MAJOR WHISTLER IN 1816.
								Through the co-operative efforts of the Burton Historical Collection of the
									Detroit Public Library and J. Franklin Jameson, director of the Carnegie
									Institution of Washington, the author was enabled, in 1915, to find and identify a
									drawing made in August, 1816, by Major John Whistler, commandant of Fort Wayne.
									Major Whistler had rebuilt the fort during 1815 and 1816. The drawing had been
									sent to General A. D. Macomb, at Detroit, who forwarded it to the war department.
									The drawing shows the ground floor plan of the fort, together with the inside
									elevation of each building, as well as the elevation of each building outside the
									pickets. The outside lines indicate the location of the palisades. The present Old
									Fort Park area was located within the square shown in the drawing. The drawing of
									Whistler doubtless is the only existing original draft of old Fort Wayne. A
									drawing by General Wayne, in the war department, was destroyed when the British
									captured the city of Washington in 1814.
							
							 birth, at Fort Wayne, of a son, John Elliott
							Hunt—the first child born within the stockade of old Fort Wayne. This son rose
							to prominence in the military and political affairs of Ohio during a long and useful
							life. His earlier years were passed with his elder brother, Henry Hunt, a Detroit
							merchant, after which he engaged in business at Maumee City, Ohio. He was in Detroit
							at the time of Hull's surrender of that post to the British in 1812 and "a witness to
							that humiliating spectacle." He was married at the home of General Lewis Cass, in
							Detroit, to Miss Sophie Spencer, daughter of a Connecticut physician. As a leader in
							many public enterprises, a railroad promoter, state senator, treasurer of Lucas
							county, Ohio, and postmaster at Detroit, he exerted a wide influence.
						The name of Ruth Fessenden Hunt, daughter of Colonel Hunt, comes into the narrative
							naturally at this point, though the occasion which suggests it is given a place out of
							its order in point of time. She was Fort Wayne's first American bride, although, of
							course, many wedding ceremonies had been solemnized in the early French villages which
							occupied the site. This interesting event occurred in 1805—indeed, after the
							term of service of Major Hunt at Fort Wayne had ceased. It was while in command of
							Detroit that Colonel Hunt received orders to transfer his command to Bellefontaine,
							near St. Louis, Missouri. En route to Fort Wayne at the same time was Dr. Abraham
							Edwards, who had been assigned to the post as surgeon. Upon the arrival of the Hunts
							and Dr. Edwards, the engagement was announced, and the ceremony was performed without
							delay by Captain William Wells, serving as a justice of the peace. Details of the
							event are lacking, but there remains in the possession of the relatives of Dr. Edwards
							(passing through the hands of a son, A. M. Edwards, of Sheboygan, Michigan) this
							certificate in the handwriting of Captain Wells: "Fort Wayne,
									4th June, 1805. I do hereby certify that I joined Dr. Abraham Edwards and Ruthie
									Hunt in the Holy Bonds of Matrimony on the 3rd instant, according to law. Given
									under by hand and seal the day and year above written.
								"WILLIAM WELLS, ESQ."
						Dr. Edwards, who served for five years as the post surgeon, was born at Springfield,
							New Jersey, in 1781. In 1804, President Jefferson appointed him a garrison surgeon and
							Secretary of War Dearborn sent him to Fort Wayne, by way of Detroit, where he met his
							future wife. Three of the eldest children of Dr. and Mrs. Edwards—Thomas,
							Alexander and Henry—were born at Fort Wayne. In 1810, on account of the illness
							of Mrs. Edwards, the family removed to Dayton, Ohio. Dr. Edwards was chosen as a
							member of the Ohio legislature, gave good service as a captain under Harrison in the
							war of 1812, served as a witness in the courtmartial of General William Hull, and was
							appointed department quartermaster-deputy at Pittsburg, with the rank of major. In
							1815, he removed to Detroit, where he was appointed first aide to General Lewis Cass,
							with the rank of colonel. He was the president of the first legislative council of
							Michigan territory, register of the land office, Indian agent and a presidential
							elector who voted for Franklin Pierce.
						Our narrative has carried us beyond the period of the story of Colonel Hunt's
							administration of affairs at Fort Wayne. That his 
							service here did not escape the criticism of his superiors appears from a
							communication sent to him by Secretary of War Dearborn, in which he said: "The reasons you offer for sending an express to Detroit are
									not sufficiently explicit. * * * I have too much reason for believing that you are
									not as attentive to the rules and regulations relating to the expenses at the
									different posts as might be expected from an officer of your rank and experience.
									It seems to have become fashionable for officers to be much less attentive to
									minute parts of their duty than to other considerations which relate more to
									private convenience than to the good of the service."
					
					
						COLONEL HUNT BUILDS A NEW FORT WAYNE
						Nevertheless, it is apparent that Colonel Hunt devoted his energies to the betterment
							of conditions at Fort Wayne, for it was he who undertook the responsible task of
							building a new fort, to take the place of the original, hastily-constructed
							blockhouses and pickets erected by General Wayne's troops six years before. It is
							believed that Colonel Hunt finished his fort in 1800, shortly before his
							departure.
						A portion of Chapter XIX is devoted to a discussion of the location of Wayne's
							original fort and the later forts built by Colonel Hunt and Major Whistler; so the
							question at this point needs but the statement that the original fort of Wayne is
							believed to have occupied a site which enclosed the lot at the northwest corner of the
							present East Berry and Clay streets, while Colonel Hunt built the new fort a short
							distance to the northward, enclosing the area of the present Old Fort Park.
						The last visit of Colonel Hunt to Fort Wayne was in 1805, when the family stopped for
							a week's rest while on the way from Detroit to Bellefontaine. En route to their new
							home, the Hunts were the guests, at Vincennes, of Governor William Henry Harrison.
						Colonel Henry Burbeck became the commandant of Fort Wayne in the spring of 1803, but
							his administration was cut short by the anouncement of the death of Colonel Hamtramck,
							at Detroit, and his transfer to that place to have charge of the department of the
							lakes. Colonel Burbeck was a native of Boston, born June 8, 1754, and had served
							through the Revolutionary war. He was a son of Colonel William Burbeck, also a veteran
							of the war for independence. Beginning as a lieutenant in Gridley's regiment of
							Massachusetts artillery, which was mustered into service May 19, 1775, successive
							advancements found Henry Burbeck as the second of the nation's chief of artillery
							(succeeding Henry Knox), serving in Wayne's western campaign. It was he who built Fort
							Recovery, in Ohio. After the battle of Fallen Timber, Burbeck was placed in command of
							Michilimackinac, where he remained from September, 1796, to November, 1799. He
							returned to the east in July, 1800, and assisted in the establishment of West Point
							Military academy. In the spring of 1803, he was sent to the west and was placed in
							command of Fort Wayne. Later in his career, Burbeck was brevetted brigadier-general.
							His death occurred at New London, Connecticut, October 2, 1848.
						
						
						The death of Colonel Hamtramck was the occasion of several shiftings of commands of
							the western posts. Secretary of War Henry Dearborn, on May 24, addressing Colonel
							Burbeck, said: 
							
								THE FIRST GOVERNMENT SURVEY OF THE REGION OF FORT WAYNE.
								This map, which was found in 1915 in the war department archives, while J.
									Franklin Jameson, director of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, was asisting
									the author in securing important data, and where it had lain for one hundred and
									twelve years, was made by Thomas Freeman, a government engineer, in June, 1803.
									This was the first government survey of the region about Wayne's fort. From a
									notation on the map the following quotation is made: "The black and shaded lines
									of the reservations have been run and marked. Posts have been set in the ground
									100 perches apart, on the east and west lines, and numerically numbered, as
									appears on the plan. The tree nearest each post has been lettered U. S. and
									numbered with the number of the post near which it stands. * * * The mile square
									including Fort Wayne and the confluence of the Rivers St. Mary and St. Joseph is
									the Military Reservation."
							
							"The death of Colonel Hamtramck, in addition to the loss of
									such an experienced and valuable officer, has so materially interfered with the
									arrangement of that department as to render your presence  at Detroit necessary. You will, therefore, be pleased to repair to
									Detroit and take command of the Department of the Lakes. Colonel [Thomas] Hunt
									will remain at Michilimackinac until further orders. Major [Zebulon] Pike should,
									on your arrival, repair to Fort Wayne."
						On the following day, Secretary Dearborn wrote a letter to Major Pike in which he
							said: "I have proposed that on the arrival of Colonel Burbeck,
									you 
										THE ANTHONY WAYNE FLAG.
										This valuable relic is owned by Dr. P. G. Moore, of Wabash, Indiana, who
											loaned the photograph from which the drawing was made. Dr. Moore says: "The
											flag was presented by General Wayne to Chief She-moc-o-nish, of Thornton,
											Indiana, after the close of the Indian war in 1795, by order of General
											Washington, with the following suggestion: 'Keep this flag in sight, and, as
											often as you see it, remember we are friends. I first saw the flag in 1868,
											when it was in the possession of Mrs. Dixon, an old Indian woman of Miami
											county, Indiana, a granddaughter of She-moc-o-nish by his second wife, who was
											a member of the Wea tribe. I became its possessor in 1884, after her death. I
											obtained its history from Kil-so-quah, then living near Roanoke, Indiana, at
											the age of 103 years. She also was a granddaughter of She-moc-o-nish and of
											Little Turtle on the paternal side. She told me she kept the flag a good many
											years, when it fell into the hands of the Dixon woman. At my first interview
											she said the flag had been burned in a tepee, but when I showed it to her she
											recognized it quickly and said that the Weas had told her of its destruction
											in order to keep it among members of the tribe. The flag is three feet and
											eight inches by five feet and ten inches in size. It is in a good state of
											preservation and the colors are bright."
									
									
										LITTLE TURTLE.
										Jacob Piatt Dunn, of Indianapolis, who has spent many years as a student of
											the aborigines, pronounces the Miami chief to have been "the greatest Indian
											the world has known." Little Turtle spent much of his time on the site of the
											present city, during which period he became the only Indian leader to defeat
											an army of the United States led by a commander-in-chief. He was the first of
											the savage leaders to recognize the necessity of submission to the power of
											the whites. He became not only a firm friend of the United States, but, by
											repeated visits to the national seat of government, he secured for his people
											many reforms to lift them from the degradation brought through the use of
											intoxicating liquors and demoralizing habits, and sought to teach the great
											lessons of industry and upright living. He died at Fort Wayne in 1812, two
											weeks before his illustrious son-in-law, Captain William Wells, was killed in
											the Fort Dearborn massacre. The portrait is after a copy of the painting from
											life by Stuart, the painter of the Washington portrait. The portrait was made
											during one of several visits of Little Turtle to eastern cities. The original
											painting was destroyed by fire when the British attacked the city of
											Washington in 1814.
									
									 should repair to Fort Wayne and command at that
									post, where you will have leisure to attend to your health and will receive the
									emolument attached to the command of a separate post."
						The original letters from Secretary Dearborn are in the War Department at Washington.
							The quotations are from photostatic copies in the Burton Historical Collection at
							Detroit.
						Major Zebulon Pike was the father of Zebulon M. Pike, who earned fame as the explorer
							of the region now comprising the states of the southwestern portion of the union. He
							was born in New Jersey, in 1751. He entered the service of the Revolution as a
							corporal and served to the end of the war. He was promoted to the rank of major in
							1800. In the organization of the peace establishment in 1802, Major Pike was assigned
							to the First regiment of infantry, under the command of Colonel Hamtramck. He was
							brevetted lieutenant-colonel in the regular army July 10, 1812. While his son, Zebulon
							M. Pike, was a child, he removed with his family to Bucks county, Pennsylvania, and
							thence in a few years to Easton, Pennsylvania. He returned to the west, however, and
							his death occurred at Lawrenceburg, Indiana, in 1834.
						Major Pike came to assume the command of Fort Wayne in June, 1803. He retained the
							office less than one year. His successor was Major John Whipple of the First United
							States infantry, who had served in the Revolution and with Wayne on his western
							campaign. The wife of Major Whipple was Archange Pelletier, grand-daughter of Jean
							Baptiste Pelletier, of the famous family of which Francois Pelletier was the head.
							Francois preceded Cadillac to Detroit by two years, reaching that point in 1669. The
							present-day Peltier family, with representatives in Fort Wayne, is descended from this
							ancient French stock.
						During the period of the administrations of Hamtramck, Pasteur, Hunt, Burbeck, Pike
							and Whipple, the national administration gave serious consideration to the problem of
							adopting a fitting form of government of the great western frontier. The British,
							after their abandonment of Detroit, had erected a strong post on the Canadian side of
							the Detroit river, at Malden (the present Amherstburg), from which point disturbing
							elements were constantly at work among the Indians to interfere with the constructive
							efforts of the American government.
						In August, 1796, Winthrop Sargent, secretary of the Northwest Territory, proclaimed
							the organization of Wayne county, with Fort Wayne on its southern boundary, a line
							drawn between the Cuyahoga river and the lower point of Lake Michigan. This original
							Wayne county was divided into four townships, bearing the names of Detroit, Mackinaw,
							Sargent and Hamtramck, with the region of Fort Wayne and the Maumee valley included in
							the latter. In October, 1799, William Henry Harrison, then serving as secretary of the
							Northwest Territory, was elected to represent the great west in the national congress.
							This body, on the 7th of May, 1800, created the Territory of Indiana, composed of all
							that part of the territory of the United States west of a line beginning at the Ohio
							river opposite the mouth of the Kentucky river and running northward to the straits of
							Mackinac. By this change, Fort Wayne was removed from the original Wayne county.
						
						In December, 1801, the war department in an official recommendation relative to the
							maintenance of the government posts, stated that Fort Wayne contained one company of
							infantry. In March, 1802, an Act of Congress refers to Fort Wayne as "a frontier post
							with garrison of sixty-four men." In the following year, the post had a garrison of
							fifty-one men, namely, one captain, one surgeon's mate, one first lieutenant, one
							second lieutenant, one ensign, four sergeants, four corporals, three musicians, and
							thirty-five privates. (See American State Papers, Military Affairs, Vol. I, pages 156,
							175, 786).
						The name of William Henry Harrison, soon to figure strongly in the narrative of Fort
							Wayne, comes into the story with the account of Wayne's campaign. Then, after his
							appointment as secretary of the Northwest Territory, we find him, in 1799, resigning
							this position to take a seat in congress as a representative of this vast district
							northwest of the Ohio. On the 4th of July, 1800, the territory of Indiana came into
							existence, with Harrison as its governor, and Vincennes its capital.
					
					
						HARRISON DISPLEASED WITH WELLS.
						Harrison, on assuming his office, proceeded promptly to enter into treaty agreements
							with the Indians for the purchase of their large tracts of land in what are now the
							States of Indiana, Michigan and Illinois. On the 7th of June, 1803, he completed, at
							Fort Wayne, a treaty with the Eel River, Kaskaskia, Kickapoo, Miami, Delaware and
							Piankeshaw tribes for the attainment of a large tract about Vincennes which already
							had been purchased from other tribes. He also secured from the Delawares their lands
							between the Wabash and Ohio rivers, and from the Piankeshaws their claims to tracts
							deeded to the United States by the Kaskaskias in the preceding year. This latter
							treaty was the source of a good deal of worry and controversy.
						The cause of Harrison's disturbed condition of mind appears to have been the powerful
							opposition of Captain William Wells, and his father-in-law, Chief Little Turtle of the
							Miamis. Wells had received the appointment of Indian agent and was stationed at Fort
							Wayne at the time Harrison concluded these important treaties. His attitude toward
							Harrison was such as to cause that officer to write to Secretary of War Dearborn,
							March 3, 1805: "Those [Indians] who have expressed discontent
									have been instigated thereto entirely by the Turtle. Whether the opposition to
									those treaties originated with himself or with Mr. Wells I cannot determine, but
									that the opinions of one are the opinions of the other I have long known. * * *
									When Wells speaks of the Miami nation being of this or that opinion, he must be
									understood as meaning no more than the Turtle and himself. Nine-tenths of that
									tribe, who acknowledge Richardville and Pecanne as their chiefs (but who are
									really governed by an artful fellow called the Owl, or Long Beard, whom you once
									saw at the seat of government) utterly abhor both Wells and the
							Turtle."
						A short time afterward, Governor Harrison wrote: "I am
									convinced that this man [Wells] will not rest until he  has persuaded the Indians that their very existence depends upon the
									rescinding [of] the treaty of the Delawares and the Piankeshaws. My knowledge of
									his character induces me to believe he will go to any length to carry a favorite
									point, and mischief may come from his knowledge of the Indians, his cunning and
									his perseverance. If I had not informed you that I should wait here your further
									orders, I would set out tomorrow [from Vincennes] for Fort Wayne."
						The governor decided not to make the move, however, explaining to the secretary of
							war that it "would be a sacrifice of that 
								CAPTAIN WILLIAM WELLS.
								Captain Wells was one of the most remarkable men connected with the history of
									Fort Wayne and the entire frontier. In recognition of his services to his country,
									congress gave him the right to pre-empt the lands which now comprise the districts
									in Fort Wayne known as Bloomingdale and Spy Run—"the Wells Pre-emption." His
									tragic death in the Fort Dearborn massacre in 1812 brought to an end a life which
									did much to shape the history of the middle west.
							
							
								SOME OF THE GREENVILLE TREATY SIGNATURES.
								From the many signatures attached to the treaty of Greenville, which marked the
									close of the Indian wars in 1795, have been selected those best known to the
									present generation. The productions are from the fac similes accompanying an
									article by Fraser E. Wilson in the "Ohio Archaeological and Historical Society
									Publications" (vol. xiii). Mr. Wilson's article throws many interesting sidelights
									on the character of Little Turtle.
							 dignity and authority which it is necessary to observe in all our
							transactions with the Indians."
						The bitterness of the sentiment of Harrison against Wells at this time is further
							shown in a communication to Secretary Dearborn in July, 1805, in which he said: "I think measures should be taken to control his vicious
									inclinations or to remove him from the Indian country. I had determined to inform
									him of the suspicions which had arisen against him, and to order him to come to
									this place [Vincennes] for the purpose of explaining his conduct, but thought it
									best to delay it until I could receive your instructions. If an inquiry should be
									made into his conduct, I must beg leave to recommend that General Wilkinson may
									assist at it. It will be very little trouble for the general to come over to this
									place for a few days, and I am satisfied the trip would not be disagreeable to
									him."
						In June, 1805, Harrison sent to Fort Wayne Colonel John Gibson, secretary to Governor
							Harrison, and Colonel Francis Vigo,  who, on their
							arrival, visited the fort which they found in temporary command of Lieutenant
							Brownson. Writing to General Harrison, they reported: "We beg
									to add as our opinion that no noise or clamor respecting the treaty last summer
									with the Delawares at this place would have been made had it not been occasioned
									by the Little Turtle and Wells, the latter of whom seems more attentive to the
									Indians than the people of the United States."
						Wells, viewing the visit of Gibson and Vigo with evident suspicion, addressed a
							letter to the former in which he demanded his credentials.
						Although Little Turtle declined the invitation to go to Vincennes on the ground of
							his dissatisfaction with the terms of the treaty, and Richardville pleaded a business
							engagement which would take him in another direction, Wells and Little Turtle visited
							Governor Harrison at Vincennes in August of the same year. "Both are here," wrote
							Harrison to Dearborn, "and I have received from each a positive assurance of a
							friendly disposition as well toward the government as myself individually. With
							Captain Wells, I have had an explanation, and have agreed to a general amnesty and act
							of oblivion for the past."
						Notwithstanding this seemingly peaceful settlement of the difficulty, the official
							relationship between Wells and the governor failed to improve, and we find Harrison as
							late as April 23, 1811, writing to Secretary of War Eustis: "Could I be allowed to dispose of Wells as I thought proper, my first wish
									would be to place him in the interiour of our settlement where he would never see
									and scarcely hear of an Indian. But as this is impossible, from his being located
									in such a manner at Fort Wayne that he cannot be removed without a very
									considerable expense, my next wish is to get him such an appointment as he could
									consider an object, where he might be used to advantage, but, at the same time, so
									limited as to prevent his doing mischief. * * * There should be no principal agent
									[at Fort Wayne]; Wells should be sub-agent for the Miamies and Eel River tribes,
									or, if it is thought improper, give him the title of interpreter, Mr. [John] Shaw,
									sub-agent for the Putawatimies, and Conner for the Delawares. The salary of each
									to be $550 or $600. * * * Wells would gladly accept of such an appointment, and
									Shaw and Conner have served so faithfully that they deserve some little
									advance."
						A further study of the war records for these years reveals that in 1812, the year of
							Captain Wells's death, Wells purposed to leave the Indian service and return to his
							former home in Kentucky. By this time, General Harrison's attitude toward him appears
							to have undergone a revision, for we find him writing as follows to Secretary of War
							Eustis: "Having been informed by Colonel Guiger, Captain
									Wells's father-in-law, that he [Wells] intended to resign his appointment, and
									believing that in the present critical state of our Indian affairs the public
									service would be benefitted by his remaining some time longer at Fort Wayne, * * *
									I wrote to Major Stickney and informed him that he must consider Wells under his
									immediate orders. * * * Hated and feared as he is by the surrounding  Indians, he is, nevertheless, able, from his
									influence over a few chiefs of great ability, to effect more than any other
									person."
						Harrison's reference to Colonel Guiger as the father-in-law of Captain Wells appears
							to clear up a point with reference to Wells's marriage affiliations. One purported
							authority states that the captain was married three times. His first wife was the
							daughter of Little Turtle, the second a woman of the Wea tribe of Indians, and the
							third the daughter of Colonel Guiger, who had served as a captain in the battle of
							Tippecanoe. The late John W. Dawson, a schoolmate of Jack Hackley, grandson of Captain
							Wells, states in his "Charcoal Sketches," that "Captain Wells, on his exodus and
							return from Kentucky, married a white lady, the issue of which marriage, as far as I
							can learn, was Yelberton P. Wells." He states, further, that the widow of Wells, who
							sought refuge in the fort at the time of the siege in 1812, was a white woman.
					
					
						COLONEL JOHN JOHNSTON.
						Meanwhile, and previous to Wells's appointment as agent at Fort Wayne, that important
							office was filled by Colonel John Johnston, who received his commission from President
							John Adams.
						Colonel Johnston's interesting experiences had fitted him well for the post of Indian
							agent. Born in County Donegal, Ireland, in 1775, he came alone to America at the age
							of eleven. The family settled at Philadelphia, and, shortly afterward, the boy secured
							employment in the war department. Later, he was employed in the mercantile
							establishment of Judge John Creigh, at Carlisle, Pennsylvania, where Wayne's army was
							largely recruited. Employed by Samuel Creigh as the driver of a supply wagon, Johnston
							followed Wayne's army to Fort Washington (Cincinnati), when he was seventeen years of
							age, and later made several trips between Fort Washington and Greenville during the
							encampment of Wayne at the latter point. He then returned to the east and entered the
							employ of an uncle at Bourbon Court House. Here he became a warm friend of Daniel
							Boone. He served as the secretary of a Masonic Lodge in Washington, D. C., and
							participated in the funeral services over the remains of George Washington. Johnston
							was appointed to the post of Fort Wayne in the spring of 1802, but he did not purpose
							to come to the wilderness alone. He had fallen in love with a Quaker girl, Miss Rachel
							Robinson, with whom he eloped in July, and the bride accompanied him on horseback to
							the wilderness. For fifty-eight years, this pioneer bride continued as the help-meet
							of Col. Johnston; she was the mother of fifteen children. In 1811, Col. Johnston
							removed to Piqua, Ohio, where, during the war of 1812, he was of great service to his
							country in protecting the neutral tribes and guarding the interests of the American
							troops. Col. Johnston became an early trustee of the township in which he lived, and
							was identified with the first school at Upper Piqua, as well as with its first
							churches and other enterprises. As a canal commissioner and road builder he served
							well his community. He died in Washington City in 1861, having gone to the seat of
							government on business connected with some old Indian claims. (From the manuscript
							biography prepared by J. A. Raynor, Piqua, Ohio.)
						"In his "American Notes," Charles Dickens, the English 
							novelist, relating his experiences during a brief stop at Upper Sandusky, Ohio, in
							1842, says that "among the company at breakfast was a mild old gentleman who had been
							for many years employed by the United States government in conducting negotiations
							with the Indians." The "mild old gentleman" was Colonel John Johnston, the former
							agent at Fort Wayne.
						During the early portion of Colonel Johnston's service, outward quiet and apparent
							friendliness on the part of the savages shielded a growing unrest and hatred of the
							whites. One man among them had, however, "buried the hatchet" forever. This was Chief
							Little Turtle. At this time and, indeed, to the close of his life, he dedicated his
							energies to the betterment of the conditions which surrounded his people.
					
					
						LITTLE TURTLE VISITS THE CITIES OF THE EAST.
						The chief believed his work could be accomplished more fully if he made a close study
							of the whites in their cities of the east; and so, accompanied by Captain Wells, he
							mounted a horse and rode to Philadelphia, arriving there in the spring of 1797. Here,
							Little Turtle learned of the benefits of vaccination to render his people immune from
							the ravages of smallpox, and here, too, he met the noted French traveler and
							philosopher, Count de Constantin Francois Chasseboeuf Volney, who became so deeply
							interested in the Miami chief that he made him the subject of extended treatment in a
							volume devoted to his American travels. Volney inquired of Little Turtle his reasons
							for declining to accept the invitation of the Friends to make his home permanently in
							Philadelphia. Says Volney: "He made a considerable pause,
									agreeable to the Indian habit of deliberation and reserve. After some mediation,
									walking about the while and plucking out his beard, he replied: 'Yes, I am pretty
									well accustomed to what I find here. I think this dress [he had donned the white
									man's clothing] warm and comfortable. These houses are good to keep out wind and
									rain, and they have everything convenient. This market—we overlooked Market
									street—gives us everything we want, without the trouble of hunting in the
									woods. All things considered, you are better off than we; but here. I am deaf and
									dumb. I do not speak your language. When I walk the streets, I see everybody busy
									at something; one makes shoes, another hats, a third sells cloth, and all live by
									their work. I say to myself, Which of these things can I do? Not one. I can make a
									bow, catch fish, kill a deer, and go to war, but none of these things are done
									here. To learn what you do would ask much time, be very difficult and uncertain of
									success; and, meanwhile, old age hurries on. Were I to stay with the whites, I
									should be an idle piece of furniture, useless to myself, useless to you and to my
									nation. What must be done with useless lumber? I must go back.'"
						Volney quotes William Wells as saying: "Little Turtle has
									good reasons for what he says. If he delayed returning, he would lose all credit
									with his countrymen. Already, it requires some address to retain their esteem. At
									home, he must resume their dress and habits and be careful of praising those he
									has left, for fear of wounding their pride, which is extreme. Among  them, the jealousy of every member of the clan makes
									the station of chief as perilous and tottering as that of a leader in a democratic
									state, for theirs in fact is a wild and lawless democracy. This man has at home
									good clothes, tea and coffee. He has a cow, and his wife makes butter. But he must
									not indulge himself in these things, but reserve them for the whites. His first
									cow was killed by night, and he was obliged to feign ignorance of the man who did
									it and to report that she died of herself."
						From Philadelphia, Little Turtle and Captain Wells went to Baltimore, where they were
							received with kindliness at the yearly conference of the Society of Friends. Called
							upon to address the assembly, Little Turtle, through Captain Wells as interpreter,
							made an appeal to the church to use its influence to stop the shipment of liquors into
							the Indian country and to encourage the red men to the cultivation of the soil. That
							the request bore fruit will be seen in the address of a memorial to congress and the
							sending of the delegates to Fort Wayne in 1804.
						
							THE GREENVILLE TREATY BOUNDARY LINE.
						
						
							SIGNATURE OF CAPTAIN WILLIAM WELLS.
							Captain Wells, son-in-law of Little Turtle, was doubtless one of the keenest
								politicians of the frontier. In his efforts to guard the interests of the savage
								tribes he excited the antagonism of General Harrison, but he gained the good opinion
								of the powers at the seat of government. (Burton Historical Collection,
								Detroit).
						
						
							SIGNATURE OF COLONEL JOHN JOHNSTON.
							Colonel Johnston was the Indian agent at Fort Wayne from 1800 to 1811. The
								signature is from a document in the Burton Historical Collection, Detroit.
						
						
							COLONEL JOHN JOHNSTON.
							Colonel Johnston, appointed in 1800 by President John Adams as the first government
								agent of Indian affairs at Fort Wayne, was one of the most important figures of his
								time in the west. He had served with Wayne and had been a clerk in the war
								department before entering upon his thirty-one years of service in the department of
								Indian affairs. He was a paymaster and a quartermaster during the war of 1812.
								Eleven years of his life were spent as canal commissioner of Ohio. During the siege
								of Fort Wayne the women of the fort were taken to Piqua, Ohio, and placed in charge
								of Colonel Johnston. His brother Stephen was killed during the siege. He died in
								Washington, D. C., during a business visit. The portrait is from Lossing's
								"Fieldbook of the War of 1812," reproduced by permission of Harper and Brothers, New
								York. The book has been out of print for many years. The Fort Wayne Public Library
								recently purchased a copy.
						
						
						Later, in Washington, the chief visited President Thomas Jefferson and made an appeal
							to the executive which brought from him an address to the legislatures of Ohio and
							Kentucky embodying the plea of the Miami chief in the suppression of the liquor
							traffic. The president also addressed a special message to congress, asking that body
							to authorize the president "to take such measures from time to time as may appear to
							him expedient."
						On one occasion, George Washington presented to Little Turtle a handsome
							sword—the same which is believed to have been found when the supposed grave of
							the chief recently was opened in Fort Wayne. Earlier than this, in December, 1796,
							Washington had sent to Little Turtle, by the hand of Captain, Wells, other expressions
							of his friendliness following the Indian wars. Through the kindness of Jacob M.
							Stouder, of Fort Wayne, who secured a copy of the letter accompanying the gifts, the
							following message is quoted: 
								
									
										"Message to Mi-Che-Ki-Nah-Quah, or Little Turtle, sent by
												William Wells, Indian Interpreter:
										"Brother: The President, your father, has desired me to write to you and tell
											you that he takes you by the hand in friendship, as a proof of which he sends
											you a Dress Coat, a Rifle, a Saddle and Bridle, such as he gave to the Chiefs
											and Warriors, your Brothers, who have been here to visit him. He has also
											instructed me to enclose you a further and more lasting testimonial of his
											affection, which he flatters himself will convince you how he loves you. It is
											a paper which will insure you a faithful return of the friendship of his
											distant Warriors. What he asks from you is fidelity to your promises given in
											the Treaty, your endeavor to prevent your young men from doing injury to the
											frontier Settlers or their property, and your friendship to him and his
											Warriors and the United States.
										"Given at the War-Office of the United States on the 10th day of December,
											1796.
										"(Signed) JAMES M.
											HENRY. "Copy (for GEN'L WILKINSON) "John Stagg, Jun'r,
											Chief Clk., W. O."
									
								
							
						While he was in Washington, Little Turtle was induced by the celebrated artist,
							Stuart, to sit for a portrait. The picture was placed in the capitol building where,
							in 1814, it was destroyed by fire. Here, too, Little Turtle met the Polish patriot,
							Kosciusko.
						Upon his return to the west, the Miami chief appeared before the legislatures of Ohio
							and Kentucky and made a renewed appeal for the co-operation of those bodies in the
							suppression of the sale of whiskey to the Indians and for the promotion of a deeper
							interest in agriculture. He declared: "We had better be at war
									with the white people. This liquor that they introduce into our country is more to
									be feared than the tomahawk. There are more of us dead since the treaty of
									Greenville than we lost by the wars before, and it is owing to the introduction of
									this liquor among us."
						Likewise, Major B. F. Stickney, later serving as Indian agent at Fort Wayne, said: "The insatiable thirst for intoxicating liquors appears to be
									born with all the yellow-skinned inhabitants of America; and the  thirst for gain of the citizens of the United States
									appears to be capable of eluding all the vigilance of the government to stop the
									distribution of liquor among them. * * * The Indians will travel any distance to
									obtain it. It appears to be valued higher than life itself."
						The stand taken by Little Turtle won the admiration of the better element of the
							whites, but it lost him forever the old-time prestige with his people. General
							Harrison, writing two years after the death of the chief, asserts that his loss of
							standing with the tribes was due to the efforts to induce the red men to lay aside the
							tomahawk and scalping knife and take up the peaceful tools of the agriculturist. "It
							was the rock upon which the popularity of Tecumseh was founded," said he, "and that
							upon which the influence of Little Turtle was wrecked."
						"This Turtle," wrote Colonel John Johnston, in 1810, "is contemptible beyond
							description in the eyes of the Indians."
						The truth of these assertions is made plain in the report of the visit of the devout
							Quakers who, in response to the appeal of Little Turtle, came to Fort Wayne in 1804 to
							attempt to introduce the best methods of agriculture among the Indians. From the
							official report of Gerard T. Hopkins to his church, the story as here reviewed is
							obtained. Mr. Hopkins was accompanied by George Ellicott, also of the Society of
							Friends, and Philip Dennis, a practical farmer who was engaged to serve as instructor.
							Dennis's efforts provided what was probably the first school of agriculture in the
							west.
						Mr. Hopkins states that when the three horsemen drew up to the outer gates of the
							palisades of Fort Wayne, they were commanded by the sentinel to halt. Satisfactory
							credentials were produced, and they were conducted to Captain (later Major) Whipple,
							commandant of the fort, who "behaved with a freedom and gentility of a well-bred man."
							The fort, as described by the visitors, "was large and substantial, * * * commanding a
							beautiful view of the rivers, as also of an extent of about four square miles of
							cleared land, much of which was cleared by the army of the United States."
						It is worthy of note that these clear-minded Quakers, after traversing the region
							between the Maumee and the Wabash rivers, recorded their belief that a canal
							connecting the waters could be constructed with but little effort.
						The visitors from the east were surprised, according to the record of their
							adventures, to observe that no attention was given, either in the fort or the Indian
							village, to the proper observance of the Sabbath day. The account records that Little
							Turtle, "with a countenance placid beyond description, took us by the hand with
							cordiality, and expressed himself in terms of great gladness at meeting with us. About
							2 o'clock we dined. At the head of the table sat the interpreter's [Captain William
							Wells] wife, who is a modest, well-looking Indian woman, the daughter of a
							distinguished chief. She had prepared for us a large, well-roasted wild turkey and
							also a wild turkey boiled, and for these she provided a large supply of cranberry
							sauce. The Little Turtle sat at the table with us, and with much sociability we all
							partook of an excellent dinner." In response to the request of the visitors that a
							large number of members of the tribe be gathered to receive instructions in
							agriculture, the chiefs  asked for eight days' time to
							gather "a considerable number of their indolent people, who were too lazy to hunt or
							make sugar, but such they did not wish us to see."
						The attempt to educate the Indians to till the soil was undertaken at a point on the
							Wabash river about thirty-two miles southwest of Fort Wayne, and Dennis was left to
							conduct the work of instruction. After the departure of the Friends, he continued his
							efforts but "only one, or at the most two, of the Indians could be induced to aid him.
							As long as the novelty of the work lasted and they could share in his food, a few
							Miamis lingered around in the shade or branches of trees, but would not work." In
							discouragement Dennis returned to Maryland. The Friends departed from Fort Wayne by
							way of the Maumee. Their pirogue was propelled by Corporal King and a private from
							Fort Wayne.
					
					
						THE IMPENDING OUTBREAK.
						The savages were in no mood to give their attention to the tilling of the soil.
							Trouble of a subdued character, breaking out here and there in threatening form,
							portended serious conflicts for the future. The government, viewing the situation in
							its true aspect, had decided, in 1803, to establish a fort on the shore of Lake
							Michigan—the spot referred to in the Greenville treaty as "Chicajo"—and
							now the site of one of the world's foremost cities. In order to pave the way, Captain
							William Wells was dispatched from Fort Wayne to discuss with the Indians the
							government's intentions.
						"The complaints or uneasiness of the Indians relative to the post at Chicago will, I
							hope, be removed by Mr. Wells, who was ordered there for the purpose early last
							spring," wrote Secretary of War Dearborn to the commandant at Detroit, "but,
							unfortunately, the letter did not reach him until about two months after he should
							have received it, but he set out immediately after receiving the letter, and will
							undoubtedly be able to convince the Indians not only of our right to make the
							establishment, but of its being useful to them."
						To Major John Whistler was entrusted the arduous task of establishing, this fort,
							which was named Dearborn in honor of the secretary of war. Whistler formerly was
							stationed at Fort Wayne on special duty, and he was later to return as its commandant.
							In a small schooner, conveying part of the building material, Major Whistler made the
							trip from Detroit to the site of Chicago, by way of the Straits of Mackinaw,
							accompanied by his wife, his son, Lieutenant William Whistler, and bride, and a
							younger son, George Washington Whistler. Troops marching overland from Detroit to the
							site of Chicago arrived at their destination at almost the same time that Whistler's
							schooner reached the end of its journey. After the erection of the stockade and
							blockhouses, Whistler became the commandant. "In building Fort Dearborn," writes B. J.
							Lossing in his "Pictorial Fieldbook of the War of 1812," "Major Whistler worked so
							economically that the fort did not cost the government over fifty dollars. For a while
							the garrison could get no corn and Whistler and his men subsisted on acorns."
						At Fort Wayne the government proceeded with its every obligation to the Indians. In
							1804, meeting a request of the near-by  tribes, a
							commodious council house was built near the fort, to be used in the holding of
							conferences with the chiefs.
						This first council house was erected by the troops of the garrison on the lots on the
							present East Main street, adjoining Engine House No. 1 on the east. Afterward, upon
							this site, Michael Hedekin built a residence, later occupied by Congressman James M.
							Robinson. In addition to the council house, a storehouse of two stories was erected
							adjoining it. Both buildings were burned during the siege of the fort eight years
							later. At this time, also, Major Whipple caused extensive improvements in the fort
							structure to be made.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XV.
						(1) James Freeman, an engineer sent in
							1803 by the war department, surveyed this six-mile tract and also the two-mile-square
							tract which includes the landing place on the Little River end of the portage. A copy
							of this map, unearthed in the war department in 1916, is in the possession of the
							writer. It shows in accurate detail the entire route of the famous Maumee-Wabash
							portage.
						(2) The following notes concerning the members of the family of Colonel Thomas
							Hunt are of interest: Ruth married Dr. Abraham Edwards at Fort Wayne in 1805. Henry
							Jackson Hunt was born at Watertown, Massachusetts, in 1788, and accompanied his father
							to Fort Wayne and Detroit. Thomas Hunt, Jr., died in infancy. George Hunt was born at
							Watertown, Massachusetts, in 1789; he was with the family when the father proceeded
							from Mackinac to Bellefontaine, Missouri. Abigail Hunt, born at Watertown,
							Massachusetts, in 1797, was an infant when Colonel Hunt was ordered to Fort Wayne; she
							became the wife of Josiah Snelling. John Elliott Hunt was born at Fort Wayne in 1798.
							Samuel Wellington Hunt was born at Fort Wayne in 1799. William Brown Hunt was born at
							Detroit in 1800. The birth of Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Hunt occurred at Detroit
							March 29, 1802, while the father was commandant of the post there. Mary LeBaron Hunt
							was born at Mackinac Island in 1803, while the father had charge of the post there,
							and Eliza Mitchell Hunt was born at Detroit December 18, 1804, while the father was
							still at Mackinac. (From a Scrap Book, in the Burton Historical Collection at
							Detroit). On August 18, 1808, at the age of fifty-four years, Colonel Hunt died at
							Bellefontaine. The following December, his widow, Eunice Hunt, filed a petition for
							relief from the United States government, she having been left a widow "with a
							numerous family of infant children." This petition was accompanied by another signed
							by Meriwether Lewis (who was with Wayne in his campaign and who became famous as one
							of the leaders in the Lewis and Clark expedition to the northwest) and other
							"inhabitants of the town of St. Louis, Territory of Louisiana," urging its favorable
							reception. As Colonel Hunt had not been invalided or killed in battle, and as Congress
							did not wish to establish a precedent, Mrs. Hunt was given leave to withdraw her
							petition. She died six months after her husband's demise. The cause of death is given
							as "literally of a broken heart." The children of Colonel and Mrs. Hunt were reared by
							relatives in various parts of the country.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVI—1806-1812. The Quiet Before the Savage
						Storm.
					Tecumseh and "The Prophet" unite the savages in a conspiracy to destroy the
						settlers—Captain Wells reports conditions at Fort Wayne—Baptiste Maloch and
						Angeline Chapeteau—Captain Nathan Heald commands Fort Wayne—His romantic
						courtship of Rebekah Wells—Lieutenant Ostrander's letter—Congress gives
						Wells the present Spy Run and Bloomingdale districts—Harrison's 1809 treaty at
						Fort Wayne—Lieutenant William Whistler—Colonel Johnston's
						troubles—Captain James Rhea in command of Fort Wayne—His weakness of
						character—Celebration of the 4th of July, 1811—The "big elm"—The
						battle of Tippecanoe—Savages deceive Colonel Johnston—He is succeeded by
						Major Stickney—War against England is declared—Rhea foresees Indian
						war—The death of Little Turtle—The Fort Dearborn massacre—Stories of
						the survivors.
					A DOZEN YEARS had passed since the battle of Fallen Timber, and the
						children of the savages of that day were now grown to stalwart youth who had not learned
						the lesson of the power of the white man, except through the lips of their elders.
					Gradually, the older members of the tribes witnessed the passing of their lands into
						the hands of the whites. Lawless traders among them whispered tales of encouragement to
						the savage to rise in his might and destroy the white man, who was fast turning his
						hunting grounds into farms and settlements.
					The occasion awaited only a second Pontiac. That leader came in the person of Tecumseh,
						the Shawnee. But he came not alone. Another, named Elskwatawa—reputed to be his
						brother—appeared on the scene almost at the same time. As Pontiac had conspired
						against the English, so Tecumseh and "The Prophet" (for by that name was Elskwatawa
						called) came to destroy the Americans. Unhappily, their great scheme of murder and
						destruction approached its finish simultaneously with Great Britain's harassment of the
						United States until the republic was compelled to declare war against the mother
						country. So, hand in hand, these two enemies, fighting together, but in widely different
						interests, turned the Maumee-Wabash valleys into fields of bloodshed.
					The appearance of Tecumseh was like the coming of one whom the savages had long
						awaited. Blue Jacket, disappointed with the outcome of the contest with Wayne, had
						induced the great Shawnee to assume the command of the savages in their vast new
						confederacy. Tecumseh had been a leader in the attack on Fort Recovery in 1793, and he
						had participated in the battle of Fallen Timber, where he was brought into conflict with
						a leader who was one day to crush his hopes of success—William Henry Harrison.
					"The Prophet" came to the region of the Tippecanoe from his village on the Scioto
						river, in Ohio, where he first gained attention as a sorcerer. Pretending to be the
						chosen mouthpiece of the Great Spirit, he gave out the word that the time was near at
						hand when  the red man would regain all of his departed
						possessions and drive the white man from the western country.
					Captain William Wells, at Fort Wayne, through his close acquaintanceship with the
						Indians, kept well informed of conditions. On the 20th of August, 1807, writing to
						Governor Harrison, he said: "Two confidential Indians have
								returned and say that the Indians in that quarter [Mackanic] believe in what the
								Prophet tells them, which is that the Great Spirit will, in a few years, destroy
								every white man in America. * * * This business was kept a secret from Little
								Turtle, the White Loon, Five Medals and Charley, as they were Big Knives [friends of
								the Kentuckians] and ought not to know anything about the affairs of the Indians. *
								* * We are all alarmed at this place [Fort Wayne], myself excepted, as I can see no
								danger as yet at our doors. Something must be done. It cannot be done too soon, too.
								The Indians are certainly forming an improper combination—one that is not
								friendly toward us, otherwise the leaders in it would not keep it so much in the
								dark from every person that is friendly disposed toward the United
						States."
					
						ANGELINE CHAPETEAU.
						In the midst of these troublous times there was added to the little settlement at the
							fort in 1804 the French family of Jean Baptiste Maloch (or Melosh), consisting of
							Maloch, his wife and their sprightly granddaughter, Angeline Chapeteau. They came from
							Detroit, by way of the Maumee. Angeline, then a girl of seventeen, 
								GOVERNOR HULL'S PLEA FOR MAJOR WHISTLER.
								In 1811 Captain (later Major) John Whistler was stationed in a minor position
									under General William Hull, commandant at Detroit. On April 12 of that year
									General Hull wrote the above letter to the secretary of war, William Eustis.
									Captain Whistler did not receive the appointment to Fort Wayne until 1814.
							
							 was destined to remain an active figure in the life of
							the place until the little settlement had developed into a promising
							city—indeed, until the railroad had been a builder of commerce for twenty years.
							Two years after her arrival she married James Peltier, and, latterly, Edward Griswold,
							a building contractor.
						Much interest clusters about this pioneer of pioneer families. The name of Jean
							Baptiste Maloch is first found in an old manuscript written, it is said, by a French
							priest, and given to Francis Parkman, the historian. He was a resident of Detroit at
							the time of the Pontiao conspiracy in 1760. It was at his house that Pontiac confined
							as prisoners Captain Donald Campbell, second in command of the British fort at
							Detroit, and Lieutenant George McDougall. The latter escaped, but Campbell was killed
							and eaten by the savages. The name of Maloch appears as a witness, together with that
							of his 
								LITTLE TURTLE'S GRAVE IN 1860.
								In September, 1860, Benson J. Lossing, the artist-historian, while in Fort Wayne
									made the above sketch of the site of the grave of Little Turtle. The picture is
									reproduced from Lossing's "Pictorial Fieldbook of the War of 1812" by permission
									of Harper and Brothers, New York.
							
							
								WHITE LOON, GREAT-GRANDSON OF LITTLE TURTLE.
								Anthony Revarre, Jr., or White Loon, is the son of Kil-so-quah, granddaughter of
									Little Turtle. In 1902 occurred the death of Revarre's wife, an English school
									teacher. Revarre was born in 1841. The portrait is from a photograph by L. M.
									Huffman.
							 brother Francis, in Major Gladwyn's, investigation into the death of
							Campbell. He was a man of some means, as is shown by the census report of Detroit in
							1782, in which he is reported as being possessed of "a wife, one hired man, one son,
							eight daughters, one male slave, two female slaves, five horses, four oxen, six cows,
							six steers, nine hogs, 1,500 pounds of flour, seventy bushels of wheat, twenty-three
							bushels of wheat sown and sixty arpents of cleared land."
						The late Mrs. Lucien P. Ferry stated that she remembered the childhood name of Miss
							Chapeteau as Angelique. Many interesting stories concerning the attractive French girl
							have come down to the present time. The following incidents are furnished by William
							H. W. Peltier, great-grandson of Angeline Chapeteau Peltier: 
								THE COMING OF ANGELINE CHAPETEAU.
								This scene is from a frieze in one of the court rooms in the Allen County court
									house. It represents the coming to Fort Wayne of Angeline Chapeteau and her
									grandparents, Jean Baptiste Maloch and his wife, in 1804. (See Chapter XVI.). The
									portrait of Angeline Chapeteau (Mrs. Griswold) in her old age, appears below.
							
							
								MRS. ANGELINE (CHAPETEAU) PELTIER-GRISWOLD.
								At the age of sixteen, Mrs. Edward Griswold (Miss Angeline Chapeteau) came to
									Fort Wayne in 1804 with her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Jean Baptiste Maloch. She
									became the wife of Louis Peltier; later she married Edward Griswold, a contractor.
									Her death occurred in 1876, in her eighty-sixth year. During her young womanhood
									she was the heroine of many an episode with the savages, who called her "Golden
									Hair" and made her a member of the Miami family. During the siege of Fort Wayne,
									Mrs. Peltier, who had declined to take refuge in Ohio, with the other women of the
									post, remained by her husband's side. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by
									the great-grandson of Mrs. Griswold, William H. W. Peltier.
							
							
								THREE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE OLDEST FAMILY OF FORT WAYNE.
								The photograph shows Louis C. Peltier, his son, James C. Peltier, and the son of
									the latter, William H. W. Peltier. The father of Louis C. Peltier was James
									Peltier, whose father, Louis Peltier was a resident of the site of Fort Wayne long
									before the Wayne campaign. The name Peltier has been connected with the history of
									Fort Wayne longer than any other.
							
							
								FORT WAYNE IN 1815.
								The drawing was made by the author from information secured from the plans of the
									fort and surroundings as made by Major John Whistler in 1815, and unearthed in the
									war department just a century later, together with information gathered from other
									sources.
							
							
							"At the time of her coming to Fort Wayne she was a bright
									young girl with hair of such a strikingly red color that the Indians called her
									'Golden Hair.' She was at once a favorite with the Miamis and they adopted her
									into their tribe with solemn ceremony. We have many stories of her successful
									efforts to protect the whites 
										WHERE LITTLE TURTLE IS BURIED.
										Chief Little Turtle was buried in July, 1812, in that portion of the present
											city of Fort Wayne which lies between Spy Run avenue and the St. Joseph river,
											some distance north of the St. Mary's river. All authorities agree upon this
											point. But where is the exact burial spot? William D. Schiefer, of 333 East
											Main street, recalls the day in 1866 when John P. Hedges indicated to him the
											place where Little Turtle was buried. The chief died July 14, 1812. Mr.
											Schiefer, in 1866, lived with his parents on the Abraham Barnett farm, which
											then included the tracts north and south of the present Lawton Place, as shown
											in the map. At that time Mr. Hedges located the grave at the spot indicated by
											the letter A. On the 4th of July, 1912, Charles and Albert Lochner,
											contractors, while excavating for the dwelling of Dr. George W. Gillie on
											Lawton Place, unearthed four skeletons and a large number of Indian ornaments,
											dishes and other articles. Among the specimens is a sword with a solid silver
											hilt. It is a fact of history that Washington gave to Little Turtle such a
											sword. Four skulls were found in the burial place; three were crumbling, while
											one was in fair condition. The three were buried again, while the
											best-preservd spcimen was retained. Later, Jacob M. Stouder, who is interested
											in the study of the Miamis, secured the skull and the articles found in the
											graves. The authorities of the National Museum, when the skull was submitted
											to them, pronounced it to be that of an Indian woman. "I am fully convinced,
											however," says Mr. Stouder, "that the grave of Little Turtle has been found.
											Probably one of the three other skulls was that of the great Miami chieftain.
											I believe this sword is the one given to Little Turtle by Washington. There is
											also a pair of earrings, such as the chiefs, only, wore." A visit to
											Kil-so-quah, the granddaughter of Little Turtle, added to Mr. Stouder's belief
											that the spot of Little Turtle's burial has been found. Benson J. Lossing, the
											artist-historian, while in Fort Wayne in 1860, was shown the alleged site of
											the chief's grave by John P. Hedges, but the place described by him in his
											Pictorial Fieldbook is some distance south of that located by Mr. Schiefer and
											Mr. Stouder. (See B.)
									
									 from the savage treatment of the Indians, but
									probably the experience of 1812 best illustrates her power over them. At the time
									of the opening of the siege James Peltier, the Second, her first son, was four
									years old. The family of three lived in a log house outside the fort, but within
									the outer stockade at a point near the building of the present Fort Wayne Iron
									Store Company, East Superior street and the Spy Run bridge. Even after the siege
									was on in earnest Mrs. Peltier continued to remain in the house, and here she,
									served as a friend of both the garrison and the besiegers, with the hope of using
									her good offices to bring about peace. The Indians, during this time, brought
									venison within reach of the house to exchange 
										REBEKAH WELLS HEALD.
										Shortly before General Wayne invaded the west Captain William Wells, who had
											been stolen when a boy by the Miamis and who, when he grew to manhood married
											a daughter of Little Turtle, learned of the whereabouts of his relatives in
											Kentucky. He visited them and later, in 1808, his niece, Rebekah Wells,
											accompanied him on horseback to Fort Wayne. While here she became engaged to
											marry the commandant, Captain Nathan Heald, and the wedding occurred in
											Kentucky in 1810, after Captain Heald had been placed in command of Fort
											Dearborn. Rebekah Wells Heald and her husband, with Captain Wells, were the
											central figures in the Fort Dearborn massacre. The Healds, however, made their
											escape from the savages and managed to paddle a canoe the entire length of
											Lake Michigan in order to reach Mackinac. The portrait is reproduced by
											permission of the publishers, A. C. McClurg, from "The Story of Old Fort
											Dearborn."
									
									
										THE HISTORIC OLD APPLE TREE.
										The above picture of the historic apple tree which formerly stood in
											Kekionga, site of the present Lakeside, is reproduced from a lithograph in
											Brice's "History of Fort Wayne," published in 1868, at which time Mr. Brice
											wrote: "The tree is about one hundred and thirty odd years old. * * * The tree
											is supposed to have sprung from a seed accidentally dropped or purposely
											planted by some of the early French traders or missionaries." Near it, in a
											hut, in 1761, was born Chief Richardville, of the Miamis. It is related that
											during the siege of Fort Wayne in 1812, an Indian sharpshooter perched in its
											branches terrorized the besieged garrison, but was finally brought to earth by
											a well-aimed shot from the fort. In 1867 Historian Brice found the trunk of
											the tree to measure twelve feet in circumference.
									 it for salt which Mrs. Peltier procured from the fort. Thus was the
									garrison kept in food and the savages provided with salt. Finally, my
									great-grandmother was ordered within the fort, and it was not long before every
									building outside the inclosure was in ashes."
						
						At a later time an intoxicated Indian attacked her. She managed to overpower him and
							bring him to such a degree of subjection that she could tie him securely with a rope
							and give him a severe  flogging. In this condition he
							was compelled to remain until the following morning, when he was released. Soon a body
							of excited savages surrounded the house and demanded her appearance. As she started to
							come forth, she saw, as a member of the group, the savage who had attacked her the
							night before. She hesitated, but it was only for a moment. Imagine her relief when she
							found that the Indians had come to pay homage to a woman of bravery and skill in
							meeting an adversary. The victim himself had organized the party which paid its
							respects and obtained her forgiveness.
						Mrs. Peltier lived until 1876. The children of Mr. and Mrs. James Peltier were James
							Peltier, the Second, born 1806, who lived to the advanced age of ninety-six years,
							Louis Peltier, born March 14, 1813, who died in 1904 at the age of ninety-one, and
							Salvador Peltier, who died in 1915 at the age of eighty-nine. The children of Louis
							Peltier and wife (Laura Cushing) were James C. Peltier and Ellen Peltier-Meegan. Three
							daughters were born to Salvador Peltier and wife (Catherine Vallequet).
						Mrs. Ferry, who knew all the persons to whom she referred, said to the writer in
							1914: "A year after Angelique Chapeteau came, two younger sisters arrived from
							Detroit. One of these became the wife of Charles Peltier. Another sister, Theresa,
							married Francis Minie. Their brother, George Chapeteau, also settled at Fort Wayne.
							One day, when Charles Peltier was riding in the woods, he was attacked by wolves. His
							horse ran away and he could not save himself. His skeleton was found later. Nothing
							but his snuffbox remained for identification." The writer, in examining into the
							family records of the French at Detroit, found the old spelling of Peltier to be
							Pelletier. William H. W. Peltier states that the change to the modern spelling was
							made by his great-grandfather. The present spelling of Chapeteau is Chapetan, and many
							representatives of the family are living in Detroit today.
					
					
						CAPTAIN NATHAN HEALD, COMMANDANT.
						The year 1807 brought a new commandant to Fort Wayne, Captain Nathan Heald, whose
							name figures in one of the most tragic events of the frontier—the massacre of
							Fort Dearborn, six years later. In the autobiography of Captain Heald, appearing for
							the first time in 1913, it is recorded that the commandant was born in 1775, in New
							Ipswich, New Hampshire, the third son of Colonel Thomas and Sybel (Adams) Heald.
							Referring to the events of the year 1806, he says: "Left New
									London [Connecticut] and went to New Brunswick, N. J., on the same service
									[recruiting] & in the fall I was ordered to Fort Wayne by way of Philadelphia,
									where I joined Capt. Stoddard with a Detachment of Recruits & went with him to
									Newport on the Ohio, then by myself to Fort Wayne where I arrived and took command
									in January, 1807. On the 31st of that month, & the same year, was promoted to
									a Capt. in First Reg't Infantry. In the Spring of 1807 went to Detroit to sit on a
									General Court Martial & returned to Fort Wayne in the summer."
						The autobiography of Captain Heald appears in full as an  appendix to "Chicago and the Old Northwest," by Dr. M. M. Quaife, University of
							Chicago Press. The original is in the form of a small notebook, 3 by 6 inches in size,
							which forms a part of the Draper collection at Madison, Wisconsin. The autobiography
							was written to cover a period of activity down to the year 1822, when Heald was living
							in retirement in St. Charles County, Missouri.
						The story of the frontier experience of Captain Heald includes one of the early
							romances of Fort Wayne. In the year 1809, Captain William Wells, on his return from a
							visit with his relatives in Kentucky, brought to Fort Wayne as a guest his niece,
							Rebekah Wells. Miss Wells was the daughter of Samuel Wells, later a hero of the battle
							of Tippecanoe, a brother of the man whose name is 
								KIL-SO-QUAH, GRANDDAUGHTER OF LITTLE TURTLE.
								In the year of her death, 1915, Kil-so-quah was 105 years of age. She was born in
									1810 on the island formed by the two forks of the Wabash river two miles west of
									Huntington, Indiana. Her father was Wak-shin-gah, a son of Chief Little Turtle.
									Her mother was the daughter of She-mock-o-nish, a Miami warrior. The first husband
									of Kil-so-quah was John Owl, whose death occurred soon after their marriage. Later
									she married Anthony Revarre, who died in 1849, after which time the aged Miami
									princess lived with her son, Anthony Revarre, Jr., or White Loon. A daughter, Mrs.
									Taylor, lives in Roanoke, Indiana. Kil-so-quah, who was two years of age when
									Little Turtle died, retained a faint remembrance of her royal grandfather. "The
									old chief used to come to her father's home at Miami park, west of Huntington,
									and, complaining that his hair had not been combed for many days, smiled a
									whimsical invitation for his tiny granddaughter to perform the service for him,"
									writes Mrs. Matilda Henderson Wheelock, in the Indianapolis Star of August 22,
									1909. "Whereupon," she continues, "the little Kil-so-quah joyfully climbed into
									the royal lap, planted her sturdy little feet firmly upon the royal knee and, with
									the royal arms to steady her, delightedly proceeded with her pleasing task." The
									portrait is from a photograph by L. M. Huffman.
							
							
								ME-TE-A.
								Me-te-a, the noted Pottawatomie chief, who had a village on the site of the
									present Cedarville, Allen county, Indiana, and another on the St. Joseph river
									seven miles north of Fort Wayne, was at the height of his power in 1812. It was he
									who secretly informed Antoine Bondie of the plan to besiege Fort Wayne. Later,
									with a few of his braves, he prepared an ambuscade for Harrison's army, five miles
									south of Fort Wayne, as it approached the fort, but the plan was discovered by
									Captain Logan and Major Mann, a spy. Me-te-a, who was hidden behind a tree, left
									his elbow exposed as he held his rifle; Major Mann took aim and fired, the
									discharge breaking the bones of the chief's arm. The warrior escaped and ran to
									Fort Wayne to give the alarm, which enabled the savages to reach places of safety.
									The wound of the arm healed, but the member was useless ever afterward. Me-te-a is
									described as a man of bravery, generosity and intellect, and an orator of power.
									He died at Fort Wayne of poisoning in May, 1827, and his body was interred in a
									grave near the present College street, between Berry and Wayne streets. The body
									of Me-te-a was placed in the first burial casket made by the late Louis Peltier.
									Reference to the circumstance is given in a more extended way in another portion
									of this work.
							
							 inseparably linked with the history of Fort Wayne and
							Chicago. While here Miss Wells appears to have been a party to a case of "love at
							first sight," in which the commandant, Captain Nathan Heald, figured with equal zest,
							for they were married two years later and the brave Kentucky girl's name is written
							among the heroes of the Fort Dearborn massacre. During the visit of Rebekah Wells at
							Fort Wayne, Captain Heald taught her the use of the rifle in which she became very
							expert. (See "The Story of Old Fort Dearborn," by J. Seymour Currey; Fort Wayne Public
							Library.)
						Heald had not been entirely satisfied with his position at Chicago. A few days after
							his arrival, in 1810, he wrote Colonel Jacob Kingsbury, at Detroit, that he was not
							pleased with his situation and could not bear to think of staying there during the
							winter. "It is a good place," he wrote, "for a man who has a family and can content
							himself to live remote from the civilized part of the world."
						On the journey of Captain and Mrs. Heald from Louisville, Kentucky, the bride rode "a
							beautiful and well-trained" bay mare upon which the Indians always looked with longing
							eyes; they made several attempts to steal her. At the time of the Fort Dearborn
							massacre, Mrs. Heald was riding this valuable horse when the attack was made, and the
							Indians considered the horse one of the greatest trophies of the attack. Efforts to
							regain possession of the horse by purchase failed. On the trip from Kentucky, Mrs.
							Heald was accompanied by a slave girl, Cicely, who refused to be separated from her
							mistress. The party stopped at Fort Wayne on the way to Fort Dearborn.
						But to return to the period of Captain Heald's administration of the affairs of Fort
								Wayne:1
							We have for our contemplation a well-framed picture of
									conditions about the fort from the letter of a soldier, Lieutenant Philip
									Ostrander, who, sent from Michilimackinac to serve at Fort Wayne, records his
									impressions as follows, in a letter to his friend, George Hoffman, at the northern
									Michigan post. The original letter is in the Burton Historical Collection at
									Detroit. Ostrander wrote: "Fort Wayne, October 4,
											1807.—Dear Sir: I arrived here yesterday after a journey of eleven days
											from Detroit, heartily tired of my passage. At Detroit, I got into a pirogue
											with three Frenchmen, neither of whom could speak one word of English. You may
											easily judge from this how irksome my situation was; my only amusement was
											shooting along shore and occasionally reading. On my arrival at this post
											[Fort Wayne] I was received with the utmost politeness by Captain [Nathan]
											Heald who continues to shew me every flattering attention. Indeed, sir, by
											every officer at Detroit and at this place I have been treated with the utmost
											liberality and respect. The very day of my arrival, I was requested to dine
											with Captain [William] Wells [the Indian agent]; and today by Mr. Johnson
											[Colonel John Johnston], our present factor [superintendent of the government
											"factory"] at this post. I do not mention these circumstances through vanity,
											but merely with the intention of informing you that everyone endeavors to make
											my place of residence comfortable and happy.
										
										"I could form no conception of what an agreeable situation this is, both as
											to the face of the country and the elegant situation of the fort," continues
											Lieutenant Ostrander. "We are, however, destitute of one thing which would
											make the situation still more agreeable—that is, society. Mr. Johnson
											[Johnston], Captain Wells, J. Audrian [brother of the wife of Mr. Hoffman],
											and the officers of the garrison compose our party. They tell me that the
											place is in general pretty healthy, but, to tell the truth, I have seen a
											number of very sick people. Dr. Edwards [who had married the daughter of
											Colonel Thomas Hunt at Fort Wayne in 1803] had, unfortunately, started for
											Cincinnati about an hour before my arrival. * * * Captain Abbott leaves this
											place early tomorrow morning."
						
							ELKSKWATAWA, THE PROPHET.
							The supposed brother of Tecumseh, who exerted a great influence during the Tecumseh
								campaign of 1811-1813, claimed to have received authority from the Great Spirit to
								deliver the red men from the control of the whites. He was "a cunning, unprincipled
								man, in early life remarkable for nothing but stupidity and drunkenness." One of his
								eyes was sightless.
						
						
							WHERE THE FORT DEARBORN MASSACRE OCCURRED.
							The Fort Dearborn massacre took place in a region which may now be generally
								defined as bounded by Fourteenth and Twenty-first streets and Michigan and Indiana
								avenues in the city of Chicago. The map shows the location of Fort Dearborn, the
								agency house, the Kinzie mansion (1), the Ouilmette house (2) and the Burns house
								(3).
						
						The writer of the letter, Lieutenant Philip Ostrander, was one of the officers who
							preferred charges against Captain Rhea, the commandant of the fort in 1812, which
							resulted in the resignation of that officer to avoid the embarrassment of a
							court-martial. Captain Abbott, to whom Ostrander refers, was probably Robert or Samuel
							Abbott, of Detroit. They were brothers of James Abbott, whose wife, Sarah, was the
							daughter of Major John Whistler; the artist, James Abbott McNeill Whistler, was named
							for his uncle. George Hoffman, to whom Ostrander's letter is addressed, was the first
							postmaster of Detroit and at the time of the writing of the letter was collector for
							the government at Mackinac.
						Probably the Audrian (Audrain) to whom Ostrander refers is the Audrain mentioned in a
							report of Governor Harrison to the war  department
							complaining of conditions about Fort Wayne in 1805: "I am convinced that a certain
							Connor and one Audrain have acted as Wells' agents in this affair [creating
							dissatisfaction among the Piankeshaws and Delawares concerning a treaty closed by
							Harrison]. They both have very advantageous contracts with Wells for making rails for
							the Indians. * * * Audrain, although established within a few miles of the falls of
							the Ohio, has found it to his advantage to undertake the making of rails at the
							Turtle's town, north of Fort Wayne."
						Despite the reports of dissatisfaction with the conduct of Captain William Wells,
							sent to the Washington authorities by Governor William Henry Harrison, congress, in
							1808, in recognition of the services of the hardy frontiersman who was yet to add fame
							to his name through his heroic death in the Fort Dearborn massacre, granted to him the
							right to pre-empt, at $1.25 per acre, one section of land in the present Spy Run and
							Bloomingdale districts of Fort Wayne.
						"On this improvement of Captain Wells were comfortable buildings and a good orchard,
							plenty of stock and several negro slaves, which Captain Wells had brought from
							Kentucky," says the late John W. Dawson. At the time of the siege, after Wells's death
							one month before, the widow and her family, together with these slaves, sought refuge
							in the fort, and all of their movable property was carried within the protecting
							palisades. The farm buildings were destroyed by the savages.
						Wells did not pre-empt the land, but his children took advantage of the government's
							offer and entered the property soon after the close of the war of 1812.
					
					
						HARRISON'S TREATY AT FORT WAYNE.
						To Fort Wayne, in 1809, came Governor Harrison, in spite of the threatening
							conditions of the community, to make what proved to be his final treaty with the
							savages in Indiana Territory. The agreement, signed on the 17th of September, added to
							the domain of the United States an area of 2,900,000 acres, the greater portion of
							which was situated north of the old Vincennes tract. The total amount of land ceded to
							the United States by the Indians through treaties conducted by Governor Harrison was
							about 29,719,530 acres.
						Preliminary to the Fort Wayne treaty, "the Pottawatomies waited on the governor and
							requested a little liquor, which was refused. The governor observed that he was
							determined to shut up the liquor casks until all the business was finished," says
							Harrison's official report. "So destructive has been the progress of intemperance that
							whole villages have been swept away," wrote the governor in his first message to the
							territorial legislature.
						Obstinacy on the part of some of the chiefs caused a vexatious delay of the day of
							signing the treaty. Says Ellmore Barce, in the Indiana Magazine of History: "The final consummation of the pact was brought about by the
									ready tact and hard common sense of Harrison himself. No solution of the obstinacy
									of the Mississinewa chiefs had been discovered. 
									Nothing daunted, Harrison resolved to make one more attempt. He took with him his
									interpreter, Joseph Barron, a man in whom he had the utmost confidence, and
									visited the camps of the Miamis. He was received well, and told them he came not
									as the representative of the president, but as an old friend with whom they had
									been many years acquainted. Calling then upon the principal chief of the Eel River
									tribe, who served under him in General Wayne's army, he demanded to know what his
									objections were. The chief drew forth a copy of the Treaty of Grouseland and said:
									'Father, 
										IS THIS THE WASHINGTON SWORD?
										Above are shown a few of the scores of articles taken from Indian graves July
											4, 1912, by Charles and Albert Lochner while excavating for the dwelling of
											Dr. George W. Gillie on Lawton Place. Jacob M. Stouder, the present owner of
											the collection, is firmly of the opinion that the sword is that given by
											President Washington to Chief Little Turtle, and that some of the specimens
											here shown are from the chieftain's grave.
									
										TECUMSEH.
										Following the battle of Tippecanoe Tecumseh came to Fort Wayne and demanded
											of the commandant, Captain Rhea, a supply of ammunition, which was refused
											him. "He then said he would go to his British father, who would not deny him.
											He appeared thoughtful a while, then gave the war-whoop and went off."
											(McAfee). The Fort Dearborn massacre, the siege of Fort Wayne and many of the
											western features of the war of 1812 followed, with Tecumseh leagued with the
											British. The great Shawnee leader was killed at the battle of the Thames, in
											Canada, October 5, 1813. The dispute concerning the identity of the man who
											killed Tecumseh led to the choice of General Harrison as the successful
											candidate for the presidency of the United States.
									here are your own words. In this paper you have promised that you would
									consider the Miamis as the owner of the land on the Wabash. Why, then, are you
									about to purchase it from others?'
								"The governor assured them that it was not his intention to purchase the land
									from other tribes; that he had always said, and was ready now to confess, that the
									land belonged to the Miamis and to no other tribe. That of the other tribes that
									had been invited to the treaty it was at their (the Miamis') particular request.
									The Pottamatomies had, indeed, taken a higher ground than either the governor or
									the Miamis expected. They claimed an equal right  to
									the lands in question with the Miamis; but what of this? Their claiming it gave
									them no right. * * * It was always the governor's intention so to draw the treaty
									that the Pottawatomies and Delawares would be considered as participating in the
									advantages of the treaty as allies of the Miamis; not as having any rights to the
									land. The governor's resourcefulness saved the day."
						Following the conference, Harrison returned to the fort and soon the chiefs, headed
							by Pucan, waited upon him and signed the treaty. The Indians were paid in domestic
							animals to the amount of $500 and the like number for the two following years, and an
							armory maintained at Fort Wayne for the use of the Indians. A further annuity of $200
							was allowed.
						At the time of Harrison's visit, the following government employes were stationed at
							Fort Wayne: Colonel John Johnston, agent or "factor," $1,000
									per year, with subsistence allowance of $365. William Oliver, clerk, $250, with
									$150 for subsistence. The value of merchandise forwarded by the government to Fort
									Wayne during the summer amounted to $4,868.87. The value of merchandise on hand,
									peltries and other goods, was $5,020.75; accounts receivable were listed at
									$2,112.72; the value of the buildings used was given at $500. (Report of J. Mason,
									superintendent of trading house establishments or agencies of the government among
									the Indians, to the secretary of war.)
					
					
						LIEUTENANT WILLIAM WHISTLER
						In 1809, Lieutenant William Whistler was transferred from Fort Dearborn to service at
							Fort Wayne. He was a son of Major John Whistler, who had established Fort Dearborn,
							and who later was to become the commandant of Fort Wayne. Lieutenant Whistler later
							was transferred to Detroit, and was with General Hull when that officer surrendered
							the post to the British in 1812. With Mrs. Whistler (formerly Julia Ferson, of Salem,
							Massachusetts), he was carried to Montreal, where they were held until their exchange
							for British prisoners held by the Americans. Lieutenant Whistler was six feet and two
							inches in height, and weighed two hundred and sixty pounds. His death occurred at
							Newport, Kentucky, in 1863.
					
					
						INCREASING ALARM AT FORT WAYNE.
						The passing of the early weeks of 1810 brought increasing alarm at Fort Wayne which
							was not allayed by the revelation of the plan of the savages to demand the removal of
							William Henry Harrison as the governor of Indiana territory. In July, Harrison wrote
							to the secretary of war: "I have received a letter from Fort
									Wayne which confirms the information of the hostile designs and combinations of
									the Indians. The people in the neighborhood where the horses were stolen are so
									much alarmed that they are collecting together for their defense."
						On the 10th of August, Colonel Johnston wrote to Harrison: "Since writing you on the 25th ultimo, about one hundred Sawkeys [Sacs] have
									returned from the British agent [McKee], who supplied them liberally with
									everything they stand in want of. The  party
									received forty-seven rifles and a number of fusils [flintlock muskets] with plenty
									of powder and lead."
						Colonel Johnston, at Fort Wayne, also reported that Tecumseh and "the Prophet" were
							active in the organization of their propaganda of overthrowing the Americans, and he
							made a special effort to keep in close touch with the governor. Writing under date of
							October 14, 1810, the agent said to Harrison: "I have at last
									got rid of the Indians after a very protracted meeting. * * * All of the tribes
									belonging to this agency were invited in the usual manner, by runners. * * * The
									Miamis hung back, under various frivolous pretenses. * * * I soon found out from
									confidential friends among them that there was mischief going 
										CAPTAIN WELLS'S FARM.
										On May 18, 1808 the national congress, in recognition of his services to the
											government granted to Captain William Wells the right to pre-empt, or buy, at
											$1.25 per acre a half section of land comprising the greater portion of the
											present Spy Run and Bloomingdale, in Fort Wayne. Wells died without taking
											advantage of the privilege, and his children entered the land. Hence the name
											"Wells Pre-emption," often erroneously called "Wells Reserve." At the last
											this property came to Jack Hackley and Ann (Mrs. Ferrand-Blystone) Hackley.
											"Though left with abundant property," observes the late John W. Dawson,
											"neither seemed capable of even preserving it from improvident sale, and I
											apprehend both died poor."
									
									
										THE HOME OF KIL-SO-QUAH.
										In this house, located a short distance south of Roanoke, Indiana,
											Kil-so-quah, granddaughter of Little Turtle, died in 1915 at the age of 10
											years.
									
									
										SIGNATURE OF JOHN P. HEDGES.
										Coming to Fort Wayne first in 1812, Mr. Hedges was long an influential
											citizen of the pioneer town which grew up about the fort. (Signature from
											Burton Historical Collection, Detroit).
									 on among them. * * * Without naming Wells, I introduced the subject that
									had been agitated among them of petitioning for your removal, and I endeavored to
									show them the impropriety of their interfering in such a business. I told them
									that whoever advised them to it was a wicked bad man and was not their friend. * *
									* The Prophet had two of his people here during the whole conference. I took no
									notice of them. * * * Wells has undoubtedly gone to Washington to make interest,
									and if he fails in getting into office again I am told he intended to try for the
									contract he has here; and in the state of Ohio on his way thro' Kentucky,
									endeavored to asperse all the measures that has been adopted by you relative to
									the objects of the Prophet."
						
						Already Harrison had written the secretary of war that "The Prophet" had proposed to
							the young men among the Indians to murder their principal chiefs, "observing that
							their hands would never be untied until this was effected." Large numbers of horses
							were stolen from Fort Wayne, including some belonging to Captain Wells. "The Prophet,"
							on the occasion of a visit to Governor Harrison at Vincennes at this time, said to the
							governor: "I heard that you wanted to know, my father, whether I was God or man, and
							that if it was the former, I should not steal horses. I heard this from Mr. Wells, but
							I believed it originated with himself."
						Governor Harrison, during this critical period, was not idle. Preparations not only
							for defense but of aggressive warfare against the savages, in case of an outbreak,
							were carried forward without interruption. By appointment, Tecumseh appeared before
							him at Vincennes with a large company of hideously painted warriors. "The Shawnee
							Chief Tecumseh has made a visit to this place with about three hundred Indians," wrote
							Harrison, "though he promised to bring but a few attendants; his intentions hostile,
							though he found us prepared for him. * * * That he meditated a blow at this time was
							believed by almost all the neutral Indians."
						The object of Tecumseh's visit was to make a vigorous protest against the late treaty
							at Fort Wayne. "In the course of his speech," says Benjamin Drake, "he admitted that
							he threatened to kill the chiefs who signed the treaty of Fort Wayne and that it was
							his fixed determination not to permit the village chiefs, in future, to manage their
							affairs, but to place the power with which they were heretofore invested in the hands
							of the war chiefs."
						The delivery of Governor Harrison's reply was interrupted by the outcry of Tecumseh,
							whose armed braves undoubtedly would have fallen upon the assemblage of whites but for
							the prompt appearance of the guard, fully prepared to meet an attack.
					
					
						CAPTAIN JAMES RHEA, COMMANDANT.
						In the midst of the agitation, Captain Nathan Heald was transferred from the command
							at Fort Wayne to the post at Fort Dearborn. In his stead came Captain James Rhea, who
							arrived in the spring of 1810. The weakness of character of the new commandant under
							the trying conditions which were soon to surround the little garrison of the fort in
							the wilderness might have proved of frightful consequence but for the bravery and
							intelligence of the subordinate military and civil authorities within the
							stockade.
						"Rhea was a native of New Jersey, and a lieutenant and adjutant of 'Rhea's Levies,'
							in 1791. He was ensign and second lieutenant of infantry in 1799, and was promoted to
							first lieutenant in 1800. He was commissioned a captain in 1807." (Gardner's
							"Dictionary of the Army.") Rhea, after serving under Wayne, had been in command of a
							post established by Wayne below Swan creek, which empties into the Maumee, in
							Ohio.
						The first celebration of the Fourth of July at Fort Wayne of which a record has been
							preserved occurred in the year 1810. Gathered near the Maumee, below Harmar's Ford,
							beneath the "big  elm," as the tree was known for many
							years, Commandant Rhea and his officers, together with the attaches of the fort, were
							enjoying the day in patriotic style when the celebration was interrupted by 
								GENERAL HULL'S FATAL LETTER TO CAPTAIN HEALD.
								The original order of General William Hull to Captain Nathan Heald directing the
									latter to evacuate Fort Dearborn and convey the occupants and stores to Fort Wayne
									is the property of the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, through whose
									permission it is here reproduced. The letter was obtained by Dr. Lyman C. Draper,
									former secretary of the society, from Darius Heald, son of Captain Heald, whom Dr.
									Draper visited at his home near O'Fallon, Missouri, in 1869. The hastily written
									order which brought a terrible death to many reads as follows:
								"It is with regret I order the evacuation of your post, owing to the want of
									provisions only, a neglect of the commandant at Detroit. You will therefore
									destroy all arms and ammunition but the goods of the factory you may give to the
									friendly Indians, who may be desirous of escorting you on to Fort Wayne, and to
									the poor and needy of your post. I am informed this day that Mackinac and the
									Island of St. Joseph will be evacuated on account of the scarcity of provisions,
									and I hope in my next to give you an account of the surrender of the British at
									Malden, as I expect 600 men here on the beginning of September.
								I am yours, &c.,
								BRIGADIER GEN. HULL."
							
							 the appearance of a mounted courier from Detroit
							bringing the first regular mail and military dispatches to the garrison. Because of
							this occurrence, Captain Rhea, who was authorized to receive and distribute the mail,
							is sometimes referred to as Fort Wayne's first postmaster, and the "big elm" has been
							called "the first postoffice."
						Rhea was fully cognizant of the impending trouble with the savages, but he failed
							utterly to grasp the opportunity to make a name which should be written alongside
							those of the nation's heroes of the time in the west. The Indian agent, Colonel
							Johnston, however, was alert. On the 6th of February, 1811, he wrote Governor
							Harrison, as follows, omitting the name of his informant: "——— has been at this place. The information derived from
									him is the same I have been in possession of for several years, to wit: the
									intrigues of the British agents and partisans in creating an influence hostile to
									our people and government, within our territory."
						Governor Harrison hastened to Fort Wayne late in August, 1811, and here, on the 4th
							of September, held a council with such of the Indian chiefs as could be induced to
							attend. Eleven leaders of the Miamis were present. The original documents containing
							the addresses of Harrison and chiefs on this occasion were discovered in the following
							curious manner: S. A. Gibson, superintendent of the Kalamazoo (Mich.) Paper Company,
							found, in a mass of waste paper, received from Fort Wayne,, twenty-eight pages of
							foolscap paper, evidently torn from a book. Upon these pages were written, in the same
							hand, though at different times, the address of Governor Harrison, together with the
							translated speeches of the Indians. The identity of the translator is unknown. The
							speeches first appeared in Fergus's Historical Series No. 26, in connection with a
							paper by Hiram W. Beckwith, of Danville, Illinois.
						Returning to Vincennes, Harrison took immediate steps for an aggressive campaign
							against the Prophet's Town, on the Tippecanoe. His move was made increasingly urgent
							by the appeals of the pioneers for protection against the maraudings of the savages
							which now were openly conducted.
					
					
						THE BATTLE OF TIPPECANOE.
						With additional regular troops and militia, Governor Harrison advanced up the Wabash
							during the second week in October. On September 11; the governor had written to the
							secretary of war, Mr. Eustis: "The government need be under no
									apprehension for us. Sir, if the Prophet attacks us, we shall beat him. I promise
									you at least that we shall not be surprised. * * * The Greek maxim, 'Asphales gar est (i) ameinon e thrasus strategas' [A safe leader is better
									than a bold one], which was so great a favorite with Augustus (who, by the bye,
									was, I believe, inferior as a warrior to Little Turtle or Tecumseh) shall be ever
									present to my mind."
						Peace messengers to the Indians were mistreated, and a sentinel was seriously
							wounded. "The Prophet" sent his emissaries to Harrison, pleading for a council the
							next day, but, true to the savage  character, the
							Indians attacked the camp of the Americans on the fields of Tippecanoe at 4 o'clock in
							the morning, but were utterly defeated in their attempt to destroy Harrison's army.
							The American loss was twenty-two killed and one hundred and twenty-six wounded. About
							seven hundred men were engaged on either side in this famous Battle of Tippecanoe
							which brought to Harrison new fame and turned his face toward the White House.
						As early as May, 1811, Tecumseh had declared openly to Captain Wells that he was
							"determined to resist the encroachments of the white people." Upon Wells observing
							that he would never be able to accomplish his intentions, he declared that Wells would
							live to see the contrary. It was Tecumseh's determination to kill every chief who had
							signed the treaty with Harrison at Fort Wayne in 1809.
						Tecumseh had not been a participant in the battle of Tippecanoe, as the conflict had
							been forced by "The Prophet" while Tecumseh was visiting the tribes along the Ohio
							river. The result 
								THE LITTLE TURTLE TABLET.
								A small tablet marked "Little Turtle, 1751-1812" was placed by Jacob M. Stouder
									in the rear of the residence property of Dr. George W. Gillie, No. 634 Lawton
									Place, to mark the spot where Chief Little Turtle is believed to have been
									buried.
							
							
								SIGNATURE OF LIEUTENANT PHILIP OSTRANDER.
								Lieutenant Ostrander was one of the officers in charge of Fort Wayne during the
									siege of 1812. (Burton Historical Collection, Detroit).
							
							
								SIGNATURE OF CAPTAIN NATHAN HEALD.
								Captain Heald was in command of Fort Wayne from 1807 to 1810. At the time of the
									Fort Dearborn massacre he was the commandant of the post. His wife, who shared the
									perils of the time, was a niece of Captain William Wells. (Burton Historical
									Collection, Detroit.)
							affected him deeply. His great plan was already defeated, but he was still
							for war. Says McAfee: "After Tecumseh returned from the south,
									he visited Fort Wayne and was still haughty and obstinate in the opinions he had
									embraced. He made bitter reproaches against Harrison, and, at the same time, had
									the presumption to demand ammunition from the commandant, which was refused him.
									He then said he would go to the British father, who would not deny him. He
									appeared thoughtful a while, and then gave the warwhoop and went off."
						
						Tecumseh made his way immediately to Malden. Captain Wells reported the chief's visit
							in a communication to Governor Harrison, dated July 22. He added that the chief was on
							his way "to receive twelve horseloads of ammunition for the use of his people."
						
						Later, contrary to the wishes of the government, Tecumseh gathered a large number of
							braves at Greenville. Acting upon instructions from the war department, Wells sent
							Anthony Shane, a half-breed Shawnee, with a message to Tecumseh, inviting him and his
							brother, with two other Chiefs, to visit him at Fort Wayne, where arrangements would
							be made to render the tribes assistance in forming settlements on tracts other than
							those belonging to the United States. The haughty reply of Tecumseh informed Wells
							that if he wished to hold such a conference, he should visit Tecumseh at Greenville
							and that his presence would be expected on the sixth day from the receipt of the
							message. Shane carried the response to Wells, who replied by sending to Tecumseh the
							communication from the war department. Tecumseh ignored the message on the ground that
							Shane was an unfit person to serve as a representative of the United States. Instead
							of dispersing, the Indians, in increasing numbers, continued to assemble at Greenville
							and elsewhere, on government property.
						The depredations of the savages now increased in frequency and severity. A body of
							Indians, however, even with these evidences of unfriendliness as a warning, visited
							Fort Wayne and succeeded in deceiving the agent, Colonel Johnston, into the belief
							that the Prophet had been repudiated by his followers and was then being held a
							prisoner. The tale was told to induce the agent to pay to the spokesmen their
							annuities, and this request was granted.
					
					
						MAJOR BENJAMIN F. STICKNEY.
						Shortly after the incident, Colonel Johnston was transferred to Upper Piqua, Ohio.
							His successor, Major Benjamin Franklin Stickney, a man of strong character, brave and
							somewhat eccentric, took up his duties at a time when the fort was in imminent peril.
							He had been in the government service at Upper Sandusky, Ohio. Major Stickney occupied
							the council house, located just outside the fort stockade. His wife was a daughter of
							Captain John and "Mollie" Stark, of Revolutionary fame. Much has been written
							concerning the life and activities of Major Stickney, especially during the period
							following his service at Fort Wayne. A suggestion of his eccentric character is found
							in the choice of names for his children. The sons were styled One, Two and Three, and
							the daughters bore the names of states of the union. After Major Stickney's services
							at Fort Wayne were ended, the family removed to a tract of land within the present
							Toledo which was then located in Michigan. With the building of the Wabash and Erie
							canal came also the "Toledo war" which resulted in the change of location of the state
							boundaries which placed Toledo forever in the state of Ohio. Major Stickney was a
							leader in the fight which brought about this result. His written arguments on the
							subject form an interesting story of the time.
						The year 1812 was a period of terror throughout the west. Major Stickney, writing May
							25th, to Governor Harrison, expressed the general thought in these words: 
							"The time appears to have arrived when it is necessary, if
									possible, to cut off all communication between the Indians within the territory of
									the United States, and Canada."
						Were such a thing possible earlier in the progress of the anti-American campaign, the
							declaration of war against Great Britain on June 13 forever forestalled the plan and
							brought the foes of the United States into still closer alliance. Tecumseh was enabled
							at once to rally to his aid many who had been reluctant to sever their adherence to
							the United States.
						John Shaw, sub-agent of the Pottawatomies, at Fort Wayne, kept in close touch with
							the situation, and his letters of March 1 and 10th, 1812, reveal the watchfulness of
							the garrison at Fort Wayne. Said he: "It appears from the
									statements of a gentleman from Detroit that the Morpock (Pottawatomie chief) with
									a small party of Indians, has been, for a considerable time past, encamped on the
									river Raisin, and constantly getting provisions from the British at
								Malden."
						On the 10th of March, Robert Forsythe, writing to Captain Rhea, commandant of Fort
							Wayne, said: "I have no doubt but those Indians that passed
									this post [Fort Wayne] some time ago, are a deputation sent to the British
									garrison for the purpose of procuring ammunition."
						Captain Rhea, addressing Captain John Whistler at Detroit, wrote from Fort Wayne,
							March 14: "From the best information I can get I [have] every
									reason to believe we shall have an Indian war this spring whether we have a
									British war or not."
					
					
						THE DEATH OF LITTLE TURTLE.
						In the midst of these anxious days, came the close of the life of the great Little
							Turtle. Far from the thoughts of the chief and his friends, as the end drew near, was
							the truth that in the same year would come, also, the death of Little Turtle's best
							friend—Captain William Wells.
						The Miami chief always had been a lover of the choicest foods. We hear much of his
							sumptous repasts in which he failed to display the temperate habits which he enjoined
							upon those who would indulge in strong drink. This course proved his undoing, for the
							condition developed a fatal attack of gout. For his greater convenience, and in order
							that he might have the attendance of the surgeon of the fort, the chief was brought
							from his village on Eel river to the home of his son-in-law, Captain Wells, in the
							present Spy Run district. Accustomed to life in the open, Little Turtle chose to lie
							in a shelter arranged within the yard of the home of Captain Wells. During his final
							days, the chief, while in friendly conversation with his attendants, was informed that
							gout is a "gentleman's disease." With a smile, he replied: "I always thought I was a
							gentleman." The funeral was characterized by the highest military honors. The service
							was in charge of Captain Rhea and the garrison of the fort. The chief was buried with
							all the honors due a leader who had, during eighteen busy years, devoted his life 
								MAJOR EBENEZER DENNY.
								Major Denny was aide-de-camp to General Harmar and also to General St. Clair on
									their western campaigns (1790 and 1791). While at the site of Fort Wayne he made
									the first existing map of the Fort Wayne rivers. The portrait is from the printed
									edition of his Journal, issued by the Pennsylvania Historical Society.
							
							
								S. CAREY EVANS.
								Mr. Evans was among the earlier active business men of Fort Wayne.
							
							
								JOHN ELLIOTT HUNT.
								John Elliott Hunt, son of Colonel Thomas Hunt, commandant of Fort Wayne, was the
									first white child born within the stockade of the old fort. This was in 1798. John
									Elliott Hunt rose to prominence in the later history of Ohio and Michigan.
							
							
								THE FIRST BRICK BUILDING ERECTED IN FORT WAYNE.
								James Barnett, in 1824, erected the first brick building in Fort Wayne, on the
									north side of Columbia Street, east of Clinton. The brick was made by Benjamin
									Archer. Used as a residence for many years, the building at the last served as the
									location of Schwieter's bakery. It was torn down in 1909.
							
							
							
								POSTMASTERS OF FORT WAYNE FROM 1877 TO 1917.
								1. Frederick W. Keil. 2. William Kaough. 3. C. R. Higgins. 4. Wright W. Rockhill.
									5. William D. Page. 6. Robert B. Hanna. 7. Edward C. Miller.
							
							 to the uplift of his people, while proving to be a warm
							friend of the whites. His nephew, Co-is-see,3 pronounced a funeral oration over the remains. 
						Within the grave of Little Turtle was placed a sword presented to him by General
							Washington, together with a large silver medal bearing the likeness of Washington.4
					
					
						THE FORT DEARBORN MASSACRE.
						Within a period of two weeks after the death of Little Turtle, General William Hull,
							governor of Michigan and commandant of a strong American force at Detroit, sent an
							order to Fort Dearborn, by way of Fort Wayne, instructing the commandant, Captain
							Nathan Heald, to evacute the fort and transfer the occupants of the lonely post to
							Fort Wayne. The bearer of the message from Fort Wayne to Fort Dearborn was Win-ne-meg
							(Winamac) or "Catfish," a friendly Pottawattomie chief whose identity is sometimes
							confused with that of Winamac, the chief who led in the attack on Fort Wayne later in
							the same year. Hull sent, also, a message to Fort Wayne, instructing the agent, Major
							Stickney, to render such assistance as possible to Captain Heald in the removal of the
							men, women and goods through the wilderness to Fort Wayne. Captain Wells, ever ready
							when his services were useful in times of peril, and spurred to action by the fact of
							his close blood relationship with the commandant's wife, organized a company of thirty
							friendly Indians, and, with Sergeant W. K. Jordan as a companion, set off in haste for
							Fort Dearborn. Among the Indian members of Wells's escort was Ching-win-thah, nephew
							of Little Turtle. Wells hoped to reach the fort in time to prevent its evacuation. He
							arrived too late. Heald had followed to the letter the orders of General Hull, by
							agreeing to deliver up to the Indians the fort with its contents, excepting such arms,
							ammunition and provisions as would be necessary for the journey to Fort Wayne. The
							Indians, in turn, promised to allow the passage to Fort Wayne in safety. Preparations
							for departure were under way when Wells arrived. In addition to the sixty-six enlisted
							men, the fort contained nine women and eighteen children, a total of ninety-seven,
							including the officers. The eight days which intervened between the time of the
							receipt of General Hull's order and the departure from the fort were filled with
							anxiety because of the sullen, hostile attitude of the savages, who had already
							murdered the Lee family in their isolated home on the south branch of the Chicago
							river, near the present Halsted street crossing. Wells was downcast. To remain in the
							fort now meant death from starvation, as all supplies except the little needed for the
							journey had been destroyed or given to the Indians. The attempt to reach Fort Wayne
							was the only alternative.
						On the morning of the 15th of August, the procession, with Captain Wells in the lead,
							his face blackened to indicate his belief that death was near at hand, departed from
							the stockade for the ride toward Fort Wayne, one hundred and fifty miles away. The
							band chose to play "The Dead March." Every heart was heavy. The children, with some of
							the women, were placed in covered wagons. The wives of the married officers, Mrs.
							Heald (Rebekah  Wells) and Mrs. Helm (nee Kinzie), wife
							of Lieutenant Linai T. Helm, accompanied the party on horseback. The wife of John
							Kinzie, with eleven other persons, including four of her own children, was placed in a
							boat, with the hope that they might reach a place of safety. The story of the attack
							of the savages, who rose with the horrible warwhoop from their hiding places in the
							sand; the death of Captain Wells and many of his companions, and the miraculous escape
							of the few who lived to tell of the bloody tragedy, is inseparably linked with the
							narrative of Fort Wayne.
						Wells was the first to realize that the fatal moment had come. He found the savages
							in large numbers, hidden behind the sand dunes of what is now a thickly settled
							business and residence portion of the city of Chicago, and immediately he gave the
							alarm. "They are about to attack us!" he cried. "Form instantly and charge upon them!"
							To his niece, Mrs. Heald, he gave the encouraging word that her own life would
							probably be spared, but he added that he was marked for certain death. With the
							opening of the attack of the savages, Wells entered into the midst of the fight. All
							of the supposed friendly Indians who had accompanied the party from Fort Wayne
							deserted the whites. In an effort to protect the women and children, Captain Wells
							sought to guard the covered wagons. In the midst of the melee, one savage eluded the
							vigilance of Wells and crept into one of the conveyances, where he scalped and
							murdered its twelve defenseless occupants. Mrs. Heald, beholding her uncle riding
							rapidly toward her, reached for his hand as he said, "Farewell, my child." He had
							received a shot through the lungs. Before he breathed his last, he said to his niece:
							"Tell my wife, if you live to get there—but I think it doubtful if a single one
							gets there—tell her I died at my post doing the best I could. There are seven
							red devils over there that I have killed." Wells's horse, pierced by a bullet, fell,
							pinioning its rider to the earth. In this position he killed one more of the savages,
							and then came the shot which ended his life. The surrender of the troops, reduced in
							numbers through death and capture, soon followed. In all, twenty-six regulars, twelve
							militiamen, two women and twelve children were killed. The family of John Kinzie, Mrs.
							Heald, Mrs. Helm and Sergeant Griffith (the latter a brother of the elder Mrs.
							Alexander Ewing of Fort Wawne) were saved through the good offices of Black Partridge,
							Sau-gan-ash, and Topenebe.
						From his autobiography, we gain this account of the escape of Captain Heald and his
							wife: "On the 16th, that is, the day after the action, Mrs.
									Heald and myself were taken to the St. Joseph river by our new masters. The
									journey was performed in three days, by coasting the lake, and we remained with
									them (both being badly wounded and unable to help ourselves) until the 29th of the
									same month, when we took our departure for Michilimackinac [Mackinac island] in a
									birch canoe, with Sergeant Griffith, one of the unfortunte prisoners, and three
									Frenchmen and a squaw. The 14th of September, we arrived safe at Michilimackinac.
									I was there paroled by Captain Roberts, the British commandant, and permitted to
									proceed to Detroit with Mrs. Heald and the sergeant."
						He adds that the distance from Chicago to Mackinac by the  route they followed, was two hundred miles, and an additional two hundred
							miles to Detroit. Many of the captives died of exposure or neglect.
						Sergeant W. K. Jordan, who had accompanied Captain Wells from Fort Wayne and who,
							when the massacre was ended, managed 
								CAPTAIN WILLIAM WELLS'S LETTER WHICH FORETOLD THE SAVAGE
									OUTBREAK.
								In 1807, when the Indians were forming their plans for the fierce outbreak which
									opened in 1811 and extended through several years following the war of 1812,
									Captain William Wells, Indian agent at Fort Wayne, wrote a letter to Governor
									William Henry Harrison, at Vincennes, in which he said: "We are all allarmed at
									this place, myself excepted as I can see no Danger at our Doors. Something must be
									Done it cannot be done too soon too the Indians are certainly forming an improper
									combination one that is not friendly towards us otherwise the leaders in it would
									not keep it so much in the Dark from every person that is friendly disposed to
									wards the United States." The original letter is in the war department. The
									reproduction is from a photostatic copy in the Burton Historical Collection,
									Detroit.
							
							 to steal a horse and escape, has left, in a letter
							written October 12, 1812, to his wife, "Betsy," in Philadelphia, a thrilling account
							of the affair. The fight, according to Jordan, lasted about ten minutes. Describing
							the attack, he says: "The first shot took the feather out of
									my cap, the next shot the epaulet off my shoulder, and the third broke the handle
									of my sword. I had to surrender myself to four damned yellow Indians. They marched
									up to where Wells lay, and one of them spoke English and said: 'Jordan, I know
									you; you gave me some tobacco at Fort Wayne—you shan't be killed; but see
									what I will do with your captain.' Then he cut off his head and stuck it on a
									pole, while another took out his heart, and divided it among the chiefs, and they
									ate it raw. They gathered in a ring with us fifteen poor devils in the middle, and
									had like to fall out who should have the prisoners."
						The ghastly tale of the savages feasting off the heart of Captain Wells was, in
							reality, the highest tribute that could have been paid the fearless pioneer, for the
							red man religiously believed that by the performance of this act each man would add to
							his own nature the courage and bravery which characterized the slain leader. Jordan
							tells of the various Indian families inspecting the prisoners, each family "taking one
							as long as we lasted, and then started for their towns." Watching his opportunity,
							Jordan stole a horse and reached Fort Wayne August 26, being seven days in the
							wilderness.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XVI.
						(1) An inventory of merchandise on hand
							at Fort Wayne, December 30, 1807, as $13,046.84; accounts of Indians, $2,459.29;
							amount of merchandise received from January 1, 1808, $15,226.91; expenses since
							January 1, 1808, $6,048.62. The credit side of the report shows merchandise on hand
							September 30, 1811, $10,281.66; furs, peltries, etc., principally hatters' furs
							(beaver), $689.62; cash in hand, $76.37½; accounts against Indians, $2,747.56;
							buildings, $400. There had been received during these years for furs and peltries,
							$27,547.07; furs and peltries on the way to market, $3,053.12; goods returned to the
							government, $1,752.34; New York auctioneer paid state duty which was refunded,
							$195.42; salary transferred, $572.30; showing a profit of $10,502.77, for the period
							of three years and ten months. (Report of Colonel John Johnston, quoted in Slocum's
							"Maumee River Basin.")
						(2) "History of the Late War [1812] in the Western Country," page 40, by Captain
							Robert McAfee. The volume from which this and other quotations are made is the
							property of the writer. The work is very rare and valuable. The book was formerly the
							property of one George Cardwell, of Harrodsburg, Kentucky, from whom it was purchased
							in 1859 by General Leslie Coombs, of Lexington, Kentucky, for his friend, the late
							John W. Dawson, of Fort Wayne. At the time of the death of Mr. Dawson the book became
							the property of the late Colonel R. S. Robertson. It remained in the Robertson home
							until 1915, Captain McAfee, the author, served under Harrison. The book was published
							in 1816.
						(3) Jacob P. Dunn states that Co-issee
							was a grandson of Little Turtle. For him the town of Coesse, in Whitley county, is
							named. See Dunn's "True Indian Stories," page 259.
						(4) In September, 1860, Benson J.
								Lossing, the artist-historian, visited Fort Wayne to obtain material for his work.
								He says: "When I visited the spot [the present Spy Run district] in 1860, in company
								with the venerable Mr. Hedges and the Hon. I. D. G. Nelson, more than twenty apple
								trees of an orchard planted by Captain Wells—the oldest in Northern Indiana,
								having been set out in 1804 and 1805—were yet standing, shorn of beauty, huge,
								gnarled and fantastical, but fruit-bearing still. They were on the land of Mr.
								Edward Smith, on the east side of the road from Fort Wayne to White Pigeon [Spy Run
								avenue]. In Mr. Smith's garden, which was in the enclosure of the orchard, only a
								few yards westward of a group of larger trees, was the grave of the Little Turtle."
								Other witnesses have declared that the burial spot was some distance north of the
								place described by Mr. Lossing. This latter claim is based upon the finding of many
								Indian relics on lot 26, in Lawton Place, the property of Dr. George W. Gillie.
								While making the excavation for the home and for the sewer, workmen unearthed
								portions of the skeletons of thirteen Indians, showing the place was used as a  burying ground of the Miamis. In one spot was found a
								collection of silver crosses and dishes, but the most interesting specimen was a
								sword which, it is believed, was the identical weapon that George Washington gave to
								Chief Little Turtle on the occasion of his visit to the president. These relics are
								the property of Jacob M. Stouder.
							Hiram Porter, aged ninety years in 1916, said to the writer at that time: "At one
								time, Jack Hackley, son of Captain James Hackley, wanted to exchange his twenty
								acres of land in the present Spy Run for forty acres belonging to my father, farther
								to the northward. I remember he said that if the exchange were made he would have to
								ask to reserve a small piece of his ground, for there, he said, Chief Little Turtle
								was buried. I do not know the exact spot, as my father did not make the trade." The
								father of Hiram Porter was John Porter, born in Rockbridge county, Virginia, in
								1805, who came to Fort Wayne in 1833.
						
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVII—1812 The Siege of Fort Wayne—William
						Henry Harrison Saves the Garrison.
					The massacre of the Fort Dearborn garrison and the surrender of Detroit to the British
						leave Fort Wayne in a position of peril—General Winchester to the
						west—Harrison's commission—How Logan, the Shawnee, saved the women and
						children of Fort Wayne—Me-te-a reveals the savage plot to Antoine Bondie, who
						tells the story to Major Stickney—Rhea scouts the idea of trickery—The
						murder of Stephen Johnston—Bondie foils the plans of Chief Winnemac—"I am a
						man!"—Rhea, the drunken commandant—The siege opens with
						severity—William Oliver's exploit—Harrison's report to the war
						department—The relief army moves forward—Flight of the savages—The
						arrival of Harrison's army at Fort Wayne—The arrest of Rhea—He resigns in
						disgrace—Destruction of the Indian village—The arrival of General
						Winchester—Harrison relinquishes the command and departs for Ohio.
					AT LAST, the savages had struck their long deferred blow. The little
						garrison of less than one hundred men at Fort Wayne received with alarm the first
						account of the massacre at Fort Dearborn. The news was conveyed by one of the friendly
						Miamis who found his way, unseen, to the home of Captain Wells and, there, without
						revealing his identity, he told the tragic story to the family of the brave
						frontiersman.
					The tale spread to the garrison where the deepest concern was felt immediately for the
						safety of the twenty-five women and children in the fort who, it seemed, were about to
						share the dangers of an attack by the savages whose intentions were now entirely
						bared.
					Close upon the revelation of the Fort Dearborn horror came the appalling news that the
						fort at Detroit—the protecting center of the lesser forts of the west—had
						been ingloriously surrendered to the British by General William Hull without the firing
						of a single gun. The surrender took place August 16, 1812, and Hull and his troops were
						sent as prisoners to Montreal. The ultimate result was the degradation of the commander
						and the bringing of his service to a disgraceful close. The immediate effect was the
						giving of the strongest of the western American posts into the hands of the British,
						together with 2,400 stands of arms, twenty-five cannon and a vast quantity of stores,
						with which to carry the warfare against the Americans, with Fort Wayne as the first
						objective point of assault. Mackinac soon fell to the British. The news of these
						disasters struck terror to the hearts of the occupants of Fort Wayne. Tecumseh now
						turned his attention to the capture of Fort Wayne and Fort Harrison (near Terre Haute),
						and to the massacre of their occupants.
					The secretary of war on the 30th of August sent a message to General James Winchester,
						who had been given the command of the Army of the Northwest, to the effect that "the
						immediate object  appears to be the protection of the
						frontier, for which purpose you will make such a disposition of your force as
						circumstances may render necessary. Fort Wayne, if possible, should be relieved."
					Kentucky, under the direction of General Charles Scott, promptly gathered an army of
						5,500 fighting men. Governor Harrison, who had been commissioned to command the troops
						of Indiana and Illinois territories, had accepted an invitation to visit and inspect the
						Kentucky troops, on which occasion Governor Scott commissioned him major-general of the
						Kentucky militia. Unknown to all who were concerned in this happy event, President
						Madison, two days earlier, had commissioned Harrison a brigadier general in the United
						States army. Soon, the Kentucky troops, under command of General Harrison, were moving
						northward from Cincinnati, with the ultimate object of joining Governor Meigs's forces
						to wrest Detroit from the British. On the 3d of September, a courier overtook the army
						and handed to General Harrison his commission from the president, together with
						instructions to give the troops into the command of General Winchester, who was on his
						way to receive them. Upon the transfer of the troops, General Harrison was to have
						assumed command of the Indiana and Illinois volunteers.
					During this time, events about Fort Wayne portended the serious situation which soon
						confronted the little garrison. The peril of the time developed its heroes as well as
						its cowards and weaklings. Among those whose names are honored in the story of the times
						is that of a young Shawnee brave, who because of his capture and adoption in his boyhood
						by General Benjamin Logan, of 
							HARRISON'S CALL FOR MOUNTED VOLUNTEERS TO SAVE FORT WAYNE.
							Just one week before his army reached and saved Fort Wayne General Harrison issued
								the above call for volunteers. The original is in the war department. This copy,
								slightly reduced, is from a photostatic reproduction in the Burton Historical
								Collection at Detroit.
						
						 Kentucky, was named "Captain John Logan."1 Already he was known as a true
						friend of the American cause. Colonel John Johnston, former Indian agent at Fort Wayne,
						then stationed at Piqua, Ohio, sent Logan as a spy to ascertain the true condition of
						affairs at Fort Wayne. His brother, Stephen Johnston (who was destined to be the first
						victim of the siege) was connected with the fort affairs as a clerk in the Indian agency
						under Major Stickney. At this time, the wife of the younger Johnston was in a delicate
						physical condition and this added to the concern of the elder Johnston. Logan returned
						to Piqua and reported that the savages about the fort exhibited unmistakable signs of
						hostility, but he expressed his willingness to undertake the hazardous task of
						transferring from Fort Wayne to Piqua, one hundred miles distant, the twenty-five women
						and children of the fort. These included Ann, Rebekah and Mary Wells, daughters of
						Captain Wells; and Mrs. Johnston. Mrs. James Peltier (formerly Angeline Chapeteau, who
						had married in 1806) remained with her husband and four-year-old son, James, Jr.,
						through the siege. During the long journey through the wilderness the vigilant Logan did
						not close his eyes in sleep, and the record of the experience of the refugees as
						repeated from the lips of those whom he rescued, tells of his constant tenderness and
						care. This was but the first of a series of acts of bravery of Logan who was fated to
						die as a result of a bullet wound from a British rifle while refuting a slander which
						questioned his loyalty.
					Accused of treachery, Logan, in 1813, met the death of a hero, while undertaking a most
						hazardous mission against the enemy. It was declared by the Indians that the British had
						offered $150 for the scalp of Logan, and he finally fell a victim to the wiles of his
						enemies. "More firmness and consummate bravery has seldom appeared in the military
						theatre," wrote General Winchester in his report to General Harrison. "He was buried
						with all the honors due his rank, and with sorrow as sincerely and generally displayed
						as I ever witnessed."
					None too soon were the women and children removed to a place of safety, for, on the
						fall of Detroit, warriors to the number of about five hundred gathered quietly about
						Fort Wayne, encamping in the forest and seeking to avoid open evidence of hostility.
						Theirs was a waiting game. The situation was rendered highly embarrassing and hazardous
						by the physical condition of the aged commandant, Captain Rhea, whose fondness for
						intoxicants unfitted him for a realization of the true situation. It is evident, too,
						that ill-feeling among the officers and Indian agent within the fort was not lacking. In
						later years Major Stickney2
						wrote: "The commanding officer was drunk nearly all the time, and the two lientenants
						[Curtis and Ostrander] were inefficient men, entirely unfit to hold commissions of any
						grade." Historians have always reckoned William Oliver as the real hero of the moment,
						but it is a noticeable fact that Lieutenant Daniel Curtis, writing his account of the
						siege at a later time, makes no reference to the brave sutler. Concerning Oliver more
						will be said in the development of the story. The citations are made merely to indicate
						the deplorable condition of affairs preceding the severest period of the siege.
					With the completion of their plans to invest the stockade and  destroy the lives of the men and women within the fort, Me-te-a,3 a Pottawattomie chief, made his
						way, under cover of darkness, to the hut occupied by Antoine Bondie and his family,
						outside the fort enclosure, and revealed to Bondie the plans of attack in order that he
						and his Indian wife might escape death. Bondie was a French trader, who had married a
						Miami woman, and had lived in the vicinity for many years. Instead of seeking his
						personal safety in joining the Indians, Bondie crept to the council house and there
						revealed the plot to Major Stickney. Stickney was puzzled. Bondie 
							COLONEL JOHN ALLEN.
							The brilliant Kentucky statesman and brave soldier for whom Allen county is named
								was among the first of the Kentuckians to offer his services for his country when
								the perilous situation of Fort Wayne in 1812 was made known. His undaunted courage
								during the trying period after raising of the siege of Fort Wayne, up to the time of
								his tragic death at the battle of the River Raisin, near the present Monroe,
								Michigan, has given him a fame throughout the middle west which will not pass from
								the memory of his countrymen. John Allen was born in Rockbridge county, Virginia, on
								December 30, 1772. His father, James Allen, with his family, emigrated to Kentucky
								in 1780 and settled near Danville, later removing to a farm a short distance from
								Bardstown, near Louisville. After a course in two private schools, John Allen
								studied law at Staunton, Virginia, and returned in 1795 to open a law office in
								Shelbyville. He rose to great prominence as a lawyer. One of his celebrated cases
								tried at Frankfort was as an associate of Henry Clay in the defense of Aaron Burr.
								In his race for the governorship of Kentucky against General Charles Scott he was
								defeated by only one vote. He served several terms as a state senator. The wife of
								Colonel Allen was Jane, a daughter of General Benjamin Logan; the latter gives his
								name to the history of Fort Wayne through Captain John Logan, the Shawnee brave, his
								adopted son. The departure of Colonel Allen, at the height of his fame as a lawyer,
								to lead his fellow Kentuckians in the trying northern campaign was marked by "wild
								enthusiasm as this tall, handsome soldier led his valiant troops" to the place of
								rendezvous and to his own death.
						
						
							MAJOR GEORGE CROGHAN.
							Captain (later Major) George Croghan, when he reached Fort Wayne, with General
								Harrison in 1812, was twenty-two years of age. His bravery and loyalty caused
								General Harrison to place him in temporary command of Fort Wayne, but he was soon
								afterward in active service in Ohio. His brilliant and successful defense of Fort
								Stephenson (Fremont) in Ohio was one of the most remarkable events of the war. By an
								act of congress he was presented with a gold medal. Croghan later located at New
								Orleans, and became postmaster of that city in 1824. When he again entered the army
								service, a court-martial was arranged for examination into his conduct concerning
								the use of intoxicating liquors. "George Croghan," exclaimed President Andrew
								Jackson, when he heard of it, "shall get drunk every day of his life if he wants to,
								and, by the Eternal, the United States shall pay for the whisky!" The proceedings
								ceased. Croghan later served with distinction in the Mexican war. He died at New
								Orleans January 8, 1849.
						
						
							SIGNATURE OF MAJOR GEORGE CROGHAN.
						
						 possessed a reputation for questionable veracity. The
						agent had been at the fort less than three months. He hesitated to notify General
						Harrison, for if the alarm were a false one, it would appear to indicate personal
						cowardice, which did not exist, and perhaps precipitate a war if invading troops were
						called when no outbreak was intended by the savages.
					The commandant, Rhea, when Stickney told him the story, scoffed at the thought of
						danger. Stickney, however, decided to notify General Harrison, who already had started
						northward from Cincinnati, toward Detroit. Rhea finally was induced to send a message to
						Governor Return J. Meigs, of Ohio, telling of the threatened attack of the Indians, and
						the two messengers were soon on their way. Directly, Major Stickney, who still lived in
						the council house, outside the fort, was stricken with illness; he was taken within the
						fort, and, shortly afterward, Bondie and his family sought shelter within the
						palisades.
					During the time following the removal of the women to Piqua, Stephen Johnston, whose
						wife was among those taken from the fort, felt a strong desire to look after her
						welfare. Receiving permission to make the journey to Piqua, he left the stockade one
						night at 10 o'clock, in company with Peter Oliver, a soldier, and a discharged member of
						the garrison. When the three had reached a point in the edge of the forest near the site
						of the present Hanna (Hayden) homestead, on East Lewis street, the crack of a British
						rifle in the hands of a watching savage ended the life of Johnston; the other two men
						fled back to the fort. It was the beginning of the series of tragedies which marked the
						siege. A reward of twenty dollars, offered by Antoine Bondie the next day for the
						bringing of the body to the fort—a work performed by a young chief, White
						Raccoon—revealed the fact that Johnston had been scalped and tomahawked in a most
						brutal manner. Indian chiefs placed the blame for the murder upon their "young men,"
						asserting that they could not control them. It was afterward learned at the treaty of
						Greenville (1814) when Colonel John Johnston accused White Raccoon of having the blood
						of his brother on his hands, that two Pottowattomies and a half breed, one of the
						Indians named Pokaw, were the murderers. The body of Johnston rests in a cemetery at
						Piqua, where the tale of his death is engraved on the tombstone.
					No further proof of the attitude of the savages was needed, and, although they made
						many protestations of friendliness, they stole from the vicinity of the fort the cattle,
						hogs and garden provisions, and gave many other evidences of hostility. Both factions,
						however, refrained from open warfare in order to prolong the period preceding the actual
						conflict—the savages expecting that Tecumseh and the British would come to their
						assistance, and the garrison hoping for the early arrival of General Harrison's
						troops.
					Finally, the Indians, on being provided with a white cloth to be used as a flag of
						truce which they delayed using for several days, approached the fort in large numbers,
						hoping, evidently, to be allowed to enter in such force as to be able to overpower the
						occupants. But few were admitted, however, by Major Stickney, who designated thirteen
						chiefs who would be welcomed. Each was disarmed on entering the stockade and the party
						followed the agent 
						
							CAPTAIN RHEA FORESAW THE SIEGE OF FORT WAYNE IN 1812.
							Captain James Rhea was in command of Fort Wayne during the memorable siege of
								September, 1812. Six months earlier he wrote to Captain John Whistler at Detroit:
								"You say if we have a British war we shall have an Indian war. From the best
								information I can get I [have] every reason to believe we shall have an Indian war
								this Spring whether we have a British war or not. I am told the Indians are making
								every preparation. There is certainly a very deep plan agoing on amongst the
								Indians."
						
						 to his quarters. At the request of the agent, Captain
						Rhea paraded the troops during the council which followed. When the council pipes were
						finished Winamac, addressing the agent, disclaimed, on the part of the chiefs, any part
						in the death of Johnston. "But," he added, "if my father wishes for war, I am a
						man——" At this moment there was a strange stir among the assembled savages.
						The words, "I am a man" were to have been the signal for Winamac to stab the agent with
						a knife concealed beneath his blanket. Antoine Bondie, however, who had penetrated the
						secret, drew his own knife quickly and shouted, "I am a man, too!" and his dramatic
						action, together with the appearance of the soldiers, fully armed, brought the
						treacherous plan to a close. The Indians had hoped, through the murder of the agent and
						officers, to be able to control the situation even to the opening of the doors to allow
						the entrance of the murderous horde. Disappointed, they filed back to their encampment.
						A picture of the conditions within the fort from this time forward is well drawn by
						Lieutenant Curtis, who, on October 4, wrote a letter to a friend, Cullen, from which the
						following quotations are made:
					
						CURTIS'S STORY OF THE SIEGE.
						"On the evening of the 4th of September the flag [of truce] returned, accompanied by
							several chiefs, and, after being asked whether they wished to remain at peace with us
							or be considered in an open state of warfare, the head chief among them observed, 'You
							know that Mackinaw is taken, Detroit is in the hands of the British, and Chicago has
							fallen; and you must expect to fall next, and that in a short time!' Immediately our
							great captain invited the savage rascal over to his quarters and, after drinking three
							glasses of wine with him, rose from his seat and observed: 'My good friend, I love
							you; I will fight for you; I will die by your side. You must save me!' and then gave
							him a half dollar as a token of friendship, inviting him at the same time to come and
							breakfast with him the next morning. The chief and his party retired to their camps,
							but instead of accepting his invitation to breakfast, sent five of their young
							warriors, who secreted themselves behind a roothouse [for vegetables] near the
							garrison, from which they shot two of our men about sunrise as they were passing from
							a small hotel near that place.
						"The night of the 5th [of September] arrived and our captain had not drawn a sober
							breath since the chiefs left the garrison the night before. From the movement of the
							Indians in the course of the day, Lieutenant Ostrander and myself expected to have
							some sport before the next morning, and were not disappointed in our conjecture, for
							at about 8 p. m. a general shout from the enemy was heard, succeeded by a firing of
							small arms on every side of us. The alarm post of every man, as well as the respective
							duties of Mr. Ostrander and myself having been regulated during the day, the enemy had
							not time to fire a second round before we were ready and opened three broadsides upon
							them, and sent them a few shells from our howitzers,4 which we presume must have raked the skins of many. We
							exchanged three general shots, when I discovered from 
							the flash of their guns that they were secreted behind the buildings, fences and
							shrubbery near the garrison, and ordered the men to cease firing till further orders,
							thinking the enemy would conclude that we were either frightened or scarce of
							ammunition, and perhaps would venture nearer. As soon as a large body had collected at
							one point, we threw a couple of shells from our howitzers which soon made them
							disperse. The next day they kept up a firing till about 3 p. m. Our captain still
							continued drunk as a fool, and perfectly incapable of exercising rationality on any
							subject whatever, but was constantly abusing every one that came in his presence. The
							night of the 6th approached; we had the roofs of our houses all watered, as well as
							the pickets on the inside, our water casks all filled and buckets ready in case of the
							enemy's attempting to throw 
								WHEN HARRISON SAID GOODBYE TO HIS TROOPS AT FORT WAYNE.
								On the 19th of September, 1812, when General William Henry Harrison parted from
									his troops, which, under his leadership, had saved Fort Wayne from the siege of
									the murderous savages, he read to them a letter of farewell. The opening sentences
									follow: "The President of the United States having
											designated Brigadier General James Winchester to the command of the army
											originally destined to relieve General Hull, and that officer having arrived
											at this place, the command is accordingly relinquished to him. Brigadier
											General Payne, Colonel Wells and Captain Gerrard, commanding the several corps
											composing the army, will, accordingly, report themselves to General Winchester
											and receive his orders.
										"If anything could soften the regret which the General feels at the parting
											with troops which have so entirely won his confidence and affection, it is the
											circumstance of his committing them to the charge of one of the heroes of our
											glorious Revolution, a man distinguished as well for the services he has
											rendered his country as for the possession of every qualification which
											constitutes the Gentleman."
							
							 fire, which they had endeavored several times to do
							without success. Between 8 and 9 o'clock we heard a tremendous noise, singing, dancing
							and whooping, and when they arrived within a proper distance they hailed and asked us
							in plain English what we intended to do, whether surrender or to fight. They said they
							had 500 men with them and that they expected 700 the next day. We answered that we
							were ready, and bade them come on. We gave a general shout round the works in true
							Indian style, which they instantly returned, commencing at the same time a general
							fire, which was kept up on both sides with much warmth till about 11 o'clock, without
							the loss or the injury of a man on our side, but from appearances they must have lost
							many, as they were very quiet towards midnight.
						"The siege continued from the morning of the 5th to the 10th, both day and night, and
							the fears and troubles of our great and intrepid commander were continually drowned in
							the excessive use of the ardents. Our fears and apprehensions from the disorders and
							confusion he created among the men, were one of our greatest troubles, and we had
							everything prepared at one time to silence his noise and clamor by coercive measures.
							He would frequently talk of surrendering if the Indians were likely to be too much for
							us, and particularly if they or the British were to bring one or more pieces of cannon
							which they took at Chicago and place them near the garrison, when he knew that the
							largest piece at Chicago was only a three-pounder; and when told by one of his
							subalterns that the first person in the garrison who should offer to surrender to the
							Indians or British at the approach of no heavier piece than a three-pounder should
							instantly be shot, he offered no resistance, but remained silent on the subject."
					
					
						THE WILLIAM OLIVER EPISODE.
						In the midst of the period of watchful anxiety within the fort, preceding the attack,
							a most thrilling episode brought cheer and courage to the garrison. William Oliver was
							the hero of the affair. Oliver, who was then twenty-five years of age, had been
							connected with the fort as a sutler (a trader licensed to provide the garrison with
							supplies). While the savages were gathering about the fort he was absent in Cincinnati
							purchasing supplies, and there he learned of the condition of affairs in Fort Wayne.
							He enlisted with the Ohio troops and tendered his services to General Harrison, with
							the proposition that the general allow him to proceed from St. Mary's, Ohio, to Fort
							Wayne with a small company as an advance detachment of the army of relief. General
							Harrison consented reluctantly, assuring Oliver that he "should not see him again."
							With General Thomas Worthington, later governor of Ohio, the undaunted Oliver, leading
							a body of sixty-eight militia and sixteen Shawnee braves, started toward Fort Wayne.
							When within twenty-four miles of the fort, they ascertained the size of the besieging
							forces to be larger than they could safely meet in an open encounter, and so the
							immediate relief of the garrison was abandoned. Oliver, however, with three Shawnees,
							Captain John Logan, Captain Johnny and Brighthorn, leaving the camp of Worthington
							well mounted and  well armed, proceeded toward the fort,
							eluding the vigilance of the savages. Reaching the Maumee east of the fort, they
							proceeded cautiously to a point near the present Anthony boulevard (Walton avenue)
							bridge, where they tied their horses in the brush and reconnoitered afoot to ascertain
							the true condition of affairs. The savages were in the midst of another conference to
							capture the garrison by stratagem, and had gathered on the west and south sides of the
							stockade. Returning to their horses, the four messengers rode stealthily along the
							Maumee and up the bank to the east wall of the fort. No member of the garrison was in
							sight. Oliver and his companions could not make their presence known. It was a moment
							of peril. Their discovery would mean a hand-to-hand battle with overpowering numbers.
							In despair, they rode down the river bank 
								CANNON BALLS FIRED FROM FORT WAYNE.
								1—Cannon ball owned by M. A. Sheets; found in South Wayne by children at
									play. 2—Cannon ball found in Adams township; owned by William Black.
									3—Cannon ball owned by J. A. Calhoun; it was found in Lakeside. Concerning
									these war relics Dr. Charles E. Slocum, of Toledo, says: "It appears most probable
									that they were fired from Fort Wayne during the siege of 1812, from cannon left
									there by General Wayne. Wayne left most of his cannon at Fort Defiance, which he
									made 'bomb-proof.' Fort Defiance was dismantled in 1796, after the Jay treaty, and
									it is probable that some of the little cannon were taken to Fort Wayne, and,
									probably, others were taken to Detroit."
							
							
								MAP OF THE SIEGE OF FORT WAYNE IN 1812.
								1—Fort Wayne, the stockade, which contained a garrison of less than 100
									men. 2—Encampments of the Indians at the time of the William Oliver exploit.
									3—General route of Oliver, Captain Logan, Brighthorn and Captain Johnnie.
									4—General route of the escape of the daring Shawnees. 5—Site of the
									murder of Stephen Johnston (near the present Hanna homestead on East Lewis street,
									home of Mrs. Fred J. Hayden). 6—The approach of General William Henry
									Harrison's forces.
							 and skirted the shore as they turned their horses to the west to follow the
							St. Mary's course. Then, in full view of the savages, they dashed up the river bank
							and made straight for the north entrance of the stockade at a moment when Winamac,
							Five Medals and three other hostile chiefs were rounding the northwest corner of the
							fort with a flag of truce to hold another conference with the commandant. The sudden
							appearance of the riders in "full yell" disconcerted the besiegers, who believed them
							to be the advance of a large relieving force. Winamac, after a mere handshake,
							hastened back to a council of the tribes.
						Once within the fort, Oliver quickly learned the true conditions,  and informed the commandant and Major Stickney that
							General Harrison was on his way to save the post. Without loss of time, and while the
							savages were in a quandary as to the best move to be made, Oliver dispatched a note to
							General Worthington, and the gate of the fort was opened to allow three horsemen to
							dash out and down the trail along the Maumee. They were the faithful Logan, who had
							saved the women and children, and the two other friendly Shawnees. The astonished
							besiegers gave chase, but could not overtake the true-hearted red men. Oliver remained
							at the fort, and is credited with being the real hero of the trying days which
							followed.
						When the messengers reached General Worthington, Oliver's dispatches were forwarded
							to General Harrison.
						The siege was now renewed in earnest. A hail of British bullets from British rifles
							in the hands of British allies, together with flaming arrows which set fire to the
							buildings and the palisades, characterized the hours of the five days following the
							arrival of Oliver. The savages gained possession of a log building outside the
							stockade, and from this place again demanded the surrender of the fort, or threatened
							the annihilation of the garrison. They claimed to have been provided with two British
							cannon manned by British artillerymen. The demand was refused and the attack was
							renewed with increased fury. The soldiers were dismayed at the appearance of the
							cannon, but when one of them burst at the first shot and the other at the second,
							there came the revelation that they were made of wood, held by iron bands. It later
							was learned that these "cannon" were devised by Parish, a half-breed
							Pottawattomie.
						With the belief that Harrison's army of Kentuckians was drawing nearer with the
							passage of every hour, the soldiers within the palisades now settled down to a
							determination to hold the fort at all costs. Their belief was well founded.
						Writing from Piqua on the 5th of September, Harrison pictured conditions to the
							secretary of war. Said he: "I received information last night
									that a British army left Detroit on the 13th ultimo for the purpose of attacking
									Fort Wayne and, if successful, Fort Harrison [near Terre Haute] and Vincennes. I
									had yesterday dispatched 900 choice men to join the mounted men of this state
									[Ohio] which are in advance, and proceed to relieve Fort Wayne from the attack of
									the neighboring Indians. I am now engaged in preparing cartridges and boring
									touchholes of the muskets, all of which are too small, and to some guns there are
									none. I shall set out very early tomorrow, and by forced marches, overtake the
									detachment. I had intended to give up the command to General Winchester and had
									written him to that effect. The situation, at Fort Wayne, however, admits of no
									alternative. I have invited him to join me or bring up the troops in the rear.
									From the information I have received since I wrote you, there is little doubt that
									all the Indians (Miamis included) will participate in the attack on Fort
									Wayne."
						On account of "the trouble of establishing an issuing commissary's department,"
							Harrison was delayed one day in his march upon Fort Wayne. From his camp, seventeen
							miles from the besieged fort, he wrote, September 11: 
							"I shall, however, reach it tomorrow. I have every reason to
									believe it will not be without a severe contest. No information has been received
									from the fort since the 3d instant, and should the Indians have been assisted by
									the British detachment, I fear it would not have been able to hold out. * * * You
									need not fear, sir, the issue of the action which, I expect, will take place
									tomorrow. My troops are in high spirits, and will, I am persuaded, do honor to
									themselves and their country."
						At the dawn of September 6, the main army had moved and overtaken, at Girty's Town
							(St. Mary's), the advance column of Colonel John Allen. Here they were joined by a
							company of mounted Kentucky volunteers under Major Richard Menter Johnson, later
							vice-president of the United States. Spies from the besiegers returned to their camp
							with the report that "Kentuck is coming as numerous as the trees." General Harrison
							had delivered to the soldiers a speech, "in which he stated that Fort Wayne was in
							imminent danger and that it was absolutely necessary to make 
								HARRISON'S MOVEMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER THE SIEGE OF FORT
									WAYNE.
								The map indicates the activity of General William Henry Harrison from the time of
									his departure from Vincennes and the fight with the savages at Tippecanoe in 1811
									to the decisive battle of the Thames in 1813, which ended the war of 1812 in the
									west. During the winter of 1812-1813 General Harrison maintained his headquarters
									at Columbus and Chillicothe, Ohio, and made a trip to Cincinnati on account of
									illness in his family; reference to these matters is omitted from the map.
							
							 forced marches to relieve it," says Captain McAfee. "He
							read several articles of war, prescribing the duty of soldiers, and explaining the
							necessity of such regulations. He then observed that if there was any person who would
							not submit to such regulations, or who was afraid to risk his life in defense of his
							country, he might return home." Only one man, a Kentucky volunteer, quailed. He was
							ridden on a rail, dumped into the Miami river and "baptized in the name of King
							George, Aaron Burr and the devil." On the forward movement, Logan and Major Mann
							discovered at a point about five miles southwest of Fort Wayne the savages gathered in
							an ambush arranged by Me-te-a, which the cavalry was enabled to dislodge.
					
					
						THE ARRIVAL OF HARRISON'S ARMY.
						Within the fort the anxiety grew in intensity. Says Lieutenant Curtis: "We could see large bodies of Indians between that time [the
									10th and the 12th of September] running in great haste across the prairies, and
									many without arms. We were at a loss to determine the cause of this movement, but
									concluded that they must have met with some opposition or discovered the approach
									of an army between this place and Piqua, as they were running from that quarter.
									About 3 o'clock p. m. of the 12th, to our great joy, we discovered the approach of
									a small troop of horses, and on their coming up to the garrison, we learned it was
									the advance guard of an army of 5,000 men under the command of Brigadier General
									Harrison."
						The scene within the stockade on the arrival of Harrison's army may well be imagined.
							The region resounded with cheers of the soldiers; in many instances the arrival of the
							army of relief marked the reunion of friends and relatives.
						The general, after arranging his camp, summoned the officers and agent of the fort
							and there, from Lieutenants Curtis and Ostrander, with Major Stickney as a
							corroborative witness, heard the charges preferred against the Ncommandant, Rhea.
							After a careful consideration of the charges, General Harrison would have discharged
							the commandant except for his age, but "more particularly on account of his having a
							young family," he was allowed to resign. Reporting on the conduct of Captain Rhea,
							General Harrison, writing to the secretary of war, said: "Upon my arrival at Fort
							Wayne, charges of so serious a nature were exhibited against Captain Rhea that I
							arrested him. He agreed to resign, and I gave him until December 20 to return home, at
							which time his pay and emoluments will cease."
						During the siege, the garrison lost only three killed. The loss of the savages was
							probably about twenty-five, including eighteen killed close, to the palisades of the
							fort. The army encamped around the fort, "where, a few days previous, there had been a
							handsome little village; but it was now in ruins, having been burned down by the
							Indians, together with the United States factory, which had been erected to furnish
							the ungrateful wretches with farming utensils." (McAfee). The farm buildings of
							Captain Wells's family also were destroyed.6
						
						On the day following Harrison's arrival, detachments commenced the destruction of the
							Indian villages of the entire region. The first division was composed of the regiments
							under Colonels John Allen and William Lewis, and Captain Garrard's troop of horse,
							under General Payne, accompanied by General Harrison. The second division consisted of
							a battalion of Colonel Wells's regiment under Major Davenport, of Scott's regiment;
							the mounted battalion under Colonel Johnson and the mounted Ohio troops under Adams.
							At the forks of the Wabash, Payne's men destroyed several abandoned villages and
							fields of corn. Colonel Wells destroyed the village of Five Medals, named for a chief
							who led in the siege, on the Elkhart river, near the site of Goshen, Indiana. Colonel
							Simrall, who arrived at the fort on the 17th of September, with a regiment of
							dragoons, 
								GENERAL WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON.
								Major General Harrison, fourteenth president of the United States, was born at
									Berkeley, Virginia, February 9, 1773, and died while in office April 4, 1841. His
									bravery and energy during the days of the Indian wars of the west left their
									influence upon the history of the vast areas over which the savages extended their
									warfare. His army, arriving at Fort Wayne in September, 1812, brought life and
									hope to a besieged and despairing garrison.
							
							
								CAPTAIN WILLIAM GRIFFITH.
								Quartermaster Sergeant (later Captain) William Griffith, one of the survivors of
									the Fort Dearborn massacre, was a brother of Mrs. Alexander Ewing, of Fort Wayne.
									Mrs. Ewing was the grandmother of the late William E. Hood who loaned the portrait
									from which the drawing was made. The interesting experience of Captain Griffith
									are referred to in Chapter XVI of this work.
							 laid waste Turtle village, on Eel river, but did not molest the buildings
							erected by the government for the late Chief Little Turtle. General Harrison proceeded
							also to remove all the underbrush surrounding the fort extending up the St. Joseph
							river as far as the present State street bridge, and westward along the St. Mary's as
							far as the site of Swinney park, as well as toward the east and south.
						Serving as chaplain of Harrison's army, Rev. Matthew G. Wallace, a Presbyterian
							clergyman, appears to have been the second Protestant minister to officiate at Fort
							Wayne.
						On September 19th, General James Winchester arrived at Fort Wayne to take command of
							the army. Winchester, after his service in the Revolution, had retired to Tennessee,
							where, during the succeeding years, he lived in "elegant luxury and ease," which was
								 not calculated to fit him for a vigorous campaign. He
							is described as "a 'fussy man,' quite heavy in person, and illy fitted for the
							peculiar service in which he was engaged." (Lossing's "Pictorial Fieldbook of the War
							of 1812").
						When General Winchester reached Fort Wayne there was enacted a scene which explains
							in a measure the wonderful success of General Harrison, which led him to the
							presidency of the United States—namely, an expression of the love and confidence
							of those who knew him best. The troops who had come with him from Kentucky and Ohio
							rebelled against the change of leadership. They demanded Harrison. Many threatened to
							desert. General Harrison, however, did not hesitate to turn the command into
							Winchester's hands, with the promise of such co-operation as he might render. It was
							only with the belief that Harrison would soon resume the command that the troops
							consented to march toward Detroit under Winchester. Harrison did in reality again
							become the commander-in-chief during the same month. It was Harrison who led the army
							against the British at the decisive battle of the Thames and there won enduring
							fame.
						The splendid address of Harrison to his men, expressing his parting sentiments,
							pictures the nobility of his character and reveals the qualities which created the
							bond of strength between the soldiers and their leader. Said he to the assembled
							troops: "If anything could soften the regret which the general
									feels at parting with troops which have so entirely won his confidence and
									affection, it is the circumstance of his committing them to the charge of one of
									the heroes of our glorious Revolution, a man distinguished as well for the
									services he has rendered his country as for the possession of every qualification
									which constitutes the gentleman."
						On the following day, General Harrison departed for Piqua to take command of the
							military forces which had been gathering from Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois,
							with the intention of joining the Northwestern Army in the impending conflict with the
							British about Detroit.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XVII.
						(1) The city of Logansport, Indiana,
							received its name from the brave Shawnee. General Benjamin Logan was the father-in-law
							of Colonel John Allen, for whom Allen county is named.
						(2) Major Stickney's account of the
							siege may be found in the Fort Wayne Times, May 27, 1856; Fort Wayne Public
							Library.
						(3) Me-te-a died in Fort Wayne in
								1827. The late Louis Peltier made the casket in which the body was buried. Mr.
								Peltier, who was born within the walls of the old fort, in 1815, conceived the idea
								of his life work while assisting to remove the skeletons of the fort soldiers from
								the military cemetery which was situated in the region of the junction of the
								present Berry and Clay streets. This was while Mr. Peltier still was in his teens,
								and was engaged in learning the carpenter and cabinet-making trade with James
								Wilcox, whose shop was also the first undertaking establishment in Fort Wayne. In
								the beginning the undertaker was also the coffinmaker. The first person for whose
								body Louis Peltier made the burial casket was Chief Me-te-a, whose tragic death, was
								the result of taking poison while conversing with friends in the silversmith shop of
								"Father" Bequette. From the January (1880) issue of "The Casket," an undertakers'
								journal, published at Rochester, N. Y., the following interesting additional
								information is taken: "The coffin was of poplar and, as
										staining material was scarce at that time, Dr. Cushman furnished Venetian red.
										'To gain the dark color,' said Mr. Peltier, 'we burned oat straw and then
										secured General Tipton's whitewash brush to grain the coffin.'"
							Soon after the burial of Me-te-a, Dr. Lewis G. Thompson had the body exhumed in
								order to make an examination of the remains. "A noise was heard," says the late John
								W. Dawson, "which the company thought to be Indians; and, as they knew the savages
								were greatly hostile to such, disinterments, they were at once panic stricken, and,
								quickly blowing out their lights, fled to the brush to await the denouement. False
								as the alarm proved to be, they were nevertheless suspicious of the nearness of
								danger. So, returning to the grave, they re-buried the body."
						
						(4) The armament of the fort consisted
							of four small cannon fired from the turrets of the blockhouses.
						(5) A rare old relic of the siege of 1812, a remodeled flint-lock rifle, is
							preserved by William H. W. Peltier. The gun was used by his great-grandfather, James
							Peltier I, and doubtless did good work in keeping the savages at a safe distance from
							the stockade. The gun passed from the hands of the original owner to James Peltier II,
							his son, who eventually gave it to his brother, Salvador Peltier. Upon the death of
							the latter, in 1914, the valuable old weapon came into the possession of William H. W.
							Peltier. In later years the rifle was provided with a hammer and given a larger bore.
							It still retains its breech-loading feature. "I have heard my grandfather [Louis
							Peltier] tell of a quarrel between himself and his brother, James," relates William H.
							W. Peltier. "One day, as a boy, James started out with a gun to hunt deer. My
							grandfather, Louis, then in his teens, followed him, and refused to return to the
							fort. James, in his anger, beat him with a ramrod. This so enraged my grandfather that
							he took a good aim and peppered his brother's legs with fine shot from a distance. My
							grandfather then ran away and went to the Indian village at Leo, where he stayed until
							it appeared safe to return home; he was absent six months, living with the
							savages.
						(6) A. G. Barnett, son of James Barnett,
							states (1916) that his father related to him this incident in connection with his
							coming to Fort Wayne as the captain of a company in General Harrison's army: Arriving
							at the fort, Captain Barnett's horse became badly injured by running into an obstacle
							while frightened. The rider sought to bring the injured animal within the fort, but
							General Harrison employed such sharp language in ordering him away from the fort that
							the captain never forgave him. "And in the Harrison presidential campaign," said Mr.
							Barnett, "my father worked earnestly for the defeat of his former commanding
							officer."
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VIII—1812-1813 British Army Under Muir, Sent
						Against Fort Wayne, Is Turned Back.
					Captain George Croghan at Fort Wayne—Revolt of Captain Ward's
						men—Winchester's rosy view of the future—The death of Ensign
						Leggett—Winchester's army puts to rout the expedition under Major Muir designed to
						destroy Fort Wayne—Suffering of the Kentucky troops—General Tupper's
						disobedience—Harrison's inspiring address—The battle of the River
						Raisin—Death of Colonel Allen—The siege of Fort Meigs—Harrison finds
						Fort Wayne in peril—Colonel Richard Menter Johnson sent to protect
						it—Johnson's men ambushed by savages within sight of the fort—Closing
						incidents of the war of 1812—Death of Tecumseh.
					ATTENTION now centers upon the campaign which brought into conflict
						the American and British troops in the theatre of war in the Maumee valley extending
						from Fort Wayne to Detroit.
					Bidding farewell to the troops who were left to garrison the fort at the head of the
						Maumee, General Winchester on September 22, 1812, led his men across the Maumee and down
						the north bank of that stream in the direction of the enemy gathered at Detroit and
						Malden. He followed the route over which General Wayne came to the site of the fort
						eighteen years before.
					
						CROGHAN AND MOORE, COMMANDANTS.
						The garrison at Fort Wayne was placed in temporary command of Major George Croghan, a
							youth of twenty years and a nephew of George Rogers Clark, who was later to write his
							name in everlasting remembrance of the people of the West in his gallant defense of
							Fort Stephenson (Fremont) in Ohio, where a monument to his memory bespeaks the
							gratitude of the present generation.
						Major Croghan soon was transferred to Fort Defiance, and the command was entrusted to
							Captain Hugh Moore, of the Nineteenth Infantry, who had accompanied Harrison to Fort
							Wayne. The order which transferred Major Croghan to Fort Defiance was carried from
							Harrison's headquarters at Piqua to Fort Wayne by Peter Navarre, a famous scout, who
							is said to have shot Tecumseh at the battle of the Thames. Between the years 1802 and
							1807, Navarre had been engaged in trade at Fort Wayne. With his brothers, Robert,
							Alexis and Jacques, he was serving as a scout in Hull's army when Detroit was
							surrendered to the British. After his parole, Navarre served with Harrison's army, and
							his famous ride to carry a dispatch from General Harrison to Major Croghan at Fort
							Stephenson was one of the thrilling incidents of the war.
						News of the successful defense of Fort Harrison (near Terre Haute), under the command
							of Zachary Taylor, who defeated the efforts of the Indians to surprise the garrison,
							cheered both the men of Fort Wayne and those on the march down the Maumee.  On September 20, Johnson's and Simrall's dragoons, which
							were not included in Winchester's command, started from Fort Wayne to join Harrison at
							Piqua, but were met at St. Mary's with orders to return. Ensign William Holton, with
							twenty-four men of Captain Ward's company, refused to obey the command and proceeded
							to their homes in Kentucky. The others obeyed the order to return to Fort Wayne.
						On September 22, General Winchester wrote to Governor Meigs, of Ohio, that "I rejoice
							at the prospect of regaining lost territory * * * and with the hope to winter in
							Detroit or its vicinity." He requested Governor Meigs to send two regiments to join
							him at the lower Maumee rapids, "well clothed for a fall campaign."
						In the meantime, General Proctor, in command of the British at Detroit, was without
							knowledge of the raising of the siege of Fort Wayne, and an army under Major A. C.
							Muir was moved up the Maumee to assist in taking the fort at the same time that
							Winchester's command was proceeding from Fort Wayne.
						The first indication that the Americans were approaching a British army came with the
							capture of Ensign Leggett, with four men, in advance of the American troops, who were
							taken by a Frenchman and eight Indians and put to death. Muir's army consisted of two
							hundred British regulars, and Colonel Matthew Elliott's band of 1,000 Indians. The
							troops had four pieces of artillery. Had they reached Fort Wayne previous to the
							arrival of the relief army under General Harrison the result doubtless would have
							changed the history of all succeeding years in the middle west. Having brought their
							baggage and artillery up the Maumee as far as Fort Defiance, the British and Indians
							here discovered the approach of Winchester's army. A hasty retreat followed, after
							their cannon and a portion of the ammunition had been thrown into the river.
						That the British troops under Muir and Elliott were prepared to beat down the
							palisades of Fort Wayne is proven by the official report of Muir to General Proctor,
							in explaining the movements of his troops. Some of the officers endeavored to induce
							Muir to hold his ground and use their cannon to prevent the advance of Winchester's
							troops.
						"I told them," he wrote in his official report, "that the guns were brought for the
							purpose of battering Fort Wayne, but would not answer to fight in the woods." General
							Proctor, in turn, explaining the movement to General Brock, said: "Fort Wayne had been
							relieved about ten days previous to the detachment's arrival at Fort Defiance. The
							delay occasioned by the armistice prevented the attainment of the object of our
							expedition, which was the destruction of Fort Wayne."
						General Winchester's army, expecting to force its way to Detroit and recover for the
							United States the stronghold surrendered to the British by General Hull, continued its
							cautious advance down the Maumee. In the meantime, General Harrison, who had been busy
							at Piqua, received a notification that he had been appointed commander of the
							Northwestern Army, to succeed Winchester. Immediately, he set his troops in motion for
							the advance to Fort  Defiance, where he found
							Winchester's army in a deplorable condition. Many of the patriotic Kentuckians,
							willing to sacrifice all for their country's welfare, had hastened to the relief of
							Fort Wayne, clad only in their light summer garments. Cold weather was now coming on,
							and there was a shortage of food. A repetition of the hardships of Valley Forge was
							soon to be the fate of the entire army. Many were to suffer death from exposure and
							disease; hundreds were to die at the hands of the savages and the British. Much of the
							blame for this terrible result has been placed not upon General Harrison, but upon
							General Winchester, to whom the commander-in-chief entrusted the left wing of the
							army. The name of General Tupper, who commanded the central portion of the advancing
							army, is also written in the list of those upon whom falls much of the responsibility
							of the disasters of the campaign of the winter 
								A COMMANDANT'S "LOVE" LETTER.
								The original of the accompanying private letter written by Major Joseph
									Jenkinson, commandant of Fort Wayne, March 14, 1814, to his wife, was loaned by
									Miss Emma Jenkinson, his granddaughter. "Ephraim," referred to in the letter, was
									the colored slave of the commandant. The letter was carried from Fort Wayne to
									Franklin, Ohio, by W. Swain.
							
							 of 1812 and 1813. Wayne's Fort Defiance was in ruins. A
							new and larger fort was erected but a short distance from it; in honor of the leader
							of the left wing of the army it was named Fort Winchester.
						With the arrival of General Harrison the spirits of the men revived. Previous to
							this, according to one private soldier who has preserved his story of the events of
							the campaign, "Colonel Allen, in an animated and encouraging address to his men,
							banished the idea of shrinking in the day of adversity. * * * General Harrison
							addressed the whole army in a most thrilling speech, which kindled in the breasts of
							the men, generally, an increased desire to meet the enemy, and a willingness to endure
							any privations they might be called to suffer." (See the "Narrative of the Suffering
							and Defeat of the Northwestern Army, Under General Winchester," by Rev. William
							Atherton: Fort Wayne Public Library. The writer of this little book details the
							sufferings of the army, the massacre of the prisoners and the incidents of his own
							sixteen months' imprisonment.)
						Had General Harrison remained continuously in command of the army, it appears very
							probable that he would have taken his troops over an entirely new route to the attack
							of Detroit, approaching it from the west while the enemy was expecting the Americans
							to come from the south. To the secretary of war, writing under date of September 21,
							1812, the day before Winchester's departure from Fort Wayne, he had said: "From Fort
							Wayne there is a path which has sometimes been used by the French, leading up the St.
							Joseph river, and from thence across by the headwaters of the River Raisin, to
							Detroit. It appears to me highly practicable, with a mounted force, by this route, to
							surprise and retake Detroit." The suggestion was not adopted, and it was now too late
							to make use of the plan.
						General Harrison, while yet busy with his arrangements at Fort Winchester, learned
							that the savages were again surrounding Fort Wayne. Five hundred Ohio troops under
							Colonel Allen Trimble were hurried to its relief. They found the condition as
							reported, but the savages fled into the forests as soon as the Americans appeared.1
						In his report to the war department, General Harrison deplores the condition of the
							army, "the prodigious destruction of horses," and the great expense entailed. "I did
							not make sufficient allowance," said he, "for the imbecility and inexperience of the
							public agents and the villainy of the contractors," who failed to deliver to the
							soldiers thousands of warm garments sent to them by the women of Kentucky. Typhoid
							fever brought death to scores of the men.
						The story of the experiences of the left wing of Harrison's army is a continuous
							narrative of suffering and disaster. Weary, cold and suffering from disease,
							Winchester's men dragged themselves and their stores through the snows until they
							reached the site of the battle of Fallen Timber. To the northward, on the American
							side of the Detroit river, opposite Malden, was the village of Frenchtown, now Monroe,
							Michigan. From this place came messengers with the alarming information that the
							Indians were planning the massacre of the ihhabitants of the town. Winchester acted
								 promptly, after calling a conference of his officers,
							and dispatched Colonel William Lewis, with 550 men, to the scene of the expected
							trouble. Colonel John Allen, with a force of 110 men, followed. In the face of
							overwhelming numbers, Colonels Allen and Lewis pushed forward, met and dispersed a
							body of British and Indian troops, which fell back across the River Raisin, which
							empties into Lake Erie at Monroe. Here they fortified themselves as well as possible
							and summoned aid from General Winchester. The commander, responded at once in person,
							accompanied by 250 men.
						For a long period Winchester, who had shared the privations of the soldiers, now
							received a warm invitation to make himself comfortable at the home of Colonel Francis
							Navarre, a short distance from the camp of the soldiers. "Habituated to an easy,
							luxurious life," says Dr. Slocum, "the general had been for many weeks in the midst of
							forest wilds, privations and suffering, and now had headquarters in a comfortable
							house as the guest of a man with similar tastes in a social way, and with well stocked
							cellar. * * * He was under the magic spell of security and peace, which, like the 
								COLONEL RICHARD M. JOHNSON.
								Colonel Johnson, who was in temporary command of Fort Wayne, during a period
									following the siege of the fort in 1812, and who led in the raid to drive the
									troublesome savages from the region of northern Indiana, was one of Kentucky's
									most famous statesmen. Born near Louisville in 1781, he became a prominent lawyer,
									and was elected as a representative in congress for a period of twelve years,
									beginning in 1807. On the breaking out of the war of 1812 he raised and commanded
									a regiment of mounted Kentucky riflemen for service on the frontier, which served
									under Harrison and Winchester. He was seriously wounded in the battle of the
									Thames, October 5, 1813. In 1819, Colonel Johnson was chosen a United States
									senator from Kentucky and served ten years, after which he was returned to the
									house of representatives and was regularly re-elected until he became the
									vice-president of the United States during the administration of Martin Van Buren.
									He died in 1850. The portrait is reproduced from Harper's Encyclopedia of American
									History, by permission of Harper and Brothers.
							
							
								MAJOR JOSEPH JENKINSON.
								Major Joseph Jenkinson, commandant of Fort Wayne in 1813 and 1814, was the
									grandfather of Attorney Joseph James Jenkinson and Miss Emma Jenkinson, of Fort
									Wayne. The original picture, a miniature by an unknown artist, is in the
									possession of a grandson, E. W. Corwin, of New Jersey. Moses Vail Jenkinson,
									father of Miss Emma Jenkinson, and a member of the Fort Wayne bar from 1848 until
									his death in 1856, was a son of Major Jenkinson. Isaac Jenkinson was a nephew of
									the commandant. Among the persons who accompanied Major Jenkinson to Fort Wayne
									was Ephriam, a slave, who is mentioned in the major's letter reproduced in this
									work, and of whom the commandant speaks as having brought him so "completely
									under" that "he bounces at the word." The locking of the negro in the guard house
									and giving him "two whippings, the last of which was a very hard one," are
									revelations of character which contrast strangely with the gentle phraseology of
									the remainder of the letter.
							
							 brief calm preceding the disastrous burst of the
							tempest, lulled to inactivity."
						Alas! The morning of January 22, 1814, brought the fatal storm. Before they were
							aware of the situation the American troops found themselves surrounded by the enemy in
							such numbers that defense was impossible. Against the six cannon of the British, they
							had none to repel an attack. With the opening of the fire of the enemy, the
							destruction of life was terrible. Four hundred in all were sacrificed. Five hundred
							and forty-seven prisoners, including General Winchester, were taken. It was the
							misfortune of many to be required to walk a distance of 500 miles over the frozen
							ground to Fort Niagara, to be exchanged.
					
					
						DEATH OF COLONEL JOHN ALLEN.
						Colonel Allen—whose name is commemorated in that of the county of which Fort
							Wayne is the seat of government—tried to rally his men, though severely wounded.
							An Indian chief found him in an exhausted condition, seated on a log. As soon as he
							came near the colonel, he drew his gun across his lap and told him in the Indian
							language to surrender and he should be safe. Another savage having, at the same time,
							advanced with a hostile appearance, Colonel Allen, by one stroke of his sword, laid
							him dead at his feet. A third Indian near by had, then, the honor of shooting one of
							the first and greatest citizens of Kentucky.
						Following this disaster the British carried forward its plan of the siege of the
							American stronghold, Fort Meigs, on the south bank of the Maumee, nearly opposite the
							present Maumee City, Ohio.
						Meanwhile, Colonel Richard Menter Johnson, of Kentucky, who had been allowed to leave
							his seat in the national house of representatives to enter actively into the campaign
							in the west, had secured permission to rid the territory of northern Indiana of the
							savages who were still exhibiting a warlike spirit in the neighborhood of the western
							posts.
						General Harrison had already addressed a letter to Secretary of War James
							Monroe—January 11, 1813—concerning the situation about Fort Wayne, in
							which he said: "The southwardly direction of Lake Michigan
									running deep into our country, approaches Fort Wayne. * * * The facility of
									attacking Fort Wayne by an Indian force collected at Chicago, aided by the British
									artillery from Mackinac, may be seen by the Indians of that quarter, and it would
									have been attempted last fall if there had been time enough."
						Four months later—May 23, 1813—Harrison addressed the new secretary of
							war, John Armstrong, from his headquarters at Cincinnati, saying: "I am persuaded that a demonstration in the direction of Fort Wayne by a body
									of mounted men would be attended by very happy effects. I am not entirely at ease
									on the subject of the garrisons in that direction. The enemy, if they understood
									their business (wanting provisions as they do) will certainly make an attempt to
									carry some of our weak posts where we have large deposits. Colonel Johnson's corps
									will make all safe in that quarter."
						
						Included with his instructions to Colonel Johnson, General Harrison commissioned the
							Kentuckian to assume command of Fort Wayne on his arrival here. Captain Robert McAfee,
							who led a company in this expedition, gives the following interesting account of the
							undertaking, as far as it relates to the story of Fort Wayne:
					
					
						COLONEL R. M. JOHNSON PROTECTS FORT WAYNE.
						"On the 5th [of July, 1813] the regiment marched towards Fort Wayne, with a view to
							protect some boats loaded with flour and bacon, which had been sent down the St.
							Mary's by General Wingate of the Ohio militia. A heavy rain having fallen, the St.
							Mary's was found impassable at Shane's Crossing.2 On the next day, by felling trees into it from both banks,
							a rude bridge was 
								WHERE MAJOR JENKINSON'S MEN WERE MASSACRED.
								The sketch and the map indicate the scene of the massacre of a party of the
									troops of Major Jenkinson, in 1813, while guiding their flatboat around the bend
									in the St. Mary's river at the present Guldlin playground. A—Where the boat,
									loaded with men and provisions, was attacked by the Indians secreted in the
									bushes. B—Guldlin playground. C—Turnverein Vorwaerts building,
									formerly the Hugh McCulloch home. D—Residences facing on West Superior
									street.
							
							 constructed, over which the men passed with their
							baggage, while their horses were crossed by swimming. The rest of the way to Fort
							Wayne was found very difficult, all the flats and marshes being covered with water,
							and the roads very miry. They arrived [at Fort Wayne] on the 7th and found all the
							boats had reached the fort in safety but one, which had stuck on a bar in sight of the
							fort. While the boatmen were endeavoring to get her off, a party of Indians fired and
							killed two of them, and the other, attempting to swim over the river, was drowned.
							Colonel Johnson with his staff and a few men had just arrived at the fort and stripped
							their horses. As soon as they could make ready, they mounted and crossed to the boat.
							The Indians fired upon the advance and then retreated. The spies being of the opinion
							that the party of Indians was much stronger than that with the colonel, he deferred
							the pursuit till the regiment all arrived. He then took a strong detachment and
							pursued them about ten miles, when a rainy night coming on he returned to the
							fort."
						The second day after the arrival of Colonel Johnson's troops3 at Fort Wayne, the regiment marched to the
							northwest and surrounded the rebuilt village of Five Medals which was found deserted.
							During a march of two hundred miles in five days in an almost constant rain, no
							savages were found, and the troops returned to Fort Wayne. Here the regiment remained
							a few days and then proceeded down the Maumee with an escort of provisions for Fort
							Winchester.
						Thereafter, Colonel Johnson was an active participant in the campaigns of the lower
							Maumee.
						The heavy loss of life which accompanied the British sieges of Fort Meigs was due
							largely to the personal leadership of Tecumseh and "The Prophet." The siege of Fort
							Stephenson, the defense of which post, at the site of the present Fremont, Ohio, was
							in charge of Major George Croghan, was soon followed by Perry's famous victory on Lake
							Erie. The decisive battle of the Thames, on Canadian soil, which brought death to the
							great Tecumseh,4 proved to be
							the final event of tle war in the west. General Harrison, after appointing General
							Lewis Cass governor of Michigan, returned to his family in Cincinnati, where he
							retained quarters until he resigned his commission in May, 1814.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XVIII.
						(1) Among the government employes at
							Fort Wayne at this time was Louisianau, a French blacksmith, who was sent to establish
							a shop within the outer stockade. He is the first man, whose name has been preserved,
							to send the musical notes of the anvil over the neighborhood of the fort. The remains
							of this shop were discovered while workmen were excavating for the basement of the
							Judge W. W. Carson residence, later the home of the late Henry C. Hanna, on East Berry
							street.
						(2) Anthony Shane (Chesne), for whom
							Shane's Crossing is named, was Johnson's guide during this expedition. Shane, previous
							to Wayne's treaty, had been an enemy of the Americans, but his loyalty thereafter was
							proven in many acts of service. The government gave him 640 acres of land on the St.
							Mary's river in the treaty of 1817. His wife, an Indian, was converted to Christianity
							at Fort Wayne through the ministry of Rev. Isaac McCoy. Shanesville, on the original
							Shane property, located in Mercer county, Ohio, was known as Shane's Crossing, and now
							bears the name of Rockford.
						(3) The officers in command of Johnson's
							regiment were: Richard M. Johnson, colonel; James Johnson, lieutenant colonel; First
							battalion, Duval Payne, major; Robert B. McAfee, Richard Matron, Jacob Elliston,
							Benjamin Warfield, John Payne, Elijah Craig, captains. Second battalion, David
							Thompson, major; Jacob Stucker, James Davidson, S. R. Combs, W. M. Price, James
							Coleman, captains. Staff: Jeremiah  Kertley, adjutant;
							B. S. Chamber, quartermaster; Samuel Theobalds, judge advovate; L. Dickinson, sergeant
							major; James Suggett, chaplain and major of spies; Dr. Ewing, surgeon; Drs. Coburn and
							Richardson, surgeon's mates.
						(4) Peter Navarre thus describes the
							death of Tecumseh: "Colonel [Richard Menter] Johnson, under whose command I fought,
							was wounded and had his horse killed under him. While he was down, Tecumseh sprang
							from a tree to tomahawk and scalp him, and I fired upon him. He fell, and the war cry
							of Tecumseh was heard no more." The claim of Navarre is disputed by other witnesses.
							"It is the general impression that Tecumseh was killed by Colonel Richard Menter
							Johnson, later vice-president of the United States," said the late John P. Hedges, of
							Fort Wayne. "There is no doubt that he met his death by the hand of a private soldier
							by the name of King, a member of Captain Fairfield's company of Kentucky militia."
							John P. Hedges, who later became a prominent citizen of Fort Wayne, visited Fort Wayne
							first in 1812, previous to the arrival of Harrison's army, and was present at the
							burial of Chief Little Turtle. He was then twenty-one years of age and employed as
							chief clerk by John H. Piatt, government contractor to supply the forts with
							provisions. In September, 1812, he returned with Harrison's army of relief, and then
							accompanied the troops on their Maumee campaign.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIX—1813-1815. Jenkinson and Whistler,
						Commandants—Rebuilding of Fort Wayne.
					Major Jenkinson in command of Fort Wayne—A savage attack on his
						convoy—Major Whistler succeeds Major Jenkinson—The Suttenfields and the
						Bouries—The residents of the fort—How the Fourth of July was celebrated in
						1814—Whistler declares the fort was "an ill-constructed thing at the
						first"—Purposes to rebuild the stockade—When John Kinzie's scalp was
						valuable—Hostile chiefs plan attack on the forts—Whistler fears for "The
						poor devils" in the Indian camps—"No whiskey, no soap"—Whistler rebuilds the
						fort—John W. Dawson's observations concerning the building and reconstruction of
						Wayne's and Hunt's forts—Description of the fort buildings and surroundings.
					TURNING attention once more to conditions about the war-troubled fort
						at the confluence of the St. Mary's and the St. Joseph rivers we find the few settlers
						there gathered under the protection of the fort emerging from the effects of the
						conflict with a determination to begin the upbuilding of a village and the establishment
						of homes and places of trade and industry. None was inclined to venture far into the
						wilderness because of the uncertain attitude of the savages; indeed, many atrocities of
						the period made it advisable to consider well the safety of life and person. None but
						brave hearts could endure the dangers of the frontier in the years following the final
						war in the west.
					The year 1813 brought the assignment of Major Joseph Jenkinson, stationed at Newport,
						Kentucky, to the command of Fort Wayne. The descendants of Major Jenkinson became
						prominent factors in the development of the town of Fort Wayne. From Miss Emma
						Jenkinson, the present-day representative of the family, a granddaughter of Major
						Jenkinson, much valuable information, handed down from the early days of the preceding
						century, has been obtained.
					"My grandfather," says Miss Jenkinson, "must have been a gallant gentleman, with mild
						blue eyes and fastidious as to dress. He was a merchant, living in Franklin, Ohio, and
						he had heard much of the beauty and vivacity of Sallie Vail, whose father owned a large
						grist mill near Middletown, Ohio. In keeping with the custom of those days, Mr. Vail
						kept an inn for the accommodation of man and beast. Joseph Jenkinson rode down one
						Sunday evening to view the landscape and, incidentally, to see the charming Sallie. He
						ordered an elaborate meal of fried chicken, hot biscuit, mashed potatoes and the like.
						Sallie resented the serving of a spread of such proportions, having, perhaps, a more
						pleasing way to spend her time, but she must have succumbed to the charming manner of
						the future military man, for, before he left that night, he had made an engagement to
						return the next Sunday. They were married a few months later."
					
					Major Jenkinson was the father of the late Moses Vail Jenkinson, an active member of
						the legal fraternity during the early days of Fort Wayne's development.
					The wife of Major Jenkinson did not accompany him to Fort Wayne. He brought three
						companies of militia. When they reached the St. Mary's river, near the present Decatur,
						Indiana, they procured pirogues and flatboats for the transportation of their goods to
						Fort Wayne, while most of the troops followed the trails bordering the river.
					The march was conducted with precaution for fear of lurking savages, and the journey
						proved uneventful until the boats reached the point in the St. Mary's river which may be
						described as the sharp bend north of the present building of the Turnverein Vorwaerts,
						formerly the Judge Hugh McCulloch mansion, on West Superior street, in Fort Wayne. The
						river was swollen at the time and the swift current carried the boats around the present
						Guldlin playground so swiftly as to cause much anxiety on the part of the commandant
						lest there be loss of life or goods. He remained at the treacherous spot, therefore, to
						direct the operation of handling the boats. Before the last boat arrived, however, the
						commandant leaving a subordinate to direct the work of the men in charge of the
						remaining craft, returned to the fort, some distance to the eastward. Suddenly the men
						at the fort were startled by the rapid discharge of firearms toward the west. Hastening
						to the scene of the bend in the river, they were horrified to find the dead bodies of
						the men of the last boat, who had been shot from ambush and scalped by Indians secreted
						in the underbrush. Several weeks afterward the major was informed by a friendly Indian
						that the savages in hiding were at times within the distance of a few feet of the
						commandant as he directed the handling of the boats. They had withheld their attack
						until but a small number of men was left at the bend, for fear of being overwhelmed by a
						force larger than their own.
					The major's period of military service at Fort Wayne was brief. He chose to return to
						Kentucky, where he was appointed adjutant of the Forty-eighth regiment of the state
						militia. The original commission, signed by Governor Slaughter, is in the possession of
						Miss Emma Jenkinson.
					
						MAJOR JOHN WHISTLER.
						In 1814, the command of Fort Wayne was given to Major John Whistler, of the First
							United States infantry, transferred from Newport, Kentucky. Major Whistler was not a
							stranger at Fort Wayne. As a lieutenant he had accompanied Wayne on his western
							campaign, and was here to assist in the building of the original fort. He remained as
							a special officer to oversee the maintenance of the forts of the region. Later, his
							wife joined him, and it was during this period that George Washington Whistler was
							born, in 1800. This son rose to fame in the topographical service of the government.
							His death occurred in Russia, in 1849, while he was superintending the construction of
							the Trans-Siberian railroad. A  son of George Washington
							Whistler—James Abbott McNeill Whistler—became one of the world's
							best-known artists.
						Following Major John Whistler's early experience at Fort Wayne he was transferred to
							Detroit, and from there to the site 
								THE CHIEF RICHARDVILLE MONUMENT.
								The monument raised over the burial place of Chief Jean Baptiste de Richardville,
									in the present Cathedral square (the south half of which was used originally for a
									burial ground), was, at the time of the removal of the bodies to the Catholic
									cemetery in the southwestern part of the city, taken to the new burying ground,
									although the body of the Miami chief was allowed to remain in its original grave.
									Later, the monument was removed to the present Catholic cemetery, northeast of
									Fort Wayne. The small shaft of white marble was erected by the chief's daughters,
									Catherine, LaBlonde and Susan. While standing in the old cemetery, on the bank of
									the St. Mary's river, directly south from the Pennsylvania tracks, the monument
									became marred by sportsmen, who used it for a target in order to carry away its
									chips as souvenirs. It was removed to its present site by a granddaughter, Mrs.
									Archangel Engelmann, of Huntington, Indiana (daughter of Catherine, the wife of
									Chief LaFontaine). One panel bears the inscription: "Here Rest the Remains of John
									B. Richardville, Principal Chief of the Miami Tribe of Indians. He Was Born in
									Fort Wayne, Indiana, About the Year 1760, and Died in August, 1841." The resting
									place of the body of Richardville is described as a spot "Just at the edge of the
									Cathedral, between the forward side door and the first buttress of the wall."
							
							
								MRS. LUCIEN P. FERRY.
								Mrs. Caroline Bourie-Ferry, widow of Lucien P. Ferry, died in Fort Wayne in 1914,
									shortly after the observance of her one hundredth birthday. At that time she lived
									with her daughter, Mrs. Eudora P. Boyles, though she had resided for a
									considerable period with her granddaughter, Miss Minnie Orvis (now Mrs. John
									O'Brien) at Decatur, Indiana. She was born at Detroit in 1814, and was brought to
									Fort Wayne by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Louis Bourie.
							
							
								MRS. LAURA SUTTENFIELD.
								Mrs. Suttenfield was born in Boston in 1795. Her death occurred in Fort Wayne in
									1886, following a residence here of seventy-two years. She lived within the
									palisades of the fort for a period.
							
							 of Chicago, where he built Fort Dearborn and became its
							commandant.
						The year 1814, which marks the return of the Whistlers, brings into the narrative
							also the names of other families which have remained inseparable from the story of
							Fort Wayne—notably those of the Bouries and the Suttenfields. The introduction
							of the wife and two daughters of Major Whistler into the life of the garrison, as well
							as the women of the Suttenfield and Bourie families, together with the return of the
							women refugees who had been kept under the protection of their friends in the Ohio
							settlements during the period of strife, introduces into the story a feature which
							remains to the end—the element of the established family circle.
						The troops of Major Whistler came to Fort Wayne by way of the St. Mary's river. Among
							the officers was William Suttenfield, given the title of colonel, who was accompanied
							by his wife and baby boy, William F. Suttenfield. Colonel and Mrs. Suttenfield already
							had figured in many thrilling and romantic episodes. Valuable recollections of the
							early fort days have been preserved as a result of the good memory of Mrs.
							Suttenfield, which she retained to the time of her death in 1886, at the age of
							ninety-one years.
						Mrs. Suttenfield (Laura Taylor) was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Israel Taylor, of
							Boston, where she was born in 1795. A sister of Mrs. Suttenfield (Eliza Taylor) became
							the wife of Judge Samuel Hanna. Laura Taylor met William Suttenfield, a dashing young
							military officer, at Detroit, when she was sixteen, and that meeting resulted in their
							elopement the same year. Previous to this, Laura had accompanied her father on a
							business trip to Mackinac. On their return they were captured by British officers and
							held as prisoners for a time. The Suttenfields lived for two years in the home of
							Colonel John Johnston, at Upper Piqua, Ohio, after which, in 1813, they went to
							Newport, Kentucky, where Colonel Suttenfield joined Whistler's troops. It was not the
							first visit of Colonel Suttenfield to Fort Wayne. In 1811 he was in Colonel Johnston's
							employ, in charge of a pack train hauling military and Indian stores from Upper Piqua
							to the fort.
						Colonel Suttenfield, although he lived within the stockaded post at the beginning,
							was the first to erect, in 1814, a log house at Fort Wayne, following the siege. It
							stood near the corner of the present Columbia and Barr streets. This building,
							re-located and made a part of Washington hall in later years, was destroyed by fire in
							1858.
						To William Suttenfield and wife on November 29, 1816, was born a daughter, Jane. In
							later years Jane Suttenfield became the wife of Myron F. Barbour, one of the earliest
							teachers of Fort Wayne, and later prominent in business affairs.
						The Bouries made their permanent settlement here in 1814, although Louis Bourie had
							been engaged in business at this spot thirteen years before. Previous to that time he
							was a well-to-do farmer and trader at Detroit, his property extending in a narrow
							strip through the present business section of that city. Coming to Fort Wayne in 1801,
							he was granted a license to "trade with the Pottawattomie nation at Cour de Serf
							[Coeur de Cerf—Elk's Heart—probably on the Elkhart river]." He then
							transferred his  business to the portage between the
							Maumee and the Wabash rivers, and for six years he "kept pack-horses and a warehouse
							for the deposit and transportation of merchandise and peltries." Mr. Bourie's business
							grew to large proportions, and the success of the enterprise would have continued had
							it not been for the outbreak of the Indians preceding the war of 1812. It was during
							this "storm" period that Mr. and Mrs. Bourie returned to Detroit. Coming once more to
							Fort Wayne in 1814, they brought their three-month-old daughter—Caroline. This
							child, who later became the wife of Lucien P. Ferry, lived to the age of one hundred
							years and witnessed the transformation of the wilderness into a modern 
								MRS. LOUIS BOURIE.
								Mrs. Frances Bourie, with her husband, Louis Bourie, had visited Fort Wayne
									several times previous to 1814, but it was in the latter year that the family came
									from Detroit and took up their permanent residence. During the war of 1812 their
									home on their farm, which included a part of the present city of Detroit, was
									plundered by the Indians and most of their personal property carried away. In 1834
									the government reimbursed the descendants to the amount of the loss. Because of
									her culture and dignified manner Mrs. Bourie was commonly called "Lady" Bourie.
									The drawing is after a painting by Rockwell, of New York, left to the descendants
									of Mrs. Bourie's daughter, the late Mrs. Lucien P. Ferry.
							
							
								CHIEF RICHARDVILLE'S SAFE.
								The iron safe owned by Chief Jean Baptiste de Richardville was the first to be
									brought to Fort Wayne. Richardville, who first secured a near-monopoly of the
									portage business between the St. Mary's and the Wabash rivers and later engaged in
									the Indian trade with his headquarters on Columbia street, is said to have been
									the most wealthy Indian in the west. The safe was a strong wooden box securely
									bound with sheets and strips of iron, firmly bolted. The wood is now decayed and
									many of the bolts are missing. The safe is on exhibition in the relic room of the
									courthouse, as a loan of L. W. Hills, who purchased it from John W. Miller. Mr.
									Miller bought it from James Godfrey in 1850. The safe was opened by the use of a
									key which unlocked the door at the top.
							 city. Mrs. Ferry died in 1914 at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Eudora
							Boyles. Other children of Mr. and Mrs. Louis Bourie were David, Nancy Ann (wife of
							John P. Hedges), and Harriet (wife of Colonel George W. Ewing). The children of Mr.
							and Mrs. Ferry are the late Colonel Clinton P. Ferry (famous as "The Duke of Tacoma,"
							so called because of his successful speculation in the purchase of the land on which
							the city of Tacoma, Washington, is built and which was developed largely through his
							efforts), Mrs. Boyles, of Fort Wayne, and Mrs. Harriet McMillan, of Decatur, Indiana,
							whose former husband was George B. Orvis.
						Soon after his arrival at the fort in 1814, Mr. Bourie was given a contract to
							provide bread for the soldiers, and he built a bakery 
							at the corner of the present Clinton and Columbia streets. Later, he established a
							store and erected a log residence building adjoining the bakery. "I well remember that
							the French baker whom my father employed was so clean," said the late Mrs. Ferry,
							"that if we children went into the room without first wiping our feet, he would drive
							us out."
						The death of Louis Bourie occurred in 1816.
						Lieutenant Daniel Curtis, whose name appears among those who were the most active in
							the fort during the siege, was still connected with the post in 1814. The residents of
							the fort, in addition to the troops, included Major Benjamin F. Stickney, the Indian
							agent, whose good services during the siege have been noted; Benjamin Berry Kercheval
							and Peter Oliver (the latter of whom was beside Stephen Johnston when he was killed by
							the savages in 1812), clerks of the agent; Jean Baptiste Maloche and his wife; Louis
							Bourie and family; James Peltier and wife, Angeline Chapeteau Peltier; Charles
							Peltier, trader; John P. Hedges, who had first visited the fort in 1812 and who was
							now stationed at the fort as a storekeeper; Dr. Daniel Smith, who had removed from
							Lancaster, Ohio; Robert Forsythe, who later became a paymaster in the United States
							army; George Hunt, a sutler, and John E. Hunt, then a clerk for his brother
							George.
						The isolation and the quietude of the place is suggested in Mrs. Suttenfield's
							impressive description of the celebration of the 4th of July, 1814, quoted from an
							article by Mrs. Laura G. Detzer, in Volume II of the "History of the Maumee River
							Basin": "The fort at that time contained sixty men of the
									regular army, all patriotic and anxious to celebrate one day in the year. They
									made three green bowers, 100 feet from the pickets of the fort where Main street
									now is—one bower for the dinner table, one for the cooks and one for the
									music. Major Whistler had two German cooks and they prepared the dinner. There
									were but eleven persons at the table; but three are now living [1869] to tell of
									that day. Our dinner consisted of one fine turkey, a side of venison. boiled ham,
									vegetables in abundance, cranberries and green currants. As for dessert, we had
									none. Eggs were not known here for three years from that time. There were three
									bottles of wine sent here from Cincinnati; but one was made use of. Then there
									were a few toasts, and, after three guns and music, they went into the fort and
									the ladies changed their dresses. Then Major Whistler called for the music, which
									consisted of one bass drum, two small ones, one fife, violin and flute. There was
									a long gallery in the fort; the musicians took their seats there. But three of the
									gentlemen could dance. There were but three ladies present. A French four passed
									off very well for an hour. Then the gates of the fort were closed at sundown,
									which gave it a gloomy appearance. No children, no younger persons for amusement,
									all retired to their rooms. All was quiet and still. The sentinel on his lonely
									round would give us the hour of the night. In the morning we were aroused by the
									beating of the reveille."
						The lives of these residents of Fort Wayne of 1814 were never without the fear of
							possible attack from savage foes, even though  the
							treaty of peace with England was designed to govern the acts of the Indians in their
							relations with the American settlers.
						On January 27, 1814, General Harrison, writing from Cincinnati 
								WHEN WHISTLER REBUILT FORT WAYNE.
								General Duncan McArthur, commanding the Eighth military district, wrote from
									Chillicothe, Ohio, to the secretary of war in May, 1815, that Major Whistler
									"states that the Picquets in the works at Fort Wayne are so much decayed that it
									will be necessary to rebuild the fort." On August 3, 1816, General A. D. Macomb,
									writing from Detroit, told the secretary that the fort was completed, and that a
									drawing of it, which had been forwarded to Detroit, was enclosed with the
									communication to the secretary. This places the time of the rebuilding of the Fort
									Wayne between the early summer of 1815 and the late summer of 1816. The original
									of the above letter is in the war department. This is a reproduction from the
									photostatic copy in the Burton Historical Collection at Detroit.
							
							 to John Armstrong, secretary of war, observes: "Major Whistler, lately from Fort Wayne, says that the Indians
									in that quarter evince the most friendly disposition, although another officer who
									left that post since the major, says that the Miamis had informed the commanding
									officer that Dixon was collecting Indians in the neighborhood of Chicago to attack
									Fort Wayne."
						Robert Dickson (Dixon) was an active and influential British trader and emissary who
							had been sent among the Indians on the frontier to incite them to war. (McAfee.)
						That Major Whistler himself was not a little Worried over conditions is suggested by
							his letter of July 1, to Brigadier General Duncan McArthur, in which he asks for
							additional forces or a revision of the fort buildings. Said he: "The Indians show a bad disposition to Attend the Treaty [at Greenville
									conducted by General Harrison and General Cass] * * * I have Received an Account
									from Mr. Johnston [at Piqua] that the Potawatimies and Taways and the Other
									Indians Bordering on Lake Michigan are intending to Join the British and Take
									Detroit, Malden and this Place [Fort Wayne] this Moon. I am of opinion the
									Addition Made to This garrison [fort] Ought to be pulled Down or more Troops sent
									Here immediately, for the Number here are not Sufficient to mun both. It Was an
									ill-constructed Thing at first."
						The conduct of Chief Richardville had been especially annoying to Major Whistler. At
							the outbreak of the war, Richardville hurriedly gathered his effects and fled with his
							family to the British lines and there remained, without taking an active part in the
							trouble, until 1814, when he made his way to a spot about six miles southeast of Fort
							Wayne on the St. Mary's and there encamped. Major Whistler sent him a message by the
							hand of Crozier, an interpreter, inviting him to a conference at the fort. He
							responded, but he appeared reluctant to attend the conference at Greenville. Finally
							he came, in company with Chief Chondonnai, a participant in the Fort Dearborn
							massacre, and placed his signature to the treaty.
						General Harrison, explaining the situation to Secretary Armstrong, wrote: "The Miamies have their principal settlement at the forks of
									the Wabash thirty miles from Fort Wayne, and at the Missisineway, thirty miles
									lower down. A band of them under the name of Weas have resided on the Wabash sixty
									miles above Vincennes, and another on the Eel river, a branch of the Wabash
									twenty-five miles northwest of Fort Wayne. By an artifice of Little Turtle, these
									three bands were passed upon General Wayne as distinct tribes and an annuity
									granted to each."
						Rumors of British influence kept the garrison alert to interpret every suspicious
							movement of the savages. Early in the year 1815—February 11—William
							Woodbridge, acting governor of Michigan, writing to General McArthur, states that a
							reward of $600 each had been offered by the British for the scalps of John Kinzie,
							Jr., and Chaudonet, and urged that these men assemble the chiefs at Fort Wayne to
							conciliate them. "May I hope for your influence and sanction in the endeavor to effect
							it?" he asked. "Will you, if you approve of it, enforce it by your influence with the
								 government by such an order to the commandant at Fort
							Wayne as may be requisite?"
						Major Whistler, writing from Fort Wayne to General McArthur as early as January 14th,
							tells of the visit of a Frenchman named Bartrand employed by John Kinzie, Jr., who,
							under oath, told of the hostile intentions of two chiefs, Gemmo and Geebance. Directly
							afterward, a Pottawattomie chief, White Pigeon, was discovered lurking near the fort.
							He was induced by Antoine Bondie to visit the commandant who held him captive. In the
							year 1818 this Bartrand lived in a log house on the site of South Bend, Indiana, the
							only dwelling between Fort Wayne and Chicago.
						An interesting portion of Major Whistler's letter deals with the duties of the
							"armourer" of the fort, who, he explains, "frequently works for the Indians Such as
							Mending their Guns, Tommy hawks, &c. I mentioned the circumstance to the agent,
							Mr. 
								GEORGE WASHINGTON WHISTLER.
								George Washington Whistler, father of James McNeill Whistler, the world-famed
									artist, was born in 1800 within the stockade of old Fort Wayne. He was the son of
									Major John Whistler, the commandant from 1814 to 1816. In later years George
									Washington Whistler rose to fame as an engineer. He was the builder of the
									Transsiberian railroad.
							
							
								MRS. SUTTENFIELD'S TABLE.
								This handsome mahogany table was used for several years in the old fort by Mrs.
									Laura Suttenfleld. It passed into other hands and finally became the property of
									the late Colonel R. S. Robertson. It is still in daily use in the Robertson
									home.
							 Stickney, at St. Mary's," he adds, "wishing to be informed if the Soldier
							was to receive pay from the Indian department as they had done at Fort Dearborn at ten
							cents per day. Stickney informed me that they were to have no Work done for them
							unless an order from the Secretary of War. I know not what will become of the Poor
							devils; they must have some way to maintain themselves and familys. However I shall
							continue to have Such Work done for them as have been customary untill your excellency
							orders Me otherwise or some other officer authorized to Order it otherwise."
						Concerning the lack of food supplies, Major Whistler says: "The contractor has been very deficient in his Supplying this Post. There is
									not now more than Six days Issue of flour on hand at half rations. I had to send
									Soldiers with Sleds to St. Mary's for that Article and for the Six pounder. I am
									informed the Commd.  officer there has been firing
									brick bats with it and has used all the powder in that manner. No whiskey or soap.
									This is the second time I had Sent Sleds by Soldiers for flour to St. Mary's."1
						Major Whistler, in view of the hostile attitude of the savages to the northwest,
							determined that the safety of the garrison, as well as the women and children under
							his care, demanded the building of a new fort.
						In the month of May, 1815, he informed General Duncan McArthur of his intention to
							rebuild the fort, and General McArthur communicated the information to the secretary
							of war in a letter written from Chillicothe, Ohio, in which he said: "I have just received two letters from Major Whistler,
									commanding at Fort Wayne, in which he states that the Indians to the northwest
									have declared their intentions to continue the war against the United States. They
									also say they will not suffer the lands in the territories of Michigan, Illinois
									and Indiana to be surveyed or settled. He also states that the piquets [pickets]
									in the works at Fort Wayne are so much decayed that it will be necessary to
									rebuild the fort."
						In the fall of 1815, therefore, Major Whistler directed the construction of a new
							fort to take the place of the decaying structure erected by the troops of Colonel Hunt
							fifteen years before.
						Where was the new fort placed?
						The writer has found no better authority for an answer to the question than the
							record of the late John W. Dawson, who, in 1858, gathered his information from the
							earliest settlers and wrote as follows:
					
					
						THE LOCATION OF THE FORTS.
						"The exact spot, or, rather the very bounds of the fort grounds are not, at this
							distant period, to be ascertained; but enough is certainly known to advise the
							interested that the ground selected for this [Wayne's] fort is that which is
							designated on the city of Fort Wayne as lots 11, 12 and 13, within Taber's addition,
							laid out 15th April, 1835, being at the northwest corner of Clay and Berry streets,
							near where Clay street crosses the canal [Nickel Plate railroad tracks] at the Maumee
							bridge [then at Main street] just below the junction of the St. Joseph and St. Mary's.
							[Lot 11 is now occupied by the new building of the Western Newspaper Union, erected in
							1916. Calvin K. Rieman states that when his father purchased this lot in the seventies
							and commenced an excavation on the property, he dug out the fragment of a pole, set
							deep in the ground, which the late Franklin P. Randall believed to be the flagpole of
							Wayne's original fort. Mr. Dawson, writing in 1872, says that this stump of a pole was
							doubtless the remnant of one of the liberty poles erected by the whigs in honor of
							General Harrison in the summer of 1840, when "this place, as others in the west, ran
							up so many poles that the traveler approaching the town was reminded of the spars of
							shipping in some harbor."] This [Wayne's] fort was of log construction, well located
							but not very safe. The location commanded the Maumee for half a mile below the
							junction, and the mouth of the St. Joseph and the St. Mary's. It was small, and, not
							serving the purpose, was torn  down about 1804 [really
							in 1800] and a new one built on what is now lot 40, in the addition named above
							[Taber's] by Colonel [Thomas] Hunt. [Lot 40 is almost identical with Old Fort park. It
							seems very probable that the troops occupied the original fort during the period of
							construction of the second fort, so there were two American forts standing at the same
							time, separated by 
								MAJOR JOHN WHISTLER.
								Major (then Lieutenant) Whistler first served at Fort Wayne in 1794, when Wayne
									assigned him to perform special service for the government. In 1803 he built Fort
									Dearborn (Chicago). He served as commandant at Fort Wayne from 1814 to 1816. Major
									Whistler came to America as a British soldier in the Revolution, under Burgoyne.
									He was captured, paroled and sent back to England. His elopement with Miss Ann
									Bishop, daughter of Sir Edward Bishop, a close friend of his father, is an
									incident of importance, as it brought to America the fugitive lovers, who first
									made their home at Hagerstown, Maryland, in 1790. Major Whistler at once joined
									the army of the United States and in the following year came west with General St.
									Clair's army. He escaped from the "Wabash slaughter field" with severe wounds. At
									Fort Washington (Cincinnati), where Whistler was assigned to duty, he was joined
									by his wife. Upon the arrival of Wayne's army he was taken on the northward march.
									He participated in the battle of Fallen Timber and assisted in building Fort
									Wayne. After the war the Whistlers were residents of the fort, and here, in 1800,
									George Washington Whistler was born. Mrs. Laura Suttenfield, who died in Fort
									Wayne in 1886, at the age of ninety-one years, has left many reminiscences of
									Major Whistler, with whom she was well acquainted; the Whistlers and the
									Suttenfields occupied homes within the fort at the same time. The commandant was a
									man of high character, a linguist and a musician; his wife was a woman of rare
									charm and force of character. To Major Whistler and wife were born fifteen
									children. In 1816 the commandant was transferred to duty at St. Louis.
							
							
								CHIEF RICHARDVILLE (PE-CHE-WA)
								"He was," said Senator John Tipton, who knew him well, "the ablest diplomat of
									whom I have any knowledge. If he had been born and educated in France, he would
									have been the equal of Tallyrand." The portrait of Chief Jean Baptiste de
									Richardville (Pe-che-wa) is after an oil painting in the possession of his
									granddaughter, Mrs. Archangel Engelmann, of Huntington county. Richardville was
									the son of Joseph Drouet de Richardville, a French trader, and Tau-cum-wah, a
									sister of Chief Little Turtle. He was born about 1761 in a hut near the historic
									apple tree in the present Lakeside. While yet a boy, an exhibition of great daring
									in rescuing a white prisoner from burning at the stake made Richardville a chief
									of the Miamis. Although he was present on the occasion of Harmar's defeat, he did
									not participate in the slaughter, as his tendencies were always toward peace and
									the betterment of his tribe. He was a signer of the treaty of Greenville. A
									daughter, LaBlonde, married James Godfrey. A daughter of James Godfrey was named
									Archangel. A son of James Godfrey (John Godfrey, Sr.) was killed by his son, John
									Godfrey in 1908. Catherine, a second daughter of Chief Richardville, became the
									wife of Chief Francis LaFontaine. There was a third daughter, Susan. The chief
									died at his later home on the St. Mary's August 13, 1841.
							
							
								SIGNATURE OF MAJOR JOHN WHISTLER.
							
							 perhaps three hundred feet of space.] This was taken
							down in 1817 [really in 1815-1816] by Major [John] Whistler and rebuilt in a most
							substantial manner. From the best information, it seems to have enclosed an area about
							150 feet square in pickets ten feet high, and set in the ground, with a block house at
							the southeast and northwest corners, two stories high. The second floor projected and
							formed a bastion in each where the guns were rigged; that on the southeast commanding
							the south and east sides of the fort, and that on the northwest the north and west
							sides. The officers' quarters, commissary department and other buildings located in
							the different sides, formed a part of the walls, and in the center stood the liberty
							pole on which was placed a metal American eagle, and over that floated the Stars and
							Stripes of the United States.
						"The plaza, in the enclosure was smooth and gravelly. The roofs of the houses all
							declined within the enclosure after the shed fashion, and to prevent the enemy from
							setting it on fire, and, if fired, to protect the men in putting it out; and the water
							which fell was led in nicely made wooden troughs, just below the surface of the
							ground, to the flagstaff, and from thence led by a sluiceway to the Maumee.
						"It is thought it left out a small portion of the old ground [that is, when Major
							Whistler rebuilt the fort he did not include all of the ground covered by the fort as
							built by Colonel Hunt], for it is definitely known that the southwest corner of the
							new fort was exactly at the corner of lot 40, the pickets running south of east,
							toward John Brown's blacksmith shop, and near where the shop now stands [1858], and
							where was one of the forts [blockhouses]. The east side ran to a point on the north
							bank of the canal, then west to the second fort and then [south] to the place of
							beginning.
						"The stone curbing of the old well may yet be seen [1858] in the edge of the south
							bank of the canal and near the northwest corner of the fort. [In June, 1847, the Fort
							Wayne city council paid Dennis Dumean $1.50 for "filling up well at old fort"]. The
							canal cut off the north end of the fort, by which the pickets were removed, and this
							ancient relic invaded about 1833.
						"Commencing at the north and at the upper side of the fort was a fine wagon track
							that ran obliquely down the bank, landing near lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, Taber's
							addition, and just below and about the south end of the present bridge over the St.
							Mary's at that place. [The bridge, at that time, 1858. crossed the St. Mary's at
							Lafayette street. The lots mentioned compose the unoccupied south bank of the St.
							Mary's running east from the Spy Run bridge. This was known for many years as the
							pirogue landing.]
						"The fort itself was one of the most substantially built in the west. Attached to it
							was the commanding officers' garden of about one acre, which was on the west,
							including what are now lots 35, 36, 37 and 38, Taber's addition. * * * The company's
							garden extended to the west of that of the commanding officer, and ended about where
							the Hedekin house now is [Barr street], embracing, perhaps, lots 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,
							26, 27, 28 and 29, County addition, and was most highly cultivated.
						"The road ran about where the canal does now [right-of-way of the Nickel Plate
							railroad], from what is now the northeast corner  of
							Columbia and Barr streets, eastward to the fort.
						"To the south of the fort, where F. P. Randall, Esq., now lives [northwest corner of
							Lafayette and Berry streets), lots 35, 26 and 37, County addition, and lots 11, 12 and
							13, Taber's addition, was a graveyard, where were buried many persons—officers,
							citizens and soldiers, who had theretofore died. [It will be observed that this
							graveyard included the area occupied by Wayne's fort.] * * * Another place of burial
							was that now occupied by the Times building [1858] and block
							contiguous—northeast corner of Columbia and Clinton streets, where many whites,
							children and Indians were from time to time buried—the bones of whom have been
							lifted as workmen have dug for foundations for building."
						A later observation by the same writer is as follows: "The
									timbers [for the rebuilt fort] were cut by the troops on the grounds now [1858]
									held and occupied by H. B. Taylor, James Embry, Samuel Hanna, and that between
									here and there on the east of town. It was hauled by the aid of oxen, ropes used
									instead of chains, and raised by the troops into officers' quarters, commissary
									departments, blockhouses, etc. The pickets were 12½ feet long and were put in sets
									of six, with a cross-piece two feet from the top, let in and spiked, and a trench
									dug 2½ feet deep, into which they were raised. A part of the old was taken down at
									a time and replaced by the new. It was in this year [1815] that a small log house
									was built in what is now Barr street, near the corner of that and Columbia, and
									was located within range of the fort, that it might be razed if it were attacked
									by the enemy. This primitive building was afterward set out of the street and
									stood for a long time as a part of Washington hall [Ewing's Tavern], facing Barr
									street."
						The late George W. Brackenridge thus described the appearance of the fort in 1830: "Timbers of the old fort were standing in 1830. They were about
									a foot square, eight or ten feet high, pointed at the top. The stump of the
									flagpole was also in front of the two blockhouses which occupied the high ground
									at the east end of Main street, north side—both built of hewed logs. These
									buildings were two stories high, consisting of two large rooms below, same above,
									both lengthwise north and south. The one farthest from the street was taken down
									when the canal was dug. The other stood many years afterward, occupied by tenants.
									A blockhouse for storing arms and ammunition with an all-round over-jet second
									story, stood about seventy-five feet west of the two aforementioned."
						Writing of 1838, John W. Dawson says: "A common road ran down
									along the canal and across the old fort ground, between the old well and the only
									building of the fort then standing. This building stood on the vacant ground [now
									Old Fort Park]; it was two-story, and had been changed from a shed to a conical
									roof. It had been used originally for officers' quarters. A broken pole stood in
									the center of the parade ground, on which the Federal flag had been originally
									hoisted. The pickets which had enclosed the ground had nearly all been removed,
									yet the line where they stood was marked. A post at the gateway at the southwest
									corner of the stockade on the alley between Berry and Wayne  street, was standing. These pickets and the logs which had composed
									the other buildings within the pickets, had all been removed by the people for
									building purposes."
						The last of the buildings was torn down in 1852. Early in that year enough of the
							original stockades and buildings remained to arouse a vigorous but ineffectual protest
							against their final destruction. In that year Dr. G. W. Bowen, writing in the Laurel
							Wreath, a local publication, gave utterance to his sentiments in verse. The title of
							the poem was, "Spare Wayne's Fort." The opening stanza follows: 
									Why tear it down and spare it not?
									Are other days so soon forgot?
									Are other scenes no more to be
									Brought back to sweet, blessed memory?
									And must those walls that served so well
									To shield at night from savage foe
									That daring band, be leveled low?
									The silent truth forbid to tell!
								
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XIX.
						(1) John H. Platt, the first man to hold
							a government contract to supply goods to the soldiers of Fort Wayne, was Cincinnati's
							earliest banker and a successful merchant. He lost a fortune in the enterprise. As a
							result of his persistent efforts to secure the fulfillment of his demands on the
							government he was arrested and placed in prison in Washington, D. C., where he died in
							1822 without sufficient funds to give his remains a decent burial. Mr. Piatt, in 1814,
							appointed as his assistant Andrew Wallace. His contract was purchased later by Robert,
							Hugh, Glen and Jacob Fowler, who held it until 1817, when Major William P. Rathbone,
							of New York, succeeded them. Andrew Wallace was the father of Mrs. Katherine Lewis,
							widow of Major Samuel Lewis. In July, 1916—ninety-four years after the death of
							John H. Piatt—the heirs brought suit against the national government for the
							payment of the sum of $517,501. The supreme court, several years before, had awarded
							Piatt's estate a judgment for $131,508.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XX—1816-1819 The Evacuation of Fort
						Wayne—Wild Gatherings of Savages.
					Richardville becomes the most wealthy Indian in the west—Major Vose succeeds
						Major Whistler in command of Fort Wayne—Religious services in the fort—Dr.
						Trevitt and Lieutenant Clark—Vose builds the council house—The beginning of
						decisive canal activity—James Barnett and Samuel Hanna—The fort is abandoned
						by the troops—Lonely situation of the pioneers—Captain Riley's prophecy
						concerning Fort Wayne—Rev. Isaac McCoy braves the perils of western travel and
						establishes the first Protestant mission and the first school—The voyage from
						Terre Haute—Rev. Mr. Finney's account of the annuity distribution to the
						Indians—Unprincipled traders—Rumsellers described as "robbers, thieves and
						murderers"—Scenes of debauchery—Major Long's unkind description of the
						"worthless population" of Fort Wayne.
					AS THE RISING SUN dispels the darkness and the gloom of the night, so
						the dawn of the year 1816 gave to the gladdened vision of the pioneers the banishment of
						the menacing cloud of savage warfare. The new year of peace brought to the troops and
						the families under their charge the true joy of living. This well-founded feeling of
						security and comfort was not based upon the standards of today, for few could endure now
						in comfort the life measured by the service and convenience typified by the tallow dip
						and the open fire, the ox-cart and the pirogue.
					The national government realized the permanent return of peace, and already had removed
						from the other western posts the troops stationed there for the protection of the
						pioneers who were now coming to the westward in ever-increasing numbers. But the time
						was not yet arrived when the Washington authorities considered it wise to remove the
						military protection from the head of the Maumee. The Indians still thronged here in
						large numbers. Their periods of gathering to receive their annuities brought hundreds to
						the little settlement and here, ofttimes, they remained for several weeks. Normally,
						they were inoffensive, but their fondness for intoxicants rendered them dangerous in the
						extreme.
					At this time, there was no settlement nearer than St. Mary's, in Ohio, and between Fort
						Wayne and Fort Dearborn no white man had ventured to establish his abode.
					Traffic over the rivers, however, showed a steady increase over former years, and the
						portage was a busy pathway of commerce. Chief Jean Baptiste Richardville, who was
						granted a license to trade at Fort Wayne, nearly monopolized the traffic over the famous
						Maumee-Wabash carrying-place, and his immense business finally gave him the reputation
						of being the wealthiest of the western Indians. His riches were estimated at $200,000,
						treasured in cash. Richardville's iron-bound safe, the first to be seen in this part of
						America, is still a treasured relic on display in the court house at  Fort Wayne. It is the property of Leslie W. Hills. The
						chief established a place of business on the present Columbia street and also on his
						reserve on the Wabash river southwest of Fort Wayne.
					As early as 1805, Governor William Henry Harrison, in a letter to Henry Dearborn,
						Secretary of War, referring to Richardville's transactions, said: "Richardville * * * generally procures his goods on the British side of the
								lakes, and the duties have always been exacted from him by the collector of Detroit,
								contrary, in my opinion, to the treaty with Great Britain. He has appealed to me for
								redress. If you think as I do, I must beg your interference to relieve him from
								duties in future."
					
						THE LAST COMMANDANT OF FORT WAYNE.
						The westward movement of the settlers brought about the transfer of Major Whistler
							from Fort Wayne to St. Louis, in 1816. The government authorities assigned to the
							command of Fort Wayne Major Josiah N. Vose, of the Fifth United States infantry, who
							was destined to be the final commandant of the post at the head of the Maumee. During
							a period of about three months, however—from February 15 to May 31,
							1917—before Major Vose assumed his new duties, the garrison was under the
							command of First Lieutenant Daniel Curtis, of the Third infantry, who had served with
							credit during the siege of 1812, and from whose pen has come one of the best accounts
							of that perilous experience.
						Major Vose was a citizen of Manchester before his assignment to the west. He was
							commissioned a captain in the Twenty-first infantry in April, 1812, and promoted to
							major during the war. In 1842, he received the commission of colonel. His death
							occurred at New Orleans Barracks, in Louisiana, in 1845.
						A notable characteristic of Major Vose was his strict adherence to Christian living
							and his conduct of religious services for his officers and men. Concerning this
							feature of his character, Colonel John Johnston, who knew him well, said in a letter
							written in 1859, that Major Vose was the only commandant of the fort who publicly
							professed Christianity. It was his constant practice "to assemble his men on the
							Sabbath day and read the Scriptures to them and talk with them in a conversational way
							about religion. The conduct of such a man," added Colonel Johnston, "can only be
							appreciated by persons familiar with the allurements and temptations of military
							life."
						With Major Vose came Dr. Trevitt, assigned to the post as surgeon's mate, and
							Lieutenant James Clark.
						One of the early acts of the new commandant, in 1817, was the erection of a new
							council house to replace the one burned during the siege of 1812. It was a two-story
							log structure, which stood for many years. Latterly it was used as a school house and
							for residence purposes.
						The garrison in 1817 consisted of fifty-six men.
						In common with the people of the remaining portions of Indiana, the citizens of Fort
							Wayne rejoiced in the transformation of their territory into a state on April 29,
							1816. The new governor—Jonathan Jennings—inaugurated at Corydon, the first
							capital of  the state, launched out at once upon a
							state-wide plan of internal improvements, a policy which was soon to meet with a
							co-operative response at Fort Wayne, where the first real work in the fulfillment of
							the scheme—the construction of the great Wabash and Erie canal—was
							begun.
						The first state legislature assembled at Corydon in November. At the time of the
							creation of the state of Indiana, in 1816, all of northeastern Indiana was included in
							Knox county, of which Vincennes was the seat of government. In 1818, Randolph county
							was organized, with Winchester as the county seat. Fort Wayne was included in this
							latter subdivision.
						Fort Wayne was alive with interest looking to the rapid and permanent rise of the new
							state to a place of prominence in the union. Attention seemed to turn instinctively to
							the construction of a canal to connect the Maumee and the Wabash—a waterway
							which should supplant the centuries-old portage. In his first message to the
							legislature, Governor Jennings urged a prompt consideration of the establishment of
							canals, and especially the proposed 
								INDIAN RESERVATIONS IN ALLEN COUNTY.
								The outline map of Allen county shows the location of the several reservations
									granted to the Indians and whites by the United States at the time of the treaties
									of October, 1818, and October, 1826. The reservations are as follows, the numbers
									corresponding to the figures of the map: 1—Pipe-ne-way. 2—Jack
									Hackley. 3—Joseph Park. 4—Ann Hackley. 5—John B. Bourie. 6, 7,
									8, 9—Chief Jean Baptiste de Richardville and Joseph Rlchardville, his son.
									10—Maria Christiana DeRome. 11—LaGros. 12—Captain William Wells.
									13—John B. Bourte. 14—Eliza C. Kercheval. 15—LaVenture.
									16—James Knaggs. 17—Old Raccoon. 18—Chopine.
									19—Ne-ah-long-quah. 20—Wa-pa-se-pah. 21—To-pe-ah.
									22—Branstetter. 23—Seek. 24, 25, 26—Chief Francis LaFontaine.
									27—Josette Beaubien. 28—The son of George Hunt. 29—White
									Loon.
							
							 connection between the Maumee and the Wabash rivers.
							Benjamin F. Stickney, the Indian agent at Fort Wayne, through a letter to DeWitt
							Clinton, of New York, giving convincing facts with reference to the proposed waterway,
							brought an enthusiastic response from Clinton—considered as the "father" of the
							Erie canal—who said: "I have found a way to get into Lake Erie [by the
							construction of a canal between the Hudson river and Lake Erie], and you have shown me
							how to get out of it. * * * You have extended my project six hundred miles."
						In 1816, two years earlier than Stickney's observations, appeared the book by Captain
							Robert McAfee, of Kentucky, the "History of the Late War in the Western Country," in
							which the author declared that "a canal, at some future day, will unite these rivers
							[the Maumee and the Wabash] and thus render a town at Fort Wayne as formerly the most
							considerable place in all that country."
						On the 17th of June, 1843, thirty-one years after his first visit, Captain McAfee
							wrote to friends in Fort Wayne: "My recollection of the condition in which we found
							that place [Fort Wayne] in September, 1812, when General Harrison's army relieved it
							from the attacks of the Indians who had burnt and plundered every house outside of the
							fort, are yet fresh in my mind. * * * Being strongly impressed at that time with the
							admirable locality of the place, I then predicted (and so entered in my journal which
							I now have before me) that a canal at no very remote period would unite the waters of
							the lakes with those of the Ohio and Mississippi."
						Early in the year 1818, James Barnett (born in Pennsylvania in 1785) came to Fort
							Wayne and decided to cast his lot among the few who were establishing themselves about
							the fort. He had visited the place in 1797, as a trader, and, later, in 1812, he had
							come as the captain of a company serving under General Harrison. His activity and
							enterprise were soon to incite that degree of confidence which was necessary to the
							upbuilding of a town in the wilderness. The wife of James Barnett (Nancy W. Hapna) was
							a sister of Judge Samuel Hanna. Mr. and Mrs. Barnett were married at Troy, Ohio, in
							1824.
					
					
						THE EVACUATION OF FORT WAYNE.
						The year 1819 witnessed an important and significant change at Fort Wayne—the
							departure of the troops and the abandonment of the fort as a military stronghold. The
							evacuation took place on the 19th of April. Fort Wayne was the last of the Indiana
							posts to be maintained by the government. At the close of their service, the garrison
							consisted of Major J. N. Vose, one post surgeon, two captains, one first lieutenant,
							five sergeants, four corporals, four musicians (two fifers, one snare drummer and one
							bass drummer), and seventy-four artillerymen and privates—ninety-six men in all.
							The order for the evacuation caused no little excitement in the settlement, and when
							the day of the departure came, the few settlers who comprised the village felt a
							loneliness which was overcome only through the performance of the duties which came
							upon them as pioneers and founders of an enlightened community. Major Vose and his
							troops went to Detroit by way of the Maumee, in pirogues.  They took from the fort its equipment of "heavy" armament, including one six- and
							one twelve-pounder cannon.
						The fort buildings, vacated by the military, now came under the control of the civil
							authorities, represented by the Indian agent, Major Stickney, who leased the former
							quarters of the soldiers to such families and individuals as desired them. Even at
							this period, the shelter of the stockade brought a feeling of security, and the fort
							was not without its convenient firearms and supply of ammunition. The provision of
							these comfortable living quarters served also to attract many travelers, some of whom
							remained to stamp their names and characters upon the history of the village and the
							town.
					
					
						SURVEY OF THE OLD FORT GROUNDS.
						Upon the abandonment of the fort by the soldiers, the government sent Captain James
							Riley, a civil engineer, to Fort Wayne, to survey the lands about the old fort
							belonging to the United States, preparatory to the sale of a portion of the military
							reservation to the settlers. Already, it was a recognized truth that a city of 
								CYRUS TABER.
								The first addition to the original plat of Fort Wayne was the county addition;
									the second was Taber's addition, which included a portion of the military tract.
									Cyrus Taber, owner of the property, was the son of Paul Taber, who arrived from
									the east with his family in 1819. Cyrus Taber became active in the upbuilding of
									the town, and his name figures strongly in local affairs up to the time of his
									removal to Logansport. A brother, Samuel, became one of the earliest settlers of
									Marshall county. A sister, Lucy, was the wife of Thomas W. Swinney. Paul Taber,
									the father, died in 1826. The portrait is from a daguerreotype loaned by the
									daughter of Cyrus Taber, Mrs. Holman Hamilton.
							
							
								HISTORIC SPOTS IN SPY RUN.
								The dotted lines indicate the present streets in Spy Run district. The map shows
									the slough which extended across the lower portion of the district in former
									years. The bridge which crossed the slough at Spy Run avenue, according to George
									Keever, 341 Randolph street, who remembers it well, was a longer structure than
									the iron bridge which spans the St. Mary's at Spy Run avenue today. The map shows
									the location of the house of Jack Hackley, grandson of Captain William Wells, the
									location of the Wells house where Little Turtle died, and the old Hackley burying
									ground, where Captain James Hackley and Rebekah Hackley (daughter of Captain
									Wells) were buried. The Wells house was a double log cabin. It stood at the rear
									of No. 1410 Spy Run avenue. The Hackley house was a small brick building.
							
							 importance would one day grace these choice lands at
							the head of the Maumee. From Captain Riley's reports to his superior, Edward Tiffin,
							surveyor-general, we have a comprehensive picture of Fort Wayne of that day. Said he:
								"At every step in this country, every unprejudiced mind will
									more and more admire the movements and achievements of the army, conducted by this
									veteran and truly wise and great commander [General Wayne]. By occupying Fort
									Wayne, the communication between Lake Erie and the Ohio, through the channels of
									the Maumee and the Wabash (which is the shortest and most direct route from
									Buffalo to the Mississippi river), was cut off or completely commanded.
								"The country around Fort Wayne is very fertile. The situation is commanding and
									healthful, and here will arise a town of great importance which must become a
									depot of immense trade. The fort is now only a small stockade. No troops are
									stationed here, and less than thirty dwelling houses, occupied by French and
									American families, form the settlement. The departure of the fort soldiers has
									left the little band of residents here extremely lonely. But as soon as the land
									has been surveyed and offered for sale, I have no doubt but that inhabitants will
									pour in from all quarters to this future thoroughfare between the east and the
									Mississippi river.
								"This is a central point, combining more natural advantages to build up and
									support a town than I have seen in the western country."
						This letter of Captain Riley, which also contained a strong recommendation for the
							careful survey of a canal route connecting the Maumee and the Wabash, became a part of
							the official records of the surveyor-general's office, and through this channel found
							its way into the congressional debates concerning the Wabash and Erie canal. It
							appears, however, that the first man to bring the canal project to the attention of
							congress was Peter Buell Porter, a New York congressman. Captain Riley's faith in the
							development of the region is shown in the fact that he platted the town of Willshire,
							Ohio, and there built the first dam to be placed across the St. Mary's river.
						While in this vicinity, Captain Riley surveyed a route for the canal between the two
							rivers. The captain's final visit to Fort Wayne was made in 1827, at which time the
							Wayne lodge of Masons gave him assistance on account of a serious illness. Some time
							afterward, he published his interesting. "Narratives," a work now out of print. He
							died on shipboard, in 1840, while nearing the port of St. Thomas in the West Indies,
							and was buried at sea.
						Among those sturdy, intelligent men who found their way to the settlement in 1819 and
							remained as a builder of a state and of his own fortune was Samuel Hanna, pioneer
							merchant, judge, legislator, canal builder, railroad builder, banker and foremost
							leader in all branches of public enterprise. Born in Scott county, Kentucky, in
							October, 1797, and later removing with his parents to Dayton, Ohio, he came to Fort
							Wayne from St. Mary's, Ohio, where he had been engaged in supplying goods during the
							Indian treaties of the preceding year. He was twenty-two years of age. He built at
							once a log house on the site which later became the northwest corner  of Barr and Columbia streets, where now stands the oldest
							brick building in Fort Wayne—erected also by Samuel Hanna at a later period.
							Here, having formed a partnership with his brother-in-law, James Barnett, a trading
							post was opened. Much of the goods which came from the east were purchased from Abbott
							Lawrence, at Boston; the shipments were made by water to New York, thence up the
							Hudson river and across to Buffalo, and from there to Fort Wayne by way of Lake Erie
							and the Maumee.
						Great throngs of the Indians, many of whom had sunk to a low degree of degradation
							because of the liquor furnished to them by unprincipled whites, gathered about the
							fort seeking food and 
								SAMUEL HANNA.
								"Judge Hanna belonged to the higher type of the pioneer class of men. He was a
									planter and builder, more than a legislator. He had the hope, the courage, the
									forethought, the fertility of resource, the unfaltering purpose and will that
									characterize planters of colonies and founders of cities. He was more than a
									statesman, for he had in him the elements and powers of the men who build cities
									and found states."—From an address by Joseph K. Edgerton on the day
									following the death of Judge Hanna, June 11, 1866.
							
							
								FRANCIS S. AVELINE.
								The name of Francis S. Aveline is best remembered in connection with the Aveline
									hotel, which he erected during the war period and which remained a leading place
									of entertainment for nearly half a century. Mr. Aveline came to Fort Wayne with
									his parents, Mr. and Mrs. James Aveline, in 1820. He was born in 1814 at
									Vincennes, Indiana. With Francis Comparet, he built the large reservoir now known
									as Sylvan lake, at Rome City, Indiana, and was the contractor and builder of some
									of the most important earlier structures in Fort Wayne. His demise, in 1865, was
									the direct result of grief on account of the death of his son, Captain Frank
									Aveline, who was killed in the Chattanooga campaign.
							 clothing while awaiting the period of the annual consignment of money to be
							paid them for their lands.
						During the year 1818, treaties with the Miamis held at St. Mary's, Ohio, represented
							by Governor Jennings, Governor Cass and Benjamin Park, United States commissioners,
							gave to the United States much valuable ground about Fort Wayne. Among those to whom
							parcels of land were reserved for residence purposes or because of the nation's
							recognition of their services, were the following: Chief Jean Baptiste Richardville,
							Joseph Richardville, Joseph Richardville, Jr., Francis LaFontaine, the son of George
							Hunt; Little Turtle (Mishe-no-quah), Josette Beaubien, Eliza C. Kercheval  (daughter of Benjamin B. Kercheval), James Knaggs, John
							B. Bourie, Joseph Parke, Ann and Jack Hackley, the children of Maria Christina DeRome
							and LaGros. The Little Turtle here referred to was a slightly known Miami called the
							"Little Little Turtle" to distinguish him from the famous Miami leader.
						With renewed confidence and self-reliance since the removal of the protecting troops,
							the year 1820 brought marked advancement in the development of the village. The year
							brings to the pages of history the names of Rev. and Mrs. Isaac McCoy, the first
							Protestant missionaries to the Indians and the founders of the first school of the
							settlement. The McCoys, sent by the Baptist missionary convention, after a severe
							experience in the vicinity of the present city of Terre Haute, were induced to settle
							at Fort Wayne through the advice of Colonel John Johnston and of Dr. William Turner.
							With their family of seven children, and accompanied by an Indian boy, a hired
							attendant and Mr. Lykins, a teacher, they rode on horseback from Fort Harrison (near
							Terre Haute) to Fort Wayne. At one point in the wilderness a party of drink-crazed
							Indians attacked the missionary while he was separated from the other members of the
							party, but his life was saved by a half-breed, Louis Godfrey. Chief Richardville then
							met and conveyed the party to Fort Wayne in safety. The missionaries drove a herd of
							fifteen head of cattle and forty-three hogs the entire distance from Terre Haute to
							Fort Wayne. The goods of the family were brought on flatboats on the Wabash, and
							portaged across to the St. Mary's.
						"At Fort Wayne was a little village of. traders and of persons in the employ of the
							government, as interpreters, smiths, etc., some of whom were French, of Canadian and
							Indian descent," writes Rev. Mr. McCoy in his book, published in later years. "The
							nearest settlements of white people were in the state of Ohio, and nearly one hundred
							miles distant."
						The missionaries were kindly treated by the people of the village, who prepared for
							them free quarters in the fort building and furnished and plowed two acres of ground
							for use as a garden.
						"I preached to them in my own house every Sabbath," writes the missionary. "On the
							29th of May [1820] our school was opened; I was teacher myself. We commenced with ten
							English scholars, six French, eight Indians and one negro; the latter, we hoped, would
							one day find his way to Liberia, in Africa."
						The interesting story of the experiences of the McCoys is given in the "History of
							Baptist Indian Missions," by Rev. Isaac McCoy. Unfortunately, the work is out of print
							and the only copy in Fort Wayne, as far as the author is aware, is owned by Mrs. Laura
							G. Detzer, through whose kindness the references here given are made possible.
						The late Mrs. Lucien P. Ferry (Caroline Bourie) was one of the pupils of Rev. Isaac
							McCoy, being at that time five years of age. Before their departure for a new field in
							southwestern Michigan, the McCoys established a Baptist church of eleven members, but
							the organization soon disbanded.
						The perils of the life of the frontier are well illustrated by the experience of the
							McCoy family, by which a daughter of nine years was all but murdered by a fiendish
							savage, who captured her near  the fort and would have
							taken her life but for the timely interference of a young friendly Indian and one of
							the attaches of the missionary school. The child was apparently "struggling in the
							agonies of 
								WHAT A VERY EARLY HISTORICAL WORK SAID ABOUT FORT WAYNE.
								This is a photographic reproduction of a page from Captain Robert McAfee's
									"History of the Late War [1812] in the Western Country." It describes Fort Wayne
									as it appeared at the time of the publication of the book in 1816. Following is an
									explanation of the numbered references: 1—September, 1812. 2—The
									buildings and palisades of the fort. 3—Maumee river. 4—In the
									neighborhood of Clay, Washington, Jefferson and other streets of that locality.
									5—Kekionga. 6—Little river. 7—McAfee here predicts the Wabash
									and Erie canal, that did much to "render a town at Fort Wayne," (8) which, indeed,
									became "the most considerable place in all that country."
							
							 death" when her rescuers reached her side. The father
							was just reaching home from a horseback ride to Baltimore, whither he had gone to
							secure financial aid for the mission and school. The missionary, describing the
							experience, adds that a Miami woman, who was a member of their household, threw
							herself, while intoxicated, into a fire and burned to death, and that the Miamis,
							while under the influence of liquor, committed many murders in the Indian villages
							about the settlement.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE FROM 1819 TO 1823.
						To the description of Fort Wayne at this time as given by Rev. Isaac McCoy, we have
							chosen to add that given by four other visitors to the settlement between the years
							1819 and 1823.
						The journal of Thomas Scattergood Teas, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, published for
							the first time in 1916 in "Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers," edited by Harlow
							Lindley, secretary of the Indiana Historical Commission, gives an intimate view of
							life in the village of Fort Wayne in 1821.
						"The laws of the United States for preventing the introduction of liquors among the
							Indians, though very severe, are ineffectual," wrote Mr. Teas. "A person might remain
							in the woods within five or six miles of Fort Wayne for a year without being
							discovered by any white settler. It has been the custom of the traders to bring
							whiskey in kegs and hide it in the woods about half a mile from the fort, a short time
							previous to the paying of the annuity, and, when the Indians came to the fort, to give
							information to such of the young men as the traders can confide in, that there is
							whiskey to be had at those places. These inform their comrades, and as soon as they
							receive their money they go off in droves to the places appointed, where they
							frequently buy it at two dollars a pint, till their money is gone, and then pawn their
							blankets, guns, bracelets and other trinkets till they are sometimes reduced to a
							state of nudity. In this manner the unprincipled traders evade the laws with impunity,
							and render all the efforts of the friends of civilization abortive. * * * There are
							considerable numbers of Indians here of the Pottowattomies, Shawnees, Miami, Utawas
							and Delaware tribes. Notwithstanding the efforts of the Indian agent to prevent the
							traders from selling whiskey to them, they still contrive to do it. I have seen as
							many as fifty drunk during my short stay here. They assemble in groups of ten or
							twelve, men and women promiscuously, squat on the ground and pass the canteen rapidly
							around, and sing, whoop and halloo, all laughing and talking at once, with the most
							horrible contortions of countenance; so that they remind me of Milton's demons. It is
							not uncommon to see them entirely naked, except a strip of clothing about a foot broad
							about their middle. This evening six deserters, who had been taken and sent to Green
							Bay, and discharged after serving their time out, arrived here. They were miserable
							looking fellows. One of them came to the tavern and offered to barter a roll of
							tobacco for whiskey, but was refused. They took up their quarters for the night in an
							empty cabin. * * *
						"The settlement at this place consisted of about thirty log cabins and two tolerably
							decent frame houses. The inhabitants  are nearly all
							French-Canadians. The fort stands at the lower end of the village and is composed of
							hewn log buildings about thirty-five feet high, and the intervals between them filled
							up with a double row of pickets twenty feet high. It is about sixty yards square.
							There is no garrison kept here, and the barracks are occupied by the Indian agent, the
							Baptist missionary and some private families. There is a school for the Indian
							children in the fort, under the auspices of the Baptist Society. It is conducted on
							the Lancasterian system; the teacher's name is Montgomery. On my arrival, as the
							school was the principal object of curiosity, I waited on the missionary whose name is
							McKoy [Rev. Isaac McCoy], and requested him to accompany me to it, which he did; and,
							during my stay in Fort Wayne, treated me with an attention as unexpected as it was
							gratifying. There are about forty scholars. It is pleasing to see the 
								JAMES BARNETT.
								Mr. Barnett's first visit to the old fort was in 1797, two years after the
									building of the stockade by General Wayne. He came again as a soldier with General
									Harrison in 1812. His permanent residence dates from 1818. Mr. Barnett built the
									first brick house in Fort Wayne. The portrait is reproduced from the "History of
									the Maumee River Basin" (vol. ii).
							
							
								FRANCIS COMPARET.
								In 1820 Francis Comparet came to Fort Wayne and opened an Indian trading post;
									later he established several manufacturing industries and was foremost in many of
									the enterprises of the day. He was one of the contractors whose work on a proposed
									Fort Wayne-to-Chicago canal created Sylvan Lake at Rome City, Indiana.
							 order in which the school is kept, and the delight that the scholars seem to
							take in their studies. There are two boys of the Pottowattomie tribe, who had been
							only two weeks at school, who were spelling in words of four letters. As soon as they
							begin to learn their letters, they are furnished with a slate, and form letters on it
							in imitation of printed type. About half the scholars were writing, and many of them
							write a good hand. Their improvement is such as to remove all doubts as to their
							capacity.
						"There is a U. S. reserve of six miles square round the town and the settlers are
							squatters who pay no tax or rent, and are liable to be ordered off at a minute's
							warning. The village, before the late war [1812] was much larger than at present. The
							Indians destroyed all the houses except two which were near the fort, and which were
							burnt by order of the commandant, to prevent the 
							Indians from setting fire to them when the wind should get towards the fort and burn
							it. This part of the country possesses great commercial advantages, and when it
							becomes settled, will be a place of great business."
						Rev. J. B. Finney, in his book, "Life Among the Indians," tells of visiting the
							village during the period of the distribution of the annuities to the savages. He
							writes: "This was an awful scene for a sober man to look upon.
									Here were encamped between two and three hundred Indians, and one-third, if not
									one-half, drunk; men and women, raving maniacs, singing, dancing, fighting,
									stabbing and tomahawking one another—and there were the rum-sellers watering
									their whiskey until it was not strong grog, and selling it for four dollars a
									gallon, their hired men gathering up all the skins and furs and their silver
									trinkets, ear-bobs, arm bands, half moons, silver crosses and
									brooches—giving a gill of grog for a dozen brooches—and their guns,
									tomahawks and blankets, till they were literally stripped naked, and three or four
									were killed or wounded. The reader may set what estimates he pleases, or call him
									by what name; yet, if there were ever a greater robber, or a meaner thief, or a
									dirtier murderer than these rum-sellers, he is yet to be seen."
						Lest the severe arraignment of the preacher appear unjust, let us compare it with the
							opinion of Captain James Riley as given in the following year (1820) to Edward Tiffin.
							Captain Riley prefaces his observations with the statement that he came to the village
							of Fort Wayne to witness the scenes which he describes. Said he: "There were at least one thousand whites here, from Ohio, Michigan, New York
									and Indiana, trading with the Indians. They brought a great abundance of whisky
									with them, which they dealt out to the Indians freely, in order to keep them
									continually drunk and unfit for business; their purpose being to get the best of
									them in trade. Horse-racing, gambling, drinking, debauchery, extravagance and
									waste were the order of the day and night."
						But these conditions, as pictured by Captain Riley, prevailed only during the period
							of the annual distribution of the money sent by the government to be paid to the
							Indians in accordance with the treaty agreements. It is of interest, then, to quote
							the words of a man who made a "between-times" visit to the village. We find him, in
							the person of Major Stephen H. Long, a topographical engineer, who visited the village
							in 1823. He wrote his impressions in the following forceful words as given in his
							"Expedition to the Sources of the River St. Peter:"
						"At Fort Wayne we made a stay of three days, and to a person visiting the Indian
							country for the first time, this place offers many characteristic and singular
							features. The village is small—it has grown under the shelter of the fort, and
							contains a mixed and apparently very worthless population. The inhabitants are chiefly
							of [French] Canadian origin, all more or less imbued with the Indian blood. The
							confusion of tongues, owing to the diversity of Indian tribes which generally collect
							near a fort, make the traveler imagine himself in a real babel.
						"The business of a town of this kind differs so materially from  that carried on in our cities, that it is almost impossible to fancy
							ourselves within the same territorial limits, but the disgust which we entertain at
							the degraded condition in which the white man, the descendant of the European,
							appears, is perhaps the strangest sensation which we experience. To see a being in
							whom from his complexion and features we should expect to find the same feelings which
							dwell in the bosom of every refined man, throwing off his civilized habits to assume
							the garb of the savage, has something which partakes of the ridiculous as well as the
							disgusting. The awkward and constrained appearance of those Frenchmen who had
							exchanged their usual dress for the breech-cloth and blanket was as visible as that of
							the Indian who assumes the tight body-coat of 
								THE LAST COUNCIL HOUSE.
								A log building known as the council house was destroyed by fire during the siege
									of Fort Wayne in 1812. A new building, of which the above is a sketch, was erected
									by Major Vose in 1817, to take its place. The building stood on East Main street,
									on a lot adjoining the No. 1 fire station, occupied later by the residence of
									Michael Hedekin. In later years it was used as a schoolhouse. "In one room," said
									the late Mrs. Lucien P. Ferry, "there were cupboards full of tobacco. Whenever the
									boys were unruly they were shut up in these cupboards until they were almost
									suffocated." The building was the birthplace of Louis T. Bourie and his wife; it
									became the property of Captain John Bourie in 1839 and was torn down in 1856.
							
							
								SIGNATURE OF DR. WILLIAM TURNER.
								Dr. Turner, a son-in-law of Captain William Wells, became Indian agent at Fort
									Wayne in 1821, succeeding Major Benjamin F. Stickney (Signature from Burton
									Historical Collection, Detroit).
							
							
								SIGNATURE OF ALEXIS COQUILLARD.
								Alexis Coquillard was one of the earliest representatives of the American Fur
									Company to locate at Fort Wayne. He was one of the first settlers of South Bend,
									Indiana. (Burton Historical Collection, Detroit).
							 the white man. The feelings which we experienced while beholding a little
							Canadian stooping down to pack up and weigh the hides which an Indian had brought for
							sale, while the latter stood in an erect and commanding posture, were of a mixed and
							certainly not of a favorable nature. At each unusual motion made by the white man, his
							dress, which he had not properly secured, was disturbed, and while engaged in
							restoring it to its proper place he was the butt of the jokes and jibes of a number of
							squaws and Indian boys who seemed already to be aware of the vast difference which
							exists between them and the Canadian fur dealers.
						"The village is exclusively supported by the fur trade, which has, however, gradually
							declined, owing to the diminution of the Indian population. The traders seldom leave
							the town but have  a number of Canadians, called
							engages, in their service who accompany the Indians in their summer hunts, supply them
							with goods in small quantities, and watch them that they shall not sell their goods
							[furs] to traders other than their employers. The furs brought in consist principally
							of deer and raccoon skin. Bear, otter and beaver have become very rare. The skins when
							brought in are loosely rolled or tied, but they are afterward made into packs which
							are three feet long and eighteen inches wide after being subjected to a heavy pressure
							in a wedge press. Skins are worth: Deer (buck), $1.25; deer (doe), $1.09; raccoon,
							$0.50; bear, $3.00 to $5.00. The values are nominal, as the furs are paid for in goods
							which are passed off on the Indians for more than double the prime cost and
							transportation. The furs are usually sent down the Maumee to Lake Erie and thence to
							Detroit, where they are for the most part purchased by the American Fur Company."
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXI—1820-1823. Platting the Town of Fort
						Wayne—Allen County Organized.
					Dr. Turner, John Hays and Benjamin B. Kercheval, Indian sub-agents at Fort
						Wayne—The first postoffice—Kercheval, and Hanna, postmasters—The
						American Fur Company—Alexis Coquillard—Francis Comparet, James Aveline, the
						Ewings, the Hoods, William Rockhill, the Swinneys, Paul Taber and others locate in the
						village—"Father" Ross—The first secret order, Wayne Lodge of Masons,
						organized within the fort—Why General Harrison blocked the way against the
						establishment of a town in 1805—The government decides to sell the land about the
						fort—The land office—Captain Vance and Register Holman—Allen Hamilton,
						John T. Barr and John McCorkle—Robert Young surveys the original plat of Fort
						Wayne—Ewing's tract—Why the original streets run askew—Allen county is
						organized.
					A CHANGE in the management of the Indian agency at Fort Wayne took
						place in 1820, when Major Benjamin F. Stickney was transferred to a post on the lower
						Maumee and Dr. William Turner1
						was named to succeed him. Major Stickney had served with credit during nine strenuous
						years, and had suffered, as many another efficient officer has done, from the intrigues
						of enemies among the Indians and the whites. General Duncan McArthur, writing from
						Chillicothe, Ohio, as early as March, 1815, informed the secretary of war, James Monroe,
						that Colonel Lewis, a Shawnee chief, had placed before him severe criticisms of
						Stickney's methods. "The Indians are generally displeased with Mr. Stickney as an
						agent," added General McArthur, "and several of them have requested me to make it known
						to the president and solicit his removal. He is certainly not well qualified to
						discharge the duties of an Indian agent."
					In May, 1818, Governor Lewis Cass, at Detroit, wrote to Major Stickney as follows: "By an act of congress, passed April 20, 1818, the agencies at
								Fort Wayne and Piqua have been consolidated, and John Johnston, Esq., has been
								appointed agent for the agency thus formed. This new organization has left you out
								of the service. I do not know what arrangement has been made by the war department
								for the provisional execution of duties at Fort Wayne, nor have I been informed
								whether it is expected that Mr. Johnston should remove from Piqua. It is especially
								necessary that some person should be charged with the management of Indian affairs
								at Fort Wayne until the pleasure of the secretary of war can be made known upon the
								subject. I have to request that you execute the duties of sub-agent at that
								post."
					Major Stickney continued to serve, under this arrangement, through the year 1819,
						though there appears to have developed a degree of friction between the sub-agent and
						his superiors.  Governor Lewis Cass, of Michigan, writing
						in January, 1819, to John C. Calhoun, secretary of war, concerning the situation at Fort
						Wayne, said: "I consider him [Major Stickney] a very zealous and
								honest agent. But circumstances have occurred at Fort Wayne which have had a
								tendency to injure the usefulness of Mr. Stickney there."
					Under these circumstances, Major Stickney removed from Fort 
							THE ORIGINAL AREA OF ALLEN COUNTY.
							The map shows the area of Allen county, as created in 1823, as compared with its
								present size; even today it is the largest county in Indiana.
						
						 Wayne and settled on the site of Toledo, Ohio. Dr.
						Turner, the new sub-agent, resigned his office within a few weeks after taking up his
						duties on account of failing health, and John Hays was appointed in his stead, at a
						salary of $1,200 per year. Benjamin B Kercheval,2 a young Kentuckian who had been serving as clerk, was
						appointed sub-agent at a salary of $500. Mr. Kercheval soon succeeded Mr. Hays. The
						payment of annuities to the Indians in 1820 amounted to $21,121 in cash, in addition to
						$5,838.40 for mills, materials, superintendents, agents, sub-agents, interpreters and
						blackmiths.
					In 1821, the birth of a daughter to Benjamin B. Kercheval, the Indian sub-agent, and
						his wife (formerly Maria Forsythe) was an event of such interest to the Indians that
						they shortly adopted her, with solemn ceremonies, as a member of the Miami tribe. The
						child, 
							THE CHARTER OF WAYNE LODGE OF MASONS.
							Herewith is shown a reproduction of a portion of the crumbling, discolored original
								charter granted to Wayne lodge No. 25, Free and Accepted Masons, November 10, 1823,
								by the grand lodge of the state. This was the first secret society organized in Fort
								Wayne. The original charter, framed, hangs on the wall of the lodge room in the
								Masonic Temple.
						 Eliza Cass Kercheval, in maturity, married Francis Woodbridge, a Vermont West
						Pointer. From Fort Wayne, the Kerchevals removed to Detroit, where the family and its
						descendants became strongly identified with the development of the town and city.
					In 1822, the government assigned Richard Whitehouse, blacksmith, to serve the needs of
						the Indians at the agency house.
					The national government recognized the growing importance of the town of Fort Wayne in
						the establishment of the postoffice in 1820. Although Samuel Hanna was in reality the
						first man to serve as the postmaster of Fort Wayne, another pioneer, Benjamin B.
						Kercheval, whose commission bore the date of February 4, was the first appointee of
						Postmaster General Return J. Meigs, of President Monroe's cabinet. Mr. Hanna established
						the office in his store, after Mr. Kercheval, evidently, had declined to serve.
					
					At this time, there was one mail every two weeks from Cincinnati, and the only
						newspaper to find its way to the pioneer village was the Liberty Hall (Cincinnati
						Gazette).
					In 1822, in response to the demands of the town, the government established regular
						mail routes between Fort Wayne and Chicago, as well as Ohio villages. Colonel William
						Suttenfield carried the mails to Chicago, and on one trip he made the entire journey on
						foot. Samuel Bird, a veteran of the Wayne campaign, who helped to build the original
						fort, carried the Maumee mails, making one trip a week.
					The chief industry of the town during these earlier years consisted of the trade with
						the Indian tribes, chiefly in the exchange of goods for furs and peltries. The American
						Fur Company established an important branch station here and Benjamin B. Kercheval,
						Alexis Coquillard and Francis Comparet were its representatives.
					Mr. Comparet, who came to the village from Detroit in 1820, was a native of Monroe,
						Michigan, where he was born in 1798; he made Fort Wayne his permanent place of abode,
						and the family is identified with much of the early and more modern activities of the
						village and city.
					Alexis Coquillard came from Detroit. After his residence at Fort Wayne, he established
						a trading station on the St. Joseph river of Lake Michigan, on the site of the city of
						South Bend, Indiana, as an outpost of the American Fur Company's establishment at Fort
						Wayne.
					James Aveline and family, of Vincennes, and John E. Hill arrived in 1820 and entered
						actively into the affairs of the village. The family of Mr. Aveline had come to America
						from St. Jule, in France. He was familiarly known as "St. Jule." His son Francis was the
						builder of the Aveline house. In 1832, with Robert E. Fleming, Mr. Hill engaged in the
						dry goods trade in Fort Wayne. In 1846, with A. M. Orbison, the firm of Hill and
						Orbison, for many years prominent in the commission business, was formed.
					In 1822 came the family of Colonel Alexander Ewing, of Troy, Ohio, whose members
						exerted a mighty influence in the affairs of the west during the two score years
						preceding the outbreak of the war of the rebellion.
					The family consisted of Colonel Ewing (born in Pennsylvania in 1753), his wife
						(Charlotte, a sister of Captain William Griffith, prominent in the Fort Dearborn
						tragedy), four sons, Charles W., who became president judge of the circuit court and a
						prominent lawyer; William G., the first man to be admitted to the bar in Allen county;
						George W., who, associated with William G., became one of the most widely known business
						men of the middle west, and Alexander H., a prosperous Cincinnati merchant; and three
						daughters, Charlotte (Mrs. William N. Hood, later Mrs. Smalwood Noel); Lavina (Mrs.
						George B. Walker), and Louisa (Mrs. Charles E. Sturgis).
					Colonel Alexander Ewing's first visit to Fort Wayne was made in 1812. He had removed
						from New York to Piqua, Ohio, in 1806 and there built a double log house which was used
						as a tavern and trading house. He became a colonel in the Miami county militia which
						joined General Harrison in his relief expedition to Fort 
						Wayne in 1812. Colonel Ewing served with the army in a detachment of spies, and
						continued throughout the campaign to the battle of the Thames. He lived but five years
						after the family settled in Fort Wayne, but in that brief period he established one of
						the pioneer taverns and became the owner of real estate which is today of incalculable
						value.
					In 1855, Colonel George W. Ewing prepared a history of the Ewing family. "I cherish the
						fond hope," said he, "that they [the Ewing descendants] will aim to emulate those who
						have preceded them, and to add to our family name and reputation, rather than by
						unworthy conduct sink down and detract from it. I wish that they would not only read and
						study the course and conduct of my late lamented brother, William G. Ewing, and of
						Alexander H. Ewing, and myself, but I want them to appreciate them, and aim to profit by
						our examples."
					The year 1822 also gave to Fort Wayne the families of William Nesbit Hood and his
						brother, Robert Hood, who came from Dayton, Ohio. The former, the father of the late
						William Ewing Hood, 
							GENERAL JOHN TIPTON.
							General Tipton, appointed Indian agent at Fort Wayne in 1823, was one of Indiana's
								most progressive citizens. His father was murdered by the savages, leaving him as
								the support of his mother while a mere boy. John Tipton was born in 1786 in Sevier
								county, Tennessee. While serving under General Harrison during the Tippecanoe
								campaign he rose to the rank of captain, and soon attained the title of brigadier
								general. Before coming to Fort Wayne he had served as sheriff of Harrison county and
								while a representative in the state legislature, he was a member of the commission
								chosen to select the first capital, Corydon. After the completion of his service at
								Fort Wayne he removed the land office to Logansport. In 1831 he was the choice of
								the legislature as a representative of Indiana in the United States senate. During
								his residence in Fort Wayne he was instrumental in the organization of the first
								Masonic lodge; later he was the grand master of the order in Indiana. The portrait
								is from the seventy-fifth annual report of the Indiana Grand Lodge of Free and
								Accepted Masons, 1896.
						
						
							COLONEL THOMAS W. SWINNEY.
							Colonel Swinney, who came to Fort Wayne probably in 1823, was a native of Piketon,
								Ohio, where he was born November 18, 1803. Shortly after his arrival two brothers,
								Joseph L. and Samuel, located at Fort Wayne; the former was active in the earlier
								development of the town, but the latter died soon after his settlement here.
								Previous to the marriage of Thomas W. Swinney and Lucy Taber, daughter of Paul
								Taber, the wife had entered the tract of land which included the present Swinney
								park. To this tract Mr. Swinney made valuable additions, including a tract belonging
								to Paul Taber and a piece on the west bank of the St. Mary's river, adjoining
								Swinney park. Mr. Swinney took an active part in the development of the city and
								became a man of large means. His munificence, as expressed in the possession by the
								city of Swinney park, will be appreciated by untold coming generations. His death
								occurred January 20, 1875. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by the Misses
								Frances and Caroline Swinney, daughters of Colonel Swinney.
						
						 became one of the earliest associate justices of the
						Allen county circuit court, and was one of the founders of the city of Peru,
						Indiana.
					"My father and mother were married in Fort Wayne in 1827," said the late William Ewing
						Hood, who died in Fort Wayne in 1915, "my mother [Charlotte Ewing] being a daughter of
						Alexander Ewing. In 1829, my father bought, for $500, two hundred and ten acres of land
						on which he, in connection with Jesse L. Williams and Richard L. Britton, Fort Wayne
						friends to whom he sold an interest, located the town of Peru, Indiana, in 1834. My
						father had removed his family to Miamisport, which is now a part of Peru, in 1833. He
						died in 1838. In 1843, my mother was united in marriage with Smalwood Noel, and we
						returned to Fort Wayne."
					Notable visitors, too, were attracted to the village on the Maumee. Among these, in
						1822, were General Lewis Cass, of Michigan, and Henry Schoolcraft, the explorer and
						geologist, who were following the old waterway route from Lake Erie to the Mississippi
						region.
					We have noted the first attempt, on the part of Rev. Isaac McCoy, the Baptist
						missionary, to establish a denominational church at the settlement. In this connection
						it is fitting to note the visit of another representative of the church, Rev. John Ross,
						affectionately called "Father" Ross, a native of Ireland, who came first to the village
						in 1822, and spent a considerable period as a missionary representative of the
						Presbyterian church. Coming from Franklin, Ohio, in the winter season, Rev. Mr. Ross
						"took passage in a light two-horse wagon, with Matthew Griggs, visiting Fort Wayne on a
						trading expedition with hats and dried fruit." The journey was filled with perils.
						Threatened with death in a severe snowstorm and by the wolves which roamed the prairie,
						Mr. Griggs and Rev. Mr. Ross left the vehicle under the guard of a faithful dog and led
						the horses to the village, where they were entertained at the home of Samuel Hanna. (See
						Jesse L. Williams's "History of the First Presbyterian Church.")
					The story of the beginnings of Allen county introduces the names of many who, at later
						periods, gave of their services to the advancement of many public interests.
					William Rockhill, who came to Fort Wayne in 1823, was a prominent figure in the
						development of the town until civil war times. Born at Burlington, New Jersey, in 1793,
						Mr. Rockhill chose to settle at Fort Wayne at the time of the opening of the land sales,
						at which time he purchased by entry a large tract, the eastern boundary of which is the
						present Broadway. From the beginning, Mr. Rockhill was identified with the development
						of the town along political, educational and commercial lines.
					Probably in 1823, Colonel Thomas W. Swinney (born at Piketon, Ohio, in 1803) came to
						Fort Wayne. He became an extensive owner of lands now comprising Swinney park and a
						large tract on both sides of the St. Mary's river in that locality. Upon this extensive
						piece of ground Colonel Swinney commenced the raising of farm products, and through his
						persistent activity he laid the foundation of his large means, which, in later years was
						augmented by the increasing value of his land holdings. A short time after Colonel  Swinney came to Fort Wayne, he was joined by two brothers,
						Joseph L. and Samuel. The latter died soon afterward.
					Another family of prominence of the period was that of Paul Taber, who had come from
						the east in 1819, accompanied by his sons, Cyrus and Samuel, and his daughter, Lucy. The
						elder Taber became active in the affairs of the town, but his efforts were brought to a
						close by his death in 1826. Cyrus Taber, the owner of Taber's addition, removed to
						Logansport in an early year. Samuel Taber removed to Marshall county, Indiana. Lucy
						Taber became the wife of Colonel Thomas L. Swinney. Paul Taber had entered a
						considerable tract of ground west of the town, which was later purchased by Colonel
						Swinney. A tract entered by Samuel Taber was purchased by William Rockhill. Lucy Taber's
						ownership 
							JUDGE WILLIAM N. HOOD'S COMMISSION.
							Samuel Hanna and Benjamin Cushman were elected in 1823 by the voters of Allen
								county to serve as the first associate judges of the circuit court. When Judge Hanna
								was elected a member of the state legislature, Governor James B Ray appointed
								William N. Hood to fill the vacancy on the circuit court bench, "for the term of
								seven years from the 15th day of June, 1824, in the room of Samuel Hanna, resigned."
								Judge Hood's period of service commenced in April, 1827. The original commission
								from which the engraving was photographed is among the effects of the late William
								Ewing Hood, son of Judge Hood. It bears the certificate of Anthony L. Davis, clerk
								of the circuit court, dated July 14, 1827.
						
						 included the present Swinney park.
					Jean Baptiste ("Father") Bequette, a French silversmith, established a manufactory of
						jewelry and "ear-bobs for Miami belles," in which was employed at times as many as forty
						persons. Hugh B. McKeen opened a school in the old fort.
					In 1823, came General John Tipton, appointed by President Monroe to succeed Benjamin B.
						Kercheval, Indian agent at Fort Wayne. General Tipton was of the type of unlettered
						pioneer whose power lies in native strength of character. He had served with Harrison at
						Tippecanoe, and it is said he was spurred to give his best service there by the memory
						of the death of his father at the hands of a murderous savage. General Tipton's account
						of the battle, in his own handwriting, forms a part of the John Holiday collection at
						Indianapolis.
					
						ORGANIZATION OF WAYNE LODGE OF MASONS.
						The year 1823 marks the beginning of fraternal societies in Fort Wayne, with the
							organization of Wayne Lodge, No. 25, Free and Accepted Masons. General John Tipton
							appears to have been the moving spirit in the matter. On March 22 John Sheets, grand
							master of Masons in Indiana, granted a dispensation to Alexander Ewing, worshipful
							master; John P. Hedges, senior warden; Benjamin Cushman, junior warden, and others, to
							form a lodge to be known as "Wayne lodge, of Fort Wayne, County of Randolph, Indiana."
							At the first meeting, held in May, there were present, in addition to those already
							mentioned, Captain James Hackley and Benjamin B. Kercheval, together with the
							following-named visitors: General Tipton, of Pisgah lodge, of Corydon, Indiana;
							Anthony L. Davis, of Franklin lodge, Kentucky; Richard L. Britton, of St. John's
							lodge, of Ohio; John McCorkle, of lodge No. 14, Ohio, and Robert A. Forsythe. The
							lodge was opened with John P. Hedges, senior warden and secretary pro
								tem; Benjamin Cushman, junior warden; James Hackley, treasurer, and Benjamin B.
							Kercheval, steward and tyler pro tem. At the June meeting Mr.
							Kercheval was elected treasurer; Charles W. Ewing, secretary; James Hackley, senior
							deacon; Robert Hars, junior deacon, and John P. Hedges, steward and tyler. On the 10th
							of November the charter was granted. On the evening of November 17, in the rooms of
							General Tipton, enclosed within the palisades of the fort, the following officers were
							installed: Worshipful master, Alexander Ewing; senior warden, John Tipton; junior
							warden, Benjamin B. Kercheval; secretary, Charles W. Ewing; treasurer, Anthony L.
							Davis; senior deacon, James Hackley; junior deacon, Hugh B. McKeen; steward and tyler,
							James Wyman. On the occasion of the meeting on Christmas night, General Tipton was
							elected to the office of worshipful master, a position which he held for five
							years.
						Although Wayne lodge is today a most substantial organization, the story of its
							earlier years is one of heartaches and difficulties. During the first five years, the
							order continued to meet in one of the buildings of the old fort, and in Washington
							hall, the County Seminary and the court house, although efforts were begun in 1825 to
							establish a lodge hall owned by the organization. Because of  financial and other difficulties, the work of building was delayed. At
							length, in 1829, the lodge purchased from John McCorkle, John T. Barr and Joseph
							Holman a lot near the northeast corner of Columbia and Harrison streets, the site of
							the establishment of S. Bash and Company, and there erected a brick building. On June
							3, 1833, the lodge found it necessary to sell the lot and building to the highest
							bidders—Joseph Holman, Richard L. Britton, Francis Comparet, Alexis Coquillard
							and Hugh Hanna—for $1,328.
						The suicide of James Hackley, husband of Rebekah, daughter of Captain William Wells,
							presented a troublesome problem to the Wayne lodge of Masons in 1826. Hackley's death
							was the first in the lodge since its organization. Some objection was made to
							conducting the funeral because of the nature of the death, but, 
								WILLIAM G. EWING.
								Judge William G. Ewing, the first man to be admitted to the bar in Allen county,
									held also the honor of serving as the first judge of the probate court, from 1830
									to 1836, when he resigned to engage, with his brother, George W. Ewing, in
									extensive trading operations, with many branch houses in the central states. At
									the time of his death on Lake Superior in 1854, he was one of the wealthiest men
									in the middle west. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by the late Mrs.
									Cynthia A. Hill.
							
							
								ALLEN HAMILTON.
								Mr. Hamilton, who came to Fort Wayne in 1823, rose to a most prominent place
									among the men of wealth and influence of his period. In 1824, at the time of the
									organization of Allen county, he was appointed by the governor to serve as
									sheriff. Subsequently, he held various important public offices. His connection
									with the early banking interests is commemorated in the name of the First and
									Hamilton National bank of today. He died in 1864 at Saratoga, New York.
							 according to the records, the members "turned out to gratify Mrs. Hackley."
							Hackley had taken his own life, by hanging, after a vain attempt to murder his
							sister-in-law, Mrs. Turner, against whom he had become enraged because of a dispute
							over the partition of their property in Spy Run. Mrs. Turner escaped by leaping from
							an upper window of her home. The details of the incident are given by John W. Dawson
							in his "Charcoal Sketches," and these agree in all respects with the story as repeated
							by the late Mrs. Lucien P. Ferry, who was then a girl of twelve years.
						Attention seemed now to turn instinctively to the formation of a town of commercial
							importance at the head of the Maumee. The residents and visitors alike were unsparing
							in their expressions of favorable opinion of the site of Fort Wayne as an ideal spot
							for  the upbuilding of a place of importance. Like
							Captain Riley, they believed that once the land were offered for sale, it would be
							purchased eagerly by the pioneers who, up to that time, were mere "squatters."
						The government in 1822 took active steps which opened the way for the sale of the
							ground in 1823. It is probable that this action would have taken place thirteen years
							earlier but for the words of protest of Governor William Henry Harrison. In 1805 a
							report of the proposed action of congress reached the ears of the governor of Indiana
							territory, and he hastened to report his opinion to Henry Dearborn, secretary of war,
							as follows: "I have understood that it was intended to sell
									immediately the United States land around Fort Wayne. I am very certain, however,
									that the money which would be put into the treasury by the sale of it would not
									counterbalance the inconvenience that would arise from having it settled with the
									description of people who will naturally buy it. It is too far removed from our
									other settlements to entice American farmers to go there, but the few sections
									that are sold will be purchased by the Indian traders, and we shall thus have, in
									the heart of the Indian country, a number of unprincipled people who will be
									entirely out of reach of the laws of the United States regulating the trade and
									intercourse with the Indian tribes. If the immediate settlement of it is an
									object, I think it would be better to sell it by contract, upon the condition that
									there should be, within a given time, a certain number of American farmers on
									it."
						
							PRESIDENTS' SIGNATURES TO FORT WAYNE LAND PATENTS.
							The above reproductions of parts of the government land patents for portions of the
								land on which the city of Fort Wayne is situated were made from tracings of the
								originals in the possession of Oliver S. Hanna, grandson of Samuel Hanna. The grant
								to John T. Barr and John McCorkle, bearing President Monroe's signature, is for
								ground in the heart of the present city, including the original plat of Fort Wayne.
								The Daniels and Hanna tract was southwest of the town. These grants, bearing the
								signatures of Presidents James Monroe, John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson, are
								framed and on display in the Nuttman bank, of Fort Wayne.
						
						
						Following the memorable treaty of St. Mary's, congress passed an act, signed by
							President Monroe on the 8th of May, 1822, authorizing the sale of the lands about the
							old fort. This act defined the boundary of the land district, based upon the surveys
							of Captain Riley, and permitted the disposal of all the unappropriated and unreserved
							lands within it to which the Indian titles had been extinguished.
						The area presented an interesting appearance at this time. A few unpretentious log
							buildings collected about the region of the present Clinton, Barr, Columbia, Lafayette
							and Superior streets, constituted the settlement. Away to the southwest, where now are
							located the Wabash railroad shops and the Fort Wayne plant of the General Electric
							Company, was a broad swamp, fed by springs. The outlet of this swamp was a creek
							called Bloody run, which coursed northward. This creek was joined by another which
							flowed from the east and had its source near the present Bass foundry. This latter
							stream crossed Calhoun street at the present Baker street. It ran west on Baker street
							until it joined Bloody run, which then coursed to the northward and emptied into the
							St. Mary's river near the Wells street bridge. In its meandering, it crossed all of
							the principal east-and-west streets. At Wayne street, a bridge spanned the stream just
							west of Harrison street. A. G. Barnett stated, in 1917, that he remembered catching
							fish from this stream which coursed through the town even after the canal was in use.
							In times of freshet, the flood could not find an outlet through the opening beneath
							the canal to allow of an outflow sufficient to avoid inundating surrounding property.
							Finally, the springs near the Wabash shops were choked, though the place has remained
							swampy in a section between the shops and McCulloch park. Mr. Barnett states that the
							foundation of the Spencer house, which occupied a site on Calhoun street between Main
							and Berry streets, was made of stones taken from the bed of Bloody run.
						At this time, a swamp occupied the region of which the present Lincoln Life building
							on East Berry street is the center. The late Louis Peltier related the story of a man
							who shot a deer and then chased it into this swamp. He waded out to the animal which
							attacked him and killed him before the eyes of a number of persons who had been
							attracted to the spot.
						Scattered trees, grown since the siege of 1812, dotted the landscape, while here and
							there were the sites of Indian camps chosen by the red men for their long sojourn
							while awaiting the distribution of their annual payments from the government.
						The coming of Joseph Holman, of Wayne county, appointed by President Monroe to serve
							as the first register of the land office, and Captain Samuel C. Vance, of Dearborn
							county, as the receiver of public moneys, was the signal for activity in securing the
							choicest sites when the sale should open in the fall of 1823. Register Holman and
							Captain Vance established their office in the old fort, where much of the clerical
							work of the business came under the direct supervision of a young man who accompanied
							Captain Vance as his assistant—Allen Hamilton—a citizen who was soon to
							become one of the foremost among Fort Wayne's enterprising men.
						The arrival of the memorable 22d of October, 1823—the  twenty-ninth anniversary of the dedication of Wayne's fort and the
							thirty-third anniversary of Harmar's battle—found the village alive with
							visitors who vied with the citizens to secure an advantage in the purchase of the
							available grounds nearest the fort. The lands directly adjoining the stockade were not
							offered for sale—they were later to become platted as Taber's addition—but
							that portion which forms the downtown district of the present city was the choice
							piece which all who possessed the means sought to purchase.
						
							COL. GEORGE WASHINGTON EWING.
							Colonel Ewing, son of Alexander Ewing, who, with his brother, William G. Ewing,
								became widely known throughout the west because of his large and widespread
								commercial interests, began his business career at Wapakoneta, Ohio. The branches of
								the trading business were located in Michigan, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Illinois,
								Missouri, Indiana and Wisconsin; indeed, "the name of the Ewings was familiar from
								the Alleghenies to the Rocky mountains." In 1839 George W. Ewing removed from Fort
								Wayne to Logansport, and later located at Peru, going from there to St. Louis, where
								he resided until the death of William G. Ewing in 1854. From this time until his
								death in 1865 Colonel Ewing, lived in Fort Wayne. The portrait is from a photograph
								loaned by the late William Ewing Hood.
						
						
							SIGNATURE OF JOHN M'CORKLE.
							Mr. McCorkle was one of the proprietors of the land comprising the original plat of
								Fort Wayne. The signature is from articles of agreement between Mr. McCorkle, on the
								one side, and the government representatives, on the other, to supply meat and bread
								for the Indians while waiting at Fort Wayne for the distribution of their annuities.
								(Burton Historical Collection, Detroit).
						
						
							JUDGE CHARLES WAYNE EWING
							Charles W. Ewing was the eldest of the sons of Alexander Ewing, strong figures in
								the early history of Fort Wayne. He had been admitted to the practice of the law
								before coming to Fort Wayne in 1822, and was the first lawyer to settle here. The
								portrait is from a photograph of a painting loaned by Mrs. G. W. McCaskey, a
								niece.
						
						
							RILEY'S MAP OF THE MILITARY TRACT.
							In 1822 Captain James Riley was sent by the government to survey the military tract
								about the old fort. It consisted of forty acres, which later former a large part of
								Taber's addition.
						
					
					
					
						BARR AND M'CORKLE.
						John T. Barr, a merchant, of Baltimore, Maryland, and John McCorkle, an active
							citizen of Piqua, Ohio, combined their resources and purchased the tract which since
							has been known as the Original Plat.
						Neither of these original proprietors of Fort Wayne chose to make his home here.
							Nothing is known of the activities of John T. Barr, in Baltimore, beyond the showing
							of the Baltimore city directories of his period, which refer to him as a merchant.
							Much is known, however, of John McCorkle. His first connection with Fort Wayne came
							through his association with John P. Hedges, when the two men were engaged, in 1819,
							to furnish supplies of beef and bread to the Indians while waiting for their
							annuities. From an article written by the late E. F. Colerick, quoting Benjanin F.
							Blosser, former postmaster of Decatur, Indiana, we learn that Barr and McCorkle came
							to the land sale together, in a bateau which they propelled down the St. Mary's river.
							Mr. Blosser assisted them in transferring their luggage, including their specie,
							around Captain James Riley's dam at Willshire. Mr. McCorkle was born at Piqua, in
							1791. As the owner of a carding mill, gristmill and oil mill, he laid the foundation
							for a prosperous future. He became Piqua's leading merchant. In 1821, with two other
							enterprising citizens, he founded St. Mary's, Ohio. He was an orator of power, a state
							representative, and a leader in many local enterprises at Piqua. He died in 1829, at
							the age of thirty-eight years.
						For the original tract, Barr and McCorkle paid the minimum price of $1.25 per acre,
							and they took immediate steps to plat the property and to offer it for sale in the
							form of business and residence lots. Robert Young,3 a Piqua surveyor, was employed to lay out the property
							which was described as "the north fraction of the southeast quarter of section two,
							township thirty north, range twelve east."
						Alexander Ewing secured eighty acres of ground immediately west of the Barr and
							McCorkle tract, at $1.25 per acre, which later became Ewing's addition to Fort
							Wayne.
						The plat of the Barr and McCorkle land consisted originally of 110 lots. There were
							four north-and-south streets (Calhoun, Court, Clinton and Barr), and five
							east-and-west streets (Water, Columbia, Main, Berry and Wayne). Water street was later
							renamed Superior. The streets of this original plat, as well as all which adjoin it,
							do not conform to the points of the compass, but rather, are based on lines north and
							south on a variation of three degrees and thirty minutes west of magnetic north.
						"The reason the lines of the lots were not run with the land lines according to the
							cardinal points of the compass, consists in this, that the trading and other houses,
							built before that time, were ranged along two common roads, now Columbia and Barr
							streets, so that to save them in their location, the town was laid off to conform to
							these roads and save the houses from removal." (John W. Dawson's Charcoal Sketches").
							The first man to conform his surveys to the true points of the compass was Major
							Samuel Lewis, who, in later years, laid out his addition south from Lewis street.
						
						While the proprietors of the new town of Fort Wayne were busy preparing for the sale
							of lots, the state on the 17th of December, 1823, took an important step in the
							formation of the county of Allen, with jurisdiction over what is now Wells, Adams,
							DeKalb and Steuben and portions of Noble, LaGrange, Huntington and Whitley counties.
							The name of Allen was suggested by General John Tipton, who was an admirer of Colonel
							John Allen, the gallant Kentuckian. who, after the relief of Fort Wayne in 1812, lost
							his life at the battle of the River Raisin, in Michigan, south of Detroit.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XXI.
						(1) Dr. William Turner died at his
								residence in the old apple orchard in Spy Run (Fort Wayne) in 1821, and his remains
								were buried there. He was the son-in-law of Captain William Wells, having married
								his eldest daughter, Ann Wells (Ah-pez-zah-quah), who survived him until July 26,
								1834.
							The second daughter of Captain Wells, Rebekah (Pe-me-sah-quah), became the wife of
								Captain James Hackley, of the United States army, who was a charter member of Wayne
								lodge of Masons. Hackley committed suicide in the early twenties; Mrs. Hackley died
								June 14, 1835. Their children were Ann and Jack W. Hackley. Ann Hackley married
								Nathan Ferrand in 1835; later she married Peter Blystone. With her husband and her
								son, Jack, she removed to Kansas, and there her death occurred in 1858.
							The third daughter of Captain Wells, Mary, or Mollie (Ah-ma-quah-zah-quuah, Sweet
								Breeze), born at Fort Wayne in 1800, married Judge James Wolcott, who came from
								Torrington, Connecticut, in March, 1821. In 1826, the Wolcotts removed to Maumee
								City (now South Toledo), Ohio, where the death of the wife occurred February 17,
								1843. Judge Wolcott died in 1873. A son of Judge Wolcott, Frederick Allen Wolcott,
								was killed before Atlanta, Georgia, July 22, 1864.
							Jane T. Wells, fourth daughter of Captain William Wells, married John H. Griggs at
								Fort Wayne about 1830. Mr. Griggs came from the vicinity of Piqua, Ohio. Their
								children, born at Fort Wayne and Peru, were Warren, Charles F., Anthony Wayne,
								Lydia, Martha, Mabia and Oliver. The present Warren Griggs, of Peru, is a son of
								Charles F. Griggs.
							Juliana Wells, fifth daughter of Captain Wells, died at Fort Wayne.
							William Wayne Wells (Wa-pe-mong-gah), first son of Captain Wells, spent his young
								boyhood at Fort Wayne, but, like his sisters, Ann and Rebekah, he was given the
								advantage of an education in the schools of Kentucky, where the relatives of their
								father lived. From Kentucky, William Wayne Wells enrolled as a cadet at West Point
								Milltary Academy. He graduated with honors in 1821, but his death occurred soon
								after his appointment as a lieutenant in the United States army.
							Samuel G. Wells, second son of Captain Wells, born at Fort Wayne, died
								childless.
							Yelberton P. Wells, third son of Captain Wells, died at St. Louis, Missouri,
								leaving one child.
							"All of those having Indian names claimed that these names had been given them by
								their grandfather, Little Turtle," says the late John Wentworth, of Chicago.
							From present available information, it appears that Yelberton P. Wells and Juliana
								Wells were the children of his third wife, the daughter of Colonel Guiger, of
								Kentucky. (See Chapter XV). Authorities agree that Wells' first wife was the
								daughter of Little Turtle, although some writers refer to her as a sister of the
								chief. From "Early Chicago," published by the Fergus Printing Company, comes the
								statement that Wells's second wife was a member of the Wea tribe.
						(2) When Barr and McCorkle, the original
							proprietors of the town of Fort Wayne, were naming the streets, they specified one as
							Kercheval street. "Not so," responded Benjamin Berry Kercheval. "But if you insist
							upon naming one of the streets for me, you may use my middle name." And thus did Berry
							street receive its name. (Statement of G. K. Michaelis, of New York, a
							great-grandson).
						(3) A score of years later, Robert
							Young, addressing the committee in charge of the ceremonies of the opening of the
							Wabash and Erie canal, wrote: "When I surveyed Fort Wayne for Messrs. Barr and
							McCorkle, about twenty years ago, with the aid of Mr. [Anthony L.] Davis and other
							gentlemen, I made a survey and level from the waters of the Wabash to the St. Mary's,
							near Fort Wayne, with reference to a canal. Convinced of the practicability and
							importance of the work, both in public and private life, I have since used all the
							influence so humble an individual could use in favor of this great public
							improvement." (Original letter owned by Mrs. Clark Fairbank).
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXVII—1824. Pioneer County Government—The
						First Lot Buyers.
					Settlers pour into the village of Fort Wayne—Arrival of the commissioners to
						establish the government of Allen county—Ewing's Washington Hall and Suttenfield's
						tavern—The first officials of Allen county—The first tavern rates—The
						original tax schedule—Paying taxes in wolf scalps—The first circuit court
						judges indicted for law infraction—Grand jury activities—The first
						attorney's license, trespass suit, divorce case, naturalization grant, tavern license
						and marriage license—Barr and McCorkle's plat of the town is
						accepted—Valuable gifts to the county—The original lot buyers—The
						county library—Fate of the institution—Wells's Pre-emption is
						opened—The first brick building—A near-war between the Miamis and the
						Ottawas assists in the foundation of two fortunes.
					THE EYES of the entire middle west were now centered upon the village
						at the head of the Maumee, and the settlers appeared in increasing numbers over the
						convenient streams which approach the spot from widely separated regions. Many of these
						travelers came to purchase a place on which to establish homes. Pending the sale of
						lots, Barr and McCorkle awaited the organization of the county government, and then they
						proceeded in due form with the work of securing the returns on their investment in the
						faith of the pioneers.
					At this time there were no streets beyond the beaten paths and the driveways which had,
						by chance, come into accepted use whenever one man chose to walk or drive over a route
						taken by another before him. However, with the laying out of the streets of the future
						town and city, the site assumed an air of order, industry and enterprise. There was work
						for all.
					The legislative act creating Allen county took effect April 1, 1824. Six days previous
						to this date, the arrival of four horsemen was hailed with delight. They were the
						commissioners appointed by the legislature to determine upon the seat of government for
						the new county—Lot Bloomfield, of Wayne county; Abiathar Hathaway, of Fayette
						county; William Conner, of Hamilton county, and James M. Ray, of Marion county.
					These commissioners, in accordance with instructions of the legislature, held their
						session at the tavern of Alexander Ewing, known as Washington Hall, and soon completed
						the formalities of their mission. The Ewing building, constructed of logs, stood at the
						southwest corner of Barr and Columbia streets.
					Ewing's Washington Hall was the first tavern to be established in Fort Wayne, although
						the rival place of entertainment, established by William Suttenfield on the corner
						diagonally opposite, was built in the same year, 1823. The Ewing house became the first
						meeting place of the circuit court judges, and the Suttenfield tavern was likewise
						employed during the earlier years of the county's history. The Ewing tavern, which was
						considered the best in northern Indiana, passed through a succession of ownerships.
					
					The first election of county officers occurred on the 22d of May. Previous to this,
						Governor William Hendricks had named Allen Hamilton, the young clerk in the land office,
						as sheriff of Allen county, "to serve until the next election, and until his successor
						shall be appointed and qualified—should he so long behave well." Cyrus Taber and
						Joseph Holman signed the sheriff's bond of $5,000.
					The election of county officers was held in accordance with the sheriff's proclamation.
						The race was characterized by a lively spirit (although partisan politics did not figure
						in the contests), as is indicated by the attempt of defeated candidates to wrest the
						honors from some of the victors. The choice of the voters fell upon Samuel Hanna and
						Benjamin Cushman, associate circuit court judges; Anthony L. Davis, clerk and recorder
						(succeeded by Joseph Holman); William Rockhill, commissioner for three years; James
						Wyman, commissioner for two years; Francis Comparet, commissioner for one year.
						Alexander Ewing, a rival of Samuel Hanna, and Marshall K. Taylor, who opposed the
						election of Wyman and Comparet, filed notices of contest of election, but they failed to
						prove their right to political honors.
					On Wednesday, May 26, the newly-elected board of county commissioners met at the house
						of Alexander Ewing for a six-day session. Their first official act was the selection of
						Joseph Holman to be the treasurer of the county; he was required to "give bond, with two
						good, sufficient freehold securities, in the penal sum of $1,000." In 1825, W. G. Ewing
						was appointed to succeed Mr. Holman as treasurer. Thomas Forsythe was elected to the
						office in 1826. At this time Mr. Ewing reported that during the year 1825, $283.31¼ had
						been received by the county, and that $22.41 had been expended, leaving a balance of
						$260.90¼. Moses Thorp succeeded Mr. Forysthe in 1827.
					Mr. Comparet was absent from the initial session of the board, but he appeared the next
						day. The board appointed General John Tipton to be the county agent—a position of
						importance—and authorized him to pay, at the rate of $3 per day, the allowance due
						the five commissioners sent to select the county seat. The board then made the following
						appointments: Hugh B. McKeen, lister of taxables; Lambert Cushovis, constable; Robert
						Hars, inspector of elections; William N. Hood, inspector of flour, beef and pork for the
						township of Wayne; Samuel Hanna, road supervisor for Wayne township; W. T. Davis and
						Alexis Coquillard, overseers of the poor in Wayne township; Israel Taylor, Joseph
						Troutner and Moses Scott, fence viewers. At this time Wayne township included the entire
						county of Allen. John Tipton, the county agent, was ordered to construct a "pound" of
						suitable size, on the site of the present court house, in which to house stray animals.
						This appears to have been the first building ordered to be placed on the public square,
						but the order was rescinded at a later time. The board ordered the county agent to
						advertise an election, "to be held at the house of Alexander Ewing, if permitted; if
						not, at some suitable place in the township of Wayne, for the election of three justices
						of the peace." The commissioners also selected thirty-six names from which to choose a
						petit jury for the circuit court.
					The commissioners fixed the following figures to regulate the  rates to be charged by tavernkeepers, who were required to pay an annual
						license of $12.50 to conduct their business: Dinner, breakfast and supper, 25 cents;
						keeping horse, night and day, 50 cents; lodging, per night, 12½ cents; whisky, per half
						pint, 12½ cents; brandy, per half pint, 50 cents; gin, per half pint, 37½ cents; porter,
						per bottle, 37½ cents; cider, per quart, 18¾ cents.
					The board also decided upon the following rates for assessment on personal property,
						for county purposes, for the year 1824: Male person, over the age of 21 years, 50 cents;
						horse, gelding, mare or mule, three years old and upward, 37½ cents; work oxen, three
						years old and upward, 18¾ cents; gold watch, $1; silver watch, 25 cents; pinchbeck
						watch, 25 cents; pleasure carriage, four wheels, $1.50; pleasure carriage, two wheels,
						$1.
					Treasurer Holman reported that in 1824 the county was entitled to $112.62 from taxes,
						"embracing delinquents, errors, etc." The state at this time and for a long period to
						follow paid a bounty on 
							THE ORIGINAL PLAT OF FORT WAYNE AND THE COUNTY ADDITION.
							The tracings show the original plat of Fort Wayne as presented by John T. Barr and
								John McCorkle, together with the county addition, which was opened for sale at a
								later period. The original plat was first recorded in Randolph county.
						 all wolf scalps taken; the certificates thus issued were receivable for tax
						payments. Nearly all of the taxes of Allen county "were paid off in these certificates,
						which were usually sent up to Indianapolis by the representatives."
					As a result of the election in August, a board of three justices of the peace was
						elected—Alexander Ewing, William N. Hood and William Rockhill. One of the first
						acts of this board, which supplanted the board of county commissioners, was the receipt
						and acceptance of the report of Benjamin B. Kercheval and Samuel Hanna, commissioners
						for Allen county, to survey and locate the Winchester road, "from Vernon, in Jennings
						county, by way of  Greensburg, Rushville and Newcastle, to
						Fort Wayne." It was Allen county's first established rural highway; it ran nearly south
						from the town, and was the beginning of a great network of roads which centered at the
						settlement. The road was surveyed by Chauncey Carter, under the direction of Kercheval
						and Hanna.
					Under the provisions of the constitution of 1816, "the circuit courts shall consist of
						a president and two associate judges." In all counties of the state, the circuit court
						had common law and chancery jurisdiction, as, also, criminal jurisdiction, subject to
						certain limitations. The president judge, whose duties carried him on the circuit of
						several counties, was chosen by joint ballot of the legislature for a term of seven
						years; the associates, or "side" judges, served for the county only, and were chosen by
						the voters of the county. Membership in the legal profession was not a requirement of
						qualification for the associate judgeship. Allen county was a part of the Third judicial
						circuit, with the counties of Wayne, Franklin, Dearborn, Randolph, Union, Switzerland,
						Fayette and Ripley, over which William W. Wick was, in 1824, president judge.
					The first session of the Allen circuit court was held beginning Monday, August 9, 1824,
						at Ewing's Washington Hall. Judge Wick was absent—indeed, he was unable to attend
						any of the court sessions in Fort Wayne—and the "side" judges, Samuel Hanna and
						Benjamin Cushman, recently elected, found themselves confronted by a vast amount of
						business. The records of the opening years of the county's judicial history reveal the
						fact that very few of the leading citizens escaped indictment on charges of selling
						liquor illegally, larceny, assault and battery, gambling, defamation of character,
						"affrays," and like misdemeanors, while the civil and chancery cases were numerous from
						the beginning. At the opening session, Anthony L. Davis, an appointee of Governor
						Hendricks, officiated as clerk of the court; he filed a bond for $2,500, with General
						Tipton and Benjamin B. Kercheval as sureties. The court appointed Charles W. Ewing as
						prosecuting attorney.
					The report of the first grand jury, which was received, no doubt, with complacency by
						the community, would if duplicated at the present time, precipitate official
						investigations and consequent loss of reputation. But it reflects merely the spirit of
						the times and cannot be paralleled with the standard of the demands of the American
						people of today. Both of the associate judges were indicted for wrong-doing, and a
						member of the grand jury was found guilty of a misdemeanor which brought a three-dollar
						fine. The indictments against the judges were continued to the next session, and the
						record contains the notation that "he [the prosecuting attorney] will no further
						prosecute the said indictments." Of the nine defendants charged with the illegal sale of
						liquors, the larger part were men whose names are synonymous with the great
						accomplishments of early Fort Wayne. Six of those accused of the illegal sale of liquor
						paid fines of three dollars; another seems to have sinned a little in excess of his
						brothers, for he was required to pay four dollars. Two, charged with "playing at a
						game," demanded a jury trial; and were assessed a fine of $10 each. One woman, charged
						with lewdness, was acquitted by a jury, while another was found guilty and sentenced to
						serve fifteen days in jail, a fate from which  she was
						saved on the securing of bail to the amount of $100. This first grand jury was composed
						of General Tipton (foreman), Paul Taber, William Suttenfield, Alexander Ewing, James
						Hackley, Charles Weeks, John Davis, William Probst, Horace Taylor, James Wyman, James
						Cannon and Peter Felix. The latter, employed as a baker, was excused, and two men, Cyrus
						Taber and William N. Hood, were named to take his place. The jurors were allowed $1.50
						each for their services.
					The court admitted to the Allen county bar William G. Ewing, the first man to be thus
						honored, although his brother, Charles W. Ewing, was the first lawyer to locate in the
						county. The first case on the court docket was that of Richard Swain vs. Joseph Troutner
						for trespass; it was dismissed at the next session. A divorce suit, the first on record
						in the county, filed by A. Cannada against Nathaniel Cannada, resulted in a decision for
						the plaintiff, who was required to pay the costs. The finding was rendered at a later
						session of the court, after the due legal publication in the Richmond (Indiana)
						Enquirer, such procedure being required because the defendant was a non-resident. Polly
						Robertson also sought a divorce 
							WILLIAM S. EDSALL.
							Mr. Edsall was among the settlers of 1824, being one of nine children of Mrs. Peter
								Edsall, a widow, who came from Ohio. He became an attache of the surveying corps of
								Colonel Shriver, who was sent by the government to lay the lines for the Wabash and
								Erie canal and who died in Fort Wayne while in the midst of the work. William S.
								Edsall established a ferry, he became a clerk of the Ewings and lived for a period
								at Huntington, where he became county clerk and recorder. Returning to Fort Wayne in
								1836, he formed a partnership with his brother Samuel, and later became a partner
								with the Ewings in the firm of Ewing, Edsall and Company. He also served as register
								of the land office. The Edsalls originated the Fort Wayne and Bluffton plank road,
								and were the contractors for forty-seven miles of the grading of the Wabash
								railroad. In 1868, after returning from a three-year residence in Chicago, William
								S. Edsall was elected clerk of the courts. The portrait is from a photograph loaned
								by Mrs. George D. Crane.
						
						
							SAMUEL EDSALL.
							Mr. Edsall was a son of Peter Edsall. He came to Fort Wayne with his mother and
								eight brothers and sisters in 1824. He became a pioneer miller and was otherwise
								prominently identified with the development of the town. In 1842 he, with William
								Rockhill, established two band sawmills, operated with water power from the canal.
								In 1843 Mr. Edsall established the famous "stone mill," known also as Edsall's mill,
								and the Orff mill. Mr. Edsall was one of the builders of the first courthouse in
								1831, and was given the contract for the construction of the new building in 1847.
								Associated with his brothers, William S. and Simon, Mr. Edsall was prominently
								connected with the construction of the Wabash railroad. Simon S. Edsall was a
								prominent farmer. John Edsall, another brother, was a pioneer tailor of Fort Wayne.
								Though the pioneer period, the family added substantially to the development of the
								community. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by Mrs. DeGroff Nelson, his
								daughter.
						
						 from her husband, Thomas Robertson; the case was
						dismissed at a subsequent session of the court, and in this record the names appear as
						"Robinson" instead of "Robertson." James Aveline, a native of France, was made a
						naturalized citizen, the first to be thus honored in Allen county. The court granted
						Alexander Ewing a license to conduct a tavern. The first marriage license was issued
						August 8, 1824, to Samuel McElwain and Zeruen Marian. The marriage service was performed
						by James Cannon, justice of the peace.
					The court allowed Allen Hamilton, sheriff, $16.65 2-3 for four months' work, and
						Charles W. Ewing $5 for services during the session. Robert Hars, constable, received 75
						cents per day. The clerk was authorized to make use of a "scrawl [scroll?] including the
						letters A. C. C. [Allen circuit court] for the seal of office until a proper seal can be
						provided." The first record of the "binding out" of a minor is that of the placing of
						James Peltier, jr., aged 10 years and 7 months, son of James Peltier, sr., in the charge
						of James Hackley, until the boy had reached the age of 21. Hackley agreed to supply
						"meat, drink, washing, lodging and apparel," and to teach the boy reading, writing and
						arithmetic "as far as the rule of three." James Peltier, sr., was a brother of Louis
						Peltier. The son, James, lived to an age beyond 90 years; his brother, Salvador Peltier,
						died in 1914.
					Thus we find the machinery of self-government set in motion in the pioneer county of
						vast dimensions where a little village of men and women, types of the hardy specimens of
						the race, set about the task of laying the foundation of the modern city.
					More important than all other matters to come before the county commissioners in 1824,
						was the proposition of John T. Barr and John McCorkle, proprietors of the town plat
						which they had laid out in August. It included the offer to pay into the treasury of the
						county $500 cash, and to donate to the county "all of that oblong square piece of ground
						situate and being in the town of Fort Wayne aforesaid, and stained red on the plat of
						said town, as recorded in the recorder's office of Randolph county in said state [the
						present courthouse square], which is granted as a public square, whereon public
						buildings for said county are to be erected, and bounded by Main, Court, Berry and
						Calhoun streets." The offer included also a lot at the northwest corner of the plat,
						four rods square, "for a church, to be of no particular denomination, but free to all,"
						the unoccupied portion of which was to be used for a burial ground. In 1838 and 1839,
						Samuel Hanna, who purchased all of the unsold and unappropriated portion of the Barr and
						McCorkle holdings, arranged for the removal of the bodies of those buried in this
						cemetery to a new burial place (the present McCulloch park). The remains of one person,
						overlooked in the process of removing the bodies, were unearthed in April,
						1916—seventy-seven years after the cemetery had been abandoned.
					Another lot given by Barr and McCorkle, for "a seminary of learning," on the site of
						the present county jail, was located east of the proposed church lot.
					The place designated for a church was never used for this purpose, but the "seminary"
						became an important early educational  institution. In
						addition to the tracts already referred to the proprietors offered to give the county
						lots 8 and 9 (north side of Superior street, west of Clinton), lots 101, 102 and 103
						(west side of Calhoun street, north from Berry street to the alley), and lots 104 to 118
						(south side of Berry street, from the alley between Calhoun and Harrison east to the
						site of the Pixley block). Little time was lost in accepting this generous offer, and
						the town of Fort Wayne, consisting of about sixteen square blocks, came into existence.
						The deed was made out to John Tipton, the county agent. This plat was recorded at the
						county seat of Randolph county—Winchester—and subsequently in Recorder's
						Book A, page 316, in Allen county.
					The first lots of the original plat of Fort Wayne were sold September 18, 1824, under
						the direction of John Tipton as the county agent. The buyers were Francis Comparet,
						William Barbee, William Suttenfield, Edward Mitchell, Thomas Rue, Charles W. Ewing, 
							COLONEL HUGH HANNA.
							Born at Georgetown, Kentucky, in 1799 Colonel Hanna removed to Fort Wayne in 1824
								and engaged in business as a carpenter and cabinetmaker. He became an influential
								citizen in connection with many affairs during the twenties, but in 1834, in company
								with David Burr, he platted a town which became the present city of Wabash, Indiana,
								and removed to that place in 1835. He became the sole proprietor of the place, and,
								with its growth, served in several important official positions. His death occurred
								in 1869.
						
						
							JOSEPH HOLMAN.
							Mr. Holman was the first receiver of the land office, state representative and
								treasurer of Allen county. He was a native of Versailles, Kentucky, and in 1805
								settled in Wayne county, Indiana, where, for the protection of his neighbors during
								the war of 1812, he built a blockhouse on his farm. He then enlisted and served
								under Harrison. He was one of the founders of Peru, Indiana, in 1834. The portrait
								is reproduced from "Pictures of Peru, Past and Present," published by Omer
								Holman.
						 Rees Goodwin, John H. Griggs, Benjamin B. Kercheval, Christopher Valleynitte,
						Chief Jean Baptiste de Richardville, Alexander Ewing, William Murphy, Benjamin Archer,
						Moses Scott, William N. Hood, Jacob Everly, Walker and Davis, Samuel Hanna, Moses
						Gerard, Henry Diehle, Benjamin James, Abner Gerard, Matthew Griggs, Jacob Everley, Ben
						Glassbrenner and Jacob Glassbrenner. Some of these lots, in the heart of the present
						city, sold for $10.25; the highest brought only $25. The entire thirty-six lots
						comprising this original sale, netted only $690.50, an average of less than $20 per lot.
						After the sale of some of the remaining lots, General Tipton  resigned as county agent and Charles W. Ewing was appointed to fill the
						vacancy.
					The late Charles E. Bond held among his valued papers a deed of the transfer of the
						entire northeast fourth of the square bounded by Calhoun, Harrison, Berry and Wayne
						streets, which was sold in 1825 to Benjamin Archer, Jr., for $31.50. The Old National
						bank block, the new Odd Fellows' block and a number of other business buildings now
						occupy this site.
					That the proprietors of the original plat of the town of Fort Wayne were men of high
						ideals is shown in the record of their donation of sites for religious, educational and
						burial purposes. It is interesting to observe, also, that their agreement with the
						county specified that "of all the donations, it is expressly understood that 10 per
						centum is to be appropriated for use by said county of Allen and to be appropriated for
						the use of a county library." The county records, dealing with the establishment of the
						Allen county library, are found to be incomplete, although it is known that as a result
						of the accumulation of a fund through the sale of lots of the original plat of the town
						of Fort Wayne, this fund amounted in 1842 to $1,700. Ten per cent. of the sale price of
						lots passed into this library fund. In 1834, J. H. Kincaid and S. V. B. Noel served as
						trustees; in the following year, John Spencer, Robert Brackenridge and Thomas J. Smith
						were elected to manage the institution. The founders of the state of Indiana had
						incorporated in the provision for the formation of counties the means to establish a
						library in each county. Many of Fort Wayne's leading citizens assisted in making the
						local institution a success. The trustees under the act of 1824 were elected by popular
						vote, but subsequently they were appointed by the county commissioners to serve one year
						without pay. In 1831 it was provided that not more than $500 should be invested in land
						or other property except books. Among those who served as trustees during later periods
						were R. J. Dawson, William Means, Osborne Thomas, Madison Sweetser, William G. Ewing,
						Dr. Philip G. Jones, F. P. Randall, G. W. Wood, I. D. G. Nelson and Robert E. Fleming.
						Henry R. Colerick served as librarian, beginning in 1844.
					In 1850, a committee composed of Hugh McCulloch, J. K. Edgerton and Henry R. Colerick
						was appointed by the county commissioners to purchase books to the value of $150 for the
						library. Five years after this period the county was subdivided into library districts
						and the books were distributed among them. A citizen who remembers the days of the
						county library has said: "It was the careless gathering of a sack full, carrying to the
						center of exchange, that separated the volumes, and the confusion was never fully
						restored to order." One of the sub-librarians was asked if the people read the books. He
						replied: "They don't take them out. They ain't much account. Plutarch's 'Lives' and a
						lot more old novels. They were getting yellow and I boxed them up." Some of the books
						passed into the hands of the township trustees and became a part of the township
						libraries. (See article on "Libraries of Allen County," in "History of the Maumee River
						Basin," Vol. II, by John H. Jacobs.)
					In 1824, the section of land now forming Spy Run and Bloomingdale, known as the Wells
						Pre-emption, which had been, by act of  congress in 1808,
						set apart as a pre-emption to Captain William Wells, who was authorized to enter it as
						soon as adjacent lands should be offered at $1.25 per acre, also came upon the market.
						The heirs of Captain Wells placed the lands on sale at the same time that the property
						south of the St. Mary's was opened to the settlers, and its subdivision soon
						followed.
					A curious document filed in August, 1823, is the will of Mrs. Ann Turner, daughter of
						Captain William Wells. It was written one night when she was ill and alone, and fearing
						to die without leaving a record of her wishes concerning the disposal of her property.
						"It is now very late at night," she wrote. "I have the nightmare very severely. I stood
						in the door to get someone to go for the doctor, but could not, and thought I had better
						write this lest I might be called before the light of another morning." She left a
						valuable piece of ground "for religious purposes." Among other items is "the lot of land
						in dispute 70 acres, odd acres, to be appropriated to my account to B. B. Kercheval
						which is a note for $200 and $30 borrowed when I was sick at R. Hood's, and $14 at two
						different times, and four barrels of flour, the bed and the candlestick, making in all
						about $367." Others mentioned are the sister, Mrs. Hackley, Allen T. Hackley, D. F.
						Colerick, Dr. Cushman, A. L. Davis and Dr. L. G. Thompson. Mrs. Turner lived to witness
						the passage of eleven years after the making of the will.
					The circuit court, at the session of 1825, appointed John Tipton, Alexander Ewing and
						Joseph Holman as commissioners to make partition of 320 acres of land, "lying in the
						forks of the St. Mary's and St. Joseph rivers," the Wells Pre-emption, in response to a
						petition of James Wolcott (son-in-law of Captain William Wells), which commission
						recommended the partition of the property into eight portions, one to be given to each
						of the following: Ann Turner, James Hackley, Rebecca Hackley, William Wayne Wells,
						Samuel G. Wells, James Wolcott, Yelberton Peyton Wells, Juliana Wells and Mary Turner.
						This action was the beginning of litigation which extended down through the years. In
						1825, Robert Turner and Mary, his wife, filed a suit in chancery against the eight above
						named and secured a guardian, Benjamin B. Kercheval, for the three last named, who were
						minors or infants. At the same session the court appointed a commission consisting of
						Paul Taber, Richard Beeson and William Rockhill to make partition of two sections of
						land held by Samuel Hanna and James Barnett as tenants in common with To-pe-ah, son of
						Francis LaFontaine.
					The year 1824 brought to the village a number of valuable citizens. Mrs. Peter Edsall,
						with nine children, removed to Fort Wayne from a farm on Shane's prairie, southwest of
						Fort Wayne, on the St. Mary's river, where the husband had died. During a treaty in 1814
						at Greenville, Ohio, Mrs. Edsall had conducted a boarding house, and from there removed
						to St. Mary's, where a similar gathering enabled the family to obtain the means to
						purchase a farm. Samuel, John, Simon and William S. Edsall became identified actively in
						the development of the city and the county.
					Benjamin Archer, pioneer brickmaker and the head of the Archer family, so long
						identified with Fort Wayne progress, came in 1824. Mr. Archer entered immediately upon
						the manufacture of  brick, north of town, and it was from
						the product of his yards that the first brick buildings in Fort Wayne were
						constructed.
					Another, who gave the imprint of his character to the earlier days of the town, was
						Esquire Smalwood Noel, of Virginia, who came in 1824.
					Rev. James Holman, of Wayne county, came to Fort Wayne with his family in this year and
						established a farm home near the St. Mary's river, north of the present New York,
						Chicago and St. Louis (Nickel Plate) railroad. He was a Methodist; the people gathered
						at his home and his services were continued until about 1830.
					Willliam Stewart, who served as street commissioner, councilman, mayor and justice of
						the peace, came in 1824. Other active 
							SMALWOOD NOEL.
							"'Squire" Noel, as he was familiarly called, was one of the valuable citizens of
								his time. As a justice of the peace through a period of years, as postmaster of Fort
								Wayne beginning in 1841, as one of the two first elders of the First Presbyterian
								church and in active positions of many kinds, 'Squire Noel exerted a wholesome
								influence over the community. He was a native of Virginia and settled in Fort Wayne
								about 1824. A son, S. V. B. Noel, was one of the founders of the Fort Wayne
								Sentinel. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by the late William E. Hood, a
								stepson of 'Squire Noel.
						
						
							JESSE VERMILYEA.
							Mr. Vermilyea was one of the influential and active citizens of the early canal
								days. Born in New York state in 1809, he came to Fort Wayne in the early twenties
								and engaged in farming and trading with the Indians. He was one of the original
								directors of the Fort Wayne Branch bank, a contractor on the middle division of the
								Wabash and Erie canal and a pioneer plank road builder. In his later years he
								conducted the famous Vermilyea house on the canal, about fourteen miles southwest of
								Fort Wayne, where his death occurred in 1846. The portrait is from a photograph of a
								painting loaned by Mrs. Littleton Tough, granddaughter of Mr. Vermilyea.
						 citizens of the time were Charles and Francis Minie, George Hunt, John Bruno,
						Richard Chobert and Joseph Barron.
					Mention has been made of the first brick building erected in Fort Wayne. This small
						structure, owned and occupied by James Barnett, stood on a site on the north side of
						East Columbia street, just east of Clinton. The building was known latterly as
						Schwieter's bakery, and it stood until 1909. The brick for its construction were made by
						Benjamin Archer.
					
						A THREATENED SAVAGE OUTBREAK.
						An incident of the fall of 1824 brings forcibly to the mind the true frontier
							atmosphere of the place even though it had risen to the 
							dignity of a county seat. One day, while a large number of Indians were gathered about
							the fort to receive their annuities, several of them became intoxicated. While in this
							condition, a youtig Miami stabbed and killed an Ottawa.
						John W. Dawson, who came to Fort Wayne fourteen years after the threatened outbreak
							and who secured his information from persons concerned in it, gives the following
							interesting details of the affair: The murderer was a member of White Raccoon's
							(Miami) party. After the commission of the deed, he brandished a long knife and defied
							anyone to attack him. The enraged Ottawas spread the news to their camps on the
							Auglaize river and at Flat Rock, and soon large numbers, under the leadership of their
							chief, Oquanoxas, advanced toward Fort Wayne and camped for the night on the south
							bank of the Maumee about one mile east of the fort. In the morning, Oquanoxas and a
							few followers came to the village and sought out Chief Richardville, of whom they
							demanded the payment of $5,000 in silver in atonement for the crime, this amount to be
							paid out of the next annuity consignment from the government. In default of meeting
							with these terms, the Ottawas threatened to attack the Miamis without further parley.
							Richardville and his leaders, with the white settlers, held a hurried council and
							decided to meet the will of the angered Ottawas, who were fully armed and prepared to
							wage a devastating war against the offending tribe. While this council was in session,
							the Ottawas determined to revise their demand by substituting merchandise for cash,
							fearing that through some miscarriage of plans they might be cheated out of their rich
							prize. It was arranged, then, that articles to the value of $5,000 should be selected
							at once from the store of Samuel Hanna and James Barnett, the payment therefor to be
							taken from the government annuities of the Miamis. The exulting Ottawas, laden with
							their property, returned to their camps to the eastward.
						"This adjustment," says Mr. Dawson, "put an end to this fearful excitement which
							prevailed among the whites, created by the fear that Oquanoxas, who was noted for his
							bravery and impulsiveness, would begin a bloody war on the Miamis. This fear may be
							justly measured when it is known that there was no military force nearer than Newport,
							Kentucky, and that before relief could come from that place, extermination would have
							been the fate of one or the other, and that, in the blind and bloody carnage, many
							whites in the village and in feeble settlements would have suffered death or
							pillage."
					
					
						RICHARDVILLE'S ACT OF BRAVERY.
						Richardville, the civil chief of the Miamis, had gained his high position while a
							youth through the sagacity of his mother. An interesting character study of this
							Indian mother and her half-breed son is given in the words of Henry Hay in Chapter X
							of this work. The story of his election to the chieftainship, as told to the late
							Allen Hamilton by Richardville, harmonizes smoothly with the later revelation of the
							characteristics of his mother.
						It appears that during the period of raids upon defenseless white settlers, a captive
							was brought to the site of Fort Wayne and tied to the stake for torture and death. At
							this time, Richardville,  although a youth, already was
							looked upon as a future leader of the tribe. His selection needed but the display of
							daring which the occasion of the torture of the white prisoner provided. When the
							torch was applied to the inflammable material about the feet of the prisoner,
							Richardville and his mother were some distance away from the circle of yelling
							savages. Suddenly, the mother, placing a knife in the hands of her son, bade him
							rescue the prisoner. Without hesitation, the youth dashed toward the crowd, forced his
							way to the captive, severed his bonds and set him free. The audacity of the act of the
							youth astonished and surprised the savages, but they bowed to his will and allowed the
							prisoner to return to his people.
						After the death of Little Turtle, Richardville was made to serve as his successor. It
							was he who, in 1818, signed the treaty of St. Mary's as the leader of his tribe.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXIII—1825-1828. Beginnings of the Wabash and Erie
						Canal.
					How the authorities obeyed the laws—The first murder case—The log jail on
						the court house square—The debtors' prison a faulty bastile—The county
						seminary—Allen Hamilton, postmaster—The canal "fever"—Judge Hanna
						reveals a plan to David Burr—The canal survey is authorized—Engineers
						succumb to attacks of fever—Judge Hanna in the legislature—Congress passes
						the canal bill—A close call—The "feeder" canal—An early lawyer's
						story—The first gristmill—Pioneer enterprises—A disastrous
						flood—The Ewings establish an extensive fur trade—Fort Wayne loses the
						government land office.
					THE YEAR 1825 found the village of Fort Wayne risen to a town of
						nearly two hundred population—that is to say, of persons considered more or less
						permanently settled. The town was in the pathway of many who traveled by way of the
						rivers, passing chiefly to the southwest; so there was a closer business and social
						connection with the busy eastern centers than had prevailed during the earlier
						years.
					Henry Cooper came in 1825. Born at Havre-de-Grace, Maryland, in 1783, he became a
						pioneer teacher, and rose to fame as one of Indiana's most prominent members of the bar.
						Others who dated their residence from this year were Peter Kiser, who opened a meat
						market and issued rations to the Indians and became an active figure in political and
						municipal life, and Francis D. Lasselle who attained prominence in business circles.
						Peter Kiser made his first visit to the town in 1822. He was then a lad of twelve years,
						muscular and well accustomed to hard work. He had brought a drove of hogs to Fort Wayne
						from Grant county, Ohio.
					The hardships of transportation of the period are impossible of realization in modern
						days. Traveled roads were few and usually deep with mud, winding through the wilderness
						of prairie and forest—and these merely the Indian trails widened when necessary to
						accommodate the covered wagons of the hardy pioneers. But few bridges had been
						constructed and it was the common practice for a horseman to "swim" his faithful steed
						across a swollen stream, while the traveler with the cumbersome wagon was compelled to
						risk life and property in many cases in fording the numerous rivers and creeks of the
						west. The prevalence of wolves, often driven by hunger to invade the settlements, the
						fierce blizzards and the menace of drink-crazed Indians, added to the perils and
						sufferings of the traveler. However, many brave-hearted wives and mothers left
						comfortable homes in the older settlements to cast their lots with their sturdy
						protectors on the edge of the wilderness.
					Pioneer justice in Allen county at this time appears to have been dealt out with no
						show of favoritism. At the 1825 session of the circuit court, in November, Judges Hanna
						and Cushman found  General Tipton guilty of assault, and
						he was fined $3 "for the use of the county seminary." The prosecuting attorney, Calvin
						Fletcher, was found guilty of contempt of court, and there were many cases of illegal
						liquor selling, assault and battery, larceny, affrays, defamation of character, gambling
						and the like.
					At the second term of the court, which convened June 6, 1825, at the home of William G.
						Ewing, Bethuel F. Morris, of Indianapolis, president judge, elected to succeed Judge
						Wick, presided, with Samuel Hanna as his associate. Henry Cooper, of Fort Wayne; James
						Rariden, of Richmond; Calvin Fletcher, of Indianapolis, and Arthur St. Clair Vance, of
						Dearborn county, were admitted to the bar, Mr. Cooper being the second man in the county
						to be so honored. Mr. Fletcher was appointed to serve as prosecuting attorney, and
						Robert Hood as constable. The grand jury, consisting of William N. Hood (foreman),
						Thomas Robinson, Alexis Coquillard, Joseph Troutman, Alexander Millar, Francis Comparet,
						Thomas Forsythe, James Wyman, Israel Taylor, Charles Weeks, Paul Taber, Hugh B. McKeen,
						James Hackley and Alexander Ewing, returned true bills against seven prominent citizens,
						chiefly for selling liquors illegally. Evidently, the pioneers found it of greater
						financial benefit to sell liquors and pay three-dollar fines than to refrain therefrom.
						At this session John P. Hedges won a trespass suit over William Suttenfield, and the
						jury awarded him 25 cents damages. Elisha B. Harris, commonly known as "Yankee Harris,"
						who had been adjudged guilty of larceny at the first term of the 1825 session and who
						was later indicted for horse stealing, was found guilty of trespass in a suit brought by
						Thomas Robinson. William Caswell, George Ayres and John Forsythe, recently from Canada,
						were granted naturalization papers. The associate judges, under the provisions of a new
						law, became ex officio judges of the probate court.
					The first indictment for murder was that of Saganaugh, "an Indian late of the county of
						Allen aforesaid, of sound memory and discretion, not having the fear of God before his
						eyes, but being moved and seduced by the instigation of the devil," did stab and kill
						another Indian named Natawine. The crime caused much excitement at the time, but the
						case was continued several terms and finally dropped from the docket.
					In 1824, General Tipton entered into a contract with David Irwin, of Darke county,
						Ohio; Robert Douglas and William N. Hood, to erect a log jail building on the southwest
						corner of the "publick square." The walls were to be "three feet thick, composed of
						tiers of oak timber, each piece to be one foot square; the logs of the inner wall to be
						sixteen feet long, and the timber of the middle wall to be set on end, the inner and
						outer walls to be laid and notched in manner commonly called dough-tailed, until the
						logs touch each other." The building was to be two stories in height, the rooms to be
						eight feet from floor to ceiling. The windows were to be provided with gratings made of
						half-inch iron. The building was erected in 1825. The lower floor was used for the
						confinement of crimpinals, while the upper floor was used as a debtors' prison.
					
					That this building was not entirely suited to its purpose is suggested in the report of
						the grand jury of 1826, of which John P. Hedges was the foreman. It read: "We, the grand jury, empanneled for the county of Allen and state
								of Indiana, after examining the county jail, are of the opinion the criminal's room
								of said jail is not a place of safety for persons committed thereto, that the
								debtors room or upper department of said jail is not in suitable condition for the
								reception of debtors, from the want of locks, floors and bedding."
					The late John W. Dawson says of this old log jail and the sheriff's residence: "The jailor's house was a low frame, attached to the north side
								of the jail and fronting on Calhoun street. The jail was of square, hewn logs,
								strongly fitted together, two stories high, stairs on the outside, west side, and a
								high, strong upright board fence enclosing it, running along Berry and Calhoun
								streets."
					In May, 1844, the town council ordered William Stewart, high constable, to "fit up the
						upper part of the jail house for the purpose of a watch house," and to call to his aid
						at any time "any four citizens to act as police." Mr. Stewart reported shortly afterward
						that he had carried out the instructions.
					This log jail stood until 1847, when it was destroyed by fire. (See Chapter XXXII.) "It
						is well enough that it was burned," observed the Times of February 8, 1847, "as it may
						have the effect of replacing it with a respectable building."
					"I remember being told of a man by the name of Alexander who was often imprisoned for
						debt," observed the late Mrs. Lucien P. Ferry. "As soon as he was incarcerated he would
						mysteriously appear on the street. It was found that he could lift out one of the logs,
						step out and replace it." "Silas Doty [a well-known law-breaker of the time] was then in
						the prime of life and was frequently the occupant of this antiquated prison," wrote the
						late William B. Walter. "He was a shoemaker by trade and we could often see him and hear
						him hammering away at his bench. Whatever may be said of him as a horse thief or other
						bad things, he was not ashamed to work, and he made more than one pair of boots while
						spending his time in jail." A. G. Barnett observes: "I well remember seeing Doty brought
						to this old log jail. He always could remove his handcuffs with ease. After his final
						escape he went to Oregon, where he wrote and published the story of his life."
					It is related of Doty that he once was captured at Peru, Indiana, and placed on a canal
						boat to be brought back to Fort Wayne. He escaped from the boat, ran on ahead to Fort
						Wayne, reaching here after dark. He sought out his attorney, D. H. Colerick, held a
						hasty conference with him and escaped from the town before the boat arrived and his
						absence was discovered.
					In 1840, the late Franklin P. Randall, chairman of a special legislative committee,
						prepared a bill to abolish the imprisonment of debtors. In his argument, as revealed in
						the original document, found in 1916, by his daughter, Mrs. Clark Fairbank, Mr. Randall
						said: "Personal liberty is the dearest birthright of an American
									 citizen. But so long as the body of the debtor is
								subject to arrest, there is no security but that the most worthy and meritorious
								citizen, after being reduced to penury and want, by the force of circumstances
								beyond his control, may be doomed to end his days in a loathsome jail. The man who
								applies the midnight torch to his neighbor's dwelling is not condemned unheard. The
								highway robber has a right to demand a trial by a jury of his county. And even the
								murderer himself claims the high privilege of calling upon twelve of his peers to
								pronounce upon his innocence or guilt. Not so the unfortunate debtor. The law has no
								tender mercies in store for him. He is at once delivered up to the merciless and
								gripping hand of avarice and, without an oath, without a trial of any kind, may be
								both arrested and imprisoned."
					
						THE COUNTY SEMINARY.
						In accordance with the provisions of the Barr and McCorkle grant to the county, a
							brick schoolhouse, the first in Fort Wayne, 
								FORT WAYNE'S FIRST ROCKING CHAIR.
								Miss Margaret M. Colerick, librarian of the Fort Wayne public library, has, in
									daily use in her home on West Wayne street, the first rocking chair brought to
									Fort Wayne. Its story is an interesting one. In the summer of 1826 a party of
									immigrants from England, bound for the west, encamped at Fort Wayne for a night.
									Among their effects was a hickory rocking chair, brought from Europe, which was
									fastened with other substantial belongings to the outside of one of their covered
									wagons. Among the residents of the abandoned fort were Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
									Forsythe, who had been married in the fort in 1825, and their infant daughter. At
									the time of the arrival of the travelers "Old Kittie," a nurse, who had the care
									of the child, saw the rocking chair and expressed the wish that she might have the
									use of it in caring for the child. Mr. Forsythe bought the chair. The baby, grown
									to womanhood, became the wife of Edward F. Colerick. The treasured piece of
									furniture passed to the possession of the daughter.
							
							
								WILLIAM ROCKHILL.
								William Rockhill came to Fort Wayne from Burlington, New Jersey, where he was
									born February 10, 1793, and entered the large tract of ground in the western
									portion of the present city recorded as the Rockhill additions. He was a member of
									the first board of commissioners of Allen county; he served two terms as a state
									representative; he was one of the pioneers in the establishment of the present
									public school system, previous to the organization of which he donated the site of
									the Methodist college; he served as a member of the first city council, as city
									assessor and, later, in 1844, as a member of the state senate. The people of the
									Fort Wayne district elected him, in 1846, to represent them in the national house
									of representatives. In 1838 he began the erection of the Rockhill house, which is
									now a part of St. Joseph's hospital. The death of Mr. Rockhill occurred January
									15, 1865. The portrait, from a crayon drawing, was loaned by Howell C. Rockhill,
									son of William Rockhill.
							
							 called the "County Seminary," was built on the west
							side of Calhoun street, north of Water (Superior) street, on the site of the present
							county jail.
						"In this old schoolhouse many * * * had their early training for usefulness, and many
							there experienced that joy only once to be enjoyed in a lifetime. * * * This old
							schoolhouse was built of brick, in 1825, and was then quite large enough for all
							needed purposes. It was only one story in height and served for many years, not only
							as a schoolhouse, but as the place for religious worship, town meetings, Masonic
							installations and political speeches," says the Fort Wayne Times, in 1858. John P.
							Hedges was the first teacher of this school. At about the same time, possibly earlier,
							Henry Cooper opened a school in the debtors' room of the jail, on the courthouse
							square. Mr. Hedges was succeeded by Joseph O. Boggs, Jesse A. Aughinbaugh, Smalwood
							Noel, James Requa, Myron F. Barbour and John C. Sivey.
						John W. Dawson says that in 1838 the county seminary "was an old brick schoolhouse"
							with "a cemetery surrounding it, with rude palings and other plain marks of affection
							around the graves of the buried pioneers."
						At the January (1825) session of the board of justices Joseph Holman, county
							treasurer, gave the first complete report of the condition of the finances of Allen
							county, as follows: Total receipts, $437.98¾; disbursements, $406.40; balance on hand,
							$31.58¾. At the July session of the board Sheriff Allen Hamilton was allowed $20 for
							six months' service; Anthony L. Davis, clerk of the circuit court and clerk of the
							board of justices, one year, $45; each of the grand and petit jurors received 50 cents
							per day for their services. The American Fur Company was required to pay a license of
							$25 per year to "vend foreign merchandise."
						By appointment of John McLean, postmaster general, Allen Hamilton succeeded Samuel
							Hanna as the postmaster of the village to serve during the administration of John
							Quincy Adams.
					
					
						BEGINNINGS OF THE CANAL.
						With the dawn of the year 1826, the Wabash and Erie canal loomed prominently above
							the horizon of public interest.
						In 1818, Captain James Riley, who had surveyed a route from the Maumee to the Wabash,
							had aroused much interest, especially in Ohio, where the legislature, four years
							before, had taken action upon several important canal projects.
						Four years later, the states of Indiana and Illinois entered conjointly upon a plan
							to connect the Maumee and the Wabash. Governor Hendricks, in his message of December,
							1822, had, referring to the improvement of the Wabash for navigation purposes, urged
							that the state husband its resources "for the great work to be done."
						Interest in the proposed waterway rose to fever heat during the year 1824. It is
							related that Judge Samuel Hanna, in 1823, while in conversation with David Burr, of
							Jackson county, Indiana, in the summer house attached to the home of Judge Hanna, at
							the northwest corner of Barr and East Berry streets, had given  expression to the belief that the project could be made a reality if the
							people of the village of Fort Wayne and of other new settlements of Ohio and Indiana
							could be brought to work in harmony on the project. The plan appealed to Mr. Burr and
							the two enthusiasts opened correspondence with the Indiana representatives and
							senators in congress. Both of these men devoted years of attention to the development
							of the canal plans and the completion of the great work. In January of 1823,
							Representative Jennings, of Indiana, had reported a bill in congress favorable to a
							canal, and now, on the 26th of May, 1824, congress, after a spirited debate, gladdened
							the enthusiastic promoters of the great engineering task by passing an act authorizing
							the state of Indiana to survey and mark through the public lands the route of a canal
							to connect the Maumee and the Wabash. Ninety feet of the ground on each side of the
							canal was reserved from sale on the part of the United States.
						In this same year, Micajah T. Williams, an elder brother of Jesse L. Williams,
							surveyed the route of the Miami and Erie canal, to connect Lake Erie and the Ohio
							river, by way of Defiance. Congress already had granted to the state of Indiana 3 per
							cent on sales of all public lands "to be reserved for making public roads and canals."
							Through the efforts of Judge Hanna and David Burr, congress next assigned a corps of
							engineers to Fort Wayne to make a preliminary survey. This corps, under Colonel James
							Shriver, extended the line from the mouth of the Tippecanoe, in Indiana, to the head
							of the Maumee rapids in Ohio. However, Colonel Shriver and his successor, Colonel Asa
							Moore, fell victims to malaria while engaged in the work, but the task was carried on
							to its completion two years later by Colonel Howard Stansbury.
						The matter of great internal improvements now became the subject of debate throughout
							Indiana and Ohio, and in the succeeding elections for years the Indiana canal program
							was a hot political issue. In recognition of his ardent support of the canal and other
							internal improvements, Judge Hanna, with John Wright, of Winchester, as his opponent,
							was elected by the people of the Fort Wayne district to represent them in the state
							legislature, and here he fought valiantly for the big enterprise. Again, in 1831 and
							1836, Judge Hanna was a member of the lower house. He was elected to the state senate
							for two terms, in 1837 and 1840.
						Late in the year 1826 a board of canal commissioners was appointed, composed of David
							Burr, Samuel Hanna and Robert John, the latter of Franklin county. After some delay,
							the commissioners held a preliminary meeting at Indianapolis, and then, in 1828, a
							conference was held at Fort Wayne where matters appeared to be at a standstill,
							because of the fact that no provision had been made for the services of a surveyor or
							the procuring of the necessary instruments. Only $500 had been appropriated for the
							preliminary work. Taking matters into his own hands, Judge Hanna rode on horseback to
							Detroit and then took boat for New York, where he purchased the needed surveying
							equipment and returned to Fort Wayne in an incredibly short period of time.
						March 7, 1827, was a "red letter" day for the canal. For weeks the debate in congress
							had waxed warm. The opponents of  the proposition in the
							senate fought the plan to grant to the state of Indiana the right to sell all of the
							lands bordering the proposed right-of-way, but they finally agreed to give the state
							alternate sections of land for five miles on each side of the canal as at first
							projected, thus providing a total of about three thousand two hundred acres. After the
							action of the senate, the measure did not come up in the house, until one day before
							the close of the session, March 2, and it passed at midnight of that day. It was a
							fortunate day for the project, for the next congress, composed of Jackson adherents,
							was strongly opposed to the internal improvement program. Up to this time it was
							supposed that the eastern end of the canal would be confined within Allen county, as
							the navigable point of the Maumee was believed to be inside its limits. From the time
							of the discovery of the error, Ohio became an important factor in the procedure.
						Civil engineers were scarce, but the Indiana commissioners managed to secure the
							services of a skilled man, John Smythe, who immediately entered upon the survey of the
							route from Fort Wayne, with the special duty of ascertaining the measure of the water
							supply for the summit level of the canal on which portion Fort Wayne was located. The
							survey, from the town to the St. Joseph river, six miles above Fort Wayne, at a point
							below the present Robison park, where the "feeder" dam was later built, first was
							undertaken. On the second day of his efforts, Mr. Smythe was fatally stricken with
							fever, and David Burr, as rod-man, and Samuel Hanna, as ax-man, finished the survey of
							the feeder canal southward to a point near the present Wayne Knitting Mills. With the
							detailed report of the survey, Judge Hanna returned to his seat in the state senate
							and "captured" the legislature with the announcement that the St. Joseph river was
							capable of supplying an adequate amount of water for the summit level of the
							canal.
						At about this time, some influence was brought to bear upon the proposition to
							abandon the canal plans and turn attention to the construction of a railroad. Governor
							James B. Ray, a short time afterward, declared that a railroad would cost less than
							one-half as much as a canal. On the other hand, the commissioners showed that canals
							require "labor and such material as this state affords; the latter [the railroads]
							iron, which constitutes a large item of expense, and must come from abroad." Viewed
							through the perspective of the years, it is evident that although the canal failed in
							some of its great purposes, the attempt to build a railroad at that time would have
							been a still more unsatisfactory undertaking. In the meantime, the officials of the
							middle western states were busy with negotiations with the Miamis to secure additional
							tracts of the remaining Indian reservations. By the terms of a treaty between the
							Indians and Governor Lewis Cass, Governor J. B. Ray and General Tipton, the United
							States secured a large amount of new territory to the north of Fort Wayne, in exchange
							for goods to the value of $30,547.71, and an annuity for twenty-two years of $2,000 in
							silver; the government also agreed to provide a blacksmith, a miller to operate a
							gristmill to be established on the Tippecanoe river, and 160 barrels of salt annually,
							besides $2,000 for  educational purposes. All of the
							goods and the money were distributed from the Indian agency quarters in the old fort.
							Later, other large tracts to the southward were secured. At the time of the payment of
							the annuities, only a few of the Indians were allowed to enter the fort. Each of the
							visitors represented a number of members of the tribe. This number, in each instance,
							was indicated by the delegate in laying upon the ground a short stick for each of the
							company for whom he was securing the annuity.
						Many men of many types were added to the personnel of the citizenship of Fort Wayne
							during this period. John Brown, of Dayton, Ohio, and Orran Rogers, of the same state,
							came in 1825. Hugh Hanna, brother of Samuel Hanna, followed in the next year. Dr.
							Lewis G. Thompson, physician and legislator, came in 1827, and other valued citizens
							sought homes in the settlement which seemed to offer much to attract men of brain and
							brawn. A picture of life on the frontier, as it applies to the earlier members of the
							legal profession and the circuit court judges, comes from the pen of Oliver H. Smith,
							of Connersville, Indiana, who relates an episode of the early fall of 1825. Mr. Smith,
							who was a frequent practitioner before the Allen circuit court, joined Judge Miles C.
							Eggleston, of Madison, and James Rariden, of Centerville, in their ride to Fort Wayne.
							The three proceeded on their horses northward as far as the crossing of the Wabash,
							where they dismounted for relief from the severe heat. The river was almost dry, but
							the banks provided pasturage for the horses. Suddenly, Rariden's horse, irritated by a
							swarm of flies, ran away, followed by the other steeds, and all three soon disappeared
							from sight. The lawyers hid their blankets and saddles in the trees above the reach of
							wolves, and carried their saddlebags a distance of ten miles to Thompson's tavern, on
							Townsend's prairie. "The heat was intense," writes Mr. Smith in his "Early Indiana
							Trials and Sketches." "None of us had been much used to walking. I am satisfied we
							must all have broken down, but most fortunately there had fallen the night before a
							light rain, and the water lay in the shade in the horse tracks. We were soon on our
							knees, with our mouths to the water. Tell me not of your Croton, ye New Yorkers, nor
							of your Fairmount, ye Philadelphians—here was water that was water!" Finally
							they reached Thompson's place, a low, one-story cabin about twenty feet square. For
							supper corn dodgers, boiled squirrels and sassafras tea were served. Arriving at Fort
							Wayne on horses provided by the landlord, the court and attorneys found but little
							business on the docket, so "we all went up the St. Mary's river, to Chief
							Richardville's, to see an Indian horse race. The nags were brought to the ground, a
							gray pony about twelve hands high, and a roan, rather larger, to contest the
							superiority of stock between the bands of the Miamis and the Pottawattomies. Six
							Indians were selected as judges, two placed at the starting point, two at the quarter
							stake and two at the coming out places. 'Riders up—clear the track,' and away
							they went under whip and spur. The race over, the judges met, the spokesman, a large
							Miami, says, 'Race even—the Miami grey takes first quarter, Pottawattomie roan
							last quarter'—and all are satisfied."
						
						At the February (1826) session of the circuit court, held at Ewing's Washington Hall,
							Hiram Jones and Moses Cox were admitted to the practice of law. Cyrus Taber was
							allowed the sum of $25.12½ for "guarding jail and dieting prisoners." Judge Eggleston,
							with Benjamin Cushman, presided at the fall term, held in August.
						At the session of the court of August, 1827, Judge Cushman was indicted for carrying
							concealed weapons. He had already been convicted on another charge, and it is curious
							to note that he was generally regarded as a good citizen and had the confidence of the
							voters of the county without regard to the indictments which 
								JUDGE WILLIAM W. CARSON.
								In 1837, as a young man, Judge Carson came to Fort Wayne from Canada, where the
									family had settled, and entered the employ of Marshall S. Wines, then a large
									contractor. In 1846 he entered upon his career as a lawyer, but took the time for
									a course in the state university, from which he was graduated in 1849. In this
									year he was elected prosecuting attorney for Adams county. Subsequently he became
									city attorney of Fort Wayne, county attorney, state senator, judge of the court of
									common pleas, and judge of the thirty-eighth judicial district. Judge Carson was
									the author of several important laws, chiefly that regarding city charters, which
									regulate many of the municipalities of Indiana. He traveled extensively, his tours
									including three visits to Europe.
							
							
								JANE T. (WELLS) GRIGGS.
								Mrs. Griggs was the granddaughter of Chief Little Turtle and the daughter of
									Captain William Wells. Probably in 1828 she married John H. Griggs at Fort Wayne.
									Mr. Griggs had come from the vicinity of Piqua, Ohio. Mr. and Mrs. Griggs removed
									to Peru, Indiana, soon after the marriage. One of their children was Charles F.
									Griggs, whose son, Warren Griggs, still is a resident of Peru, Indiana (1917).
									Other children born to Mr. and Mrs. John H. Griggs are listed in a note on page
									264 of this work, where also, other information of the Wells family is
									detailed.
							 were found against him. Judges Cushman and Hood, sitting as a probate court,
							at the tavern of William Suttenfield, appointed Joseph Holman as the guardian of
							Andrew H. Stinson, a minor. Allen Hamilton was named as the guardian of Jane T. Wells,
							succeeding Benjamin B. Kercheval, who had removed to Detroit.
						At this time, William N. Hood, who had received his appointment from Governor Ray to
							succeed Samuel Hanna, served with Judge Cushman. Judge Eggleston presided. Abner
							Gerard served as sheriff, and Oliver H. Smith, of Connersville, as prosecuting
							attorney. William Quarles, afterward a prominent Indianapolis attorney, was admitted
							to practice.
						
						Joseph Doane, convicted of a felony by the Allen circuit court, over which Judges
							Benjamin Cushman and William N. Hood presided, in 1828, was the first man to receive a
							penitentiary sentence from Allen county; he was given a term of three years. The
							prosecuting attorney who secured Doane's conviction was David Wallace, later governor
							of Indiana. On the occasion of the second session of the 1828 court, Charles H. Test,
							later president judge, acted as prosecuting attorney. Andrew Ingham was admitted to
							the practice of the law. The first will recorded in the probate court was that of
							Abraham Burnett. In 1828, Anthony L. Davis was elected to represent the Fort Wayne
							district in the state legislature.
						In 1827, Major Samuel Lewis, appointed by President John Quincy Adams to act as
							sub-agent in the Indian service at Fort Wayne, took up his residence here. Major Lewis
							built a handsome double-hewn log house on the present Montgomery street, which became
							one of the sights of the village because it was covered, in the summer, with roses.
							Major Lewis was a relative of Meriwether Lewis, of Lewis and Clark expedition
							fame.
						To the home of Major and Mrs. Lewis came General Lew (Lewis) Wallace, from his home
							at Brookville; Mrs. Lewis was an aunt of the general. The father of General
							Wallace—Governor David Wallace—lived in Fort Wayne from 1848 to 1850,
							following his service in the state house, but his brief residence here was rendered
							unpleasant by unfortunate investments. To General Wallace, in addition to high honors
							won in the Mexican and civil wars, came world-wide fame as a novelist, his "Ben-Hur"
							having experienced the largest sale of any work by an American author, with one
							exception—Harriett Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
						With the progressiveness which characterized their movements in many directions,
							Samuel Hanna and James Barnett erected in 1827 the first gristmill near Fort Wayne.
							The importance of this pioneer enterprise is realized only when one reflects that up
							to this time the nearest mills were located in Ohio, and that all meal, flour and
							"cracked corn" of the preceding years was brought through a wilderness a great
							distance, which rendered the commonest of foodstuffs highly expensive. The Barnett and
							Hanna mill was located on the west bank of the St. Mary's river, directly south of the
							present Broadway bridge, where a dam was constructed. This mill was later sold to
							Louis H. Davis, who was succeeded by Asa Fairfield and S. C. Freeman. Subsequently A.
							C. Beaver became the proprietor. George Esmond was the owner of the mill for several
							years, previous to its destruction by fire in February, 1878. Mr. Esmond then erected
							a large brick mill on the site; this, in later years, was sold to Tevis and Proctor,
							and, like its predecessor, was destroyed by fire in 1888.
						Other enterprises of the period were the tannery established in 1828 by Absalom
							Holcomb and Isaac Marquis, at the west end of Columbia street, where the Randall hotel
							now stands; the cooper shop of Madore Truckey; the blacksmith. shop of Holloway
							Cushman, on the south side of Berry street, east of Calhoun street; the general
							trading establishment of Zenas Henderson, at the northeast corner of Calhoun and
							Columbia streets, and the store of James  Aveline for
							trade with the Indians. John Cook and his brother Philip, blacksmiths, located in the
							village.
						At this time, when the region throbbed with new life, and transportation facilities
							over the rivers by means of the more numerous pirogues and other types of boats
							reached a more improved state, the Ewing brothers — George W. and William G.
							— opened their extensive fur trading operations. This business extended its
							operations throughout a vast area of the middle west. William G. Ewing maintained his
							home in Fort Wayne, where he erected the mansion at the corner of West Berry and Ewing
							streets, which stands today a credit to the handsome residence section in which it is
							located. The Ewing house was purchased in 1915 by Dr. Albert E. Bulson, Jr. George W.
							Ewing established himself at Logansport, later at Peru, and finally in St. Louis.
							After the death of William G. Ewing he spent much of his time in Fort Wayne. The
							original Ewing office stood at the corner of Calhoun and Columbia streets. The later
							headquarters of the firm, remodeled for residence purposes, stands on the south side
							of West Main street, between Webster and Ewing streets.
						In the spring of 1828, General Tipton secured the removal of the land office from
							Fort Wayne to the mouth of the Tippecanoe river, the site of the present Logansport.
							Here a large portion of the annuities of the Indians were distributed. At the treaty
							grounds here were gathered each year the traders of the entire region. The occasion
							was made especially attractive to them since the law of 1819 gave to the Miamis an
							annuity of $15,000, while the Weas, Pottawattomies and the Delawares received a total
							of $9,500—certainly a "stake" worth playing for.
						Not less than fifty traders were attracted to the place on the occasion of the treaty
							of October, 1832. Goods to the supposed value of $365,729.15 were distributed in three
							days' time. Charges of extortion brought an investigation of the government, and J. W.
							Edmunds, sent to investigate the claims, found that the Indians had been cheated out
							of the greater part of their annuities.
						Blankets were sold for eight and ten dollars each; red flannel brought 57 cents per
							yard; bleached shirting, 97¼ cents; tin cups, 12½ cents; red cotton handkerchiefs, 40
							cents; calico, 25 cents; silk vests, $4; coffee boilers, 75 cents; thread, $2 per
							pound; hats, $5; knives, 40 cents; powder, 40 cents a pound, and other articles and
							commodities at prices entirely out of keeping with the prevailing figures.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXIV—1829-1831. The Village
						Incorporated—"Underground Railroad"—The First Courthouse.
					The village decides to incorporate—The original town trustees—Swamps and
						underbrush—Laws governing the river ferries—Fort Wayne, a station on the
						"underground railroad"—The slaves pass through the village—Earliest
						permanent Catholic and Protestant churches—The Big Leg murder—Keel boats on
						the Maumee—Trade over the St. Mary's—The government authorizes the state to
						sell the military tract at Fort Wayne—The doom of the old fort—Taber's
						addition platted—The first court house—Cheap rent at the "transfer"
						corner—The steamboat from Defiance—A cruel winter.
					FOR SOME TIME, previous to 1829, the more enterprising citizens of
						the village of Fort Wayne had given serious thought to the question of incorporating the
						town. The matter had occupied a good deal of attention during the summer, and the
						opposition to the plan seems to have faded away by the autumn time, for, on the 7th of
						September, in response to the call of leading citizens, a meeting was held to take final
						action. The debate was brief and enthusiastic. Judge William N. Hood presided over the
						session, and John P. Hedges, as secretary, recorded the decision of the vote to the
						effect that "there was a majority of two-thirds of the persons present in favor of
						incorporating the town of Fort Wayne in the county of Allen, state of Indiana."
					The next step was the election of officers held just one week following the mass
						meeting, and the brief but lively campaign for the honor of holding the first official
						positions of the newly-created town, resulted in the choice of Hugh Hanna, John S.
						Archer, William G. Ewing, Dr. Lewis G. Thompson and John P. Hedges, to serve as a board
						of trustees for one year. Benjamin Archer served as president and John P. Hedges as
						secretary of this first election.
					Fort Wayne continued under its primitive form of government for a period of about
						eleven years. During this time, the following citizens, in addition to the original
						members, served on the board of trustees: Samuel Hanna, Zephaniah B. Tenney, Francis
						Comparet, James Hudson, William N. Hood, Moses Scott, Isaac Marquis, Matthew Griggs,
						Abner Gerard, William Rockhill, John E. Hill, Joseph Holman, Robert Brackenridge, John
						Spencer, Joseph Morgan, David Rankin, Henry Work, Nathan Farrand, William Luckey
						(removed), Lazarus B. Wilson, William Suttenfield, Hugh McCulloch, Joseph Berkey, Samuel
						Edsall, John B. DuBois, James Post, Robert Hood (removed), Joseph Ensworth, C. H.
						Hubbard, Joseph Sinclear, William L. Moon, John Reese, Benjamin Smith, George W. Wood,
						L. B. Bellamy, Daniel Reed and I. D. G. Nelson.
					
						THE FIRST TOWN OFFICERS.
						The first town officers named by the trustees of the "Fort Wayne Corporation," as it
							was known officially, were: Assessor, David  Pickering,
							salary, $5 per year; treasurer, Joseph Holman; collector of taxes, Abner Gerard;
							marshal, James Barnett, salary, $2 per year; supervisor of streets, Matthew Griggs,
							salary, $6 per year. Succeeding assessors to 1840 were John P. Hedges, Anthony L.
							Davis, Joseph Morgan, Joseph H. McMaken, Henry Work, G. F. Wright, Joseph Ensworth and
							S. M. Black. Those who served at later times in the office of treasurer were Henry
							Rudisill, James Daniels, James Hudson, Henry Cooper, Joseph Morgan, Henry Colerick and
							George F. Wright. Collectors of taxes succeeding Abner Gerard were Thomas Rice, Thomas
							VanAnda, Samuel Cassady, Wilson B. Barlow, Samuel Stophlet, Joseph C. Silvers,
							Humphrey Roberts, Lysander Williams and S. S. Morss. The following marshals succeeded
							James Barnett: David Pickering, Lewis Armstrong, Thomas VanAnda, Samuel Cassady
							(removed), Wilson B. Barlow, Thomas Pritchard, Samuel C. Stophlet, Joseph C. Silvers,
							Humphrey Roberts, Lysander Williams and S. S. Morss.
					
					
						A TOWN OF SWAMPS AND THICKETS.
						One of the most trying problems which confronted the trustees during the period of
							the years preceding 1840 was the elimination of swamps and underbrush which covered a
							large portion of the present downtown section of Fort Wayne. Even as late as August,
							1834, a "vigilance" committee composed of John B. Bourie, James Wilcox, John P.
							Hedges, Allen Hamilton, John B. Bruno, F. D. Lasselle, Samuel Hanna, Joseph H.
							McMaken, Thomas Pritchard, Samuel Hunter, William Luckey, John B. DuBois, Horatio N.
							Clark, Moses Young and James Post, appointed to examine into the general conditions,
							reported that it was thought advisable to proceed "without delay to fill up the low
							places and drain the same, and also to grade the streets for the general benefit of
							the health of the town." Immediate action was taken to drain a swamp on Calhoun street
							and "cut down or grub all the brush in the streets south of Berry street." Henry Work
							and F. D. Lasselle were allowed "twenty-five cents per rood, lineal measure, for
							cutting off the brush on Wayne, Barr and other streets."
						In March, 1837, John B. DuBois was authorized to circulate a petition to secure funds
							to drain the streets "according to a profile drawn and prepared by David Quinn,
							engineer." A. F. Frink, John Ritchie and others were engaged to prepare plans for a
							general system of drainage.
						Among the earlier undertakings were the removal of "swamps or mud-holes" at the north
							end of Clinton street, on Calhoun street just south of Columbia, and on Barr street.
							The latter was drained by the construction of a ditch "along the south side of Berry
							street to the west side of Clinton and to the dam." In December, 1836, the town
							trustees met "in a committee of the whole to take up consideration of the means to
							drain the cellars and remove the nuisance of dead matter in this corporation."
					
					
						EARLY RECORD-KEEPING.
						That the earliest records failed of completeness is shown by the report of a special
							auditing committee, appointed in 1832, composed of John Spencer and Joseph Holman, who
							said: 
							"The records of the years 1829 and 1830 were well made up,
									with the exception that there was no expose made of the receipts and expenditures
									during those years."
						The report adds that while the books show that fines and fees were collected for
							various reasons, no record of the amounts of money received was made.
						The members of the town board received fifty cents for each session attended, and
							were fined a like amount for being absent, except in the case of the president of the
							board who was required to pay seventy-five cents. James Post, for the use of his house
							as a meeting place for the board during the greater part of the eleven years of the
							existence of the town as a corporation, was paid "two dollars for candles and room
							rent" per year.
					
					
						THE RIVER FERRIES.
						With the increase of the population of the adjacent lands the need of a ferry across
							the St. Mary's river caused the board of justices to encourage the establishment of
							such a convenience by placing a low license fee of one dollar annually for its
							maintenance, and establishing regulations to protect the proprietors. It also fixed
							the rates of service as follows: Footmen, 6¼ cents; man and horse, 12½ cents; horse or
							cow, 6¼ cents; hog or sheep, 3 cents; oxen, 25 cents; wagon and two or more horses, 50
							cents. Zenas Henderson and Company, the first to apply for a license under the new
							regulation, in 1831, were permitted "to keep a ferry across the St. Mary's river, at
							the crossing at the old ford, where the county road crosses leading to Pigeon prairie,
							in Michigan territory [near the site of the Wells street bridge]." Mr. Henderson was
							required to give bond in the sum of $500. The law required that the operators of a
							ferry be the owners and proprietors of the land on both sides of the river or creek on
							which such ferry was established. No other ferry could be situated within one mile
							either above or below unless deemed necessary for the public convenience. The ferryman
							was required to "give passage to all public messengers and expresses, when required,
							without fee or reward for the same, from time to time. The ferryman was subject to a
							fine of $40 for demanding or taking a greater sum for ferryage than that fixed by law,
							but he could charge a double fee if required to be broken of his rest in the night to
							give a lift to a late traveler. All men employed with ferries were exempted from
							militia duty and from serving on juries.
					
					
						THE FLIGHT OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVES.
						On the 10th of October, 1829, a strange and motley company of negroes and whites
							passed through the streets of the town of Fort Wayne—a procession made up of the
							"passengers" and "conductors" of an "underground railroad." Probably it was the first
							of its kind in this portion of the middle west. Later, many willing anti-slavery
							advocates in the north gave systematic aid and protection to many escaping slaves of
							the south, who were safely landed across the Canadian border. The story of this
							"underground railroad" is preserved in a unique manuscript record, now yellow and
							crumbling with age, written by Frederick Hoover; it is owned by his
							great-granddaughter, Mrs. Charles A. Dunkelberg. It bears the  date 1829. Mr. Hoover was a member of the prominent Quaker family whose
							head was Andrew Hoover, a member of the Society of Friends included in the exodus from
							Pennsylvania to North Carolina. In 1806, Andrew Hoover and others came to Indiana and
							established the settlement which became Richmond, in Wayne county. Samuel Hoover's
							story is given in the biblical language employed by many of the Quakers even to the
							present day.
						"Now it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of John [John Quincy Adams],
							who was governor of the united provinces and territories of North America, that the
							Ethiopians in the province of Kentucky were sore vexed by reason of their
							taskmasters," reads the manuscript which tells of the flight, "and they lifted up
							their eyes toward the land of Indiana, which lieth toward the north country, over the
							great River Ohio, as thou goest toward the city of Brookville [in Franklin county,
							founded in 1807]. Now Indiana is a land flowing with milk and honey, and they said,
							therefore, let us flee thither, peradventure the people of the land will deal kindly
							with us and deliver us out of the hands of the oppressor. So the people gat them away
							by stealth and fled into the land of Indiana and gat them possessions in the land.
							Howbeit they were sought 
								THE STORY OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVES.
								The above is a fac simile reproduction of the Hoover manuscript describing the
									escape of runaway negroes, on their way from Kentucky to Canada in 1829. The
									original is owned by Mrs. C. A. Dunkelberg, whose great-grandfather, Frederick
									Hoover, a member of the Society of Friends, led in the rescue. (See 1829).
							
							 by the negro-hunters." The narrative relates that these
							negro hunters, "sons of belial," caught "Saby, wife of Isom, and fled, but certain men
							of the land pursued the men of belial and delivered Saby." In like manner these
							"certain men" rescued two other slaves, George and Jacob, but "the children of
							Ethiopia said therefore one to another, Wot ye not that if we tarry in this land we
							shall be spoiled of our possessions; let us, therefore, make ready and flee even unto
							the land of Canada."
						The story of the departure of the slaves, under the protection of their deliverers,
							relates that "the people murmured because of the bitterness of the waters of the brook
							Mississinnewa," and gives a detailed account of the journey across the Wabash and to
							the St. Mary's. When they reached the neighborhood of the city of Fort Wayne the fear
							of the people lest the town should contain "men of belial" who would "evil entreat
							them," caused a halt while the Quakers conferred with "the chief men of the city," and
							made an agreement that if the procession be allowed to pass through the city the
							strangers "would not turn to the right hand nor to the left hand, and if they took
							anything from thence they would give them pieces of silver."
						After the procession had passed through the village the people encamped on the Maumee
							and there the people sang songs of praises to the Lord for his mercies in delivering
							them from their enemies.
						Before the slaves were safely placed in Canada, the party encountered many
							interesting adventures. "Sarah, the wife of James, chode with Nancy, the wife of
							Robert, concerning their stuff," but when the leaders cautioned them that their
							conduct would bring reproach upon the whole congregation, Robert, whose surname was
							Hopkins, "spake unto the leaders, saying, We have divided the stuff and have settled
							the matter. Howbeit, they lodged no more together even on the whole journey." The
							narrative records that when "Thomas went to help Saby and her daughter Nancy over the
							water and over the mire they all together fell into the water and into the mire;
							howbeit they drew them out all together and when they had put on changes of raiment
							the people journied forward." Arriving at the outskirts of Detroit, after passing
							through Defiance, Ohio, and Monroe, Michigan, the leaders "spake unto them, saving,
							Tomorrow we must pass through City Detroit, over the great river into Canada. Ye must,
							therefore, shave off your beards and purify yourselves with water; ye must also put on
							goodly raiment so that haply ye may find favor in the eyes of the men of the city and
							they may let you pass peaceably through the city into the land of Canada to inherit
							it." The passage was made successfully, and "the people rejoiced greatly because of
							their deliverance from their enemies and from the hands of those who sought to deliver
							them into bondage." After they had "imparted good counsel," the Friends bade farewell
							to the fugitives and returned to Richmond.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE'S FIRST CHURCHES.
						We now turn our attention to the consideration of the first permanent Catholic and
							Protestant churches in Fort Wayne. It is of more than passing interest to note that
							while the Jesuit fathers  were the first representatives
							of the religious orders to visit the site of Fort Wayne in the sixteenth century,
							their labors left no permanent results; it was not until the year 1830 that any
							Catholic leader visited Fort Wayne and stamped his name in the history of the
							community.
						Near the opening of the year Very Rev. Stephen Theodore Badin, the first priest to be
							ordained in the United States, made a visit to the Catholics who had settled here, and
							offered mass in the home of Francis Comparet. Father Badin was vicar general of the
							diocese of Bardstown (near Louisville), Kentucky, and of the diocese of Cincinnati,
							under the jurisdiction of which Fort Wayne was placed. Father Badin came to Fort Wayne
							in the following year to assist in the purchase of a site for a church which later
							became St. Augustine's. It is now the widely-known Cathedral of the Immaculate
							Conception, and its site, which contains several of the schools of the denomination,
							as well as the bishop's residence, is a property of immense value.
						On the occasion of this second visit Father Badin performed the ceremony of baptism
							over Peter Gibaud, infant son of Peter and Mary Gibaud; the sponsors were John Baptist
							Becket (Bequette) and Theresa Duret, his wife.
						Rev. Father Pecot, of Vincennes, visited the parish in 1832.
						Among the noted Catholic visitors of 1835 was the Rt. Rev. Simon Gabriel Brute, first
							bishop of Vincennes. Fathers S. P. Lalumiere, Felix Matthew Ruff, J. F. Tervooren and
							M. Jeancoir also preceded the first regular pastor, Rev. Louis Mueller, who came in
							the following year. In this year was completed the purchase of 
								WHEN HENRY RUDISILL CAME TO FORT WAYNE.
								Henry Rudisill, one of the foremost Fort Wayne men of his time, came to the city
									in 1830 to care for the interests of Barr and McCorkle, the original proprietors
									of the town. The above fragment of a letter preserved by Miss Eliza Rudisill was
									written to John T. Barr, of Baltimore, Maryland.
							
							 a portion of the present Cathedral site. The
							preliminary arrangements for the transfer were made on July 18, 1831, when a large
							part of the property was purchased for $100, although the transfer appears not to have
							been completed until 1835, when the property was deeded by Samuel and Eliza Hanna to
							the church authorities. The preliminary purchase was made in the name of Francis
							Comparet, but subsequently the property was deeded to a committee composed of Mr.
							Comparet, Francis D. Lasselle, John B. Bruno, Charles Hillsworth and Michael Hedekin,
							by whom it was later transferred to the ecclesiastical authorities of the diocese. The
							canal laborers were liberal contributors to the purchase fund. The first building was
							not erected until two years later.
						In a case at law entitled "Saint Augustine Church vs. Samuel S. Barr and the unknown
							heirs of John T. Barr, deceased," filed in 1831 by the church, the latter sought to
							have a deed executed for the property from John T. Barr, who had died before executing
							the deed. In this document the property is described as follows: "One acre of land on
							the south part of the town of Fort Wayne, adjoining the land of Allen Hamilton on the
							north side of Hamilton's land and on the east side of the road leading from Fort Wayne
							to Piqua [later called the Piqua road, and now known as Calhoun street, Fort Wayne's
							chief business thoroughfare], being an acre of land where the Saint Augustine church
							now stands."
						The successors of Rev. Louis Mueller were Revs. Julian Benoit, J. H. Brammer, J. H.
							Guendling, P. F. Roche and John R. Quinlan. (See Chapter XXVI.)
						Coincidental with the establishment of the first Catholic church, a Protestant
							organization of the Methodist Episcopal faith was founded. Although Rev. James Holman,
							a Methodist preacher, had located at Fort Wayne and discoursed on the Bible teachings
							as early as 1824, it was not until 1830 that Methodism began to secure a foothold in
							the town. In this year, Rev. Alexander Wiley, a presiding elder of the Ohio
							conference, came to Fort Wayne to establish a mission which formed a part of his
							conference district. Rev. Nehemiah B. Griffith was placed in charge of this little
							branch organization which was known as the Maumee mission. In 1836 an attempt was made
							to build a church. A lot on West Main street, between Webster and Ewing streets, was
							secured, and a large frame structure was erected, with an imposing steeple and gothic
							windows. The congregation was unable to secure the funds with which to complete the
							building, so it was torn down and the property reverted to the Ewings. Several places
							of worship were used until the first permanent building was erected in 1840, at the
							corner of Harrison and Berry streets, site of the Anthony hotel. In 1835 the Indiana
							Methodist conference organized the Fort Wayne circuit, with the Maumee mission as its
							principal charge.
						The pastors of this mission and its successors, the Berry street church and the First
							Methodist Episcopal church, have been Nehemiah B. Griffith, Richard S. Robinson, Boyd
							Phelps, Freeman Farnsworth, James S. Harrison, S. R. Ball, James T. Robe, Jacob
							Colcazer, B. A. Conwell, George M. Boyd, Hawley B. Beers, J. S. Bayless, J. W. Smith,,
							Samuel Brenton, Amasa Johnson, William Wilson, Homer B. Benson, C. W. Miller, J. D. G.
							Pettijohn, Milton Mahin,  Milton Beaver, John Hill, N.
							H. Phillips, W. S. Birch, A. Marine, Jacob Colcazer, Frost Craft, C. G. Hudson, J. K.
							Walts, D. C. Woolpert, J. M. VanSlyke, M. S. Marble, C. C. Cissel, H. J. Norris, J. K.
							Walts, C. A. Rowand, J. K. Cecil, D. H. Guild and A. G. Neal.
						The Presbyterians, too, were awakened to the opportunity of establishing a place of
							worship in the village. In 1829, Rev. Charles E. Fuhrman, in response to an appeal
							issued by citizens headed by Allen Hamilton, was sent to the frontier town by the
							Presbyterian board. In his report, Rev. Mr. Fuhrman said: "The people are hospitable
							and have more intelligence and liberality of feeling than any similar town I have
							found in the country." (Jesse L. Williams's "History of the First Presbyterian Church
							of Fort Wayne"). The visit of Rev. Mr. Fuhrman resulted in the sending of Rev. James
							Chute, in the year 1831. On the 1st of July, under a rude shelter of boards near what
							is now the junction of Columbia and Harrison streets, he organized the First
							Presbyterian church, with twelve members. Smalwood Noel and John McIntosh were chosen
							to serve as elders. Among these charter members were Mrs. Ann Turner and Mrs. Rebekah
							Hackley, daughters of Captain William Wells and grand-daughters of Chief Little
							Turtle; both had been baptized during the service of Rev. Isaac McCoy. Mrs. Turner and
							Mrs. Hackley had attended a Catholic seminary at Bardstown, Kentucky, and were women
							of culture and intelligence. Forty-four citizens united in subscribing an amount
							sufficient to guarantee a yearly salary of $258 for the pastor. The signers of this
							paper were Samuel Hanna, James Barnett, Anthony L. Davis, William Rockhill, Samuel
							Lewis, Abner Gerard, J. L. Britton, Samuel Edsall, Dr. Lewis G. Thompson, Mrs. Ann
							Turner, William Suttenfield, Samuel Brown, Thomas Daniels, James McIntosh, Jr., James
							Daniels, Philip Klinger, James D. Klinger, John D. Klinger, William Caster, Robert
							Hood, Henry Rudisill, Rebekah Hackley, Matthew Griggs, Mason M. Meriam, John Jeffcoat,
							Hill and Henderson, Lewis H. Davis, Isaac Patterson, Francis Alexander, Hiram Weese,
							Simon Edsall, John B. DuBois, Charles S. Griggs, William Wilson, Lewis Armstrong, John
							McIntosh, Hugh Hanna, Smalwood Noel, David Archer, William N. Hood, Z. B. Tenny, J. H.
							Griggs and Allen Hamilton.
						Between 1831 and 1837, the church held its meetings in the school house, the Masonic
							hall, a carpenter shop, store rooms and the court house. The pastors of the First
							Presbyterian church, succeeding James Chute, have been Daniel Jones, W. C. Anderson,
							H. S. Dixon, Lowman P. Hawes, J. G. Riheldaffer, Jonathan Edwards, John M. Lowrie,
							Thomas D. Skinner, David W. Moffat and Henry B. Master.
					
					
						AN INDIAN MURDER CASE.
						One of the memorable criminal cases of the period was the trial before Judges Test,
							Hood and Thompson of an Indian chief known as Now-ee-ling-qua, or Big Leg, charged, in
							1830, with the murder of Wish-mah, his slave, a woman half Indian and half negro. The
							woman had disobeyed her master while intoxicated and he had stabbed her to death. The
							murder took place in a cabin near the corner of Barr and Columbia streets. During his
							confinement in jail the murderer was told that he might suffer the  death penalty by hanging, or "weighing." He asked for a
							rope with which he hanged his dog, to witness its death struggles to determine whether
							or not he would prefer hanging to shooting; he pleaded to be shot. A party of friends
							of the condemned man sought to substitute a worthless member of their tribe in place
							of the chief. At the trial, John B. Bourie and Chief Richardville acted as
							interpreters. The Indian was convicted, but, being recommended to mercy by the jury,
							the governor subsequently granted him a pardon. Two of the jurymen, Jean Baptiste
							Godfroy and Henry Ossem, were of Indian blood.
						"I remember this Indian distinctly," said the late Mrs. Lucien P. Ferry. "While he
							was confined in the log jail on the court house square I took his food to him. He
							would reach out through the bars of the window with his tin cup, and into this I
							poured his coffee. I was then a girl of seventeen. When the members of his tribe were
							taken to the west this man went with them. I remember the scene very well-how many of
							them were bound by the hands with ropes. The younger ones were willing to go, but the
							older men and women fought against leaving their old homes. This man, as he looked
							around at the crowd, saw me and recognized me as the girl who had been bringing his
							food. He came and thanked me for what he thought was my great kindness."
					
					
						COMMERCE ON THE RIVERS.
						With the passage of time, and before the Wabash and Erie canal came into use, the
							rivers became of growing importance as routes of travel and commerce. A lively trade
							had sprung up by the early thirties and several established boat lines were operated
							over the Maumee. In 1902, A. C. Comparet, of Hicksville, Ohio, said of this pioneer
							means of traffic: "The goods sold by the traders were brought
									up the Maumee by keel boats and pirogues owned and run by different parties. On
									the river, Patrick Ravencraft and John Barber owned two keel boats that would
									carry more freight than the pirogues at a good stage of water, and, being decked
									over, would protect the crew from getting wet. It took seven men to run them up
									the current, as three on each side of the boat with long setting poles would run
									from bow to the stern with poles set to their shoulders, pushing it
									up-stream."
						A suggestion of life on the St. Mary's river at this time comes from the pen of the
							late Edward F. Colerick, who quotes Benjamin F. Blosser, former postmaster of Decatur,
							Indiana. Mr. Blosser was a frequent visitor to Fort Wayne as early as 1831. In the
							fall of 1823, he assisted Paul Taber and family on their way to Fort Wayne over the
							St. Mary's. Said Mr. Blosser: "One evening in 1838, I remember
									a pirogue with three persons on board, making its appearance, coming slowly up the
									stream, which soon hauled to for the night. We found it to contain the trusty Amos
									Compton in charge of a load of specie which he was taking to Dayton, Ohio, there
									to be deposited to the credit of the government by Colonel John Spencer, the
									receiver of public moneys at Fort Wayne. The boat was run across the river and
									secreted in a willow jungle, and in the morning it was found to be all right.
									There were but few thieves in the country then."
					
					
					
						THE OLD FORT GROUNDS SOLD.
						Congress, in 1830, authorized the associate judges of the circuit court to enter at
							the land office at $1.25 per acre for the use and benefit of the county such a portion
							of the military tract of forty acres about the old fort, "including Fort Wayne [the
							blockhouses and palisades] and the reserve for the use of the Indian agency
							established there," as may not fall to the state of Indiana, under the canal act of
							March 2, 1827. This act sounded the death-knell of the historic structure. Under the
							right of pre-emption acquired by act of congress of May 31, 1830, twenty acres of the
							west side of the fort reserve were entered by the county at $1.25 per acre. The county
							agent, Francis Comparet, was directed to borrow for the county the money needed for
							the purchase; Henry Rudisill provided the required amount. The county addition was
							then platted and 
								HENRY RUDISILL.
								Henry Rudisill was born in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, in 1801. He was a resident of
									Lancaster, Ohio, at the time he engaged with John T. Barr, one of the original
									proprietors of the land on which Fort Wayne stands, to remove to the village and
									manage the Barr interests. The family arrived on Christmas day, 1829. Mr. Rudisill
									became postmaster of Fort Wayne and a leading manufacturer. He was a strong factor
									in the establishment of the Lutheran church and in inducing German immigration to
									Allen county. His death, in 1858, was the result of an injury received in a fall
									while superintending some work at one of his mills.
							
							
								DAVID H. COLERICK.
								David H. Colerick, one of the most famous of the lawyers of Allen county, and the
									progenitor of a line of leading men of the profession, was a native of Washington,
									Pennsylvania, where he was born in 1805. His father, John Colerick, was a
									distinguished Irish patriot, who escaped to America to promote the cause of Robert
									Emmett and his followers. David H. Colerick settled at Fort Wayne in 1829. He
									served in both houses of the legislature, but declined further experience as an
									office-holder. In politics he was a whig until 1854, when he joined the democratic
									party. His death occurred in 1887.
							 the lots offered for sale. A land company at New Haven, Connecticut, acting
							through Franklin P. Randall as agent, purchased the site occupied by the fort and the
							surrounding grounds. Twenty acres of the west portion of the tract was platted in 1830
							and recorded as the County Addition, and it soon became the building spot of the
							pioneers.
						In 1852 John Fairfield demolished the final remaining blockhouse of the old fort.
						The second addition to the original plat of Fort Wayne was laid out in 1835. Cyrus
							Taber purchased from the government the  remaining
							portion of the military tract about the old fort site, platted it into forty building
							lots and placed it on file as Taber's addition.
					
					
						THE BUILDING OF THE FIRST COURT HOUSE.
						Until the year 1832, all sessions of the courts and of the county commissioners and
							boards of justices were held in private residences or in the taverns of William
							Suttenfield and Alexander Ewing. At the May (1831) session of the commissioners,
							however, the board decided to erect a court house on an unoccupied portion of the
							public square, and the clerk was authorized to advertise for bids. As a result, the
							board let to John S. Archer the contract to furnish the brick; to "James Hudson to lay
							up the brick and furnish the lime and stone, and to Hanna and Edsall to do the
							carpenter work and furnish all lumber, timber, nails, glass, etc., for $3,321.75." The
							citizens of Fort Wayne subscribed $499 in material and labor and $149 in cash toward
							the erection of the first court house. The remaining portion of the cost was paid out
							of the county treasury.
						The building was first used just one year later than the time of the letting of the
							contract. It was poorly adapted to the use for which it was intended. Some of the
							rooms were left in an unfinished condition, and the citizens feared, on occasions of
							severe storm that the building would collapse. The courthouse faced northward and
							stood about midway between Calhoun and Court streets. It was forty feet square and two
							stories in height, surmounted by a cupola, or steeple. The lower floor was used for
							court purposes; it had been the intention to partition the second floor for offices,
							but this was never done. The upper room served as a general public meeting place; here
							were held amateur theatricals, mock trials, religious services and sessions of private
							schools. This structure was used for ten years; in 1841 it was removed to make way for
							the third court house. In his "Charcoal Sketches," the late John W. Dawson, in
							description of this first court house, says: "It was so insecure when I first saw it
							[in 1838] that it was not occupied for court purposes. Still, several terms of court
							were afterward held there, and some political and religious meetings were also held in
							it. This old court house and the frame building built by Colonel [John] Spencer were
							sold to him by the county for $300 in the early part of 1843, and both were then
							removed preparatory to the building of a common one on the south part of the square."
							The frame building of Colonel Spencer, receiver of the land office, to which Mr.
							Dawson refers, was located on the northwest corner of the court house square—the
							present "transfer" corner. It had been erected by Colonel Spencer on a leasehold from
							the county, and there the receiver lived for several years.
						A picture of the court house square as it appeared in 1831 may be gained from the
							proceedings of the board of commissioners, who directed the county agent, Francis
							Comparet, to "cause the cutting off of the brush and stumps from the public square,"
							by letting a contract to the lowest bidder at public sale.
						In this year the board of commissioners leased to James Wilcox for four years "a
							remote piece of the court house square," thirty by forty feet, at the southeast corner
							of Calhoun and Main streets  —the transfer corner
							of today—for $10 per year. A like piece at the corner of Main and Court streets
							rented for $8 per year, and the piece at the corner of Berry and Court streets for $6.
							David H. Colerick, in 1834, leased one of these corners for a period of years at $10
							per annum.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1829.
						With the 1829 session, the county board of justices went out of existence, the law
							having been changed to restore power to a board of commissioners, such as had served
							at the time of the organization 
								THE RUDISILL MILL.
								The photograph is an early view of the Rudisill gristmill erected in 1830 by
									Henry Rudisill and Henry Johns. It fronted on the present Spy Run avenue, nearly
									opposite the powerhouse of the Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction Company.
									In its latter years the mill was owned by Henry J. Rudisill and operated by John
									E. Hill. The view is from a photograph loaned by Miss Eliza C. Rudisill.
							 of the county. At a special election held in October, Nathan Coleman,
							William Caswell and James Holman were named to compose the new board. The
							commissioners fixed a rate of taxation for the year 1830, as follows: Forty cents on
							every 100 acres of first-rate land; thirty cents on second-rate land, and twenty cents
							on third-rate land. . . . During a period of high water a steamboat from Defiance
							succeeded in reaching Fort Wayne. The town welcomed the strange craft with rejoicings,
							and several excursions were run on the rivers before the boat found it necessary to
							return to the lower portion of the Maumee. . . . Henry Rudisill (born at  Lancaster, Pennsylvania, in 1801), who was later to
							become one of the strong men in the varied life of the city, came to the town as the
							representative of John T. Barr, one of the original proprietors of the town. Mr.
							Rudisill was the first member of the Lutheran church to locate in Fort Wayne, and it
							is largely through his efforts that the denomination is so strong in this city today.
							One of the city's public schools is named in his honor. A portrait tablet of Mr.
							Rudisill, erected at this school, was dedicated in June, 1916.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1830.
						In the fall of 1830, Captain Robert Brackenridge, appointed by President Jackson,
							register of the land office at Fort Wayne, took up his residence at the village. He
							was born at Springfield, Pennsylvania, in 1783, lived at Cincinnati ten years, and
							came with Harrison at the time of the siege in 1812. He lived for a time at
							Brookville, Indiana, and was assigned from that place to Fort Wayne. Robert
							Brackenridge (a nephew of the captain, who became a prominent jurist), accompanied the
							register as his clerk. Jonathan McCarthy was appointed receiver of public moneys. The
							legislature of 1830 created a new judicial district, the Sixth, including the counties
							of Randolph, Henry, Wayne, Union, Delaware, Fayette, Rush, Elkhart and Allen, with
							Charles H. Test as the first president judge. At this time there were 250 voters in
							Allen county. With Judge William N. Hood as his associate, Judge Test opened the tenth
							term of the Allen county circuit court; James Perry, of Centerville, was the
							prosecuting attorney, and Robert Hood, clerk. At this term, David H. Colerick, a
							lawyer of wide reputation and the progenitor of a line of famous lawyers, was sworn in
							as an attorney, ex gratia. Born at Washington, Pennsylvania, in 1805, Mr. Colerick,
							after a residence at Zanesville and Lancaster, Ohio, had come to Fort Wayne in 1829.
							William J. Brown and Samuel C. Sample served successively as prosecuting attorneys
							during Judge Test's term of office, and William N. Hood and Benjamin Cushman remained
							associate judges. In this year a Riley township was formed from a portion of Wayne
							township; this was later re-named Orange township, but the organization was afterward
							abandoned. . . . William G. Ewing was elected judge of the probate court; he served
							until 1833. . . . County officers elected were William N. Hood, auditor-recorder; L.
							G. Thompson, treasurer, and Abner Gerard, sheriff. . . . Dr. John Evans and family
							arrived from Troy, Ohio, in 1830. Dr. Evans engaged in business with John E. Hill. A
							son, S. Carey Evans, succeeded to the business of his father, and he, with his
							brothers, W. Rush Evans and Rinaldo Evans, were actively associated in commercial
							enterprises when S. Carey Evans became the head of the Merchants' National bank. Later
							S. Carey Evans was associated with Henry Rudisill as a railroad contractor. . . . An
							important manufacturing enterprise which had its beginning in 1830 was the overshot
							gristmill of Henry Rudisill and Henry Johns, on the St. Joseph river. Power was
							furnished by the construction of a dam across the river below the site of the present
							State street bridge, which was then referred to as "one mile north of the town," but
							which is now well within the corporate limits of the city. For many years this  establishment, known in later times as the Rudisill mill,
							served a large territory. The ruins stood until about the year 1910. . . Beginning
							with November, 1830, and continuing until March, 1831, the middle west suffered from
							the ravages of one of the coldest winters in its history. A heavy snowfall early in
							the season remained until the opening of spring and travel was almost entirely
							abandoned for a period of five months. Wolves, driven to desperation through hunger,
							infested the town; many Indians lost their lives because of the insufficient
							protection against the ferocious beasts. . . . The election to select associate judges
							resulted in the choice of William N. Hood and Dr. L. G. Thompson.1 . . . Stephen K. Sithers 
								JUDGE JOSEPH BRACKENRIDGE.
								Judge Brackenridge (born at Brookville, Indiana, in 1823) came to Fort Wayne in
									1830, with his parents. After his early schooling he studied law with his uncle,
									Robert Brackenridge, and, after his admission to the bar in 1846, he served as
									prosecuting attorney for several terms. In 1856 Governor Willard appointed him
									judge of the court of common pleas, a position he held for several years. During
									the latter portion of his life he won a high reputation as a railroad
									attorney.
							
							
								ALLEN COUNTY'S FIRST COURTHOUSE.
								This small building—forty feet square—served as the first courthouse
									of Allen county for but a brief period, owing to its faulty construction, which
									made necessary the erection of a temporary wooden building at the southeast corner
									of the public square. Reckoning this temporary building as one of the number, the
									present building is the fifth to be built on the courthouse square. The building
									shown in the view was erected in 1831, at a cost of $3,321.75. It was torn down in
									1841.
							 (born in New Jersey in 1816), the builder of more than fifty grist mills in
							Allen and adjoining counties, settled in Fort Wayne in 1830.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1831.
						Peter Frysinger was paid $6.75 for placing a pump in the town well on Berry street,
							the exact location of which is not a matter of record. . . . The total amount of taxes
							received in 1831 was $91.12½. . . . On account of the prevalence of smallpox, the town
							trustees passed an ordinance requiring all persons afflicted with the disease to
							remain at least one-fourth of a mile outside the town limits. . . . The total vote of
							Allen county in 1831 was 208; the county election resulted as follows:
							Auditor-recorder-clerk, Allen Hamilton; treasurer, L. G. Thompson; sheriff, David  Pickering; commissioners, Francis Alexander, William
							Caswell, James Holman; state representative, George Crawford. The Third congressional
							district was represented in congress by Jonathan McCarthy, of Fort Wayne. Mr. McCarthy
							was a native of Tennessee, commonly called "General," because of his connection, when
							a young soldier, with an Indian fight. He served in congress three terms. Mrs. Robert
							Brackenridge, Jr., Mrs. William S. Edsall and the first Mrs. Edward F. Colerick were
							daughters of Mr. McCarthy. . . . President Andrew Jackson, on assuming the duties of
							his office, promptly caused the dismissal of all holders of public office who were not
							identified with the interests of the democratic party. Henry Rudisill was appointed
							postmaster of Fort Wayne, to succeed Allen Hamilton. Mr. Rudisill served from March 2,
							1831, to May 31, 1841, a period of service of greater length than that of any other
							postmaster of Fort Wayne. . . . Although James Aveline, son of Francis Aveline, and
							Catherine Comparet, daughter of Michael Comparet, had been united in marriage through
							a civil ceremony performed by William G. Ewing, probate judge, Father Badin gave them
							the nuptial benediction. The marriage record states that the civil ceremony was made
							necessary because the nearest priest resided 130 miles distant from Fort Wayne at the
							time. Catherine Comparet signed the record with her "mark," as did three of the
							witnesses, Francis Reno (Renaud), John B. Bequette and Pierre Courveille; Jean Godfrey
							was a fourth witness to the ceremony.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXIV.
						(1) Judge L. G. Thompson, who was room a
							man of dignified appearance and not easily approached, was upon one occasion asked by
							a visitor to the court what his initials stood for. "Why," 'Lord God,' of course; what
							do you suppose?"
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXV—1832-1834. Canal Construction Begins—The
						First Newspaper—The First Fire Company.
					Congress and the canal—The Indiana legislature appoints a board of canal
						commissioners—Jesse L. Williams, chief engineer—Fort Wayne thrills with new
						life—Beginning of construction work is celebrated by the people February 22,
						1832—The awarding of the construction contracts—Opening of the canal land
						office—Construction of the "Feeder"—The first newspaper, the Sentinel,
						established by Tigar and Noel—Hugh McCulloch—His first impressions of Fort
						Wayne—The first fire company—"The Phenomenon"—Pioneer mail
						service.
					THE OPENING month of the year 1832 witnessed the official action
						which gave to the enthusiastic pioneers of the west, and notably the people of Fort
						Wayne, an occasion to rejoice in the beginning of construction operations on the Wabash
						and Erie canal. The legislature, in 1831, had found it necessary to authorize a loan of
						$200,000, with the provision that the loan should at no time exceed the amount due on
						the land sales. Certificates were issued on thirty years' credit and the lands were
						pledged for their ultimate payment. Judge Hanna led the campaign for state aid. In the
						meantime, Joseph Ridgeway was engaged to direct a corps of engineers to complete the
						survey of the summit level of the canal through the Fort Wayne section.
					At this time the population of Fort Wayne was estimated at three hundred.
					Judge Hanna, during his period of activity in the state senate in behalf of the canal,
						represented the inhabitants of an area equal to one-third of the state of Indiana. As a
						canal commissioner, fund commissioner and chairman of the canal committee, he was
						enabled to exert a great influence in behalf of the enterprise.
					In 1828, congress authorized Indiana to sell her lands in the northeastern portion of
						the state. Ohio had been granted the same privilege. The project then became a united
						work of two states. Soon the canal lands in Indiana to the value of $28,000 were sold
						and the money began to pour into the state treasury. Rapidly the details of the
						undertaking shaped themselves for the actual work of construction. This welcome
						consummation came in 1832.
					On the 31st day of January, the Indiana legislature organized a board of canal fund
						commissioners, to have charge of the receipts of the sale of lands, from donations,
						grants, loans, tolls and water-power rents. (See Session Laws of Indiana, 1831-1832;
						chapters 1 and 108.) The fund had now reached the amount of $58,651. The commissioners
						designated the canal route to extend "from the foot of the Maumee rapids to the mouth of
						the Tippecanoe river" (Logansport, Indiana). Jesse L. Williams, one of the foremost
						engineers of his time, was chosen for the responsible position of chief engineer.
					
					For forty years Mr. Williams was prominent in the history of public works in Indiana
						and Ohio. At this time he was twenty-five years of age. His parents were Jesse and Sarah
						T. Williams, members of the Society of Friends. Born in Stokes county, North Carolina,
						in 1807, Jesse L. Williams, after a course in Lancaster seminary, at Cincinnati, chose
						civil engineering as his life work. In 1828 he had been engaged to make the final survey
						of the Ohio canal from Licking Summit to Chillicothe, and to construct a division of the
						work. His appointment as chief engineer of the Wabash and Erie canal brought to Fort
						Wayne a man of wide influence in shaping the commercial and political history of the
						region.
					So successful was the work undertaken by Mr. Williams, that the Indiana legislature, as
						an expression of its confidence, gave into 
							EDWARD STAPLEFORD.
							Edward Stapleford, who came to the town in 1833, was engaged as an auctioneer until
								his death in 1861, at which time his brother, William R. Stapleford, became
								identified with the business. Upon the death of William R. Stapleford, in 1864,
								Henry T. Stapleford, son of Edward Stapleford, carried forward the business which
								had borne the name of his father and his uncle. Edward Stapleford was a native of
								Newcastle county, Delaware, born in 1809. In 1833 he opened his auction rooms on the
								site of Colerick's hall on Columbia street.
						
						
							JACOB FRY.
							Mr. Fry (born in Northumberland county, Pennsylvania, in 1810) came to Fort Wayne
								in 1834 and engaged in the tanning business in partnership with Henry, David and
								Robert Work. After several changes in partnerships, during a part of which time
								James Page was associated with Mr. Fry, the latter became associated in 1851, with
								Samuel Hanna and T. P. Anderson. David Chesman later associated himself with Mr.
								Fry, and with the dissolution of the partnership in 1859 the business passed into
								the hands of Mr. Fry's sons.
						 his hands the survey of all of the canals in Indiana which were then
						projected. Later, in 1836, under an act for internal improvements, he was apointed
						engineer-in-chief of all canal routes, and to these duties were added those of chief
						engineer of all projected railroads and turnpikes; this gave him the supervision of
						1,300 miles of public roads.
					
						THE FIRST CANAL CELEBRATION.
						With all the red fire and oratory which the village could muster, the people of Fort
							Wayne gave recognition to the importance of the consummation of the preliminary plans
							for the canal. Heretofore, it had been a vague, uncertain dream. But now was hope and
							faith blossomed into reality. At a mass meeting held in the Masonic  hall, over which Henry Rudisill presided, and with David
							H. Colerick serving as secretary, the birthday of George Washington—February
							22—was selected as the most fitting date for the beginning of work on the
							waterway. It was Washington who, half a century before, had declared that here would
							rise "an important post for the Union." To him, also, was credited the suggestion of a
							canal to connect the Maumee and the Wabash.
						On the appointed day, the citizens, enthusiastic in the realization that a great work
							was at last to find accomplishment, gathered at the court house square and formed in
							procession to march to the spot selected for the ceremony—the site of the
							junction of the feeder canal and the main waterway, now marked by the crossing of the
							Nickel Plate and the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern railways, near the Wayne
							Knitting Mills. Heading the parade was a "military" band of two members, followed by
							the members of the canal commission, and the president and secretary of the meeting.
							Next came the bearer of the national colors, the members of the committee on
							arrangements, "visitors and strangers," and citizens generally.
						Arriving at the scene of the ceremony the people gathered in a circle and listened to
							an eloquent and patriotic address by Charles 
								A "COUNTY SEMINARY" RECEIPT FOR TUITION.
								The "County Seminary," established by the levying of a regular tax at the time of
									the formation of Allen county, was opened on the site of the present county jail.
									John P. Hedges was the first teacher, succeeded, in 1832, by Jesse A. Aughinbaugh.
									A receipt of tuition, loaned by Mrs. Laura G. Detzer and here reproduced, was
									issued by Mr. Aughinbaugh to Captain Joseph Brackenridge, register of the land
									office, for the schooling of Joseph Brackenridge and George W. Brackenridge, sons,
									and Robert Brackenridge, a nephew. George W. Brackenridge was at that time eight
									years of age. All became prominent in the later history of Fort Wayne. The
									receipt, it will be noted, includes charges for stove rent and fuel.
							
							 W. Ewing. Jordan Vigus, one of the canal commissioners,
							then spoke of the difficulties and embarrassments of the project which had been
							overcome. He concluded with the words, "I am now about to commence the Wabash and Erie
							canal, in the name and by the authority of the state of Indiana." He then thrust his
							spade into the soil, amid the prolonged cheers of the crowd. Judge Hanna, Captain
							Elias Murray, of Huntington, and others threw out each a spadeful and then the parade
							formed for its return to town. In the evening a spectacular parade and bonfire,
							together with the general illumination of the homes and business buildings by the
							placing of candles in the windows, brought the memorable day to a close. A feature of
							the night demonstration was a float representing a canal boat beautifully illuminated,
							the work of the late Louis Peltier.
						The official proceedings of the day were recorded in the Cass County (Logansport,
							Indiana) Times, of March 1, 1832.
						In June, the canal commissioners let the first contracts, for a strip of fifteen
							miles, and in the fall four miles more, including the feeder dam, were put under
							contract. Work costing $4,180 was finished before the close of the year.
						The opening of the canal land office in Fort Wayne in October, 1832, for the sale of
							the lands, granted by the government along the route of the waterway, attracted
							purchasers in large numbers. The government appointed Major Samuel Lewis to the
							position of land commissioner, which place he held for a period of ten years.
						The government's minimum price of $2.50 per acre for land had been doubled since Barr
							and McCorkle purchased the original plat. In 1832 Colonel John Spencer succeeded
							Jonathan McCarthy as receiver of the government general land office, and he held the
							place until 1837. Colonel Spencer was succeeded in turn by Daniel Reid, Major Samuel
							Lewis and I. D. G. Nelson, and during this period the following registers served:
							James W. Borden, William Polk and W. S. Edsall. When Colonel Spencer took possession
							of the office there were but 222 entries of sales, and the receipts amounted to about
							$100,000. During the years 1835 to 1837, under the impulse of the canal "boom," the
							increase was of immense proportions. In one period of eight months the sales amounted
							to $1,620,637, and in one year's period to over $2,000,000. Colonel Spencer was a
							native of Kentucky, where he was born in 1797. He become prominent in the affairs of
							Fort Wayne.
						In May, 1833, the contract for the remaining thirteen miles of the summit level of
							the canal was let. One of the most important problems of the enterprise was solved in
							the construction of the feeder canal. The supply of water conveyed through its channel
							was necessary to provide for that section of the waterway which passed through Fort
							Wayne. Here the altitude was 197 feet above the mouth of the Maumee river. Water from
							this feeder canal also provided the contents of the Six-Mile reservoir in Paulding
							county, Ohio, a necessary equipment for the eastern end of the canal.
						The feeder canal, now in a state of disuse (although for many years, and until about
							the year 1909, it supplied water power for corporations operating the city electric
							lighting plants) entered the town from the north, paralleling the St. Joseph river.
							Intersecting Wells street, a short distance north of Sixth street, it  extended southwesterly through Bloomingdale and Nebraska
							districts, and connected with the Wabash and Erie canal west of the town, near the
							present Wayne Knitting Mills.
						The construction work brought hundreds of men to the bustling town. A large portion
							of the workingmen were Irish immigrants. Many of these Irishmen and their descendants
							rose to higher positions in every line of endeavor; today the foreign-born
							construction workers are almost entirely from southern Europe.
					
					
						THE FIRST CANAL BOAT RIDE.
						Says the late D. H. Colerick: "In the spring of 1834, the
									feeder canal being finished from the feeder dam [near the present Robison park] to
									the town, and the water having been let in in the month of June, all were
									regretting that there was no boat with which to have a ride on the approaching
									Fourth of July. Then the indefatigable F. P. Tinkham, seeing the situation, went
									to the woods and cut down the trees with which to make the hull of the boat, and
									in two weeks' time, he had a staunch craft completed and afloat, and on the
									morning of the glorious Fourth the entire population embarked thereon and
									proceeded to the feeder dam, five miles distant, where, after spending 
										DR. MERCHANT W. HUXFORD.
										Dr. Huxford was Fort Wayne's first druggist. He served as mayor of the city
											for three terms, beginning in 1846. Born at Conway, Mass., in 1798, Dr.
											Huxford came to Fort Wayne in 1833 from St. Mary's, Ohio. He practiced
											medicine and opened a drug store at the corner of Columbia and Barr streets.
											Dr. Huxford was once the owner of the tract now known as Lawton park; the
											purchase was made from James Hackley and his wife—the latter the
											daughter of Captain William Wells—and the lands extended eastward as far
											as the St. Joseph river. The portrait is from a photograph by Andrews &
											Conklin, of Fort Wayne, loaned by Mrs. Frances Baldwin, a daughter of the
											subject.
									
									
										LUCIEN P. FERRY.
										Although he died at the early age of thirty-three, Lucien P. Ferry had
											attained a high rank among the members of the legal fraternity of Indiana. He
											came to Fort Wayne from Monroe, Michigan, in 1831, and rose to political
											positions of importance. The father of Mr. Ferry was Peter Pyre de Ferry, a
											native of Provence, France, who served as a chief of battalion under Napoleon
											Bonaparte and fled to America as a peasant upon the banishment of the emperor.
											The grandfather of Lucien P. Ferry (Rene de Ferry) had the honor of naming
											Lucien Bonaparte. A brother of Lucien P. Ferry, Elisha P. Ferry, also a
											resident of Fort Wayne, became the territorial governor and the first state
											governor of Washington. The portrait of Lucien P. Ferry is from a photograph
											of a painting by Rockwell, of New York. The original painting was destroyed by
											fire some time ago.
									
									 the day in eating, drinking and making merry, all
									returned to their homes, well pleased with the day's doings and feeling themselves
									under great obligations to Mr. Tinkham for the first ride on the
							canal."
					
					
						FORT WAYNE'S FIRST NEWSPAPER.
						In the midst of this period of activity appeared Fort Wayne's first newspaper, the
							Sentinel.
						Smalwood Noel's son—S. V. B. Noel—was living at Indianapolis in January,
							1833, when the citizens of Fort Wayne decided to invite him and Thomas Tigar, also of
							Indianapolis, to remove to Fort Wayne and to embark in the publication of a newspaper.
							This 
								A FOURTH OF JULY INVITATION OF 1834.
								The above is a photographic reproduction of an invitation issued by the Fourth of
									July committee of 1834 to Miss Susan Clark, asking her to represent the state of
									New York in the parade of the Independence day celebration. Susan Clark, who was
									at that time nineteen years of age, became Mrs. Samuel S. Morss, whose death
									occurred in Fort Wayne in 1905, in the ninety-second year of her age. The original
									copy of the invitation was loaned by Mrs. Isaac d'Isay, daughter of Mrs.
									Morss.
							
							 invitation was in the form of an agreement drawn up by
							Henry Rudisill and bearing the signatures of Mr. Rudisill, Dr. Lewis G. Thompson,
							Joseph Holman, C. W. Ewing, Allen Hamilton and Francis Comparet, which arranged for
							the payment to Noel and Tigar the sum of $500 with which to purchase a press. The
							subscribers, however, were "to hold the press if said Tigar and Noel should fail to
							pay within a year."
						The Indianapolis newspaper men came in response to the agreement, but, for some
							reason, they found it convenient to relieve the cautious citizens of any anxious fears
							by declining the proffered loan.
						A second-hand Washington hand press, which had been used by Douglas and McGuire in
							the printing of the Indiana State Journal at Indianapolis, was purchased, and this
							press, with other items of office equipment, was brought to Fort Wayne with much
							difficulty, six days being required to transport the load over muddy roads and across
							swollen streams on rafts. The outfit was landed in safety and the work of fitting up
							an office on West Columbia street—opposite the present Wayne hotel—was
							begun in June. On the 6th of July, the waiting citizens were given the new and
							thrilling experience of reading the news from their home paper, fresh from the press.
							The first printed matter to be put into type in the Sentinel office was the
							Declaration of Independence, and the first editorial detailed the account of the
							Fourth of July celebration of 1833, on which occasion the oration was delivered by
							Hugh McCulloch, and the Declaration of Independence was read by William M.
							McCarty.
						The publishers of the Sentinel during these first years received with gladness the
							newspapers from Detroit and Cincinnati, for these were their chief source of
							"telegraphic" news.
						Thomas Tigar, the pioneer editor of Fort Wayne, was a native of Beverly, Yorkshire,
							England, where he was born in 1807. He came to America in 1826, having already reached
							proficiency in the printing business. From Ashtabula, Ohio, he went to Indianapolis,
							where he met S. V. B. Noel, also a printer, and the two decided upon the newspaper
							venture at Fort Wayne. Mr. Noel, who was a whig, retired from connection with the
							paper about a year after its establishment, but Mr. Tigar remained with the enterprise
							until 1865, except for a period of four years, when its management passed to other
							hands. In politics Mr. Tigar was a democrat and a writer of force. His death occurred
							in 1875.
						Later owners of the Sentinel (also the Democrat, by which name it was known for a
							portion of the time) were George W. Wood, I. D. G. Nelson, W. H. Dills, I. W.
							Campbell, G. W. G. Riley, John E. Neff, William Fleming, R. G. Dumm, A. H. Hamilton,
							R. C. Bell, F. Wolke, William R. Nelson, Samuel E. Morss and E. A. K. Hackett. Mr.
							Morss and Mr. Nelson, after their newspaper experience in Fort Wayne, founded the
							Kansas City (Missouri) Star. Mr. Morss retired on account of failing health and in
							1888 bought the Indianapolis Sentinel. Because of his vigorous support of Grover
							Cleveland for the presidency through the columns of his newspaper and on the floor of
							the Chicago national convention, as well as in recognition of his familiarity with
							foreign affairs gathered during a sojourn in Europe, President Cleveland appointed Mr.
							Morss consul general  at Paris. It is of interest to
							note that at this time Mr. Morss was given his choice of the consulship or a portfolio
							in the president's cabinet. Mr. Nelson died in 1916.
						The early files of the Sentinel were destroyed. As far as known, the oldest copy of
							the paper in existence, and from which the accompanying notes are taken, is dated
							Saturday, June 14, 1834. It is a five-column, four-page sheet. Most of the news is
							from Washington and foreign cities. Among the local items is a notice of the progress
							of the work on the canal and of the steps to organize the first military company to be
							known as the Fort Wayne Light Infantry. Among the advertisers are the following:
							Lucien P. Ferry, attorney-at-law, whose yoke of oxen ("one a dark red, rather tall,
							horns stag-like; the other a light or yellowish red, low set, horns sitting back") had
							strayed away eight months before; David Coles, who wanted to sell 
								MICHAEL HEDEKIN.
								In 1834 Michael Hedekin, a native of County Westmeath, Ireland, located at Fort
									Wayne. In 1843 and 1844 he erected the famous Hedekin house, on Barr street,
									between Columbia and Berry streets: it is yet a substantial structure. In 1846 the
									tavern was opened, with Calvin Anderson as landlord. The portrait is from a
									photograph loaned by a grand-daughter, Miss Katherine Macdougal.
							
							
								JUDGE REUBEN J. DAWSON.
								In May, 1832, with the appointment of his brother-in-law, Colonel John Spencer,
									as receiver of public moneys at Fort Wayne, Reuben J. Dawson came to this city,
									where he resided until 1841, at which time he removed to DeKalb county. He platted
									the town of Spencerville, at which place his death occurred in 1859. He served in
									both branches of the legislature. In 1858 he was appointed judge of the circuit
									court.
							 his mill on the Maumee; J. A. Aughinbaugh and Company, druggists; Patrick
							Brady, whose horse had strayed; Thomas L. Yates, administrator of the estate of James
							Saunders; John B. Dubois and John Edsall, who were dissolving partnership in the
							tailoring business; Isaac Spencer, who had bought the dry goods and grocery store of
							Henry Rudisill; Daniels & Jackson, groceries, boots and shoes; F. P. Tinkham, F.
							R. Ebbert and J. Rhinehart, cabinetmakers; Thomas Johnson, attorney; Henry Work and
							Isaac Cron, tanners, hide-buyers and shoemakers; Samuel Edsall, carpenter and joiner;
							W. G. & G. W. Ewing, storage and commission; Comparet & Coquillard, brewers of
							"good strong beer"; T. Pritchard, grocer and buyer of old brass and copper (reading
							room in connection); St. Joseph Iron Works, A. M. Hurd, proprietor, manufacturers of
							tin, copper and sheet iron ware, and Samuel and Hugh Hanna, storage and commission.
							Legal notices,  rewards for the arrest of jail breakers
							and for the return of lost animals occupy most of the remaining space in the
							publication. An issue of the paper, published in August of the same year, mentions the
							following persons and concerns: Rumsey & Stophlet, F. D. Lasselle, Henderson &
							Kincaid, Jacobi Cox, saddlery, and Matthew Griggs, real estate. The total vote of
							Allen county was given as 358 in 1834.
					
					
						HUGH McCULLOCH.
						Hugh McCulloch, then a young man of twenty-five years, who had ridden his horse into
							the settlement of Fort Wayne on June 26, 1833, became known in after years throughout
							America and Europe as a leading authority on banking methods and national financial
							policies.
						Mr. McCulloch rose from the obscurity of a small country lawyer and banker to the
							position of the first controller of the currency of the United States, and as
							secretary of the treasury—serving under three presidents.
						He came west in 1833. Dr. Lewis G. Thompson, whom he met at South Bend, induced him
							to locate at Fort Wayne.
						Of his impressions of the town at that time, Mr. McCulloch writes in his "Men and
							Measures of Half a Century," published in 1888: "Fort Wayne
									was about as uninviting in every respect except its site as any of the towns
									through which I had passed, but it proved to be the end of my journey, which had
									been long and solitary, though by no means lonesome and tedious. * * * Uninviting
									as Fort Wayne was in many respects, it was fortunate in the character of its first
									settlers—intelligent, far-seeing, wideawake men."
						Eight days after his arrival Mr. McCulloch, while delivering an oration on the Fourth
							of July, was seized with a chill, which was followed by an illness from which he did
							not recover until October. "As soon as I was able to be on my feet, although little
							better than a skeleton," he writes, "I took possession of a ten-by-twelve office which
							Dr. Thompson had built for me, and hung out my shingle as an attorney-at-law. I had
							not long to wait for clients." His law practice, however, was short-lived, for, within
							two years, he was to enter upon his career as a banker and an important figure in the
							national government. The legislature granted the charter of the State Bank of Indiana
							in 1833, and the Fort Wayne branch, of which Mr. McCulloch was chosen to be the
							cashier, was established in 1835. (See Chapter XXVI.)
					
					
						THE FIRST SUNDAY SCHOOL.
						The first Sunday school in Fort Wayne was established in 1832 by James Hanna, of
							Dayton, Ohio, while on a visit with his son, Judge Samuel Hanna.
					
					
						THE FIRST FIRE COMPANY AND EQUIPMENT.
						The first step toward the organization of a fire department in Fort Wayne was taken
							March 1, 1833, when the following petition was presented to the town trustees, bearing
							the signatures of James Barnett, Samuel Edsall, William N. Hood, Dr. L. G. Thompson,
							Henry Rudisill, James Daniels, Joseph Morgan, David Rankin, John  Forsythe, William H. Henderson, Zenas Henderson, J. B. Bequette, W. C.
							Porter and Lewis Armstrong: "To the President and Trustees of
									the Fort Wayne Corporation: The citizens of the town and corporation of Fort Wayne
									request your body to take into consideration the propriety of procuring hooks and
									ladders in order to guard against fire, and also to take into consideration the
									propriety of compelling each owner of a house within the corporation to procure a
									fire bucket, and, as in duty bound, will ever pray, etc."
						In pursuance of the terms of this request, the trustees immediately authorized the
							formation of the "Fort Wayne Fire 
								A LETTER FROM A "FATHER OF THE CANAL."
								David Burr, writer of the letter of which the above is a portion, was one of the
									first to enter heartily into the promotion of the waterway project. He was later
									one of the leading canal contractors. The above letter is a personal communication
									from Mr. Burr to his friends, Judge and Mrs. William N. Hood, who had removed to
									Peru, Indiana, and into whose home he had been warmly welcomed during their
									residence in Fort Wayne. The original is among the effects of the late William
									Ewing Hood.
							
							 Company," to be equipped with hooks and ladders. On the
							2d of June, 1834, further action was taken to form "an engine company, a hose company
							and a hook and ladder company," the latter to be provided with two twenty-four-foot
							ladders, two sixteen-foot ladders and one thirty-foot ladder, to be made by John
							Majors, and two fifteen-foot hooks and two twenty-foot hooks to be made by John Brown,
							the blacksmith.
					
					
						DEVELOPMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT.
						Five years after this latter action, the town leased from William G. Ewing for three
							years, at six dollars per year, a portion of lot 70, of the original plat, at the
							northeast corner of Clinton and Main streets, and here the first fire house was
							erected.
						At this time, the original fire company, the membership of which included the signers
							of the petition of 1833, was succeeded by a reorganized company, which, in 1841, was
							blended into the famous "Anthony Waynes." The membership of the company in 1839
							included the following well-known citizens: Francis Comparet, Hugh McCulloch, Samuel
							S. Morss, John Spencer, Samuel Hanna, W. M. Hubbell, John Embry, Edward Stapleford,
							George W. Wood, Thomas Hamilton, Joseph Ensworth, Philip H. Cook, Peter Kiser, Joseph
							P. Edsall, Richard McMullen, John Jamieson, Samuel Edsall, Daniel M. Ginius, Egbert V.
							Boneway, J. B. DuBois, L. Williams, H. Hidiker, Robert Brackenridge, Jr., R. J.
							Dawson, Robert Dykes, Thomas Johnson, Amos Compton, R. W. Taylor, W. S. Edsall, Robert
							E. Fleming, Joseph Scott, C. V. N. Lent, G. Wilson, James E. Buchanan, William
							Rockhill, T. K. Brackenridge, Thomas Stapleford, W. L. Moon, I. Thurman, Thomas F.
							Lane, Lewis Embry, Philip G. Jones, Eli Compton, Philo H. Taylor, Benjamin Smith,
							Samuel Stophlet, I. D. Stapleford, Brazille Stevens, Benjamin H. Saunders, J. D.
							Nuttman, Asa Miller and J. William DeNeal.
						The first fire company to be equipped with apparatus was the "Anthony Waynes,"
							organized in 1841, which maintained headquarters in the original fire house on the
							Ewing property. The equipment consisted of a Jeffries "gallery" engine, with side
							brakes, and a two-wheeled cart, fitted with about five hundred feet of riveted leather
							hose.
						In November, 1845, the council granted to Mason and Rose and O. P. Silver a contract
							to build a new engine house on city property for $337.78. Mayor M. W. Huxford
							superintended the work, and, upon its completion, the original fire house was sold.
							The fire company received $25 each year "for keeping the engine in order." In April,
							1846, a council committee procured "a carriage for the hooks and ladders."
						In June, 1848, the "Hermans," a new fire company, was formed. The council voted to
							put the fire engine "in possession of some of our German citizens who are to organize
							themselves into a fire company and work the old engine until the city can procure a
							new one." The headquarters of the "Hermans" was located on the west side of Clinton
							street, north of Berry.
						In August, 1848, Lewis Wolke was appointed as an agent to sell the old engine and
							purchase a new one. This was done in the following year, when an improved type of
							side-brake hand engine was  purchased from L. Button and
							Company, of Waterford, New York. In this year, John A. Colerick, appointed to
							investigate conditions, reported that "fire engine No. 1 was greatly out of repair,
							and recommended that it be either materially changed in its internal structure or a
							new engine be purchased." George Buchanan and Socrates Bacon repaired the engine for
							$268.
						In 1849, the city council established fire limits as follows, within which no wooden
							structures could be erected: Main, Barr, Harrison 
								A CANAL CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT.
								The above is a photographic reproduction of the opening and closing clauses of a
									contract between William Rockhill and the canal commissioners for the construction
									of Section No. 2 of the Middle division of the Wabash and Erie canal. Attention is
									directed to the clause referring to the use of intoxicants.
							
							 and the Wabash and Erie canal (now the right-of-way of
							the Nickel Plate railroad).
						It was not until 1856 that the city took official recognition of the department as
							connected with municipal affairs. At this time the city appointed a fire
							chief—L. T. Bourie—whose supervision extended over such volunteer
							companies as existed or which might be formed. Assistant fire chiefs were B. Saunders
							and A. Wiley. The members of these companies were exempted from jury service and the
							payment of poll tax.
						A company called the Alert engine and hose company was organized in 1856, and the new
							body acquired the equipment of the Hermans volunteer company, which had disbanded. The
							officers of the new company were L. T. Bourie, foreman; Samuel Pratt and George
							Messerschmidt, assistant foremen; C. W. Lewis, treasurer, and E. L. Chittenden,
							secretary.
						In this year also was organized the Mechanics engine and hose company, with O. D.
							Hurd, foreman; Martin Nierman and Eli Cone, assistant foremen; Joseph Price,
							secretary, and A. Oppenheimer, treasurer.
						In 1858, the Wideawake fire company was organized. In 1859, the city council created
							an organization known as the Fort Wayne Fire association, composed of seven members
							from each of the then existing fire companies—the Alerts, the Mechanics and the
							Wide-awakes—with the purpose of adopting uniform and harmonizing rules for
							fire-fighting.
						The Protection engine and hose company, with Samuel C. Fletter as foreman, Henry
							Gronuman, secretary, and Thomas Burk, treasurer, was organized late in the year.
						A new fire-fighting organization, the Torrent engine and hose company, was brought
							into existence in 1860, with H. W. Fry, foreman; James Hoagland and James Mahan,
							assistant foremen; R. J. Fisher, secretary, and Andrew Kalbacher, treasurer. The
							Second ward engine house was erected at the northeast corner of Court and Berry
							streets; two years later the old engine house at the rear was torn down. O. D. Hurd
							was chosen fire chief, succeeding George Humphrey.
						In 1861, the city purchased its first steam fire engine from the Silsby Manufacturing
							Company for $4,800; it was named the "Frank Randall" in honor of the mayor. In 1863,
							the Eagle engine company and the Protection engine company were organized as a part of
							the city's fire-fighting organization. Another steamer, the "Charley Zollinger," was
							secured in 1865, from the Clapp and Jones Company. In 1867, a third steam fire engine,
							of the Amoskeag type, was purchased from the city of Pittsburg for $3,000. The first
							rotary fire engine—the "Anthony Wayne"—was purchased in 1872, at a cost of
							$4,800. The first hose for use on reels was bought in 1874. In 1874, also, the
							Vigilants and the Torrents withdrew from the fire department and formed an independent
							company known as the United Vigilants and Torrents. The Mechanics company was
							organized as a part of the city department. The National fire alarm system, with
							fifteen boxes and about eight miles of wire, was installed in 1874, at a cost of
							$5,000. In the same year Frank  B. Vogel was chosen
							chief of the fire department, with Robert Crann and George Strodel, assistants.
						Among the men prominently identified with the department in the earlier years were L.
							T. Bourie, Joseph A. Stillwagon, Hiram Poyser, Henry Monning, J. C. Iten, J.
							Harrington, Adam Clark, L. Buchwalter, Charles Kiser, H. Stapleford, T. J. Rodabaugh,
							and 
								JUDGE HUGH M'CULLOCH.
								Hugh McCulloch, who came to the village of Fort Wayne on horseback in June, 1833,
									as a young lawyer, has been called "the father of the national banking system of
									the United States." His brief experience as a lawyer, during which time he was
									appointed judge of the probate court of Allen county, was followed by his
									election, in 1835, as cashier of the Fort Wayne branch of the State Bank of
									Indiana. With the reorganization of the central institution at Indianapolis, in
									1857, as the Bank of the State of Indiana, Mr. McCulloch was elected its
									president. In 1863, Salmon P. Chase, secretary of the treasury under President
									Lincoln, offered Mr. McCulloch the position of the first comptroller of the
									currency. His appointment by the president followed. Mr. McCulloch assumed the
									organization of the national bank bureau of the treasury department and the
									management of the national banking system, by means of which all of the state
									banks were superseded by the national. In the formation of Lincoln's second
									cabinet, Mr. McCulloch was chosen secretary of the treasury. In this position,
									until the close of Johnson's administration and during a portion of Arthur's
									administration, he handled the financial problems of years following the war with
									universal satisfaction. In 1870 Mr. McCulloch went to London as the resident and
									managing partner of Jay Cooke, McCulloch & Company. Upon his return to the
									United States Mr. McCulloch was prevailed upon by President Arthur to again assume
									the office of secretary of the treasury, to succeed Walter Q. Gresham, resigned.
									In 1887 and 1888 Mr. McCulloch wrote his interesting book, "Men and Measures of
									Half a Century." During his residence in Fort Wayne he was a leader in the
									promotion of measures for the welfare of the community. He was born in Kennebunk,
									Me., December 12, 1808. His death occurred May 24, 1895.
							
							
								OLIVER P. MORGAN.
								Mr. Morgan was a native of Lawrenceburg, Ind., born in 1824. With his
									father—former Mayor Joseph Morgan—he came to Fort Wayne in 1832. In
									1856 he engaged in the hardware business and later was a member of the widely
									known hardware house of Morgan & Beach. He served as a member of the city
									council and city recorder, and was for many years a member of the board of
									trustees of the public schools. He was prominent in banking and insurance
									circles.
							
							
								CHRISTIAN PARKER.
								Christian Parker settled in St. Joseph township, Allen county, in 1833. Mr.
									Parker was elected a justice of the peace in 1834, a county commissioner in 1839
									and 1844, and a representative in the state legislature for four successive
									terms.
							
							 William Schiefer. The Mechanics, the Alerts, the
							Vigilants, the Ed Slocum and the Eagle organizations were rivals for the highest
							honors of the times.
						The first paid fire department came into existence in 1881, with Henry Hilbrecht,
							Jr., as chief. Since then the department has grown in equipment and efficiency, and is
							now very thoroughly motorized.
					
					
						THE EARLY WATER SUPPLY.
						For many years the fire department secured water by the laying of long lines of hose,
							connecting with the canal. Later, as the building area spread, it was found necessary
							to construct cisterns at points distant from the canal. These increased in number to
							thirty-four and they were employed until the coming of the municipal water system, at
							which time they were abandoned and filled with earth.
					
					
						THE FIRST NIGHTWATCH.
						The town trustees in June, 1834, passed an ordinance to the effect that "there shall
							be a watch established to consist of at least four judicious men, to be continued as
							long as may be considered necessary, to guard the town from the ravages of fire and to
							prevent disorderly conduct within said corporation, one half to be posted at 10
							o'clock p. m., and to stand until 1 o'clock a. m., and to be relieved by the marshal
							or some other person authorized by the trustees, and the other half, or the remaining
							two, to stand from thence to 4 o'clock a. m., and be discharged accordingly." Among
							these first watchmen were William H. Wallace, William Brown and William Cushman. The
							watchmen were required to stop all persons found on the streets after 10 o'clock, and,
							in the absence of a reasonable excuse, to place them in the "lockup." A fine of $3
							awaited the appearance of the culprit in the morning.
						In December, 1853, the council appointed John Hardendorff, Patrick McGee, John D.
							McGrady, and Alexander Wiley (succeeded by Henry Klinger) to serve as policemen, each
							to receive $1.50 per night for his service. All were discharged in the following year,
							and a reorganization brought to the force James Wall, John Hardendorff, Patrick McGee
							and Jacob Lewis, the latter serving as captain. Others who served during this period
							were William McKinley (captain of the watch), Barney Hutker and Milton Henry.
						The first regularly-organized police force was formed in 1863.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1832.
						Among the prominent men who came to Fort Wayne in 1832, were Reuben J. Dawson (born
							in Dearborn county in 1811), who became Allen county's first surveyor, and rose to a
							place of distinction as judge of the circuit court; Lucien P. Ferry, an attorney of
							marked ability; Joseph Morgan, from Lawrenceburg, Indiana, who served as Fort Wayne's
							second mayor; Oliver P. Morgan, son of Joseph Morgan, a leading hardware merchant,
							city recorder and school trustee; Lott S. Bayless, prominent in many lines of
							activity; Philo Rumsey, merchant, and later landlord of the Rockhill house, and John
							M. Wilt, from Cumberland county, Pennsylvania, who entered the land office under
							Colonel John Spencer and served as  county surveyor and
							engineer. . . The vote of Allen county which sent Judge Samuel Hanna to the state
							senate and David H. Colerick and William Rockhill to the house of representatives
							totaled 224.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1833.
						Early in the spring of 1833 a large, handsomely fitted steamboat, called the
							"Phenomenon," commanded by Captain Daniels, with Isaac Woodcock, of Antwerp, Ohio, as
							pilot, came up the Maumee to Fort Wayne. The town gave the craft a glad reception,
							expressed an address by David H. Colerick. A gay party was given on board 
								AN EARLY COPY OF FORT WAYNE'S FIRST NEWSPAPER.
								A copy of the Fort Wayne Sentinel, bearing the date of June 14, 1834, from
									which the above photographic reproductions were made, is probably the oldest local
									newspaper in existence. It was the forty-fourth issue of the paper. The earlier
									files of The Sentinel, which first appeared in July, 1833, were
									destroyed.
							
							 the boat and several hours were spent in dancing. . . .
							Nelson Clark and wife and little daughter, and Miss Susan Clark, a sister from Dayton,
							Ohio, located in Fort Wayne. Susan Clark taught the first private school for young
							children, in 1836, in a remodeled tin shop on Columbia street. Miss Clark became the
							wife of Samuel S. Morss; her death, at the age of ninety-one years, occurred in Fort
							Wayne in 1905. . . . Edward Stapleford came to Fort Wayne and opened an auction store
							in 1833. . . . The associate judges of the Allen county court, to 1836, were William
							N. Hood, Lewis G. Thompson, William G. Ewing, David Rankin and Peter Huling. Upon the
							resignation of Mr. Ewing, Governor Noble appointed Hugh McCulloch to the vacancy. . .
							. Joseph McMaken bought Washington Hall, corner of Barr and Columbia streets, from
							Robert Hood and Abner Gerard. . . Dr. Philip G. Jones, later county clerk and mayor
							and a surgeon during the Mexican war, came from Manchester, Maryland. . . . Dr.
							Merchant W. Huxford, of St. Mary's, Ohio, later mayor, settled at Fort Wayne; he was
							the town's first druggist. . . . Mail service in 1833 was confined to Chicago twice a
							week, via Niles, Michigan; to the east via the Maumee river once a week; to the west
							via Logansport, twice a week, and southwest via Winchester, once a week.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1834.
						Michael Hedekin, a native of County Westmeath, Ireland, who built the Hedekin house
							in 1843 and 1844, located in Fort Wayne in 1834, and opened a store. Maurice Cody,
							also a native of Ireland, with an uncle, Patrick Cody, and two brothers, Patrick and
							Garrett, located in Fort Wayne in the latter part of the year. Maurice Cody later
							associated himself with Mr. Hedekin. For twenty years he was engaged in the milling
							business. John Monahan and family also came to Fort Wayne from Ireland in this year. .
							. Jacob Fry, of Pennsylvania, on reaching Fort Wayne, established a tannery and
							conducted the business in partnership with Henry, David and Robert Work. . . James
							Humphrey established marble works on a site near the canal route at the corner of the
							present Fulton and Main streets. . . . County officers elected were: Auditor-recorder,
							Allen Hamilton; treasurer, Thomas W. Swinney; sheriff, Joseph L. Swinney;
							commissioners, David Archer, Joseph Berkey and Nathan Coleman. . . . John T. Barr,
							having become sole owner of all of the unsold Barr and McCorkle lands, transferred the
							same to Stephen Gerard, of Philadelphia. . . . William Rockhill was appointed
							superintendent of the poor farm; the farm was leased to Jeremiah Bowers for a term of
							six years. Dr. L. G. Thompson was employed "to attend the poor house for one year from
							date, at two shillings per mile for visits, and one shilling for each dose of medicine
							prescribed." . . . Captain Asa Fairfield and his brother, Oliver, settled at Fort
							Wayne. Both were seafaring men, sons of Captain William Fairfield, a Revolutionary
							officer who served as an aide to Lafayette. Captain Asa Fairfield was born in
							Kennebunk Port, Maine, in 1797. He became a sailor in his father's vessel and followed
							the life of a seaman for several years before coming to Fort Wayne. Here Captain
							Fairchild purchased 240 acres of land in what is now South Wayne, a large residence
								 section, for $12 per acre. The present boundary lines
							of the farm are Taylor street, Broadway, and Hoagland and Organ avenues. The
							Fairfields returned to Maine and brought their families west in 1835, accompanied by
							another brother, Charles, and his family. Two months were required for the trip.
							Carriages were bought at Pittsburg; these were loaded into the boat which brought the
							families to Fort Wayne over the Maumee, and are said to have been the first vehicles
							of the kind seen at Fort Wayne. One of the carriages shortly afterward was sold to
							Marshall S. Wines. Captain Asa Fairfield built the first frame house in South Wayne.
							Oliver Fairfield engaged in the bakery business; Asa and Charles became farmers. Asa
							Fairfield operated the first canal boat, "The Indiana," on the Wabash and Erie canal.
							Said Cyrus Fairfield, in 
								JESSE L. WILLIAMS.
								For a period of forty years Jesse L. Williams held a position of prominence in
									the history of public works in Ohio and Indiana which concerned the development of
									the entire west.
							
							
								THOMAS TIGAR.
								Mr. Tigar, who, with S. V. B. Noel, founded the Fort Wayne Sentinel in 1833, was
									the first editor of a local newspaper.
							
							
								ROUTE OF THE "UNDERGROUND RAILROAD."
								The map shows the route taken by the rescuers of the slaves in 1829, as described
									in the interesting Hoover manuscript. In the state of Ohio many established lines
									extended between the Ohio river and the Canadian border. The "conductors" of these
									lines were usually farmers who lived about sixteen to twenty miles apart and who
									conveyed the fugitive slaves by night from one farm to the next. "I have more than
									a passing interest in the subject of 'underground railroads,'" observes Judge
									Robert S. Taylor. "At Salem, Ohio, the house of my grandfather, William Taylor,
									was a station on one of the slave routes between the Ohio river and Canada. From
									this house for several years the sons of my grandfather, working at night to elude
									the pursuers who often sought the runaways, conveyed the negroes in wagons to the
									next station, the farm of Robert Stewart, about twenty miles farther north.
									Arriving usually about 3 o'clock in the morning, the young ladies of the household
									arose and prepared coffee and other comforts for the night travelers. The
									friendship between one of these young men, Isaac N. Taylor, and one of these
									girls, Margaretta Stewart, resulted in their marriage. I am their son." The
									narrative of the passage of the slaves is given in Chapter XXIV of this work.
							
							 1916, referring to Asa Fairfield: "My father brought
							more money to Fort Wayne than any man who had preceded him. He was an old sea captain
							and had with him $30,000. Mrs. Thompson (formerly Ann R. Scott), the wife of Dr. L. G.
							Thompson, told him several times he ought to be careful about the money, so he gave it
							to her for safe keeping. She sewed the money in one of her mattresses, where she kept
							it until my father could look around to see where he could best invest it." . . .
							Ochmig Bird, prominent in canal engineering, surveying and the holder of many
							important places of public trust, came from Pennsylvania, in 1834. . . . Jackson
							Valentine, from Ohio, became a permanent resident. . . . Christian Parker, who was
							elected justice of the peace of St. Joseph township in 1834, county commissioner in
							1836 and 1844 and a member of the legislature for four terms, located at Fort Wayne. .
							. . Township trustees elected in 1834 were: Dr. Lewis G. Thompson, John B. Bourie,
							James Barnett, John B. DuBois and L. B. Wilson. . . . In 1834, the town trustees
							divided the corporation into five wards. The First ward was composed of all the land
							west of Calhoun street north from Berry; the Second ward included the strip between
							Calhoun and Clinton streets north from Berry; the Third ward was made up of the land
							between Clinton and Barr streets north from Berry; the Fourth ward was the portion
							south of Berry street west of Calhoun; the Fifth ward was the portion south of Berry
							street, east of Calhoun.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXVI—1835-1837. Canal Celebration of 1835—The
						"Irish War"—The First Bank.
					The canal is opened between Fort Wayne and "Flint Springs" (Huntington)—A gay
						Fourth of July celebration—Oratory at the "feeder" dam at the St. Joseph
						river—The feud of the factions of Irish workmen on the canal—David Burr
						summons militia and averts a bloody clash between the "Corkonians" and the
						"Fardowns"—A hastily organized military company—The voyage by night to the
						scene of trouble—The belligerents disperse—Establishment of the first
						bank—"Four kegs of specie"—Charles McCulloch's story of the bank—A
						woman's description of a pirogue journey over the Maumee—Hard times in the
						valley—The first church structures—Early taverns—The first
						cookstove—How the pioneer rats came to town.
					THE YEAR 1835 passed into history with two great events to the credit
						of the enterprise of the people of Fort Wayne—the opening of the Wabash and Erie
						canal from Fort Wayne to Huntington, Indiana (then known as Flint Springs), and the
						establishment of the Fort Wayne branch of the State Bank of Indiana. The opening of
						traffic over the Fort Wayne section of the canal was made the object of a glorious
						celebration of the Fourth of July. Among the features of the day was a spectacular
						parade in which thirty-three young ladies participated, each representing a state of the
						Union as composed at that time.
					From the account of the celebration written by a Fort Wayne correspondent of the
						Indiana (Indianapolis) Journal, July 31, 1835, this extract is taken: "On the 2d of July, three boats left this place for Huntington,
								for the purpose of bringing up such citizens of the lower end of the line as might
								wish to attend the celebration. The arrival of these boats in Huntington was hailed
								with the liveliest demonstrations of joy.
							"The next day, the boats returned to Fort Wayne and were met and saluted by a
								detachment of militia under command of Captain Rudisill; the salutes were returned
								by Captain Fate's artillery who came from Huntington with the boats. On the morning
								of the 4th, a procession was formed in front of Washington Hall, and proceeded to
								the canal, where its members embarked on the boats prepared for the occasion, and
								took a trip to the feeder dam [at the St. Joseph river, just below the present
								Robison park] seven miles distant. No less than five hundred individuals, including
								a large portion of the fair sex, were present on the occasion. Among the guests were
								General [John] Tipton, of the United States senate, and Colonel Stansbury, of the
								United States topographical engineers, who was one of the party who first surveyed
								the route of the canal. * * * The company landed at the dam, salutes were fired by
								the militia, and some toasts were given. On the health of the canal  commissioners being drunk, D. Burr, Esq., returned
								thanks in a short but animated address. * * * General Tipton delivered a short
								speech.
							"The company then returned to Fort Wayne, where the Declaration of Independence was
								read by L. B. Wilson, and an oration delivered by Hon. Hugh McCulloch. A large
								company afterwards partook of a public dinner prepared for the
						occasion."
					The committee which went to Huntington to meet the guests was composed of Dr. L. G.
						Thompson, Samuel Hanna, Allen Hamilton, Samuel Edsall, W. G. Ewing, W. S. Edsall, G. W.
						Ewing, Francis Comparet, Captain J. B. Bourie, William Rockhill, Colonel John Spencer,
						Jesse L. Williams, D. H. Colerick, Lucien P. Ferry and James Barnett. On the evening of
						the 4th, a dance was given at the tavern of Zenas Henderson.
					
						THE "IRISH WAR."
						We have observed that on this momentous occasion, David Burr, contractor for the
							construction of the canal for the LaGro district, was spending the day in Fort Wayne.
							During his absence, two opposing religious factions of Irish laborers, employed in the
							work, made prompt preparations to settle an ancient feud by means of the tactics of
							civil war. The climax of the trouble came six days later. One writer describes the
							condition as follows: "Some were from County Cork and others from the north of
							Ireland, and they had brought their age-old feud with them. The two factions fought
							whenever they met and their conflicts shocked even the Miami and Pottawattomie
							Indians. Contractors kept the factions as far apart as possible, but the fights only
							gained in severity what they lost in frequency. Throughout 1835 murders were by no
							means uncommon. Arson was of almost nightly occurrence. Assaults and the driving away
							of cattle lost the quality of 'news.'" The story of the "war" is well told in a report
							from Fort Wayne to the Indiana Journal: "There have been some
									disturbances among the Irish laborers on the Wabash and Erie canal, which, but for
									the prompt and energetic measures resorted to for their suppression, would have
									resulted in a sanguinary conflict between the two factions into which the Irish
									are divided. For some time past, the 'Corkonians' have been the stronger party on
									the canal line, and they have embraced every opportunity of maltreating such of
									the 'Fardowns' as might fall into their hands. Nor have our citizens at all times
									been safe from attacks from these ruffians. The 'Fardowns,' having lately received
									great accessions to their numbers, resolved upon driving their opponents from the
									canal, and preparations for the contest were made by both parties.
								"The Irish were observed by the citizens to be in the habit of nightly assembling
									in the secluded places in the woods, and all who could in any way procure arms
									were providing themselves with them. Three kegs of powder were forcibly taken from
									a wagon on the highway; the houses of some of the citizens were entered and the
									citizens compelled to give up their guns; and the lives of others were threatened
									who refused to give up their arms.
								"The contest was intended to have taken place on the 12th instant, the
									anniversary of the battle of the Boyne. On the 10th, the 'Corkonians' assembled at
									LaGro to the number of about three  hundred; most of
									them were armed. At the same time, about two hundred and fifty armed 'Fardowns'
									advanced to Wabash, seven miles from LaGro, on their way to attack their
									adversaries. D. Burr, Esq., canal commissioner, and some other citizens of the
									neighborhood, succeeded in inducing the two parties to suspend their fight for two
									days, in order to give them an opportunity to make some amicable arrangement.
								"In the meantime, expresses were sent to Fort Wayne and Logansport, requesting
									assistance to suppress the disturbances and 
										MYRON F. BARBOUR.
										Soon after his arrival in the village of Fort Wayne in 1835 Mr. Barbour
											became a teacher of the county seminary, on the site of the present jail. He
											worked with industry to assist in the establishment of the free schools of
											Fort Wayne, and was active in the promotion of many matters for the public
											welfare.
									
									
										CAPTAIN ASA FAIRFIELD.
										Captain Asa Fairfield, a seafaring man, came to Fort Wayne in 1834. He
											operated the first boat on the Wabash and Erie canal. Captain Fairfield was
											the owner of the farm which includes a large part of the present South Wayne.
											He was a native of Kennebunk, Me., born in 1797.
									
									
										FORT WAYNE'S FIRST CHURCH BUILDING.
										The original building in which the First Presbyterian congregation worshiped
											was the pioneer church edifice in Fort Wayne, although the Catholics erected
											St. Augustine's church, on a site within Cathedral square, later in the same
											year—1837. The building was forty feet square and occupied a lot on the
											south side of East Berry street, between Barr and Lafayette streets. It was
											used until 1845, when the large brick structure was erected on the site of the
											present postoffice, at the southeast corner of Clinton and Berry streets. The
											latter building was destroyed by fire in 1882. The present building at the
											northeast corner of Washington boulevard and Clinton street was completed in
											1886. St. Augustine's church building was a small structure built within the
											present Cathedral Square. It was in use for many years, until succeeded by a
											larger structure, the original building having been, in the meantime, removed
											to a cite near the south line of the property, facing Lewis street, where it
											was afterward destroyed by fire.
									
									 to protect the citizens from the dangers to which
									they would be exposed if the two parties should come in contact.
								"The express arrived here [Fort Wayne] on Saturday, the 11th, and the appeal was
									promptly responded to by our citizens. The drum beat to arms, and in two hours a
									company of sixty-three men, well armed and furnished with ammunition, was on the
									march for the scene of action. * * * The company embarked on a canal boat, and
									arrived at Huntington about midnight. Next morning they marched forward on their
									route, re-enforced by a company from Huntington, under command of Captain
									Murray.
								"On hearing of the arrival of the volunteers, the Irish dispersed into the woods,
									fully satisfied that they could not trample upon the laws of the state with
									impunity, and that if they attempted to proceed any further in their mad career
									they would inevitably meet with the punishment due to such lawless
									proceedings."
							
						The Fort Wayne Light Infantry, the first military company formed of Fort Wayne
							citizens, "with a view to the suppression of difficulties said to exist between
							parties of belligerent Irish laborers on the canal," was officered as follows: Colonel
							John Spencer, captain; Adam Hull, first lieutenant; Samuel Edsall, second lieutenant;
							Henry Rudisill, ensign; David Pickering, first sergeant; 
								THE FEEDER CANAL AND ITS CONNECTION WITH THE WABASH AND ERIE
									CANAL.
								The small map shows the connection of the feeder canal with the Wabash and Erie
									canal and the present-day streets and railroads. The larger map shows the route of
									the feeder canal from its connection with the St. Joseph river, just below the
									present Robison park, to its junction with the main canal.
							
							 Lucien P. Ferry, second sergeant; Samuel Stophlet,
							third sergeant; Thomas Tigar, fourth sergeant; Alexander Porter, John Rhinehart,
							Martin Weeks and Christopher Lavely, corporals; Samuel C. Flutter, drummer; Jacob
							Waters, fifer.
					
					
						THE "JIGGER" BOSS.
						In the following expressive language, a writer in the Lafayette (Indiana) Journal of
							September 23, 1899, gives a picture of life among the canal workmen: "In the earlier days the Wabash valley had not been
									unhealthful. But the rent earth [referring to the digging of the canal] liberated
									a malarial pestilence. Whisky was the one specific, and every gang of workmen
									boasted a 'jigger boss,' whose duty it was to carry a large tin pail of whisky
									along the line and issue a small drink or 'jigger' whenever it seemed needed. His
									judgment was the only limit or guide. I found a former 'jigger boss' at Delphi the
									other day. 'Why, those workmen must have been drunk all the time,' said I. He
									replied, 'You wouldn't expect them to work on the canal if they were sober, would
									you?'"
					
					
						THE FIRST BANK.
						The "Irish war," as it was commonly called, was a transient condition and it in no
							wise pictures the enlightened progress of the life of the town, a truth suggested by
							the fact that in the same year Fort Wayne's first financial institution was founded.
							Following a prolonged debate, the Indiana legislature, in January, 1834, passed an act
							creating and establishing the State Bank of Indiana, with its central place of
							business at Indianapolis. Samuel Hanna, of Fort Wayne, was the chairman of the
							committee which prepared the original charter.
						This act gave to the state bank the monopoly of the banking business in Indiana until
							January, 1859. This central bank had the authority to establish branch banks in ten
							other towns. The Fort Wayne branch bank was brought into existence in 1835. On August
							25, the directors of the state bank notified the prospective stockholders of the Fort
							Wayne branch to pay in specie the first installments, or three-eighths of the
							subscription, to Samuel Lewis, William Rockhill and Hugh McCulloch. The directors
							named by the legislature were Allen Hamilton, Hugh Hanna and William Rockhill. In
							November, Samuel Lewis, William G. Ewing, Francis Comparet, Joseph Morgan, Joseph
							Sinclear, Isaac Spencer, Asa Fairfield, Jesse Vermilyea, David Burr and Samuel Edsall
							were named as directors by the local stockholders, making thirteen in all. On the
							following day, at the home of Francis Comparet—a small brick building on the
							south side of Columbia street, between Calhoun and Clinton—Allen Hamilton was
							elected president of the bank, and Hugh McCulloch the cashier and manager. Mr.
							McCulloch gave bond for $50,000; his salary was $800 per year. The cashier was
							instructed to give a receipt to Stephen G. Hunt "for four kegs of specie, supposed to
							contain twenty thousand dollars," received from the branch bank at Richmond,
							representing a part of the state's subscription to the stock.
						
						"I had no practical knowledge whatever of banking, and I said so to the directors,"
							writes Hugh McCulloch in his "Men and Measures of Half a Century," "but they supposed
							I was better fitted for the place than anybody else whose services they could obtain,
							and I did not feel at liberty to decline the appointment. I liked the business of
							banking, and had no disposition to resume the practice of law."
						The bank secured from Mr. Comparet the use of his house, at a rental of $200 per
							annum. The rear room and the garden space were rented to Smalwood Noel, justice of the
							peace, for $5 per month. This little building was used only until 1837, during the
							time 
								BYRON D. MINER.
								As a boy, Mr. Miner walked from Akron to Perrysburg, Ohio, and then worked his
									passage to Fort Wayne on a pirogue. This was in 1835—eight years before the
									opening of the Wabash and Erie canal. After his arrival in Fort Wayne, Mr. Miner
									was variously employed until his connection with the great trading house of G. W.
									and W. G. Ewing, with which he was associated as a partner for many years. He
									served as a member of the city council for a number of years, and in the state
									legislature. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by Mrs. Sarah E. Richey,
									daughter of Mr. Miner.
							
							
								ISAAC DE GROFF NELSON.
								I. D. G. Nelson, who came to Fort Wayne with his sisters in 1836, purchased the
									Fort Wayne Sentinel, but shortly afterward turned his attention to other fields of
									endeavor. In 1851 he was elected a state representative, and as the author of the
									"Nelson railroad bill," a law under which all the railroads of the state have been
									organized, attained wide fame. Subsequently he served as receiver of public moneys
									at Fort Wayne, clerk of the Allen county circuit court, trustee of Purdue
									university and state house commissioner. He was one of the organizers of the
									Wabash railroad. As one of the twelve incorporators of the Lindenwood Cemetery
									association, he was foremost in the creation of this beautiful city of the dead.
									He gave much attention to agriculture and horticulture, stock raising and
									landscape gardening.
							 required to erect the bank building constructed by L. G. Tower, contractor,
							at the southwest corner of Main and Clinton streets, on the site of the building of
							the present Home Telephone and Telegraph company. The building was so arranged that
							the two banking rooms in the front were connected with the living rooms at the rear.
							In the residence portion of the building lived the McCulloch family.
						In a recent public address, Charles McCulloch, then president of the Hamilton
							National bank, and son of Hugh McCulloch, said of the building: "A large fireplace, where good-sized sticks of wood were burned, made the back
									room a most cheerful place. I can see, as if it were  only yesterday, the familiar faces of the men who came into the old branch bank
									to transact business and discuss the various topics of the day, for, in the
									winter, that old fireplace was an attractive spot, and many of the prominent men
									of the town met there daily to talk politics and discuss business affairs, and
									frequently to make plans for the sleighing parties and winter amusements of the
									time. The front room lobby was made comfortable for customers in cold weather by a
									large stove that burned four-foot wood and heated the room perfectly. For years my
									father, as cashier, and W. M. Hubbell, teller, performed all the duties of the
									bank, even to making and keeping up the fires.
								"As the business increased, one boy was taken in at a time and trained to be a
									bookkeeper, and then another, but I do not think more than four persons were ever
									employed at one time during the twenty years' existence of that bank. Stephen
									Bond, then a mere lad, was among the first; afterward, his brother, Charles D.
									Bond, was employed as a bookkeeper, as he had received some clerical education in
									the branch bank at Evansville and in the postoffice at Fort Wayne."
							
						In order to accept the position of cashier with the bank, Hugh McCulloch resigned his
							place as judge of the probate court. Governor Noble appointed Thomas Johnson as his
							successor on the bench. Judge Johnson later served for two terms as prosecutor of the
							circuit court. He was a lawyer of power and wide influence in the state of
							Indiana.
						In 1851 the state constitutional convention refused to provide for the extension of
							the charter of the State Bank of Indiana, because of the bitter opposition to the
							institution as a monopoly. The legislature of 1854-1855 then passed an act to
							establish the Bank of the State of Indiana, although the bill was vetoed by Governor
							Wright. The control passed chiefly to the men who had operated the original state bank
							and its branches. It was one of the conditions of the arrangement that Hugh McCulloch
							should become president of the bank of the state. The new Fort Wayne branch, with the
							same stockholders, was organized October 25, 1855, with Hugh McCulloch president and
							Charles D. Bond cashier; the directors were Mr. McCulloch, Ochmig Bird, William
							Mitchell, Pliny Hoagland, M. W. Hubbell, Hugh B. Reed and B. W. Oakley. In 1863, Pliny
							Hoagland became the president of the branch bank and served until the institution was
							merged in the Fort Wayne National bank in January, 1865, at which time the following
							officers were elected: Jesse L. Williams, president; Pliny Hoagland, vice-president;
							Jared D. Bond, cashier, and Mr. Williams, Mr. Hoagland, Oliver P. Morgan, Montgomery
							Hamilton and Stephen B. Bond, directors.
						In 1885, upon the expiration of the charter of the Fort Wayne National bank, the name
							of the institution was changed to the Old National bank.
					
					
						A PIROGUE JOURNEY IN 1836.
						A woman's description of life in the village and vicinity in 1836 comes from the pen
							of Miss Sarah Darrow, who came to Fort Wayne with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jared
							Darrow. The family traveled in pirogues. Miss Darrow's letter is addressed to her  sister, Mrs. Stephen B. (Adelia L.) Bond, at Lockport,
							New York, and is preserved by Mrs. Littleton Tough. She says: "We had a delightful journey up the Maumee river. At Fort Defiance, we took a
									pirogue about eighty feet long and wide enough for mother's chair, and one sat in
									front of the other, all in a row. You may think how we looked in a wide river.
									Nights we went 
										A NEWSPAPER QUARREL OF THE THIRTIES.
										The two newspaper clippings here reproduced are from the Logansport (Ind.)
											Telegraph of November 19, 1836, involving persons closely associated with the
											history of Fort Wayne. Hyacinth, Lasselle, Jr., editor of the paper, was the
											son of Hyacinth Lasselle, the first white person born on the site of the city
											of Fort Wayne, in 1777. Reference to the father is made by both writers.
											Colonel George W. Ewing, of Fort Wayne, was one of the most prominent of the
											merchants and traders of his period. It will be observed that each writer
											accuses the other of fraudulent dealings with the Indians. The clippings
											reflect the style of language quite generally employed in heated newspaper
											controversies of the time and which was not so stringently regulated by libel
											laws as at the present time.
									
									 ashore and slept on the puncheon to rest our weary
									limbs, after being sun-beaten all day and getting corn-dodgers for our supper. But
									you must be very careful not to get over the cracks, for rattlesnakes are very
									common in this country. * * *
								"The Indian payments commenced today, and they are holding a council with them
									for fear of an outbreak. They had to call out the militia from Logansport and
									Peru—two hundred from Logansport and one hundred from Peru—but we
									apprehend no danger. They dress most splendidly, and some of them are very
									handsome. Chief Rushville [Richardville] has a splendid establishment—Turkey
									carpets, Damask silk curtains and white dimity, and everything as rich in
									proportion. One wife doesn't answer their purpose, so they must have two, one
									young and one old as Methuselah. God Froy [Chief Godfrey, of Peru] is prince of
									the nation."
							
						The same writer, addressing her sister, asks: "What is the
									fashion for bonnets this fall? We sent to Cincinnati in the spring and got some
									English straw and they were very large in front. Mr. Barlow said it was the newest
									fashion there. Also, what is going to be worn for cloaks or dresses, and the
									fashion? Mrs. Daniels sent us a dress pattern in the spring and it's all over the
									state of Indiana."
						Miss Darrow's account is suggestive of the interesting experience of Samuel S. Morss
							and his bride, formerly Miss Susan Clark, in 1837, as related by the daughter, Mrs.
							Isaac d'Isay: "The wedding took place at Mrs. Porter's select
									boarding house, in Fort Wayne, at 8 o'clock in the morning, that they might take
									the packet, the new canal boat, which left at 9 o'clock. My mother's wedding gown
									was a heliotrope brocade silk, with parasol to match. This costume was considered
									eminently proper for 
										FORT WAYNE'S FIRST BANK BUILDING.
										This building, erected at the southwest corner of Clinton and Main streets,
											the site of the building of the Home Telegraph and Telephone company, was
											erected in 1837, as the first home of the Fort Wayne branch of the State Bank
											of Indiana. The family of Hugh McCulloch, the cashier, occupied the residence
											portion of the building. The building was erected by L. G. Tower at a cost of
											$12,450.
									
									
										A SOCIAL AFFAIR OF 1835.
										The original printed invitation to a social affair in 1835 is in the
											possession of Mrs. Isaac d'Isay, daughter of Mrs. Samuel S. Morss, who, as
											Miss Susan Clark, was one of the hostesses of the affair. Miss Jane T.
											Suttenfield became the wife of Myron F. Barbour, and Miss Rebecca Rockhill
											married Philo Rumsey. The house of Colonel Suttenfield was a popular tavern,
											the upper floor of which was used as a ballroom.
									
									 traveling. The boat was new, really quite
									luxurious, for there was a cabin and cushioned seats. Logansport was the expected
									destination of the wedding journey, and here the bride's sister had invited guests
									to a reception to be held in honor of the bridal pair. But they could not reach
									the place in time to be present; indeed, not at all, on account of the canal locks
									failing to operate; and, after getting as far as Peru, they were obliged to return
									to Fort Wayne."
					
					
						THE PANIC OF 1837.
						Hard times came upon the people of the Maumee valley during the general panic of
							1837. The years 1834, 1835 and 1836, throughout the new west, had been distinguished
							by the wildest methods of speculation. With rosy tales of rich prospects, speculators
							sold, at fabulous prices, lots in canal towns which had no existence or which could
							never rise to heights of commercial importance. On the Maumee, from its mouth to Fort
							Wayne, there was a succession of towns, most of which have never been heard of since
							that day. The sale of property in these "dream" towns, as well as in other parts of
							the west, made and lost fortunes, until, in 1837, the bubbles burst and a financial
							panic ensued. This condition is indicated by the prices of commodities in 1839, when
							oats sold for ten cents per bushel, chickens at fifty cents per dozen, flour $3 per
							barrel and fat cattle at $10 to $12 per head. Normal conditions were not restored
							until 1841.
					
					
						THE FIRST MARKET HOUSE.
						In 1837, Samuel Hanna donated to the town of Fort Wayne the land bordering Barr
							street on the east, extending south from Berry street, on which the city hall and the
							present city market houses stand. The city, as a part of the transaction, agreed to
							erect thereon a substantial market house thirty by sixty feet in size. George Bair
							constructed the building, and Oliver Fairfield was appointed as the first market
							master, succeeded in later years by James Post, Robert Hood and Peter Kiser. The
							stalls at the beginning were rented at five dollars per year.
						In 1852, the market building proving to be too small for the demands, was abandoned
							and steps were taken to erect a larger building which should combine a town hall with
							its market facilities. James Humphrey designed the building, and the contract for its
							construction was let to Richard McMullan, a member of the council, for $1,599.50.
							McMullan assigned the contract to Mr. Humphrey and John Brown. In 1853, after the
							citizens had voted in favor of a tax levy of fifteen cents on each $100 of valuation,
							the council voted to erect the building on another site, but a storm of protest caused
							a reconsideration of their action. The whole matter was then laid over until January,
							1855, when new plans submitted by James Humphrey and H. Nierman were adopted. Mr.
							Nierman then built the combined market house and town hall. The central building, a
							two-story structure, was of brick, with the covered stalls of the market extending to
							the north and south. The entire work cost $2,800. Among the men who served as market
							masters were John Fairfield, A. M. Webb and Henry Monning. Stalls in this market house
							rented at not less than forty dollars per year. This building  stood until the time of the building of the city hall. The present market
							house was built in 1910 at a cost of $20,000.
					
					
						CHURCH AFFAIRS.
						Several important steps were taken in the formation of new church societies in Fort
							Wayne in 1837. With Rev. Robert Tisdale as temporary pastor, the First Baptist church
							was organized, with a membership of nine. Succeeding pastors of the church were 
								WHEN THE EARLY FAMILIES ENTERTAINED.
								Among the mementos of the early days in Fort Wayne treasured by the family of
									William P. Cooper, are the originals of the dinner invitations here reproduced.
									Issued by the families of Judge Hugh McCulloch, William Rockhill, Allen Hamilton
									and David H. Colerick to the family of Henry Cooper, during the years from 1836 to
									1840, the handwritten mementos bear the names of some of the leading residents of
									the day, whose descendants are active in the affairs of the present.
							
							 William Corbin, William Cox, William Gildersleve, J. H.
							Dunlap, D. H. Mason, U. B. Miller, C. W. Rees, J. D. Meeson, Stephen Wilkins, William
							Frary, G. L. Stephens, G. R. Stone, Stephen A. Northrup, L. L. Henson, J. N. Field, J.
							F. Vichert and S. H. Snashall.
						Rev. Jesse Hoover, whose name is held in reverence by every Fort Wayne Lutheran of
							today, came to the town from Woodstock, Canada, in 1837, and organized the first
							Lutheran church, with Adam Wefel and Henry Trier, elders, and Henry Rudisill and
							Conrad Nill, deacons. This was the beginning of the present St Paul's church, the site
							for which was purchased in 1839. Succeeding pastors of St. Paul's church were
							Frederick Wynekin, Dr. William Sihler, H. G. Sauer and Jacob W. Miller.
						The Catholics and the Presbyterians erected, in 1837, the first church buildings to
							grace the soil of Fort Wayne, the former establishing St. Augustine's church on a
							portion of Cathedral square, and the latter choosing a site on the south side of East
							Berry street between Barr and Lafayette streets.
						In 1835, Rev. Simon P. Lalumiere, a visitor to Fort Wayne, reported that the Catholic
							population, composed of Germans, Irish and French, required the ministrations of a
							pastor who could speak three languages. Rev. Felix Matthew Ruff, who met the
							requirement, arrived in the fall of that year, preceding Rev. Louis Mueller, who came
							in 1837 as the first regular pastor of the German portion of the congregation. In
							1840, Bishop de la Hailandiere sent to Fort Wayne Rev. Joseph Hannan, who later
							removed to Logansport. In 1842, Rev. Joseph Francis Rudolph came. Two years later,
							Rev. Alphonce Munschina was assigned to the Fort Wayne parish; he remained two years.
							In 1846, Rev. Anthony Carins came, followed in 1849 by Rev. E. Faller. He organized
							the first German congregation in Fort Wayne, St. Mary's.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1835.
						The year 1835 brought to Fort Wayne many valuable citizens: Royal W. Taylor,
							merchant, from Glastonbury, Vermont; Myron F. Barbour (born in Sheldon, New York.
							1811), who served as a clerk in the land office and became a well-known teacher;
							George W. Jones (born in Manchester, Maryland, in 1831), publisher, and a clerk in the
							United States treasury department; Henry Pugh (born in Heresford, England, in 1810),
							pioneer dairyman; Byron D. Miner, who became a legislator and a partner in the trading
							house of W. G. and G. W. Ewing, and Louis Wolke (born in Bomte, Germany, in 1810), who
							operated the Summit City Woolen Mills. . . . Banjamin Archer established the first
							sawmill; the boiler was brought from Dayton, Ohio, on a wagon drawn by eight yoke of
							oxen.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1836.
						Isaac DeGroff Nelson (born in Poughkeepsie, New York, in 1810), whose activities
							along many lines advanced the interests of Fort Wayne, came to the town in 1836.
							George W. Wood (born in Goshen, New York, in 1808), whom the people of Fort Wayne
							chose as their first mayor, also settled here. Others who came during the year were
							Robert E. (R. Emmett) Fleming, clerk in the office of County Auditor-recorder Allen
							Hamilton, whose identification with  railroad and other
							interests afforded him an opportunity to give valuable aid in the material advancement
							of the town; S. C. Freeman, Nelson McLain, Jacob Klein, Chester Scarlet, John Majors,
							Colonel J. W. Whitaker, George Kronmiller, and John Cochrane, the latter of whom
							established the first planing mill. . . . Miss Mann (later the wife of Hugh McCulloch)
							and Miss Hubbell (Mrs. Royal W. Taylor) opened a school in the court house. Later,
							they joined the Rev. Jesse Hoover in the management of a school in the basement of the
							Presbyterian church on Berry street between Barr 
								HUGH M'CULLOCH'S RECORD OF HIS FIRST BANK SALARY.
								Herewith is shown a photographic reproduction of a portion of the record of the
									first meeting of the board of directors of the Fort Wayne branch of the State Bank
									of Indiana, held November 3, 1835. The handwriting is that of Hugh McCulloch,
									cashier. The record book is among the treasured archives of the Old National Bank
									of Fort Wayne. The directors referred to in the record are Allen Hamilton, Hugh
									Hanna and William Rockhill, named by the state, and Samuel Lewis, William G.
									Ewing, Francis Comparet, Joseph Morgan, Joseph Sinclear, Isaac Spencer, Asa
									Fairfield, Jesse Vermilyea (misspelled in record), David Burr and Samuel
									Edsall.
							
							 and Lafayette streets. Referring to these pioneer women
							instructors, A. C. Comparet, in the Hicksville (Ohio) News, March, 1902, says: "They
							were competent teachers, and did away with the rawhide and hickory goads that the male
							teachers had in their schools. These ladies were successful and well liked by their
							pupils of which I was one." . . . Peter Huling and David Rankin were elected judges of
							the circuit court. . . . Lucien P. Ferry became the judge of the probate court. . . .
							Judge Samuel Hanna assumed the personal responsibility for the construction of the
							Lima road, which was extended later the distance of fifty miles to the northward.
							Jesse Vermilyea also was active in the construction of this first important road out
							of Fort Wayne. . . . The town trustees passed an ordinance prohibiting the sale of
							liquors on the Sabbath day "except to travelers and in case of sickness." The annual 
								DR. CHARLES A. SCHMITZ.
								Dr. Schmitz came to America from Germany in 1835, and spent a year and a half at
									Philadelphia in the practice of medicine as a graduate of the medical college at
									Bohn. The year 1837 found him a resident of Fort Wayne, where he spent forty-eight
									busy years. He served as a member of the Fort Wayne board of health, and was the
									first president of the Allen County Medical society, organized in 1860. The
									portrait is from a photograph loaned by, his daughter, Mrs. William V.
									Douglas.
							
							
								GEORGE W. WOOD, FORT WAYNE'S FIRST MAYOR.
								Mr. Wood was twice elected mayor of Fort Wayne, but resigned the office July 5,
									1841. As the publisher of the Fort Wayne Sentinel and the Fort Wayne Times, as the
									manager of the first telegraph office in 1849, as the administrator of the estate
									of the late Judge Samuel Hanna, as register of the land office and as the agent of
									the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad in the sale of its lands, he
									became a man of wide influence.
							 license for liquor-selling was ten dollars. . . . In 1836, the first cook
							stove was brought to Fort Wayne by travelers bound for the west; it was purchased by
							Lucien P. Ferry for use in his home. The "rotary" style of stove came into use shortly
							afterward. "The top was round, turning on a center pin with a crank to turn the top
							until the openings with the cooking utensils came over the fire," is the description
							given by the late George W. Brackenridge. He added this bit of information: "The
							stoves were unloaded in front of the court house and, I believe, were stored in it for
							a short time. The furniture for the stoves was packed in crates of straw. When these
							were opened, rats were found in them which escaped. These  pioneer rats established the first colony, and we have never been without them
							since."
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1837.
						Henry Sharp, who came to Fort Wayne in 1837, was Fort Wayne's first republican mayor.
							Born in Albany, New York, in 1809, he learned the hatters' trade and followed the
							business after locating here. Others who settled in Fort Wayne during the year were
							Alfred S. Johns (born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in 1812), who established the first
							saddlery business; Scott Swann, James W. Ninde, Uriah Johnson, James Devlin, William
							Manning, Benjamin F. Rice and William Boerger, men active in the life of the town;
							Judge William W. Carson (born in County Mayo, Ireland), who rose to prominence in
							judicial and legislative circles; Judge William W. Coombs (born in Brunswick, Maine,
							in 1808), a prominent member of the bar; Colonel George Humphrey, from Scotland, a
							contractor, who served in the Mexican war and the rebellion; James Humphrey, a brother
							of George, and Dr. Charles A. Schmitz (born in Borgloh, Germany, in 1809), a leading
							physician. . . . The following county officers were elected: Auditor, Allen Hamilton;
							treasurer, Thomas W. Swinney; sheriff, John P. Hedges; recorder, Robert E. Fleming;
							surveyor, S. M. Black. . . . Charles W. Ewing was elected president judge of the
							circuit court; during his period of service until 1839, the following associate judges
							were on the bench: Peter Huling, Nathaniel Coleman, Michael Shiras and Marshall S.
							Wines. Thomas Johnson served as prosecuting attorney.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXVII—1838-1839. Boat Yards and Other Pioneer
						Enterprises—Early Hotels.
					A description of Fort Wayne in 1838—The State of Indiana "goes wild" over the
						internal improvement program—The canal begins to earn money—Early factories
						and boat yards—Names of some of the earlier boats which plied the canal—An
						estimate of Alexander McJunkin, schoolmaster—"Rockhill's Folly," a step in advance
						of the times—History of the hotel, The Palo Alto (Mayer) house—Other pioneer
						hotels—The Churches.
					AT THIS period of the story of Fort Wayne, the town impressed the new
						settler as a place of great promise for all who were willing to enter actively into its
						development. We have this picture of its physical features in 1838, as remembered by
						John W. Dawson, and recorded by him in 1872: "The first glimpse
								of Fort Wayne was had from an elevated part of the road, about 120 rods south of the
								railway [Pennsylvania] depot. The spire of the old court house [the first court
								house, built in 1832] and that of the old Catholic church which stood where the
								Cathedral now is built, were seen. All other buildings were hidden from view by the
								high ground, yet to be noticed at the intersection of Douglas avenue with Calhoun
								street. There was scarcely a house south of Lewis street, and what few there were
								could be called only cabins hid in deep woods, save the Brackenridge house, as it
								yet stands, and an old frame back from the southwest corner of Lewis and Calhoun, in
								which Colonel Spencer lived for many years. All was wild, save a few small fields of
								the Hamilton property. * * * On neither side of Calhoun street from this church
								[where the Cathedral stands today] was there any house. A post-and-rail fence, open
								at many places, ran on the west side of Calhoun street from Lewis to Wayne, which
								had, the year before, been the east boundary of a cultivated field the west boundary
								of which was Shawnee run, which took its rise out about where Bass's foundry now is
								and drained all that region known as the addition of Lewis, Hamilton Baker, Wilt,
								Brackenridge, Ewing's grove and Spencer, and then entering the old town plat near
								the corner of Spencer's addition passed obliquely to the northeast until it crossed
								Berry street at the intersection of Harrison street; then down it and under the
								canal basin into the river into the St. Mary's river at Lee's ford." (This ford was
								located near the present Wells street bridge, named for the Widow Lee, who lived
								near by.)
					Describing the heart of the town in 1838, Mr. Dawson says: "The
								space bounded on the north by Water [Superior] street, east by Lafayette street,
								south by Wayne street, west by Harrison street-sixteen squares-constituted Fort
								Wayne as a wooden town, buildings of an inferior sort, unpainted, generally
								one-story high, some of logs, more of frame work, just five of brick, the streets
								bad, many lots destroyed by standing water."
					
					
						THE ROUTE OF THE WABASH AND ERIE CANAL THROUGH THE CITY OF FORT
							WAYNE.
						Each of the four maps shows a section of the city of Fort Wayne through which the
							Wabash and Erie canal extended. This route is identical with the right-of-way of the
							New York, Chicago & St. Louis railroad of today. The buildings indicated in the
							maps were the distinguishing features of that part of the town in 1855. At this time
							the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago railroad had been completed to Fort Wayne,
							and its terminus touched the canal at Barr street. The line branched from the present
							right-of-way of the railroad northward along Lafayette street to afford freight and
							passenger connection with the waterway. The present City mills (C. Tresselt &
							Sons) on Clinton street, the Edsall (Orff) mill on the St. Mary's river and other
							industries were operated by water power from the canal. The two principal basins of
							the canal were those at Harrison street and at Lafayette street.
					
					
					
					Among the business and professional men were J. B. Bourie and John B. Peltier, traders;
						Taylor, Freeman and Company, Captain Ben Smith, Colonel Joseph McMaken, proprietor of
						the "Mansion House"; Paige and Fry, tanners; Mills and Taylor, proprietors of the
						"Franklin House"; William D. Henderson, grocer; James Post, proprietor of the "Post
						House"; John E. Hill, dry goods; Dr. M. W. Huxford, druggist; Allen Hamilton and
						Company, traders; Barnett and Hanna, traders; Wright and DuBois, merchants; James W.
						Deneal, canal boat builder; Dr. Lewis G. Beecher, George Fallo, the first brewer;
						Captain William Stewart, Joshua Housman, baker; Rev. S. R. Ball, potter; Philip C. Cook,
							 blacksmith; Philo Taylor, S. C. Freeman and Royal W.
						Taylor, dry goods; Freeman P. Tinkham, cabinet maker; Benjamin Smith, grocer; Lewis
						Wolke, blacksmith; Tom Moore, barber; Dr. Lewis G. Thompson, Thompson and Jefferds,
						druggists; Thomas Johnson, attorney; Comparet and Colerick, traders; T. Hoagland, draper
						and tailor; F. D. Lasselle, trader; A. Lintz, shoemaker; Madison Sweetser, dry goods;
						the Ewings, S. and W. S. Edsall; Lucien P. Ferry, attorney; L. G. Bellamy, shoemaker,
						and Johnson and Miller, cabinet makers.
					
						THE CANAL A MAGNET.
						Many had been attracted to the town through the reputation which the canal had
							brought to this central point of trade. For, in 1838, the waterway had begun to earn
							some returns on the money spent for the construction of the middle section of the
							waterway extending from Fort Wayne to Logansport.
						By the time of the opening of navigation in the spring of 1837, the entire state was
							wild over the subject of internal improvements, and thousands of settlers poured into
							the Wabash valley. For a period previous to the collapse which brought on the panic,
							there was employment for all at good wages, and a market for all produce.
						Daniel Reid was appointed receiver of the canal office in Fort Wayne, and the
							waterway entered upon a period of activity in the transportation of passengers and
							goods between Fort Wayne and Logansport.
						The second year of operation, 1838, showed the total receipts to be $1,398.37, which,
							although scarcely sufficient to pay the salary of one member of the canal commission,
							was accepted as an indication of a vast income from transportation tolls and the
							provision of water-power, when the entire line should have come into use.
						In the village of Fort Wayne, all lines of enterprise took on new life, and mills,
							factories and workshops of many descriptions were established. Not the least of these
							were the yards of the canal boat builders. Although F. P. Tinkham was the pioneer boat
							builder, the first boat yard was owned by Barthold and Sons, located on the feeder
							canal in Bloomingdale. Here were constructed the first three boats to do regular
							service on the canal. The "Indiana" was the first to be launched. It was built for
							Captain Asa Fairfield. The four Mahon brothers, Samnuel, Archie, William and Monroe,
							were later the principal owners of an important line of packets which included the
							"Indiana," the "Clyde," the "Wabash" and the "Chief Richardville." The last. named
							boat was built by Francis Comparet. By the year 1849, Ellsworth and Rippe's boat yard
							enjoyed a rushing business in the building of packets and freight boats.
						Fortunate it was for the people of Fort Wayne that the canal was in operation even in
							part, during the summer and fall of 1838, for a drought prevailed from the 3d of July
							until Christmas. The amount of precipitation during these months was insufficient to
							sustain growing things, and the crops were nearly a total loss. The rivers were so low
							that flat-boats could not be operated, thus preventing the transportation of supplies
							from many sources. All of  the smaller creeks became
							dry. The water supply for the canal was sufficient, however, to allow of the free
							passing of boats, and this condition saved much suffering and loss.
						The educational needs of the town were not allowed to suffer from neglect at this
							time. In 1838, Alexander McJunkin, one of the best-remembered of the early
							instructors, built a frame house on the east side of Lafayette street, between Main
							and Berry streets, where he taught until 1852. when he became the treasurer of the
							Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad. This original school house is still
							standing (1917) and in use as a residence. It is located on the rear of the residence
							property of C. C. Schlatter.
						Mr. McJunkin was "a fine scholar, a strong, judicious instructor sand a stern,
							rigidly strict disciplinarian, he most forcibly impressed his ideas and teachings upon
							the minds of his scholars, and not infrequently with equal force upon their bodies,"
							says Dr. John S. Irwin, former superintendent, in an official report. Rev. W. W.
							Stevens subsequently established a school on West Berry street, where he and his wife
							taught for a number of years.
					
					
						HOTELS OF THE THIRTIES.
						With a broad vision of the future—so broad, in truth, that his fellow citizens
							failed to grasp its scope—William Rockhill 
								JUDGE JAMES W. BORDEN.
								James W. Borden had been admitted to the practice of the law before the supreme
									court of New York previous to the time he was assigned to the charge of the United
									States land office in Fort Wayne in 1839. In 1841 he was elected pesident judge of
									the Twelfth judicial district of nine counties. He prepared the legislative bill
									providing for the revision of the state constitution in 1850, and was an
									influential participant in the proceedings of the constitutional convention. In
									1852 he was elected judge of the court of common pleas and served until his
									appointment as resident minister at Honolulu in 1857. Upon his return he was again
									elected, in 1864, to the judgeship of the common pleas court. At the time of his
									death, in 1882, he was the judge of the criminal court, to which position he had
									been elected in 1867.
							
							
								JOHN W. DAWSON.
								John W. Dawson, lawyer, editor and territorial governor of Utah, came to Fort
									Wayne in 1838. In 1854 Mr. Dawson, after a course in Wabash college, became the
									owner of the Fort Wayne Times, and, through his vigorous methods of presenting his
									views of public questions not only exerted a wide influence, but incurred the
									bitter antagonism of his opponents, who on several occasions, "thrashed the
									editor" or sought to do him injury, in other ways. As a leader of the
									anti-Nebraska party, he was nominated for secretary of state, but met defeat.
									Shortly after Lincoln's inauguration Mr. Dawson was appointed governor of Utah.
									His vigorous administration so aroused antagonism and hatred of the Mormons that
									on his return from Salt Lake he was waylaid and maltreated so that he never
									recovered from the outrage. He died in 1877.
							
							
							
								INDIANA'S VAST PLAN OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
								"Why was the Wabash and Erie canal allowed to pass into disuse?" The often-asked
									question frequently meets with the response, "The railroads killed it." The
									accompanying map, with the explanatory note, will assist, however, in an
									understanding of a still more logical reason—the unwarranted appropriation
									of $10,000,000 by the state in 1835 for ill-advised public works which plunged the
									state into an indebtedness of $13,000,000 and prevented the success of the one
									meritorious work—the Wabash and Erie canal. The legislature, in one
									session—that of 1835—made appropriations for the following
									enterprises, the numbers referring to the corresponding figures on the map: 1.—Wabash and Erie canal, already under construction
											(459 miles in length when completed from Maumee bay to Evansville). Total
											cost, $6,437,809. 2.— Central canal, 290 miles; $3,500,000 appropriated,
											of which $574,646 was consumed in the building of but a small section, between
											Indianapolis and Broadripple, after which the work was abandoned.
											3.—Crosscut canal, 42 miles; of the appropriation of $1,300,000,
											$436,189 was spent. 4.—Whitewater canal, 76 miles. Amount of
											appropriation, $1,400,000; 31 miles completed at a cost of $1,090,867.
											5.—A railroad from Madison to Lafayette. Amount of appropriation,
											$1,300,000; after expending $73,142 on the line between Indianapolis and
											Lafayette, the work was abandoned and the lower portion passed into private
											control after the state had spent $1,624,603. 6.—A macadamized road from
											New Albany to Vincennes. Amount of appropriation, $1,150,000.
											7.—Railroad, or turnpike from Jeffersonville to Crawfordsville. Amount
											of appropriation, $1,300,000; the project was abandoned after $339,183 had
											been spent. 8.—Improvement of the Wabash river; amount of appropriation,
											$50,000. 9.—Survey of the Erie and Michigan canal, connecting Chicago
											with the Wabash and Erie canal at Fort Wayne. No portion of the work was
											finished, excepting the creation of an artificial reservoir (Sylvan lake, Rome
											City, Noble county). The improvement, with a connecting feeder canal, cost the
											state $156,324. The latter project, if completed, would have given Fort Wayne
											a water connection with Chicago. Compared with the line of the newly-projected
											lake-to-lake canal, the survey presents a route similar to that of the
											proposed plan.
							
							 commenced, in 1838, the erection of the famous Rockhill
							house at the southwest corner of Broadway and West Main street. Mr. Rockhill believed
							that by erecting a hotel which should eclipse every other place of entertainment in
							the west, even though it were located half a mile away from the main settlement, the
							object would result in a marked change in the physical aspect of the town.
						This building, which stands today as a portion of St. Joseph hospital, was not
							opened, however, as a hotel until 1854, when Philo Rumsey assumed charge as its
							landlord. The Rockhill house contained sixty-five guest rooms, and was properly
							considered the finest hotel in the region. During the period of its uncompleted
							condition, the Rockhill house, used for fairs and various sorts of public gatherings,
							was popularly known as "Rockhill's Folly."
						The formal opening of the hotel, in 1854, was a gay event, which attracted the
							representative citizens of Fort Wayne as well as many from abroad. A banquet, followed
							by a ball, constituted the main features of the event.
						The hotel maintained an omnibus line, connecting with the railway depot, and its
							almost rural surroundings provided many attractive features, but it proved to be a
							discouraging financial enterprise. In 1868 it became the nucleus of the present St.
							Joseph hospital.
						The rapid growth of the town is suggested by the establishment of other hotels and
							taverns of the period. One of the best known of these, the Palo Alto house (at first
							called the Lafayette), was erected by Frank Rohle, at the southeast corner of Wayne
							and Calhoun streets, the site later occupied by the White Fruit House and now by the
							Grand Leader department store. The building was a two-story frame structure. After the
							death of Mr. Rohle, the place passed into the hands of George J. E. Mayer, and it was
							thereafter known as the Mayer House. Subsequent landlords were H. B. Garten, Jacob
							Lessman, John Bull, W. H. Murtah, William Kirtley, Rhodes and Pierce, Dr. Pierce and
							William Reed. This building was destroyed by fire.
						The Washington House, established shortly after the Palo Alto, was located at the
							southeast corner of Calhoun and Washington streets. This also was burned.
						The Custer house stood on the north side of West Main street, between Calhoun and
							Harrison streets. It was built by Mr. Goodman and bore the name of the Goodman House
							for several years. Geison Scherzinger was its proprietor for twenty years.
						The Franklin House, conducted by Mills and Taylor, flourished during the thirties.
							In. 1835 Joseph H. McMaken sold Washington Hall to Samuel Sowers; two years later the
							tavern was purchased by P. Timmons. Mr. McMaken established the Mansion House at the
							northeast corner of Calhoun and Columbia streets, in 1835. In the same year, Samuel
							Lillie opened a tavern on Columbia street east of Calhoun street.
						The commodious brick building owned and occupied since 1914 by the Fort Wayne Rescue
							Home and Mission on the north side of East Columbia street, at the head of Clay
							street, was for many years a prosperous hotel. In 1858, with Fred Volkert as
							proprietor, it was called the City House; at that time it was a two-story building.
								 George Phillips, who became the owner in 1859,
							remodeled the building and called it the Phillips House. Latterly, the place was known
							as the Arlington.
						The Old Fort House, at the corner of Main and Lafayette streets, managed by George
							Phillips, was a busy hotel of the canal days. The National Hotel, of which Prof.
							Joseph Leiffels was the proprietor, was destroyed by fire in 1870; the building stood
							at the northeast corner of Barr and Holman streets.
						Colonel John Spencer built the well-known Spencer house, in 1836. It was located on
							the west side of Calhoun street, facing the courthouse square. Early landlords were
							Amos Compton, George Wilson and E. Palmer.
						The American House, erected on Columbia street by Joseph Morgan, in 1836, later was
							conducted by Francis Comparet.
						The Dayton (Kime) House was opened in 1836 by John Trentman. It was located at the
							corner of East Wayne and Clay streets.
					
					
						TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
						The thirties were years remarkable for the establishment of churches of various
							denominations. The present Trinity Episcopal 
								THE ROCKHILL HOUSE.
								William Rockhill, in 1838, commenced the building of the celebrated Rockhill
									house, at the southwest corner of Main street and Broadway. The work was delayed,
									and in 1840 only the walls and roof were finished. For thirteen years the building
									remained in an incompleted condition, during which time it was used for fairs,
									exhibitions, entertainments and various kinds of public assemblages. Under the
									management of Philo Rumsey, the place was opened as a first-class hotel in 1854.
									It was closed in 1867 and remained unused until May 20, 1878, when the St. Joseph
									Benevolent association purchased the property. This original building, with one
									story added, still remains as a portion of the present St. Joseph hospital. The
									illustration is from a woodcut printed in 1858.
							
							 church had its beginning in 1839, with the coming of
							Rev. Benjamin Hutchins, a missionary. At a meeting held in May, over which Allen
							Hamilton presided and Robert E. Fleming acted as secretary, Christ church was
							organized. In 1844, the name was changed to Trinity. Rectors following Rev. Mr.
							Hutchins were Benjamin Halstead, H. P. Powers, Joseph S. Large, E. C. Pattison, Caleb
							A. Bruce, Stephen A. Battin, Colin C. Tate, William N. Webbe, A. W. Seabrease and E.
							W. Averill.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1838.
						Many public-spirited men came to Fort Wayne in 1838. Franklin P. Randall (born in
							Madison county, New York, in 1812) served as mayor of Fort Wayne for many years; Dr.
							Charles E. Sturgis (born in Queen Anne county, Maryland, in 1815) became a prominent
							member of the medical profession; Madison Sweetser (born in Windom, Vermont, in 1809),
							identified himself with municipal and mercantile affairs; Christian F. Pfeiffer (born
							in Stuttgart, Germany, in 1824) was active in many lines of endeavor; Killian Baker
							(born in Hesse-Darmstadt, in 1830) established the first wagon shop; John W. Dawson
							(born at Cambridge, Indiana, in 1820) served as a clerk in the office of his
							brother-in-law, Colonel John Spencer, and later became widely known as a newspaper
							editor and territorial governor of Utah; Charles Frederick Myers (born in Windheim,
							Germany, in 1828); John Baker (born in Germany, in 1817) operated the first plow
							factory and steam sawmill in company with his father, George Baker, and his brother,
							Jacob; Louis Griebel born in Germany) became an active business man. . . . Marshall S.
							Wines established the Woodlawn, or Wines, flouring mill on the Maumee, near the
							present Hanover street, where a dam was built across the stream. Subsequent owners
							were Samuel Hanna and Ochmig Bird, Bostick and Fronefield, Fronefield and Volland,
							Trentman and Volland, Orff and Volland, Comparet and Haskell, and finally E. A. Orff.
							The mill was destroyed by fire in 1879. Mr. Wines purchased the Cole sawmill in 1838.
							. . . William G. Ewing was elected state senator. . . In 1838 an Indian named "Bob"
							stabbed "White Raccoon." "During his illness," wrote John W. Dawson, "I frequently saw
							Raccoon, and witnessed a devotion on the part of his Miami squaw wife which Washington
							Irving could not sketch truer than he did the wife in his sketch book. It was an
							affecting sight. * * * I saw 'Bob' several times thereafter, but always alone. At
							length the fatal period came, and somewhere down on the Miami Reservation, Bob was
							decoyed to a spring of water, and while lying down to quench his thirst, the friends
							of Raccoon, then with him, crushed his head with a stone." In his "Charcoal Sketches,"
							Mr. Dawson says of the elections of the thirties and forties: "Our general elections
							were held on the first Monday of August, annually, and as every elector could vote
							anywhere in the county, nearly all came from the country to town to vote; and, strange
							as it may seem at this time, men who had quarrels to settle met at the elections and
							fought it out with fists and feet. I remember, on the first Monday in August, 1838,
							after nightfall, of seeing several hard personal battles fought at the crossing of
							Columbia and Calhoun streets. The blows given sounded 
							like those a butcher fells an ox with." . . . The town trustees appointed Daniel
							McGinnis inspector of flour, and Jacob B. Davisson inspector of pork, beef and
							bacon.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1839.
						Among the valued citizens who located in Fort Wayne in 1839 were Judge James W.
							Borden (born near Beaufort, South Carolina, 
								THE MAYER HOUSE.
								Originally known as the Palo Alto house, the building here shown was erected by
									Frank Rohle in 1839, at the southeast corner of Wayne and Calhoun streets. In 1850
									George J. E. Mayer purchased the property and built a two-story addition at the
									south. The name of the hotel was then changed to the Mayer house. At a later time
									a third floor was added to the corner building. This was remodeled and enlarged
									into the store rooms occupied by the White Fruit House (now by the Grand Leader
									department store). The south part was remodeled to form a portion of the Grand
									Central hotel, which is now the Alt Heidelberg hotel. The illustration is from a
									woodcut print loaned by Frank M. Randall. (See Chapter XXVII.)
							
							
								FORT WAYNE'S FIRST PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDING.
								In 1838, Alexander McJunkin erected frame building on the east side of Lafayette
									street, between Berry and Wayne streets, and there opened a private school which
									was continued until 1852, when Mr. McJunkin became the treasurer of the
									Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad. In 1853, with the organization of the
									public school system, the first "free" school in Fort Wayne was opened in this
									building. The McJunkin school house is still standing, used as a residence. It is
									located on the rear of the home lot of C. C. Schlatter, who now owns it.
							
							
								FRANKLIN P. RANDALL.
								Mr. Randall is remembered as Fort Wayne's "war" mayor, but his many years of
									devotion to the upbuilding of his home city have made his name an honored one in
									connection with many substantial affairs. Following his schooling and law studies,
									Mr. Randall came to Fort Wayne in 1838. Two years later he was elected school
									commissioner of Allen county. In 1847 he was elected state senator, representing a
									district comprising four counties. He was commissioned by Governor Wright as
									colonel of militia for Allen county, and in 1855 was promoted by Governor Hammond
									as brigadier general of the Tenth division. In 1856 Mr. Randall was appointed a
									director of the state prison south, and in the same year was named as a
									presidential elector, voting for James Buchanan. He was the author of the city
									charter and designer of the city seal. He served as city recorder two terms, as
									city attorney three terms, and as councilman two terms. He was elected five times
									as mayor of Fort Wayne, serving ten years. He was actively interested in the
									construction of the railroads and in the promotion of horticultural and
									agricultural matters. His collection of historic mementos and books was
									far-famed.
							
							 in 1813), who came to serve as the register of the land
							office; George DeWald, whose enterprise is evidenced today in the important wholesale
							dry goods house of the George DeWald Company; Sylvanus F. Baker (born in Starke
							county. Ohio, in 1831), who served as county commissioner; Jacob C. Bowser, from
							Lancaster, Ohio, who, with James Story, established at once the Bowser and Story
							foundry and machine shop at the southeast corner of Main and Clinton streets; Wade
							Shoaff, who became the pioneer tailor; Siegmund Redelsheimer (born in Wurtemburg,
							Germany, in 1811), who, with Abraham Oppenheimer, conducted a general store on
							Columbia street for many years; and John M. Miller (born near Sunbury, Pennsylvania,
							in 1817), who engaged in the furniture trade. In 1839 the following county officers
							were elected: Auditor, Allen Hamilton; treasurer, Samuel Hanna; sheriff, Joseph
							Berkey; clerk, Philip G. Jones; recorder, Robert E. Fleming; surveyor, S. M. Black;
							commissioners, David Archer, L. S. Bayless, Horace B. Taylor. Henry Chase, of
							Logansport, was elected judge of the circuit court; the associate judges were
							Nathaniel Coleman and Marshall S. Wines, with John W. Wright, prosecuting attorney.
							Franklin P. Randall was named as master in chancery for the circuit court. . . .
							Reuben J. Dawson was elected judge of the probate court.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXVIII—1840-1842. Fort Wayne City
						Incorporated—The First Officials and Their Work.
					The town votes to become a city—Franklin P. Randall prepares the
						charter—George W. Wood the first choice of the voters to serve as mayor—New
						city officials confronted by many vexatious problems—Rapid growth of the
						town—Canal troubles—Indiana's fatal misstep—The earliest bands of
						music—Building of the second courthouse—The organization of the Fort Wayne
						Guards—Establishment of the Fort Wayne Times—Joseph Morgan chosen to succeed
						Mayor Wood—The failure of the silk culture enterprise.
					THE TOWN of Fort Wayne, in the summer of 1839, awoke to a realization
						of the unfitness of its primitive form of government. For a period of eleven years the
						management of the business of the village corporation had been entirely in the hands of
						a board of trustees elected annually. Now it became apparent that a forward step should
						be taken by incorporating as a city to be governed by a charter which should provide for
						the election of a mayor and a board of aldermen.
					As yet, the town owned no public buildings. The problem of public improvements had
						grown too large to be handled in a small way. The legality of many of the acts of the
						board of trustees had been questioned, and the usefulness of the board was weakened
						thereby.
					Finally, Franklin P. Randall was asked to prepare a city charter for the government of
						the town and this was approved by the state legislature on Washington's birthday, 1840.
						The original document is preserved by Mrs. Clark Fairbank, among the effects of her
						father, Mr. Randall. The charter provided for the election of a president, or mayor, and
						a board of six aldermen (city council) who should select the minor officials of the
						city.
					
						THE FIRST CITY OFFICIALS.
						The vote on the question of the adoption of the charter stood 116 to 53, the citizens
							of the town so expressing themselves at an election held at the court house on the 1st
							of March. The election inspectors were Reuben J. Dawson, J. E. Hill and Thomas
							Hamilton.
						The voters chose as their mayor George W. Wood. Of Mr. Wood and his activities in
							building up the city of Fort Wayne these pages will suggest an outline. The first
							board of aldermen was composed of Thomas Hamilton, William Rockhill, William S.
							Edsall, William L. Moon, Samuel Edsall and Madison Sweetser. There was a tie vote
							between Mr. Sweetser and Joseph Morgan which was decided by the vote of the
							inspectors. Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Sweetser resigned in May and were succeeded by John
							E. Hill and Joseph Morgan, selected at a special election held at the courthouse.
						The council met in its initial session March 7, and selected the following city
							officers: Clerk or recorder, Franklin P. Randall.  (The
							mayor decided a tie vote between Mr. Randall and Addison Merrill.) Treasurer, George
							F. Wright. High constable, or marshal, Samuel S. Morss. Collector of Taxes, Samuel S.
							Morss, succeeded by Joseph Berkey. Lumber measurer, John B. Cocanour. Attorney, Lucien
							P. Ferry. (The mayor decided a tie vote between Mr. Ferry and Franklin P. Randall.)
							Assessor, Robert E. Fleming. Street commissioner, Joseph H. McMaken.
						The new city officials found themselves confronted by many vexatious problems. When
							property owners along Calhoun street petitioned for wooden sidewalk curbings on
							account of "the lowness of a considerable portion of the ground through which Calhoun
							street passes, south of the Wabash and Erie canal [now Nickel Plate railway]" and
							added that "the unimproved condition of the same renders it almost impassable for man
							or beast," they were asking for an improvement the like of which came from every
							section of the town. The recods of the first year's activities are filled with orders
							similar to that which gave direction for the abolishment of "the slaughter house at
							the west end of Columbia street and the pond of water and the old warehouse opposite
							the mayor's house." As late as 1849, the council ordered the street commissioner to
							"drain the pond on each side of Clinton street near the Branch bank [Clinton and Berry
							streets]."
						In 1840, the population of the town had grown from 300 in 1830 to nearly seven times
							that number; the official census places the number at 2,080. The development of the
							rural community is shown by the fact that in 1840 the taxable lands in Allen county
							amounted to 58,717 acres, while in 1841 the area increased to 202,709 acres.
						Mayor Wood was re-elected in 1841.1 The second council was composed of Hiram T. Dewey, Philo Rumsey, Henry
							Sharp, A. S. Johns, Charles G. French and William L. Moon. The mayor's personal
							affairs, however, appear to have claimed so much of his attention that he asked the
							council to release him on the 5th of July, 1841.
					
					
						JOSEPH MORGAN, MAYOR.
						A special election resulted in the choice of Joseph Morgan. Fort Wayne's second
							mayor, like his predecessor, was a man of activity and public spirit. He had removed
							to Fort Wayne from Dearborn county, Indiana, in 1832. His son, Oliver P. Morgan,
							became a leading hardware merchant, a bank director and a school trustee.
					
					
						CANAL TROUBLES IN INDIANA AND OHIO.
						The year 1840 brought its serious problems connected with the construction of the
							Wabash and Erie canal. While the state of Indiana was now beginning to experience
							difficulties, Ohio, on account of its sparse settlements along the route of the
							waterway in that state, was in a still worse condition and did not push forward the
							completion of the northern end of the canal. This proved embarrassing to Indiana, for,
							unless the outlet into Lake Erie were provided, the great thoroughfare would fail of
							its mission. The Indiana legislature, becoming impatient over the delay, passed a
							joint resolution "that it shall be the duty of the chief engineer  [Jesse L. Williams] to proceed immediately to the seat of government of
							the state of Ohio, and in a respectful manner to urge upon the consideration of the
							members of the legislature of that state the necessity of speedy completion of the
							Wabash and Erie canal from the Indiana state line to the Maumee bay, in compliance
							with the compacts heretofore made between the two states in relation thereto." Mr.
							Williams performed his mission. The work was renewed on the Ohio end of the canal, but
							sickness among the workmen and the want of building stone delayed the progress of the
							operations.
						Other difficulties now presented themselves in Indiana. The state had borrowed, for
							the extension of the southern portion of 
								CHIEF FRANCIS LAFONTAINE.
								The original oil painting from which the pen drawing was made hangs on the wall
									of the home of Chief LaFontaine's daughter, Mrs. Archangel Engelmann, who lives in
									the house built by her father in 1841, on the reserve west of Huntington, Indiana.
									LaFontaine, became the chief of the Miamis on the death of Richardville, in 1841.
									He was born near Fort Wayne in 1810. His wife was Catherine (Po-gon-go-quah),
									daughter of Richardville. The death of LaFontaine occurred in 1847 while he was on
									his return home from the trip to the western reservations to which the Miamis had
									been transferred. He was the last of the reigning chiefs of his tribe. About two
									years after his death the widow became the wife of Francis D. Lasselle, but she
									lived only a short period thereafter.
							
							
								CHIEF LAFONTAINE'S CHAIR.
								In daily use in the home of his daughter, Mrs. Engelmann, west of Huntington,
									Indiana, is the walnut rocking chair made for the especial use of Chief Francis
									LaFontaine. "My father was a large, robust man," says Mrs. Engelmann, "usually
									weighing about 360 pounds. The chair was made for his comfort, and was provided
									with a drawer beneath the seat in which he kept his tobacco and pipes." Two
									persons of ordinary stature may sit side by side in the chair.
							 the canal, the sum of $241,742.58, and $950,000 more had been raised through
							the floating of a bond issue. To these amounts was added, in 1837, $1,650,000, for the
							general system of improvement, and for the Wabash and Erie extension east of the
							Tippecanoe river, $400,000. In the next year the market was flooded with bonds to a
							total of $1,800,000, and in 1839 with $1,632,000. The rapid sale of the bonds for the
							general system seriously affected the market for the Wabash and Erie canal bonds, and
							this condition is considered as primarily responsible for the ultimate failure of the
							single project which could have been made a great and permanent success.
						
						Already the credit of the state had been extended beyond reasonable limits. Then came
							the failure of the Morris Canal and Banking company, of New York, which owed the state
							on bonds which it had purchased on credit $2,112,200. The estimated total loss to the
							state in the negotiation of the sale of bonds on credit was $3,183,461. By 1841, the
							state had piled up a debt of $13,148,453. Unknown to all except those in close touch
							with the stupendous work, the general system of improvement was already wrecked, and
							from this time forward the Wabash and Erie canal experienced a futile struggle for
							existence.
						However, the people of the west realized but little the true condition, and the
							entire region looked forward with hopefulness and enthusiasm to the time of the
							completion of the waterway.
					
					
						THE FIRST BANDS OF MUSIC.
						The bustling town, in the midst of the activities preceding the opening of the canal
							to Toledo, showed its advancement in various ways. One of these—the organization
							of the first band of music—developed in 1840. This pioneer organization was
							called 
								SOL D. BAYLESS.
								The name of Sol D. Bayless is perpetuated in that of one of the leading fraternal
									societies of Fort Wayne, the Sol D. Bayless lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, No.
									359. Mr. Bayless was born in Butler county, Ohio, in 1814. From the beginning of
									his Masonic career in 1841 he was recognized as an ardent student of the
									principles and work of the order. He was the editor of the Indiana Freemason for
									two years, and then became the manager of the Mystic Star, another Masonic
									publication. Mr. Bayless was an attorney of note, but gave much attention to real
									estate and insurance. He was the government's first pension agent of the Fort
									Wayne district. Referring to his funeral, in 1875, the Fort Wayne Sentinel says it
									was "the grandest Masonic pageant ever witnessed in this state, and probably the
									finest ever seen in the west."
							
							
								JUDGE PETER P. BAILEY.
								Judge Bailey came from New York to Fort Wayne in 1842 and established a hardware
									store at the northeast corner of Columbia and Clinton streets, and later became
									interested in various other enterprises, including the Merchants' National bank,
									organized in 1865, of which he was the president. He became president of the Fort
									Wayne and Cincinnati railroad projected by way of Bluffton and Winchester, Ind.,
									and Hamilton, Ohio. In 1858 Judge Bailey became the editor of the Fort Wayne
									Republican. In his later years he removed to Mississippi and was chosen to be
									chancellor of a large area of the state. In his early years Judge Bailey was a
									prominent church, man; he was one of the founders and staunch supporters of
									Trinity Episcopal church. His children now living (1917) are General Clarence M.
									Bailey, U. S. A., retired; Colonel Hobart K. Bailey, U. S. A., retired; and Mrs.
									Charles D. Gorham, of Fort Wayne. Judge Bailey died in Fort Wayne January 26,
									1899. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by Mrs. Gorham.
							
							 Chamberlain's band of martial music; its members were
							Orff Chamberlain and William Chamberlain, snare drummers; Henry Chamberlain, bass
							drummer, and Henry Smith and John Waters, fife majors.
						The first musical organization, aside from the players of martial music, was the
							Kekionga, or Kekiogue, brass band, organized two years later. Citizens purchased the
							instruments for the members, who, under the direction of a Mr. Hoffman, developed
							into, creditable musicians. The first public appearance of the band was on the 24th of
							June, when they delighted a large audience. J. J. Snyder was the president of this
							pioneer organization, while T. K. Lewis served as vice-president, F. P. Randall as
							treasurer and H. W. Jones, secretary. Among the members were Peter Kline, George
							DeWald, Jacob Foellinger, Frederick Beach, John Rekers, William Gronauer, John G.
							Maier and Henry Behler, all well-known men in the affairs of the town. A notable event
							in the history of the Kekionga band 
								THE COURTHOUSE SQUARE IN THE FORTIES.
								The view is from a drawing made under the supervision of the late N. C. Miller,
									attorney, who was familiar with the appearance of the courthouse square in the
									'40s. The first courthouse on the public square was erected in 1832 and abandoned
									in 1841. In the latter year a building was erected at the northeast corner of the
									public square for the use of the county auditor and treasurer, and a clerk's
									office was established at the northwest (transfer) corner. At the southwest corner
									was the recorder's office. The second courthouse was built in 1847. Then a
									temporary courthouse—that shown in the sketch—was erected at the
									southeast corner of the square, and the second courthouse torn down. The view
									shows the appearance of the square at this time. In 1853 steps were taken for the
									erection of a courthouse which was dedicated in 1861, at which time all other
									buildings on the square were removed. In 1897 the contract for the present
									courthouse was let.
							 was the honor bestowed upon the organization in an invitation to head
							Governor James Whitcomb's inauguration parade at Indianapolis. The band was considered
							to be the best in the state. The journey of two hundred and forty miles to the capital
							and return was made in two wagons, each drawn by four horses. The single trip required
							three days and three nights.
						In 1845, Charles Strubey organized Strubey's band. Among the members were Henry Orff,
							Martin Foellinger, Frederick Uebelhoer, Henry C. Graffe, Roman Ehinger and John
							Powers. About the year 1857, Henry Orff organized a band which included among  its members Fred J. Reineke and Fred Goebel. In 1861, Mr.
							Orff retired. Mr. Strubey then organized the Union band. Christ Horstman served in
							this latter organization as a drummer and cymbal player. Some time later, Prof. Joseph
							Leiffels organized Leiffels's band, with Charles M. Jones as the leader. In 1868, this
							band gained the supremacy, and the Union band passed out of existence. Later,
							Leiffels's band was known as Jones's band. It was composed at one time of Charles M.
							Jones, director; J. Barrie, J. Cook, Orrin T. Powers, W. V. Douglass, Albert Mayer, J.
							Baxter, C. Horstman, S. C. Stapleford, L. H. Karns, S. D. Makepeace, Henry Stapleford,
							Harvey P. Jones, W. Beals, C. Mart, Charles Morris, W. D. Schiefer and A. S. Johns. In
							1874, Philip Kintz succeeded Charles M. Jones as the director; he continued in the
							work for 
								PETER KISER.
								Peter Kiser (born in Grant county, Ohio, in 1810) was one of the unique
									characters of the early history of Fort Wayne, whose life extended into modern
									days. He came as a pioneer butcher, and remained in business until about 1886. He
									was a man above six feet in height and weighed over 300 pounds. Mr. Kiser could
									neither read nor write, and yet, as a member of the state legislature during two
									sessions, he did much to establish the present school system of Indiana.
							
							
								CHIEF LAFONTAINE'S HOUSE.
								In 1841 Chief Francis LaFontaine, of the Miamis, erected the substantial frame
									house here shown on the reservation west of Huntington, Indiana. It is still
									occupied by his daughter, Mrs. Archangel Engelmann, her children and
									grandchildren. The house is located on the route of the Fort Wayne and Northern
									Indiana traction line, directly opposite the clubhouse of the Huntington Country
									club, which organizaztion leases its tract from Mrs. Engelmann. The house is
									roomy, well furnished and a delightfully hospitable home.
							 thirty-one years. During most of this time, the organization was known as
							the City band. In 1902, when John L. Verweire assumed the leadership, the name was
							changed to the City Packard band; latterly, it was known as the Packard band, but
							since its connection with the order of Elks it has been called the Elks' band.
						Notable among the earlier musical organizations were the First Regiment band,
							organized in 1888 as a part of the First Artillery regiment, and afterward of the
							National Guard, and Gart Shober's band, which was disbanded in 1904.
						Among the later musical organizations were the Citizens' band, B. Heller, director;
							Electrotechnic band, Gart Shober, director; Arion band, C. P. Draeger, director; Boy
							Scouts' band, William D.  Kyle, director; Indiana School
							band, B. J. Thompson, director; Mystic Shrine band, John L. Verweire, director; Polish
							band, B. Celmer, director; Concordia College Military band, Paul Schuelke, director,
							and the Bowser band, D. A. Corey, director.
					
					
						THE SECOND AND THIRD COURTHOUSES.
						The builders of the first Allen county courthouse, in 1832, failed to provide a
							structure of enduring qualities. (See Chapter XXIV.) Already, it had been abandoned as
							unsafe for use. Therefore, on the 10th of September, 1841, the county agent was
							"authorized and required to sell the Allen county courthouse to the highest bidder,
							the 
								DR. HENRY P. AYRES.
								Dr. Ayres came from New Jersey to Fort Wayne in 1842 to practice medicine.
									Previous to entering upon the practice of his profession he spent some time as a
									teacher in Ohio. Among his pupils at that time was he who later became Bishop
									Luers, of the Fort Wayne diocese. Dr. Ayres was a ruling elder in the Presbyterian
									church and a man of wide Christian influence. The portrait is from a photograph
									loaned by Mrs. James B. Harper, a niece.
							
							
								JOHN B. DUBOIS.
								"Squire" DuBois was one of the best-known men of his time in Fort Wayne. Active
									in the affairs of the period, he held the office of justice of the peace of Wayne
									township for many years. During his earlier years he lived in the historic council
									house, on the present East Main street. The portrait is from a photograph loaned
									by George W. Bourie.
							 building to be removed from the courthouse square in thirty days after
							sale." John Spencer was allowed $300 and the courthouse in exchange for his own
							buildings, which had been erected on the courthouse square at the present "transfer"
							corner. One of these was the original home of Colonel Spencer. During the existence of
							the old courthouse after it became unfit for use, a small, one-story frame building
							had been erected at the southeast corner of the square; it contained a court room and
							two offices. It has been termed Allen county's second courthouse. The builders were
							Benjamin Mason, Charles French and John Cocanour. In 1841 a further order caused the
							erection of a frame building at the northeast corner of the square for the
							accommodation of the treasurer and auditor. The clerk's office had been established on
							the northwest corner, in Colonel Spencer's former home, and the recorder's office and
							jail on the southwest corner. Samuel Edsall was the successful bidder in  response to the request for estimates for the erection of
							a new courthouse to occupy a central location in the square. This structure was not
							completed until 1847.
						During a period of six years the court sessions were held in the temporary courthouse
							at the southeast corner of the public square. In 1847 the third courthouse—if
							the temporary structure may be included in the reckoning—was completed by Samuel
							Edsall, the contractor. The building was two stories in height, built of brick and
							surmounted with a steeple; it stood on the east side of the square and cost about
							$15,000. Acrobatic and other performances were given in the court room by such
							traveling entertainers as came to the town. The place was yet without an amusement
							hall.
						The condition of the buildings on the square, previous to the erection of this third
							courthouse, is reflected in a report of the grand jury of 1842, of which I. D. G.
							Nelson was the foreman: "What are termed county buildings, in
									addition to the courthouse and jail—if such they may be called—are a
									mass of worthless trash, unsafe and unfit depositories of public records. The
									courthouse itself is comparatively a heap of ruins and the jail most essentially a
									nuisance. The only place in the county that can be obtained to hold court is a
									[Presbyterian] church used for religious worship, the privilege of which was
									granted with reluctance and is now about to be refused, and the county is likely
									to have a less suitable place, if possible, for holding court than it has for
									holding prisoners."
						In connection with the passing of the original courthouse, an amusing incident, and
							one which might have been attended by tragic results, is related concerning Edward
							Griswold, who had contracted to raze the building. The cupola, or steeple, was first
							removed, leaving a square hole in the roof. Props were then arranged so that by the
							removal of a last binding stay the entire building would collapse. Mr. Griswold, so
							the story goes, failed to consider his own safety, and stood within the structure when
							the last prop was removed. The building came down with a crash. When the cloud of dust
							floated away it was found that the supposed victim happened to stand in the spot over
							which the roof dropped is such form as to allow his escape through the hole left by
							the removal of the cupola.
					
					
						JUDGE WILLIAM POLK.
						President William Henry Harrison, in recognition of the patriotic services of Judge
							William Polk, appointed him, in 1841, to serve at Fort Wayne as register of the land
							office. Judge Polk was at this time sixty-six years of age. He was a native of
							Virginia. As a boy, he, with his mother and three sisters, was captured by the Indians
							at their later home in Kentucky, and carried captive to Detroit, where they were held
							for an entire year before being allowed to return. Always with the memory of this
							experience before him, Polk gave his life to his country's service. He was with Wayne
							at the battle of Fallen Timber, and assisted in building the original Fort Wayne. He
							enlisted with General Harrison in 1811, and received severe wounds at the battle of
							Tippecanoe. As a member of the legislature and in other responsible positions of
							trust, he served well his state. He died in Fort Wayne in 1843.
					
					
					
						THE WAYNE GUARDS.
						The year 1841 gave to Fort Wayne its first military organization, the Wayne Guards,
							if we may except the Fort Wayne Light Infantry which had been summoned hastily to
							suppress the outbreak among the canal workers in 1834. The officers of the Guards
							were: Captain, S. C. Freeman; first lieutenant, Henry Rudisill; second lieutenant, B.
							B. Stevens; ensign, Philo Rumsey; first sergeant, R. McMullan; second sergeant, P. H.
							Oliver; third sergeant, T. B. Cocanour; fourth sergeant, Francis Aveline; first
							corporal, H. T. Dewey; second corporal, R. Chute; third corporal, S. M. Black; fourth
							corporal, E. Stapleford; standard bearer, Peter Kiser; clerk, Franklin P. Randall.
					
					
						THE SECOND NEWSPAPER, THE TIMES.
						In this year also was established Fort Wayne's second newspaper, the Times, founded
							by George W. Wood, who had disposed of his interests in the Sentinel to one of its
							founders, Thomas Tigar, 
								RT. REV. JULIAN BENOIT.
								Born in France in 1808, Monseigneur Benoit came to America for the diocese of
									Vincennes in June, 1836, remained a short time at St. Mary's seminery, Baltimore,
									and was ordained a priest in 1837. After a brief period in southern Indiana and in
									Chicago, he came to Fort Wayne in 1840, secured valuable church property, and
									opened the first sisters' school in 1845. Although he made valuable personal
									investments in Fort Wayne lands and was counted as a man of wealth, he died with
									scarcely enough to purchase a pine coffin; all of his means had been used to
									upbuild the benevolent and educational institutions of the church. He visited
									Europe in 1841, 1865 and 1874. In 1847 he accompanied the Miamis from their
									Indiana lands to their western reservation. In this same year, with the
									establishment of the diocese of Fort Wayne, he was appointed vicar general. In
									1883, Pope Leo XIII gave him the purple and the title of monseigneur. His labors
									carried him to points throughout northern Indiana, and these journeys were made in
									large part on horseback. He was a man of benevolence and kindliness, beloved by
									all who knew him. He died in Fort Wayne December 26, 1886.
							
							
								MRS. ENGELMANN, DAUGHTER OF CHIEF LAFONTAINE.
								Mrs. Archangel Engelmann, with her children and grandchildren, occupies the house
									erected in 1841 by her father, Chief Francis LaFontaine, on the Miami reservation
									west of Huntington, Indiana. Born in 1844, Mrs. Engelmann, with two elder sisters,
									was brought to Fort Wayne at the age of three years and placed in the care of the
									Sisters of Providence, under whose instruction she remained for ten years. This
									training is reflected today in her culture and refinement, which has made her home
									a delightful place of entertainment. The mother of Mrs. Engelmann was Catherine,
									the daughter of Chief Richardville. She is the last of the line of Miami
									princesses of the Richardville stock, as Kil-so-quah was the last of the Little
									Turtle branch of the royal line. Mrs. Matilda Henderson Wheelock, writing in the
									Indianapolis Star of August 22, 1909, says: "Older residents of Huntington
									remember Archangel LaFontaine as one of the handsomest girls of the county, and
									the havoc wrought by this Indian belle in the hearts of the town's white swains is
									one of the traditions of the place." The husband of Mrs. Engelmann, now deceased,
									was a native of Germany. The portrait is from a photograph by Tobias, of
									Huntington.
							
							 in order to secure the funds to embark in the
							enterprise. Mr. Wood sold the Times to Henry W. Jones, who served as its editor until
							1845. Mr. Wood afterward established a campaign paper called the People's Press, which
							later was merged with the Times. Subsequent publishers of the paper were T. N. Hood,
							Warren H. Withers, George W. Wood and John W. Dawson.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1840.
						Bernard O'Connor (born in Ireland in 1820), builder of the first telegraph line in
							America—that extending between Baltimore and Washington—promoted by Henry
							O'Reilly and his associates, settled in Fort Wayne. Other citizens who came during the
							year were Frederick Graffe (born in Brunswick, Germany, in 1809), cabinet maker and
							merchant; Patrick S. O'Rourke (born in Newark, New Jersey, in 1830), superintendent of
							the Grand Rapids and Indiana railroad; Henry Schone (born in Germany, in 1813),
							merchant; Oliver Blystone, Louis Aman, A. Oppenheimer, John Greer and Herman Nierman,
							active and enterprising men; Moses Jenkinson (born in Cincinnati, in 1810), attorney
							and legislator, and Bernard Trentman (born in Hanover, Germany, in 1816), wholesale
							grocer. . . . An interesting incident—one which pictures the perils of the
							times—is given in connection with the coming of Daniel Nestel to Fort Wayne. Mr.
							Nestel was the father of the midgets, Charles and Eliza Nestel, known throughout the
							world as "Commodore Foote" and "The Fairy Queen." Mr. Nestel was a native of
							Carlsbronn, Prussia, born in 1818. When he arrived at New York he had eight cents of
							his money left. He walked nearly the entire distance to Fort Wayne, accompanied by
							Fred Foellinger, who had come with him from Europe. When within about thirty miles of
							Fort Wayne the young men camped for the night, after having walked all day with no
							food but unripe nuts found in the woods. The wolves prowled about them, and, fearing
							they might be destroyed, Mr. Nestel carved these words in the bark of a small tree:
							"D. Nestel and Fred Foellinger, died from hunger and eaten by wolves." The sentiment
							of the "epitaph," like many another, failed to record the facts, for the wanderers
							found themselves alive the next morning and managed to reach the town. For twenty-six
							years Mr. Nestel was a blacksmith in Fort Wayne, and later traveled with his son and
							daughter. . . . The following county officers were elected in 1840: Auditor, Philip G.
							Jones; treasurer, George F. Wright; sheriff, Joseph Berkey; recorder, Robert E.
							Fleming; surveyor, S. M. Black; commissioners, Christian Parker, R. Starkweather and
							H. B. Wright. . . . J. W. Wright, of Logansport, was elected judge of the circuit
							court. The associate judges during his period of service were Nathaniel Coleman,
							Marshall S. Wines and J. H. McMahon; Lucien P. Ferry and William H. Coombs served as
							prosecuting attorneys. . . . In November Samuel Stophlet succeeded Reuben J. Dawson as
							judge of the probate court. Excitement during the presidential campaign ran high.
							William Henry Harrison received 640 votes in Allen county as against 399 for Martin
							Van Buren . . . A new and short-lived industry came into existence in 1840—the
							culture of silk. After many citizens had entered extensively into the venture, it was
							found  that the climatic or soil conditions were
							unfavorable to the growing of mulberry trees, upon the leaves of which the silk worm
							thrives. . . The first home in Fort Wayne to be graced by the presence of a Christmas
							tree was that of Dr. Charles A. Schmitz, in 1840. The Schmitz home stood on the site
							of the building on Calhoun street 
								DR. WILLIAM H. BROOKS.
								For half a century Dr. Brooks was a leading medical practitioner in Fort Wayne,
									and during this time he interested himself in many of the town's progressive
									interests. He established himself in Fort Wayne in 1841. As a member of the local
									and state medical societies he became known prominently throughout Indiana.
							
							
								THE TERRITORIAL EXPANSION OF FORT WAYNE.
								The original area of the city of Fort Wayne, as set forth in the city charter of
									1840, is indicated by the white section in the diagram. The area in 1917 is shown
									by the shaded portion.
							 which adjoins the Noll (formerly Schmitz) block, on the north. In June of
							1840 Dr. Schmitz arranged for the shipment of the tree from Cincinnati to Fort Wayne
							over the canal. On Christmas eve this tree, glittering with candles and brilliant
							ornaments and decorations, was viewed by a company of invited guests. An infant
							daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Schmitz was placed in a basket beneath the tree, and the
							guests, including a number of Indians, were admitted. The beautiful tree brought
							exclamations of delight from the red men, but it is recorded that they found the baby
							a more lasting object of admiration. . . . Rev. Julian Benoit, a distinguished
							missionary of the Catholic church, assigned to the charge of the affairs of the church
							at Fort Wayne, arrived, in 1840, to begin his long service. He became the first vicar
							general of the Catholic diocese in Fort Wayne.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1841.
						Smalwood Noel was appointed postmaster to succeed Henry Rudisill. . . . Allen
							county's first agricultural society, organized in 1841, was officered as follows:
							President, Colonel N. A. Woodward; vice-president, Samuel Hanna; treasurer, Joseph
							Berkey; secretary, Henry Rudisill. The organization held several fairs and exhibitions
							during succeeding years. . . . The prevalence of criminals, especially horse thieves,
							incendiaries and counterfeiters brought into existence an organization whose object
							was the detection and punishment of the offenders. Lott S. Bayless acted as  chairman of the organization meeting, with B. B. Stevens
							as secretary. The committee on by-laws was composed of Joseph Morgan, Hugh McCulloch,
							G. W. Wood, Samuel Hanna and Joseph Berkey. . . . John P. Jones, of Baltimore, opened
							a select school. . . William Robinson established a sash factory on Duck street,
							operated by water power from the canal. . . S. Leard became the landlord of Washington
							house and changed the name to the New York and Indiana house. . .. Michael Koehler
							established a brick yard. . . . Among the leading citizens to locate in Fort Wayne in
							1841 were Dr. W. H. Brooks (born in Worcester county, Massachusetts in 1813); Claus
							Peters (born in Germany, in 1813), contractor and builder; Clement A. Rekers (born at
							Plantlulene, Germany, in 1829), merchant, and William H. Bryant (born at Florence,
							Ohio, in 1817), street commissioner and county commissioner. . . . I. D. G. Nelson
							succeeded Major Samuel Lewis as 
								FRANKLIN P. RANDALL'S ORIGINAL DRAFT OF THE CITY CHARTER.
								The engraving is a photographic reproduction of sections 1 and 3 of the charter
									of the city of Fort Wayne as adopted by the Indiana legislature in 1840. The
									original manuscript, writen by Franklin P. Randall, has been preserved among Mr.
									Randall's papers by his daughter, Mrs. Clark Fairbank.
							
							 receiver of the canal land office at Fort Wayne. . . .
							Joseph Sinclear was chosen state senator and Lewis G. Thompson state representative. .
							. Samuel Stophlet was elected judge of the probate court.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1842.
						New industries established during the year 1842 included the sawmills of William
							Rockhill and Samuel Edsall, on the north side of the canal, and the flouring mill (now
							the City mills of C. Tresselt and Sons) on the canal at Clinton street, by Allen
							Hamilton and Jesse L. Williams. The latter mills were operated by water-power from the
							canal. . . . Bernard Rekers opened an orphan asylum at the corner of Wayne and Webster
							streets. . . . An important canal shipment of the year included a cargo of 45,000
							hoop-poles and 250 barrels of cranberries from Fort Wayne to New Orleans . . . Dr.
							Henry P. Ayers (born at Morristown, New Jersey, in 1813), later a leading physician,
							located in Fort Wayne. . . . Judge Peter P. Bailey (born in Marlboro, New York, in
							1812), who became a prominent merchant, banker, editor and railroad builder, came to
							Fort Wayne and established a hardware store at the corner of Columbia and Clinton
							streets. In his latter years, he became a resident of Mississippi, where he held a
							judicial position with jurisdiction over nearly one-half of the state. . . . Stephen
							Bond, merchant, and his family came from the east and settled permanently in Fort
							Wayne; the sons, Charles D., Stephen B., Henry W., and Jared D., rose to places of
							prominence in the financial and commercial world. Claude A. Cour (born near Paris,
							France, in 1822), pioneer merchant, came in 1842; from Germany came Peter Coling,
							William Baade and Frederick Hochstetter. Volney Parks (born in Dearborn county,
							Indiana, in 1819), building and railroad contractor and lumber merchant, located in
							Fort Wayne this year. James W. Borden was elected judge of the circuit court, serving
							until 1851; during his term of service the following associate judges occupied the
							bench: Nathaniel Coleman, R. Starkweather, J. H. McMahon and Andrew Metzgar.
							Prosecuting attorneys who served during the same period were William H. Coombs, L. C.
							Jacoby, Robert L. Douglass, Elza A. McMahon, Joseph Brackenridge, James L. Worden and
							Edward R. Wilson. . . . Lucien P. Ferry was elected state representative. Marshall S.
							Wines, also elected to the legislature, died during his term, and L. G. Thompson was
							elected to the place at a special election.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXVIII.
						(1) Officers chosen by the council of
								1841 were: Recorder and attorney, Franklin P. Randall; treasurer, George F. Wright;
								high constable, Richard McMullen, succeeded by Bradbury B. Stevens; assessor, S. M.
								Black; lumber measurer, John B. Cocanour; flour inspector, Daniel McGinnis; tax
								collector, Bradbury B. Stevens.
							Officers chosen by the council of 1842 constable, Bradbury B. Stevens (succeeded by
								James Crumley); treasurer, George F. Wright (succeeded by Oliver W. Jefferds);
								assessor, R. E. Fleming; flour inspector, Daniel McGinnis (succeeded by Daniel
								Garnsey); attorney, Henry Cooper; chief engineer, W. L. Moon; surveyor, Ochmig Bird;
								street were: Recorder, William Lytle; high commissioner, Henry Lotz; collector,  Edward Stapleford; board of health, Drs. W. H. Brooks,
								J. Evans and B. Sevenick.
							The following county officers were elected in 1842: Auditor, S. S. Morss;
								treasurer, T. K. Brackenridge; sheriff, Bradbury B. Stevens; recorder, Robert E.
								Fleming; surveyor, S. M. Black; coroner, Joseph Stratton; commissioners, Robert
								Briggs, R. Starkweather and Joseph Hall.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXIX—1843. The Great Canal
						Celebration—General Cass's Address.
					The canal is opened between Toledo and Lafayette—The memorable Fourth of July,
						1843—Commodore Perry's cannon booms a welcome to the visitors—The Toledo
						Guards—The parade—The exercises at the Swinney farm, now Swinney
						park—General Cass's address—Peter Kiser and the barbecue—The
						toasts—General Cass receives a "ducking"—Promoters of the
						celebration—The packets and the freight boats—Early boat
						owners—Passenger and freight rates—Henry Lotz, mayor—The first daily
						mail—Highway building—The first daguerreotypes—"Johnnie
						Appleseed."
					IF, PREVIOUS TO 1843, any village or hamlet of enlightened America
						were yet in ignorance of the existence of a town bearing the name of Fort Wayne, in
						northeastern Indiana, that condition was forever removed in the summer of this memorable
						year. For the newspapers throughout the land heralded the announcement of the final
						accomplishment of one of the great commercial and engineering feats of the age, the
						completion of the Wabash and Erie canal from Toledo, Ohio, to Lafayette, Indiana, with
						Fort Wayne as the central port on the waterway.
					Upon the busy town of Fort Wayne, where a monster central celebration was held on the
						4th of July, the eyes of a forward-looking nation were centered.
					At the sunrise hour of the memorable day, a cannon—a souvenir from one of the
						British vessels captured in Perry's victory in 1813—boomed a noisy greeting to the
						visitors, chief among whom was General Lewis Cass, one of the nation's foremost figures.
						This cannon, employed on many subsequent occasions, caused the death of one man and
						seriously injured several others. It was then used as a hitching post in front of the
						residence of Mrs. Clark Fairbank until 1916, when, upon the sale of the property, it was
						given to the city to be mounted in Hayden park.
					Describing the canal celebration, the Sentinel of July 15, 1843, says: "On the Saturday evening [July 1] previous, the guests began to
								arrive, and by Sunday night the taverns were overflowing.
							"On Monday afternoon the canal boats began to line our wharves, and continued
								without intermission through the night to land their passengers. Each boat was met
								on its arrival by the reception committee, who took the passengers to the houses
								where they were to make their homes during their visit.
							"On Monday night the Toledo Guards arrived, and, having brought their camp equipage
								with them, pitched their tents on a beautiful green west of the city. Their splendid
								appearance and martial bearing added much to the celebration. On Tuesday morning
								about 6 o'clock General Lewis Cass, the orator of the day, arrived in the packet
								boat Ohio and was escorted to the mansion of Allen Hamilton, Esq., where he remained
								during his sojourn, and where he was visited by many of our citizens, who were
								pleased with  the urbanity and affability of his
								deportment and with the boundless hospitality of his host.
							"Throughout the forenoon, visitors from the interior of the country remote from the
								canal line flocked in by hundreds, on horseback or in wagons and in vehicles of
								every description. The canal boats extended in double tier the whole length of the
								city, from the upper to the lower basin [from Lafayette to Harrison streets], and,
								being mostly decorated with flags, gave our wharf a very interesting appearance.
							"The following gentlemen served as officers of the day: Marshal, Samuel Edsall.
								Assistant marshals, Colonel Sigler, General Curtis, General Hanes, S. S. Tipton,
								Alexander Wilson, Colonel Pollard, Captain Rudisill, Captain Stophlet, Captain
								Ferry, Captain Morgan, Colonel Lotz, S. C. Freeman, R. Bird, B. B. Stevens, Wolkie,
								Schmitz, Trentman, T. K. Brackenridge, C. S. Evans.
							"At 11 o'clock an immense procession was formed on the public square, and marched
								to a beautiful shady grove on the farm of Colonel Swinney [the present Swinney
								park], where the exercises of the day were performed. The procession was nearly a
								mile in length and was enlivened by several bands of music. Following was the order
								of procession:
							"Martial music, Toledo Guards, Revolutionary soldiers and soldiers of the late war
								(1812) with national colors; General Cass, orator; Hugh McCulloch, reader; Rev. Mr.
								Boyd, chaplain; Ethan A. Brown, president; W. G. Ewing, Samuel Hanna, Jesse L.
								Williams, Allen Hamilton, Robert Brackenridge, A. S. White, E. A. Hannegan, J. E.
								Hunt, R. Dickerson, S. Medbury, General Myres, Colonel Pepper, L. B. Wilson, Jesse
								D. Bright, J. H. Bradley, James Blair, S. Fisher, E. Murray, P. Evans, W. W. Barlow,
								Colonel Rayburn, Judge Keller, Colonel Hanna, Mr. Taber, Mr. Pratt, General Wiley,
								General Walker, Mr. Robbinson, J. S. Hanna, H. Ellsworth (vice-presidents), ladies,
								Defiance band, invited guests, committees, Marion band, engineer corps, German band,
								citizens of Ohio and other states, Miami warriors, Kekionga band, citizens of
								Indiana."
						
					The immense crowd gathered at the site of Swinney park, where those within the reach of
						the voice of General Cass listened with enthusiasm to his famous oration marking the
						completion of the main portion of the great canal. The exercises were opened with
						patriotic selections by the bands, followed by the chaplain's prayer and the reading of
						the Declaration of Independence by Judge McCulloch. The stirring address of General Cass
						was frequently punctured by the firing of a cannon, which excited the cheers of the
						multitude without the range of his voice. Said the speaker in the course of his address:
							"We have come here to rejoice together. Memorable deeds make
								memorable days. There is a power of association given to man, which binds together
								the past and the present, and connects both with the future. Great events hallow the
								sites where they pass. Their returning anniversaries, so long as these are
								remembered, are kept with sorrow or joy as they are prosperous or adverse. Today a
								new work is born, a work of peace, not of war. We are celebrating a triumph of art
								and not of arms. Centuries hence, we may hope the river you have made will flow both
								east and west, bearing upon  its bosom the riches of a
								prosperous people, and that our descendants will come to keep the day which we have
								come to mark; and that as it returns they will remember the exertions of their
								ancestors while they gather the harvest."
					The entire company was provided with a free barbecue dinner served under the direction
						of Peter Kiser. Mr. Kiser had purchased two fat oxen near Lafayette and had planned to
						bring them from the Wea prairie to Fort Wayne in a canal boat. The animals refused to
						enter the boat, however, and Mr. Kiser was forced to drive them to Fort Wayne, a
						distance of 110 miles, consuming eleven days in the trip.
					A series of toasts, given under the guidance of Jesse L. Williams, chief engineer of
						the canal, followed the dinner. Among the speakers from abroad were United States
						Senators Albert S. White and E. A. Hannegan; Henry L. Ellsworth, commissioner of
						patents, 
							WABASH AND ERIE CANAL AQUEDUCT AT FORT WAYNE.
							The Wabash and Erie canal crossed the St. Mary's river in the town of Fort Wayne at
								a point between the present two Nickel Plate railroad bridges. The picture is after
								a drawing made by Ellis Kaiser, now of Springfield, Missouri, presented in 1916 to
								Louis S. C. Schroeder.
						 and Governor Ethan Allen Brown. Local speakers, including W. G. Ewing and
						Judge Hanna, followed. Letters of enthusiastic greeting from many of the nation's
						distinguished men were read. The original letters are owned by Mrs. Clark Fairbank,
						whose father, Franklin P. Randall, was a member of the invitation committee. Among the
						writers were President Martin Van Buren, Henry Clay, General Winfield Scott, Daniel
						Webster, Colonel Richard M. Johnson, of Kentucky; John McLean, of Illinois; J. C.
						Spencer, of Washington; Levi Woodbury, of New Hampshire; John Law, of Indianapolis;
						Samuel B. Ruggles, of New York; William C. Bouk, of Albany; D. S. Dickinson, of New
						York; W. Woodbridge, of Michigan; Captain Robert B. McAfee, of Kentucky; O. H. Smith, of
						Indianapolis; James Earll, Jr., of Albany, New York; G. W. B. Clinton, of Buffalo, New
						York; T. A. Howard, of Rockville, Indiana; William Hendricks, of Madison, Indiana;
						Colonel John Johnston, of Upper Piqua, Ohio, and Robert Young, of Ohio.
					
					Much of the story as here given is obtained from the files of the Fort Wayne Sentinel.
						From a description of the day by other newspaper writers, many interesting side lights
						have appeared. The arrival of General Cass is thus described by LeRoy Armstrong in the
						Lafayette (Indiana) Journal, of September 25, 1899: "A local
								poet had written some grandiloquent lines and it was part of the ceremony that these
								verses should be read to the statesman as he disembarked [from the canal boat]. The
								gangplank was not securely stayed, and while General Cass stood listening to the
								phrases he could not understand, the plank slipped and down went the thriftiest of
								trimmers. He came up moist but fervid and won Indiana to his presidential
								plans."
					The celebration of the opening of the canal had been arranged at a mass meeting held at
						the American house, May 17, with Judge Hanna in the chair and Thomas Tigar and H. W.
						Jones acting as secretaries. The following committees were named for the 
							GENERAL WINFIELD SCOTT'S LETTER.
							Among the men who were invited to participate in the celebration of the opening of
								the Wabash and Erie canal was General Winfield Scott, at that time
								commander-in-chief of the United States army. In his letter of regret, General Scott
								said: "The completion of the canal uniting the Wabash with Lake Erie is one of those
								works which cannot fail greatly to benefit more than one quarter, and to shed joy
								over the remaining parts of the union. It marks the progress of the age. That its
								results may more than realize the anticipations of its patriotic projectors and
								supporters is the prayer of your fellow citizen." Three years after the writing of
								the letter General Scott was leading the United States armies in the Mexican war; he
								was the unsuccessful whig candidate for president in 1852. The original letter is
								among the papers of the late Franklin P. Randall, in possession of his daughter,
								Mrs. Clark Fairbank.
						
						 management of the celebration: On correspondence and
						invitation—Jesse L. Williams, Franklin P. Randall, Hugh McCulloch, Henry Rudisill,
						Dr. P. G. Jones, I. D. G. Nelson, Dr. L. G. Thompson, Captain James Berkey and Philo
						Rumsey. On arrangements—Messrs. Nelson, Thompson and Hanna, W. M. Hubbell, W. S.
						Edsall and William Rockhill. On reception—Mayor Henry Lotz and the members of the
						city council, T. W. Swinney, M. W. Huxford, Henry Rudisill, Robert Brackenridge, Jr.,
						Dr. Charles E. Sturgis, Samuel Edsall, Allen Hamilton, Thomas Hamilton, David H.
						Colerick, Dr. Lewis Beecher, Asa Fairfield, W. G. Ewing, Thomas Johnson, B. B. Stevens,
						Madison Sweetser, D. F. Comparet and Messrs. Townley, Iten, Jones, Hull and Pritchard.
						Three men in each township of the county were chosen to raise funds for the
						entertainment of the guests.
					
						TRAFFIC ON THE CANAL.
						The first boat to pass from Toledo to Lafayette was the Albert S. White, Captain
							Cyrus Belden, of Toledo. The boat was warmly welcomed at Fort Wayne. From this time
							forward the canal was 
								THE ORFF (EDSALL) MILL.
								The drawing, from a photograph, shows the Orff, or Edsall, mill (known later as
									the Empire mill and commonly called "the old stone mill") as it stood while the
									machinery was operated by waterpower furnished by the Wabash and Erie canal. An
									over-shot wheel was used. The erection of the mill was begun in 1843 by Samuel
									Edsall. Milford Smith was admitted as a partner, and later the business passed to
									Orff, Armstrong & Lacy, but John Orff afterward became the sole proprietor;
									later, it passed to his sons, John, Jr., C. E. and Montgomery Orff. In later years
									the mill was operated by steam power. It stood on the east bank of the St. Mary's
									river, a few rods north of the Main street bridge.
							 the common highway for freight and passenger service between the east and
							the southwest. Packet fares for passengers were established as follows: Fort Wayne to
							Toledo, 104 miles, $3.25; to Lafayette, 138 miles, $3.75; to Cincinnati, 221 miles,
							$6.75.
						Among the captains of the packets, the highest class passenger boats on the canal,
							the following are remembered: Thomas B. Filton, W. S. B. Hubbell, M. Van Home, John M.
							Wighton, Clark Smith, Byron D. Angell, William Sturgis, Benjamin Ayres, George
							Hoskinson, William Phillips, George Alvord, James Popple, Nathan  Nettleton, Thomas B. McCarty, Christian Snavely, J. E. Motherwell, Charles
							Sherwood, Elias Webb, William Dale, George D. Davis and J. R. Smith. Referring to the
							old canal days, Byron D. Angell says (1917): "The Dickeys owned a packet line on the
							canal which, in 1849, was purchased by Jerome Petrie, of Little Falls, New York. Mr.
							Petrie purchased a number of packets which had been in use on the Erie canal and when
							they reached the Wabash and Erie canal it was found that they were twenty feet too
							long to enter the locks. A section was removed from the middle of each boat. In 1852 I
							was sent to Terre Haute as the agent of the canal at that place, and in the following
							year was made a captain of the Queen City, one of the best packets plying between
							Terre Haute and Lafayette. Later I was the captain of boats running between Lafayette
							and Toledo, and finally had charge of the canal office at Lafayette. One who lives in
							the present day has no conception of the Fort Wayne of the days of the old Wabash and
							Erie canal. Time had wrought wonderful transformations."
						The sleeping berths for first-class passengers in the packet boats were generally
							arranged on each side of the upper cabin in two rows, one above the other, and some
							were made to be folded into small compass when not in use. Many passengers on crowded
							packets slept on the floor, though cots and hammocks were 
								GENERAL LEWIS CASS.
								General Cass, the guest of honor and chief speaker on the occasion of the
									celebration of the completion of the main section of the Wabash and Erie canal,
									was influential largely in the development of the middle west. Born in Exeter, N.
									H., in 1782, he served in the war of 1812, was governor of Michigan territory
									(1813-1831); secretary of war (1831-1836); minister to France (1836-1842); United
									States senator (1845-1848); presidential candidate (1848); United States senator
									(1849-1857); secretary of state 1857-1860). He died in Detroit in 1866. General
									Cass explored a large portion of the middle west by means of canoes and the use of
									horses, and concluded valuable treaties with the Indians by which vast areas of
									Indiana and Michigan lands were secured by the government.
							
							
								NATHANIEL P. STOCKBRIDGE.
								Mr. Stockbridge was a native of Maine. He came to Fort Wayne in 1843, and for a
									period of ten years managed the hardware store of H. Durrie & Company, which
									was the beginning of the Morgan & Beach, store of later years. In 1853, he
									purchased the book and stationery store of D. W. Burroughs, the pioneer
									establishment of its kind in Fort Wayne, and the business was developed into one
									of the largest retail and wholesale enterprises of the time. The portrait is from
									a photograph loaned by Charles A. Stockbridge, a son.
							
							 frequently provided. Thirty-five to forty passengers
							constituted a good load. The dining room was below, usually in the middle of the
							boat.
						From two to six horses were employed, depending upon the size of the boat and the
							load. These horses usually traveled on a trot, the driver sitting astride the left
							rear, or saddle horse, and a pace of from six to eight miles an hour was maintained.
							Sometimes the relay horses were carried on the packet, as they were on the freight
							boats, but the horses were usually stationed at regular and convenient ports.
						One of the most important through lines of packets established on the canal was that
							of Samuel Doyle and William Dickey, operating eleven boats and one steam propeller. D.
							F. Comparet operated six boats and two steamers. The first steam-propelled boat, the
							"Niagara," was built for William Doyle at a cost of $10,000. It proved to be a
							financial failure.
						The rates for conveying freight established in 1843 were as follows: Flour, pork,
							lard, bacon and meats, not exceeding 100 miles, 7½ mills per mile, for 1,000 pounds;
							for each mile in addition, not exceeding 200 miles, 5 mills; for each mile over 200
							miles, 3 mills. On corn, rye, oats, barley and buckwheat, not exceeding 100 miles, 3
							mills per mile per 1,000 pounds; for each mile exceeding 100, 2 mills per mile.
						A picture of a phase of the life of the town in the early forties is given by John W.
							Dawson, in his "Charcoal Sketches." Says he: 
								THE HEDEKIN HOUSE.
								In the years 1843 and 1844, Michael Hedekin built the Hedekin house, the upper
									floors of which are yet used as a hotel, while the lower floor is devoted to
									retail business purposes. It stands on the east side of Barr street, between
									Columbia and Main streets. Calvin Anderson became the first landlord, in 1846.
									Among the earlier lessees and owners of the place were J. Johnson, J. J. Knox, J.
									C. Gaylord, Ely Kerns, H. J. H. Mills, Mr. Wolf, Avery Freeman, Mr. Dennison,
									Edward Purcell and Jacob Swaidner. The Hedekin house, a famous hotel of its time,
									stands as a reminder of the days of the stage coach and the canal packet.
							
							
								HENRY LOTZ, FORT WAYNE'S THIRD MAYOR.
								Mr. Lotz, upon the resignation of Joseph Morgan, was elected as Fort Wayne's
									third mayor, in 1843; he was re-elected in 1844. He was a prominent contractor and
									builder, one of the products of his hands being the first canal aqueduct to span
									the St. Mary's river in Fort Wayne. Mayor Lotz came to Fort Wayne from New Berlin,
									Pa. The portrait is from an oil painting in the possession of the grandaughter of
									Mr. Lotz, Mrs. James B. Harper.
							
							
							"Behind the buildings which front on Columbia street was a
									space between them and the canal which was called 'the Dock,' and there all boats
									landed and received and discharged freight and passengers, and to 'the Dock'
									people resorted for pleasure and business. The boat horn announced the arrival and
									the departure of the packets, and it was a sweet sound to us who were locked in by
									swamps and distances."
						To this picture we add a comment of the late David H. Colerick: "And with what pleasure did we frequently repair to the dock on her [the
									Indiana's] arrival (an event of no small interest to us isolated beings) which was
									always heralded by the clarionet and violin of Ed Parker and Bill Patchin,
									employes, as the boat emerged from the aqueduct and rounded the bend west of town.
									Sweeter music I think I never heard than these two men made."
						The early success of the canal brought into being many thriving towns, such as
							Lewisburg, Georgetown, Americus, Lockport and Pittsburgh—all located within a
							day's canal-ride of Fort Wayne—towns of great promise, with prosperous
							warehouses and mills. All of these went down with the collapse of the canal. Others,
							more fortunate, were Huntington, Wabash, Lafayette, Logansport, Covington and Delphi,
							which, although they owed their impetus largely to the canal, were saved, either by
							the coming of the railroad or their grasp upon other sources of strength to preserve
							their civic existence.
						The canal gave to Fort Wayne its first daily mail service. As the result of a meeting
							held in 1843 at the Spencer house, over which Samuel Hanna presided, and S. C. Newton
							acted as secretary, with L. S. Chittenden, Jesse L. Williams and Hugh McCulloch as
							speakers, the canal towns secured one mail each day between Lafayette and Toledo.
					
					
						HENRY LOTZ, MAYOR.
						The voters, in the spring of 1843, chose as their mayor, Henry Lotz,1 a prominent contractor. It was he who built
							the aqueduct across St. Mary's river at a site between the present Nickel Plate
							railway bridges in Fort Wayne.
						One of the interesting ordinances passed by the city council of 1843 fixed a penalty
							"for riding or driving any horse faster than an ordinary gait of traveling, except
							when going for a physician when some person is thought to be dangerously ill." A
							penalty was also prescribed for "riding or driving into any store, grocery, house,
							shop or other building, excepting barns and stables," or other places intended for the
							use of horses.
						An ordinance proposed by Hugh McCulloch was adopted to pacify many irate citizens. It
							provided that the people might allow their swine to roam at will, but that no citizen
							should allow more than two to thus wander over the city streets and private
							property.
					
					
						RURAL HIGHWAYS.
						In 1843, at a meeting at the Spencer house, over which Samuel Hanna presided and S.
							C. Newton acted as secretary, committees were appointed to confer with like committees
							from DeKalb, Noble,  Whitley, Lagrange, Kosciusko and
							Wells counties, to solicit subscriptions for the building of the Bluffton, Lima,
							Goshen, Yellow River, Piqua, Winchester, Van Wert and Huntington roads, and active
							steps were soon taken to construct these highways which have ever since contributed in
							great measure to the upbuilding of the city. The Mongoquinong road was completed in
							1843 by William Mitchell.
					
					
						THE FIRST DAGUERREOTYPES.
						The new photographic method of producing images on silver-coated metallic plates
							known as the daguerreotype, named for its discoverer, was introduced into Fort Wayne
							in 1843.
						A Mr. Keith was the first to open a studio. J. L. Hubbell, a second daguerreotype
							artist, came in the same year. The first man to conduct a permanent "gallery" was a
							Polander, who called himself Colonel Tellagher; he occupied quarters at the Hedekin
							house.
						"He was rather an eccentric genius," observed one of the newspapers of a later date,
							"and did not hesitate to make savage criticism of the women of Fort Wayne, who, he
							said, were the ugliest he ever saw, but who, at the same time, wanted very handsome
							pictures. In spite of the wishes of the fair customers, his camera would tell the
							truth, and he couldn't help it." Other early daguerreotype artists were B. G.
							Cosgrove, C. T. Cornwell, Yearless Day and Archibald McDonald. The latter came in
							1850, and later removed to Canada.
					
					
						"JOHNNIE APPLESEED" (JOHN CHAPMAN).
						The year 1843 brought to a close the life of one of the most unique and widely known
							characters in the pioneer life of the middle west—"Johnnie
							Appleseed"—whose true name was John Chapman. To the memory of this man a tablet
							was placed in Swinney park, Fort Wayne, in May, 1916, and dedicated with appropriate
							ceremonies.
						In 1801, in advance of the settlers, John Chapman, then twenty-six years of age,
							appeared at the head of the Ohio river, with a canoe laden with appleseeds procured
							from the cider mills of Western Pennsylvania. With these, he planted orchards in the
							wilderness, on any suitable vacant land, and in this manner entered upon the years of
							work which attached to him the name of "Johnnie Appleseed." A sister, Persis
							Chapman-Broom, lived in Jay county, Indiana, and to her home Chapman came frequently,
							and nearly as often did he come to Fort Wayne where he was welcomed to many of the
							homes of the time.
						Hiram Porter, of St. Joe township, ninety years of age, with perfect memory of the
							pioneer orchardist, said to the writer in October, 1916: "I
									have a clear recollection of this man who, as I recall it, was commonly called
									Tapman. He frequently stayed at our home, always refusing the comforts of a bed
									and choosing rather to lie on the floor before the fireplace. At one time, I wrote
									a letter for him, directed to a man in Pennsylvania, ordering a half bushel of
									appleseeds, which were received by him some time afterwards. He was a man of many
									peculiar ways. Never would he suffer anything to 
									
										JOHNNIE APPLESEED, HIS HANDWRITING AND HIS BURIAL
											PLACE.
										John Chapman, known as "Johnnie Appleseed," died at the home of William
											Worth, near Fort Wayne, in 1843. "The historical account of his death and his
											burial by the Worths and their neighbors, the Pettits, the Goings, Porters,
											Notestines, Beckets, Parkers, Witesides, Pechons, Hatfields, Parrants,
											Ballards, Randsells and the Archers, in the Archer burial ground, is
											substantially correct," wrote John Archer in 1900. "The common headboards used
											in those days long since have decayed and become entirely obliterated, and at
											this time I do not think that any person could, with any degree of certainty,
											come within fifty feet of locating the grave." The burying ground is located a
											few rods west of Stop 3, on the Robison park electric line. "Johnnie
											Appleseed" is the hero of many interesting works of fiction dealing with the
											story of his life, which was spent in planting apple trees throughout the
											wilderness of the middle west. The portrait and the fac simile of an order for
											apple trees are after engravings which accompanied an article by E. O. Randall
											in Vol. IX of the Ohio Archaeological and Historical society publications. A
											bronze tablet dedicated to the memory of Johnnie Appleseed was placed in
											Swinney park, Fort Wayne, in May, 1916.
									
									 be killed. A snake in his way would be allowed to
									escape in safety. In our home, where he partook of many a meal, he would not touch
									meat because he did not believe in taking the life of animals to provide food for
									human beings. Always he carried a testament, for, while he had difficulty in
									reading, he listened to the Scriptures as they were read to him. If he stubbed his
									toe while walking along the pathway, he would stop and remove his shoe and walk
									barefoot in order to punish the foot for not performing its duty.
								"I recall that he planted a number of trees on the Blake farm about three miles
									out of Fort Wayne on the Leo road. At one time, 
										WHY HENRY CLAY COULD NOT ATTEND THE CANAL
											CELEBRATION.
										Attention to "the growing crops" on the Virginia farm of Henry Clay prevented
											his acceptance of the invitation to attend the canal celebration at Fort
											Wayne. "I duly received your invitation to attend the celebration of the
											completion of the Wabash and Erie canal, on the 4th of next month," he wrote
											to the committee, "and I should be most happy to assist in the ceremonies of
											an event, which reflects so much honor on the enterprize of the states of Ohio
											and Indiana. But I regret I cannot leave home at this busy season of the year,
											the growing crops on my farm being very much behind, in consequence of he
											extremely unfavorable spring which we have just passed. Accept, gentlemen," he
											continued, "my respectful acknowledgment of your obliging invitation, and my
											wishes that the proposed celebration may realize all your expectations." The
											original letter is owned by Mrs. Clark Fairbank.
									
									 he helped my father to transplant about fifteen or
									twenty apple trees from this place to our farm on the Coldwater road. He planted a
									great number of small orchards. Many of these extended along the Wabash river and
									even over into Illinois."
							
						He died on the 11th of March, 1843, at the home of William Worth, and the body,
							placed in a plain board coffin, was interred in the Archer burying ground. Mr. Porter
							accompanied his parents and witnessed the burial. The exact location of the burial
							spot was forgotten and it remained unknown until 1912 when the remains, together with
							a fragment of the box, were discovered while digging a grave. They were replaced, and
							the second body was placed directly above them. The Archer burying ground is a small
							piece of ground located at "Stop 3" on the electric line running between Fort Wayne
							and Robison park.
						The late George W. Brackenridge, speaking of "Johnnie Appleseed," said: "He was simply clad; in truth, like a beggar. His fine
									features, seen through the gray stubble that covered his face (for he cut his hair
									and beard with scissors—yet he was not a Nazarite) told of his intelligence.
									He was serious; his speech was clean, free from slang or profanity. He must have
									had money, but he never exhibited any or looked as if he had any. For undershirts,
									he wore coffee sacks. If he did not find his affinity in heaven, he was
									disappointed."
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1843.
						The opening of the Wabash and Erie canal brought hundreds of pioneers to the thriving
							young city. Among these were John Hough, Jr. (born in Middlebury, Vermont, in 1818),
							attorney and leader in many public enterprises; John Orff (born in Bavaria, in 1821),
							merchant and miller; Nathaniel P. Stockbridge (born in Freeport, Maine, in 1821), who
							purchased the D. W. Burroughs book store and continued in business for thirty-eight
							years; Horace Durvey, who founded the hardware house which later became the
							establishment of Morgan and Beach; Josiah King (born in Quebec, in 1834), John Jones
							(born in Wales, in 1835), W. B. Felt (born in New York, in 1823), Peter Bobay (born in
							France, in 1838), George W. Linden (born in New York, in 1828), and Thomas Tiernan
							(born in Waddington, New York, in 1828), who entered earnestly into the life of the
							town, and Dr. Lewis Beecher, physician and druggist. . . . Among the industrial and
							commercial enterprises launched during 1843 were the tannery of Henry Work and Samuel
							Hanna on the north side of the canal west of Barr street; the flouring mill of
							Hamilton and Wines, on the canal; the linseed oil mill of Henry Rudisill and Henry
							Wolke; the large flouring and grist mill of Samuel Edsall, on the St. Mary's river,
							and the canal, known also as the Empire or "stone mill," and later as the Orff mill,
							and the cooper shop of Ball and Johnson. . . . W. S. Edsall was named as register of
							the canal land office. . . . The county commissioners purchased from Samuel Hanna the
							west half of the site of the present Anthony hotel on which the county jail was
							erected; the price was $500. . . . In 1843, Dr. Lewis G. Thompson and others
							inaugurated the movement which resulted, in 1875, in the formation of a Universalist
							church. Among the ministers who  assisted in the
							organization were Erasmus Manford, who visited the city in 1843; J. M. Day, W. J.
							Chaplin and M. Crossley. The congregation disbanded in the early eighties. . . .
							Thomas Tigar, in 1843, established the first German newspaper, Der
								Deutsche Beobachter von Indiana, with Dr. Charles A. Schmitz as editor. The
							enterprise was abandoned because of lack of support. . . . As the result of a
							redistricting of the state of Indiana, Allen county 
								DANIEL WEBSTER'S TRIBUTE TO THE WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
								Among the letters received by the invitation committee of the celebration of the
									opening of the Wabash and Erie canal, in 1843, was that from Daniel Webster, from
									which the above fac-simile extract is taken. The original letter is owned by Mrs.
									Clark Fairbank.
							
							 became a portion of the Tenth congressional district in
							1843. Andrew Kennedy, of Muncie, won the contest for re-election to congress, over Dr.
							L. G. Thompson, by a majority of 260, although Dr. Thompson carried the county by 83
							votes. . . . On October 7, Fort Wayne lodge, No. 14, Independent Order of Odd Fellows,
							was instituted by Grand Master John Green. The charter members were Benjamin Saunders,
							James McClelland, James P. Munson, Peter Rodenbaugh, Joseph Stamford and S. C. Newton.
							James P. Munson was elected noble grand and Joseph Stamford vice grand. . . .
							Beginning November 17, 1842, and continuing until April 1, 1843, the weather
							maintained such a low temperature that snow remained without a thaw during the entire
							period. "On the 1st of April," said the late Franklin P. Randall, "Judge McCulloch,
							Major Edsall and I drove on the canal from Defiance to this city, and the ice was as
							solid as it had been at any time during the winter." . . . Samuel Bigger, attorney,
							who had served as governor of Indiana, elected over General T. A. Howard, on a
							platform which declared for public improvements, became a resident of Fort Wayne in
							1843. Former Governor Bigger died in 1846. His body was interred in the cemetery which
							is the McCulloch park of today. When the bodies were removed from this place to
							Lindenwood, Governor Bigger's remains were left in the original grave. In 1877,
							Colonel R. S. Robertson made an unsuccessful attempt to secure legislative action to
							re-inter the body. The grave was covered with a slab of Dayton stone, 3½ by 7 feet in
							size. A footstone at that time lay upon the ground near by. The headstone, which has
							since disappeared, was still standing. It bore the inscription, "Samuel Bigger, late
							Governor of the State, died September 9, 1846, in the forty-fifth year of his age. A
							Patriot and Christian, he died in the full hope of a glorious immortality."
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXIX.
						(1) Minor city officials elected and
							appointed in 1845 were: Clerk, William Lytle; treasurer, Oliver W. Jefferds; attorney,
							Lucien P. Ferry; engineer, Ochmig Bird; fire chief, John. Cochrane; marshal and
							collector, James Crumley; street commissioner, William Stewart; wood measurer,
							Washington DeKay; assessor, William Rockhill; councilmen, Franklin P. Randall, Hugh
							McCulloch, Lysander Williams, J. B. Cocanour, P. H. Taylor, M. W. Hubbell. The board
							of health was composed of Drs. Charles A. Schmitz, Lewis Beecher and H. P. Ayres. The
							board of county commissioners consisted of Nelson McLain, F. D. Lasselle and James
							Hall.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXX—1844-1845. The Miamis, "Hunted Like Wild
						Animals," Taken to the West.
					Flooded conditions in the spring of 1844—The "Post" and the "Orwick"—The
						first land drainage—The removal of the remnants of the Miami nation to the western
						reservations—"The trail of death"—Savages taken through Fort Wayne on canal
						boats—Deplorable scenes—Whiskey destroys the lives of many—The favored
						chiefs—Richardville "plays safe"—John M. Wallace, mayor—William
						Stewart, postmaster—The Presbyterian Academy—The first Catholic school.
					THE EXCEPTIONALLY heavy rains of the spring of 1844 broadened the
						rivers to the extent of flooding vast areas of the lowlands, but the damage by floods in
						the earlier years of the history of the town consisted more in its interruption of trade
						than in actual injury to the property of the people. A word picture of conditions is
						drawn by the late William B. Walter, from Emmettsburg, Maryland, a teacher who came to
						the town in 1844. Says Mr. Walter in his "Four Books in One," published in 1894: "We came by means of the canal from Toledo during a June freshet,
								when all the rivers of this section had spread out and covered the land so as to
								look like lakes. Mud on the towpath [of the canal] was knee deep in places, and the
								same may be said of Columbia street, which was then the principal street. We stopped
								at the Washington Hall, kept by old Mr. Timmons. This hotel, and a brick house
								called the 'Post,' at or near where Ash's stove store. is now, together with the
								'Orwick,' afterward the Spencer house opposite the public square, were the only
								places where a square meal could be had."
					An interesting story of the finding of a skeleton in the basement of this old "Post
						House," mentioned by Mr. Walter, has come down through the years. John W. Dawson, in his
						"Charcoal Sketches," describes the place as a large brick building located on the north
						side of East Columbia street, about midway between Calhoun and Clinton streets, occupied
						by James Post, an old citizen, and was long known and still remembered (in 1860) as the
						"Post House."
					The finding of the skeleton in later years brought to mind the disappearance of a land
						buyer, bound for the west, who stopped at the "Post House," and who was known to have
						had a large amount of money on his person when he came to the town. The skeleton when
						unearthed had a large nail driven through the eye socket. All persons who had been
						connected with the hotel had long since removed to the west, and no attempt was made to
						solve the mystery of the skeleton in the cellar.
					
					
						THE FIRST LAND DRAINAGE.
						Mr. Walter's reference to the flooded condition of the neighborhood suggests the
							prevalence of swamps in some portions of the region, notably that to the southwest of
							Fort Wayne. Today, these sections are converted into vast fertile areas, due, largely
							to the enterprise and confidence of I. D. G. Nelson, who, in 1844, sought the
							co-operation of Samuel Lillie who was at that time making earthenware products. It is
							related that Mr. Nelson, who had proven the efficacy of drains by using hollowed-out
							logs, proposed to Mr. Lillie the plan of manufacturing tiling. The latter declared his
							financial inability to turn his attention from the making of a product which the
							people would buy to the manufacture of a line of goods of an uncertain demand. Mr.
							Nelson thereupon offered to provide the money to enter upon the manufacture of
							drainage tiling, and agreed to receive his repayment in the finished product. Thus was
							introduced the system of land drainage which had reclaimed a large section of Allen
							county and made it a garden spot of the middle west.
					
					
						THE FORCIBLE EJECTION OF THE INDIANS.
						The lands in Indiana had been gradually passing from the hands of the Indians into
							the possession of the whites, until, in the early forties there was little left to the
							red man to remind him of the hunting grounds of his fathers. The time now came for the
							forcible removal of the savages to their reservations beyond the Mississippi, chiefly
							in Kansas. The stories of this period are depressing in the extreme, viewed from any
							point of consideration.
						The popularity of President Jackson in the west was due largely to the measures he
							had taken to pursue the policy based on the belief that the Indians and the whites
							could never live peaceably together. In 1820, the Delawares were taken to their
							western reservations. The national congress, responding to the appeal of the Indiana
							legislature to extinguish the Indian titles to all lands in the state, required the
							Pottawattomies to cede to the Unied States government the last of their holdings,
							consisting of about 6,000,000 acres. Later, the Miamis, through Colonel A. C. Pepper,
							the Indian agent, sold all but a small portion of their reservations to the national
							government. In the fall of 1837, George H. Prophet, of Petersburg, and General John
							Tipton gathered seven hundred of the remnant of the savages and superintended their
							removal. The route to the west has been called "the trail of death," for many of the
							broken-hearted red men and their families perished on the way.
						In 1823, under the terms of a treaty at St. Mary's, Ohio, August 1, 1844, had been
							designated as the time when all of the remaining members of the Miami nation should be
							taken west in a body under government escort; but it was found, when the day arrived,
							that very few had made any preparation to leave. The Miami reservation extended south
							from the southwestern corner of Allen county and included a large portion of Howard,
							Wells, Huntington, Wabash, Grant and Miami counties. The reluctance of the Indians to
							comply with the terms of the treaty delayed the departure over two years. The
							government found it necessary to send troops to the west under Captain Jouett, "a
							thoroughgoing, prompt, energetic old soldier— 
							just the kind of a man to make short work of a job of this kind," as the Fort Wayne
							Sentinel, September 26, 1846, observed.
						Says the late Edward F. Colerick in the Indianapolis News:. "Many of these Indians had to be brought forcibly to the place of rendezvous
									previous to taking their departure. Many had to be hunted down like wild animals;
									some were actually found in the tops of trees, others secreted themselves in
									swamps, and many fled from the locality, coming back only after the emigration had
									taken place, only to be forwarded as prisoners to their new home in the eastern
									part of Kansas. Numbers of them found their way back to 
										A PAGE FROM THE CANAL COLLECTOR'S RECORD BOOK.
										The photographic reproduction of a page from the register of the collector of
											the Wabash and Erie canal at the Fort Wayne office shows the form of recording
											the movements of the boats and keeping an account of their cargoes.
									
									 the reservation, but were ultimately returned. A
									few of this class persisted in returning and never did go back, but spent vagrant
									lives in the vicinity of the reserve."
						Much ill-feeling was aroused by the action of the government in showing marked
							favoritism toward certain leaders of the tribe, including the families of Chiefs
							Richardville, LaFontaine, Godfrey and Meshingomesia and the brothers of the latter
							living on the Missisinnewa. These were allowed to retain their lands, and some were
							richly rewarded in other ways. Says Mr. Colerick: "It was well
									understood that the result of this treaty was accomplished through fraud and a
									collusion on the part of some of the unprincipled men, chiefs and others of the
									tribe, who were bought up by grants of lands and money as well. It is said that
									Richardville, their tribal chief for half a century, who had taken such an active
									and questionable part in forcing this treaty upon his people, had to flee to
									Canada and remain there until the excitement and wrath of his people had died out.
									Chief Richardville, for his services in this matter, received several sections of
									the most valuable lands in northern Indiana, notably a large tract lying along the
									St. Mary's river four miles southwest of Fort Wayne, upon which the government
									built him a large and comfortable brick house where he resided until his
									death."
						Many of the Miamis were taken by way of Fort Wayne on their way to Kansas. In the
							summer of 1846, five hundred Indians who had been gathered at Peru by the soldiers,
							and had been placed forcibly on canal boats, were brought through this city.
						"Well I remember," wrote the late John W. Dawson, "the sober, saddened faces, the
							profusion of tears, as I saw them hug to their bosoms a little handful of earth which
							they had gathered from the graves of their dead kindred. But stern fate made them
							succumb; and, as the canal boat that bore them to the Ohio river loosed her moorings,
							many a bystander was moved to tears at the evidences of grief he saw before him."
						The almost complete disappearance of the once powerful Miami tribe is one of the
							pitiable records of American history. In 1814, General William Henry Harrison, writing
							to the secretary of state, said that the Miamis were merely a "poor, drunken set,
							diminishing every year; becoming too lazy to hunt, they feel the advantage of their
							annuity." During the period of the canal building, the Indians experienced little
							difficulty in securing whisky in exchange for their government allowance of money.
							Between 1813 and 1830, fully five hundred deaths resulted among the Miamis from
							murders and accidents as a result of strong drink.
						When Chief Richardville and his three daughters removed from Fort Wayne, they took up
							abode on the reservation four miles south of the town, where, in later times, they
							lived amidst all the luxuries of the life of the time. After twenty-six years of rule
							of the Miamis, the chief died August 31, 1841. He was about eighty years of age. The
							body was placed in the present Cathedral square, the south half of which was then used
							as a cemetery. Rev. Father Clark, of Peru, Indiana, conducted the funeral services in
							St. Augustine's Catholic church. Although the body of the chief remains in its
							original grave, the monument which was erected there was removed later to the  former Catholic cemetery near the St. Mary's river, south
							of the Pennsylvania railroad bridge, at Swinney park. From this site to the present
							Catholic cemetery, northeast of Fort Wayne, the monument was removed by his
							grand-daughter, Mrs. Archangel Englemann. The monument was the tribute of the chief's
							three daughters, Catherine (the wife of Chief LaFontaine), LaBlonde and Susan.
						Upon the death of Richardville, Francis LaFontaine (To-pe-ah) became the civil chief
							of the Miami nation, as a result of a popular election of members of the tribe. His
							father, who was of French extraction, was at one time a resident of Detroit. As a
							youth LaFontaine was noted as an athlete. In his twenty-first year he married
							Catherine (Po-con-go-qua), daughter of Chief Richardville. The residence erected by
							LaFontaine west of Huntington, Indiana, is still occupied by his daughter, Mrs.
							Engelmann. LaFontaine died in 1846 while returning from the western reservation to
							make his home on the tract west of Huntington. He was taken ill at St. Louis and died
							at Lafayette, Indiana, April 13. The body is buried at Huntington, Indiana. LaFontaine
							was a robust, corpulent man, weighing about 350 pounds. He was born in 1810, near Fort
							Wayne, and spent most of his life here. About twenty months after the death of 
								PLINY HOAGLAND.
								Pliny Hoagland (born in 1810, near New Philadelphia, Ohio,) began his
									professional life as an engineer on an Ohio canal in 1835. Three years later he
									was engaged in a like capacity on the Ohio division of the Wabash and Erie canal.
									In 1845 he removed to Fort Wayne. He was prominently concerned in the building of
									the Ohio and Indiana railroad, first as an influential factor in securing
									favorable legislative action, and latterly as one of the building contractors. He
									was a director of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago road, and of the Grand
									Rapids and Indiana. In 1856 he was elected a state representative, and in 1862
									state senator. He succeeded Hugh McCulloch as president of the Fort Wayne Branch
									bank of the Bank of Indiana; when this concern became a national institution he
									declined the presidency, but became its vice president. His influence, while a
									member of the city council and in other positions of trust, resulted in much
									permanent good to the community.
							
							
								STOVES OF THE FORTIES.
								The three types of stoves shown were among the styles in use in Fort Wayne during
									the forties. The pictures were reproditced from newspaper advertisements of Fort
									Wayne merchants.
							
							 LaFontaine, the widow married F. D. Lasselle. Upon the
							death of LaFontaine, the chieftaincy passed to his grandson, Joseph LaFontaine, the
							eldest son of Mrs. Engelmann. Upon the death of the latter, whose demise occurred at
							the home west of Huntington, March 3, 1914, the last of the Miami chiefs passed
							away.
						James R. Godfrey, son of Chief Francis Godfrey, war chief of the Miamis, living near
							Peru, who was among those exempted from deportation, came to Allen county in 1844 and
							married Mon-to-se-quah, daughter of LaBlonde, who was the daughter of Chief
							Richardville. Mon-to-se-quah was born near Fort Wayne in 1835 and died in 1885. Twelve
							children were born to them—James, Mary, Louisa, John, Annie and George L., and
							six others, who died in infancy. George L. Godfrey was born in 1850, on the
							reservation southwest of Fort Wayne. The males of the Godfrey line who lived in Fort
							Wayne were termed chiefs, but the title was merely honorary.
						Francis Godfrey (Godfroy or Godefroi), who rose to prominence as the war chief of the
							Miamis following the death of Little Turtle in 1812, died at his home near Peru in
							1840. His father was a Frenchman who had chosen a wife from the Miamis. Francis
							married Soc-a-jag-wa, a Miami, early in life. In later years he chose for his second
							wife a half-breed girl twenty-six years of age, a daughter of Frances Slocum. The
							first wife, still living, remained in the home and became a servant. The arrangement,
							it is said, was suggested by the elder woman. The Godfrey home was a large
							establishment, furnished with all the luxuries of the wealthy, and many servants
							attended the chief and his household.
					
					
						CHURCH AFFAIRS.
						The affairs of the town moved forward with regularity during the early forties. In
							1844, the dismissal of six members of the First Presbyterian church resulted in the
							formation of a church of the "New School" called the Second Presbyterian church, later
							known as Westminster. The first pastor was Rev. Charles Beecher, a brother of the
							famous Henry Ward Beecher, who, with his father, Dr. Lyman Beecher, officiated at the
							ceremony of the installation of the son and brother. At this time a series of
							evangelistic meetings was held by Henry Ward Beecher at the Allen county courthouse
							Referring to this experience, the celebrated divine wrote in 1877, in the Christian
							Union, following a lecture tour which brought him again to Fort Wayne: "Surely, we thought, in the far north of the state of Indiana,
									through whose wilderness we used to ride along a mere bridle path, and even by
									'blazes' on the trees, we should find something to remind us of old times. Alas!
									no. There is no old Fort Wayne here. But sitting down on the overlaid village is a
									brick city, with all modern improvements. A stately courthouse stands upon the
									square where of old stood the little courthouse where we preached two thundering
									weeks and gathered the Second Presbyterian church."
						Hugh McCulloch, in his "Men and Measures of Half a Century," tells of the visit of
							Dr. Lyman Beecher, who, while on his way to Fort Wayne by way of the Miami canal, in
							Ohio, found that the slow schedule of the boats would fail to place him in Fort Wayne
							in time for the installation ceremony; so he hired a horse and rode  from St. Mary's. He was about eighty years of age at the
							time.
						Succeeding pastors of Westminster church were Isaac Taylor, Mr. Smith, Amzi W.
							Freeman, Daniel Blood, Mr. Ray, Eleroy Curtis, George O. Little, W. J. Erdman, Joseph
							Hughes, W. H. McFarlane, John M. Fulton, J. M. Leeper, J. Budman Fleming, W. H.
							Wilson, J. Clair Leech, A. R. Evans and T. Pliny Potts.
						
							THE CRUMBLING RUINS OF THE CANAL IN FORT WAYNE.
							There are but few reminders of the existence of the Wabash and Erie canal within
								the limits of the city of Fort Wayne. The upper sketch shows the last remaining
								piece of masonry that formed a part of the abutment of the canal aqueduct which,
								crossed the St. Mary's river at the point of the location of the present New York,
								Chicago & St. Louis (Nickel Plate) railroad bridges. The stone work is on the
								west bank of the river, directly between the two railroad bridges. A—The canal
								stone work. B and C—The abutments of the railroad bridges. The lower sketch
								shows the last remaining portion of the aqueduct which conveyed the waters of the
								feeder canal across Spy Run creek, near Clinton street. The two maps indicate the
								location of the points described.
						
						
						With fourteen charter members, St. John's Reformed church was also brought into
							existence in 1844. Rev. J. M. Karoll was the first pastor, succeeded by J. A. Beyer,
							B. F. Altomatt, J. Bossard, H. Bentz, J. H. Klein, F. R. Schwedes, A. Krahn, Carl
							Schaaf and John H. Bosch.
					
					
						JOHN M. WALLACE, MAYOR.
						The voters of Fort Wayne again elected Henry Lotz to the office of mayor in 1844.1 The business of Mr. Lotz as a
							contractar occupied such a large amount of his time that he was unable to attend with
							any degree of regularity the sessions of the council of which he was the presiding
							officer. On the 22d of June, therefore, he tendered his resignation. The council,
							however, on the 1st of July, because of the non-receipt of the mayor's communication,
							had declared the office of mayor vacant on account of "the neglect and absence of the
							nominal incumbent."
						John M. Wallace was chosen at a special election to assume the duties of mayor. Mr.
							Wallace completed the unfinished term of Mr. Lotz, and was made the choice of the
							voters in the spring of 1845.
						President Polk, in 1845, chose William Stewart to serve as postmaster of Fort Wayne.
							The office was established in a building on Calhoun street, between Columbia and Main
							streets, and, later, it was removed to Calhoun street, between Main and Berry
							streets.
						Prior to 1845 the rate of postage on a letter for thirty miles was 6¼ cents; over
							thirty and under eighty miles, 10 cents; over eighty and under 150 miles, 12½ cents;
							over 150 and under 400 miles, 18¾ cents; over 400 miles, 25 cents. The rates were four
							times this figure if the letter weighed more than an ounce.
						"On a large proportion of the letters received from the seaboard states at the Fort
							Wayne branch bank prior to 1845 the postage was $1.00 and upwards," says Charles
							McCulloch, former president of the Hamilton National bank. "In 1845 the rates were
							reduced 50 per cent., a reduction which, according to the predictions of the opponents
							of the measure in congress, would bankrupt the postoffice department, if not the
							treasury. I remember," continues Mr. McCulloch, "that when I first went into the
							branch bank all the letter paper was of the thinnest and lightest character, and that
							many letters were so written that the sheets could be folded, sealed with sealing wax
							and directed without the use of envelopes."
					
					
						THE CAMPAIGN OF 1844.
						Daniel Geary, of Kansas City, writing a communication to the Fort Wayne Daily News in
							September, 1916, recalls that in the presidential campaign of 1844, the whigs built a
							log cabin 12 by 15 feet in size and placed it on trucks to be drawn in torchlight
							processions by thirty-two yoke of oxen. Both the whigs and the democrats erected a
							number of "liberty" poles on land south of the old fort, each trying to outdo the
							other in the matter of erecting the loftiest pole. Among the campaign "tricks" was
							that played on Dr. L. G. Thompson, whig candidate for congress, by his political
							enemies, who shaved the hair from the tail of his handsome white riding horse which
							eliminated him as a factor in the campaign. At  that
							time, it was the custom of political leaders to "give public dinners with tables two
							or three blocks long, and all were invited to partake to their heart's content, and
							good food in abundance was served."
						Allen county gave Henry Clay, whig, 861 votes, and James K. Polk, democrat, 849.
					
					
						THE PRESBYTERIAN ACADEMY.
						The Presbyterian academy, established in 1845 by Mrs. Lydia Sykes and housed in a
							small building which occupied the site of the present old high school building on the
							north side of East Wayne street, between Calhoun and Clinton streets, was allowed to
							decline some time afterward on account of the illness of the founder; but in 1853,
							Rev. Jonathan Edwards, of the First Presbyterian church, succeeded in reviving the
							institution.
						The academy was governed by a board of trustees apart from the trustees of the
							church. A one-story frame building, with a hall, cloak room and two school rooms,
							separated by folding doors which, on occasion, were thrown open to provide one large
							assembly room, accommodated this pioneer institution. The class-rooms were supplied
							with good desks and were well lighted and ventilated. The first teachers were Henry
							McCormick and Jacob W. Lanier, both college graduates. George A. Irvin, a graduate of
							Hanover college, and later superintendent of the public schools, who had been in
							charge of a ladies' seminary at Paris, Kentucky, succeeded to the management of the
							school. Among the remembered students are Dr. Gorrell, David Kirkpatrick and Platt
							Squires. In 1867 the property was transferred to the city school board and it became a
							part of the public school system.
						Of the other private schools of the period those of Miss Susan Clark (Mrs. S. S.
							Morss), Miss Waugh, Miss Sophie Henderson (Mrs. Lasselle), Miss Lotz (Mrs. Rowan) and
							W. H. and Margaret Carson exerted a wide influence.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1844.
						The growing fame of Fort Wayne attracted hundreds of new citizens during 1844. Among
							these may be mentioned Lemuel R. Hartman (born in Wooster, Ohio, in 1838), who came
							with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. D. P. Hartman, and rose to prominence in banking
							circles; R. Morgan French (born at Norwich, Connecticut, in 1822), contractor, woollen
							mill owner and hardware merchant; Isaac Lauferty (born in France, in 1820),
							councilman, merchant and banker; B. W. Oakley, from New York, hardware merchant;
							Colonel Chauncey B. Oakley (born in Delaware county, New York, in 1833), councilman,
							mayor and active in many enterprises; Claude F. Eme (born in France, in 1831), dry
							goods merchant; Joseph K. Edgerton (born in Vergennes, Vermont, in 1818), prominent
							attorney and a foremost promoter of railroad development in the west; Frederick W.
							Stellhorn (born in Hanover, Germany, in 1818), active in many enterprises; A. C.
							Beaver (born in Hagerstown, Maryland, in 1822), lumber dealer; F. C. Brase (born in
							Loh, Germany, in 1821), canal captain and owner of a trucking business; John P.
							Tinkham, Joseph Falls and Ambrose W. Kintz, from Ohio; S. W. Chase, from  New York; Delphos Martin, from France, and Isaac
							Blystone, from Pennsylvania. . . . Honors were conferred as follows by election and
							appointment of Fort Wayne citizens to public office in 1844: Edward F. Colerick,
							county recorder, and clerk of the circuit court; William Rockhill, state senator;
							Christian Parker, state representative (upon the retirement of Mr. Parker, John M.
							Wallace was named to fill the vacancy); Governor Whitcomb appointed George Johnson
							judge of the probate court to succeed Samuel Stophlet, resigned. . . . A. B. Craft
							opened a portrait studio. . . . William B. Walter served as the principal of a
							school—St. Augustine's Institute—constructed in connection with St.
							Augustine's Catholic church. Joseph Graff taught some of the classes. The course of
							study included French, German, drawing and painting.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1845.
						Among the men of note who settled in Fort Wayne during 1845 and attained prominence
							in political, banking and educational circles were Pliny Hoagland, from Ohio; William
							Yergens (born in Prussia in 1828), lumber and cooperage manufacturer; John G. Maier
							(born in Betzenstein, Germany, in 1810), merchant, postmaster, township 
								PRIVATE CURRENCY OF THE FORTIES.
								Herewith are reproduced two private bills used by a Fort Wayne mercantile
									establishment twenty years before the civil war. Similar forms of paper money were
									in common use at the time. These well-preserved relics are in the collection of
									James Trythall, of Fort Wayne.
							
							 trustee and active in many lines of endeavor; Hugh B.
							Reed, from Ohio, druggist and a brigadier general in the civil war; Elza McMahon, from
							Ohio, prosecuting attorney and judge of the circuit court; Elias Habecker (born in
							Lancaster, Pennsylvania, in 1826), contractor; Frank Pevert, from France, and F. W.
							Antrup, from 
								DR. CHARLES E. STURGIS.
								Dr. Sturgis was born in Queen Anne county, Maryland, in 1815. After his
									graduation from the Ohio Medical college he resided at Richmond and later at
									Logansport, Ind., after which period he located in Fort Wayne and engaged in the
									practice of medicine for thirty years. He represented Allen county in both houses
									of the legislature, and served for a long period as a member of the school board.
									In 1868 he represented the Fort Wayne district as its delegate to the national
									democratic convention in New York. His death occurred in 1869. The portrait is
									from a photograph loaned by the late William E. Hood.
							
							
								JOHN G. MAIER
								Mr. Maier came to Fort Wayne in 1845 from Circleville, Ohio, and engaged in the
									retail trade in a store on Columbia street. For many years Mr. Maier served as
									township trustee, and in 1853 was appointed postmaster of the city. Mr. Maier made
									and sold the first ice cream in Fort Wayne; he raised the first home-grown
									strawberries, and made and sold the first grape wine. The first toys offered for
									sale in Fort Wayne appeared in Mr. Maier's store. The photograph was loaned by Mr.
									Maier's daughters, Mrs. Georgia Meriwether and Mrs. Elizabeth J. Dawson.
							
							
								JOSEPH K. EDGERTON.
								Joseph K. Edgerton, who rose to high prominence in the political and railroad
									history of the middle west, was born at Vergennes, Vt., in 1818. Following his
									attendance at Plattsburg academy, Mr. Edgerton was admitted to the bar of New York
									city. In 1844, he removed to Fort Wayne and established a law practice in
									partnership with former Governor Samuel Bigger. Later he was a law partner of
									Charles Case. He became interested in the construction of the first railroads and
									in 1854 was made a director of the Fort Wayne & Chicago railroad, an honor
									which was followed the next year by his selection as president of the road, to
									succeed Samuel Hanna. In 1856 he became a director of the Ohio & Indiana road
									and a leader in the movement to consolidate the properties which now comprise the
									Pennsylvania system west of Pittsburgh. Upon the consummation of the plan he was
									made vice-president of the new company. From this time forward he was a prominent
									factor in the life of the middle west, being called to fill many positions of
									importance, including that of president of the Grand Rapids & Indiana
									railroad, and a member of congress. He became one of the largest land-owners of
									the region and was financially interested in many of the leading manufacturing and
									banking institutions.
							
							 New York. . . . Harmony lodge, Independent Order of Odd
							Fellows, was organized, the charter bearing the names of H. Durrie, G. Wilson, T. K.
							Brackenridge, S. Carey Evans and H. P. Ayres. Summit encampment, No. 16, Independent
							Order of Odd Fellows, was granted a charter on the application of Moses Drake, Jr.,
							Sigmund Redelsheimer, M. Blake, H. B. Reed, Thomas J. Robinson, Milton Henry, William
							H. D. Lewis, Benjamin Saunders and F. Nirdlinger. . . . W. and J. Paul established a
							chair factory. Henry Hitzfield engaged in the manufacture of "seraphims" and organs .
							. . Sterns Fisher was chosen superintendent of the canal, with headquarters at Fort
							Wayne. . . . The first Catholic school was established in 1845, in Cathedral square,
							when Rev. Julian Benoit brought from Vigo county a number of Sisters of
							Providence.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXX.
						(1) Minor city officials elected in
								1844 were: Clerk, William Lytle; treasurer, Oliver W. Jefferds (succeeded by Robert
								Lowry); attorney, Samuel Bigger (succeeded by J. W. Dawson); engineer, Ochmig Bird;
								fire chief, Thomas Pritchard; marshal and street commissioner, William Stewart;
								assessor, S. M. Black; councilmen, Morgan Lewis (resigned, succeeded by S. M.
								Black), S. H. Shoaff, Henry Williams, Oliver S. Silver, John Cochrane and J. B.
								Dubois. The board of health was composed of Drs. Charles A. Schmitz, Lewis Beecher
								and Lewis G. Thompson.
							In 1845 the city officials, aside from mayor, were: Clerk, O. P. Morgan; treasurer,
								Oliver W. Jefferds; attorney, John W. Dawson; marshal and collector, W. B.
								Wilkinson; assessor, W. H. Prince; councilmen, S. M. Black, Philo Rumsey, H. W.
								Jones, James Humphrey, Charles Paige and J. B. Dubois.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXI—1846-1847. Troops to Mexico—Methodist
						College—Concordia.
					Allen county sends three companies of volunteers to the Mexican war—Troops take
						their entire passage by water—Founding of the Methodist college—Its
						development and disappearance—Lutheran Male Academy—Concordia
						college—The Hedekin house, a well-known hotel of canal days—Merchant W.
						Huxford, mayor—The third courthouse is erected on the public
						square—Beginning of the end of the Wabash and Erie canal—"White dog," "blue
						dog" and "blue pup"—A story of disappointment and despair—The last of the
						waterway.
					DISTANT rumbles of impending war with Mexico penetrated to the middle
						west and the young men of Fort Wayne listened with expectancy for the call to arms.
						Martial music filled the air when the newly-organized Fairfield's band, with John
						Fairfield, Charles Edwards, James Humbert, Steven Sythers and David Lunsford, equipped
						with fifes and drums, appeared on parade.
					The call was not long delayed, and Allen county, drawing its volunteers from the town
						and the busy farming district, was soon ready to send its first two companies of
						volunteers, in 1846, followed by a third in 1847. In the spring of 1846, Company F,
						under Captain D. W. Lewis, and Company I, under Captain John McLain, were ordered to
						report at New Albany, Indiana, on the Ohio river. On June 16th the untried soldiers
						formed in marching order and, led by Fairfield's band, proceeded to a spot on the canal
						five miles east of town, known as the lower dock. Accompanying the soldiers were nearly
						all of the residents of the town. The horse-drawn boats were soon out of sight of the
						parents and friends, who returned to their homes to await news of the adventures of the
						young volunteers.
					The entire trip from Fort Wayne to Mexico was made by water. The canal boats carried
						the troops to the Ohio river; steamboats were used from there to New Orleans, and the
						remaining distance was covered by the use of sailing vessels. Both companies were
						assigned to the First regiment of Indiana volunteers, under command of Colonel James P.
						Drake. The service of the first two companies in Mexico was arduous in the extreme,
						because of long and needless marches, unsanitary camp conditions and the prevalence of
						disease. Nine men of one company and several in the other were either killed by
						sharpshooters or died of fever. Many were discharged for disability. The remnant reached
						home in June of 1847. The third organization, Company K, under command of Captain Lewis,
						was mustered into the service in January, 1847, and did guard duty in the neighborhood
						of Vera Cruz. This company returned in 1848.
					The officers of the Allen county companies which served in the Mexican war were:
						Company I: Captain, John McLain; first lieutenant, Thomas Lewis; second lieutenants,
						Charles Colerick, George Humphrey. Company F: Captain, David W. Lewis; first lieutenant,
						Brad B. Stevens; second lieutenants, Samuel H. Chapman, 
						William Hunter; first sergeant, David W. Magee; sergeants, John Keiser, Peter McGowan,
						Daniel Edgerly; corporals, William Trude, David Eades, Abijah A. Cox, Moses U. Ross.
						Company K: Captain, David W. Lewis; first lieutenant, Thomas K. Lewis; second
						lieutenants, John B. Sawtelle, Ira G. Williamson; first sergeant, Joseph H. Weaks;
						sergeants, George A. Gorman, Albert U. West, Luther M. Swartout; corporals, James
						Barter, David C. Coleman, John P. Bales, Israel Horner.
					
						THE METHODIST COLLEGE.
						While some of her young men were sent to the front to fight for their country, Fort
							Wayne took two important forward steps in 1846 to provide to the greater body of the
							youth of the middle west the convenient means of attaining an education. In this year,
							the foundation was laid for the great work of the Fort Wayne Methodist college and for
							the primitive institution of learning which developed into the Concordia college of
							today.
						For some time previous to 1846 many of the public-spirited people of Fort Wayne had
							been working in sympathy with the Northern Indiana Methodist Episcopal conference to
							establish in Fort Wayne a great institution of learning. At the session of the
							conference held at Laporte, Indiana, in September, the initial steps were taken,
							followed by an enthusiastic and decisive meeting of citizens at Fort Wayne. As a
							result of this session, over which Samuel Bigger, former governor of Indiana,
							presided, it was determined to establish the Fort Wayne Female college without delay
							on grounds donated by William Rockhill at the end of West Wayne street, facing College
							street, as the thoroughfare was afterward known.
						On the occasion of this meeting David H. Colerick, John W. Dawson and George Johnson
							drafted resolutions pledging the cooperative interest of the legal fraternity, and a
							committee composed of Samuel Edsall, P. H. Taylor and William Rockhill was named to
							prepare the building plans. Other participants in the meeting of organization were
							Samuel Hanna, John Hough, Jr., Rev. Mr. Bayless, Rev. Mr. Dickson, Hugh McCulloch, P.
							P. Bailey, J. B. Hanna, 
								AN ORDER FROM MAYOR HUXFORD'S COURT.
								The above summons issued by Mayor Merchant W. Huxford, in 1846, commanding "any
									constable of said city" to bring into his presence an offender for trespass
									against Silas Hand, probably was never served, as it fails to bear the name of the
									alleged culprit. The original is loaned by the daughter of Doctor Huxford, Mrs.
									Frances Baldwin.
							
							 Henry J. Rudisill, Hugh Miller, Rev. Mr. Boyd, Benjamin
							Mason, G. R. Hartman, Thomas Hamilton and J. K. Edgerton. The cornerstone was laid
							June 19, 1847.
						Dr. Alexander C. Huestis served as the first president of the Methodist college.
							Succeeding him came G. H. Rounds, Cyrus McNutt, S. T. Gillett, Samuel Brenton, R. D.
							Robinson, W. F. Hemenway, J. B. Robinson, W. F. Yokum, H. N. Herrick and Dr. C. B.
							Stemen. In the beginning, the institution admitted young ladies only, but in 1852, a
							separate school, the Fort Wayne Collegiate Institute, was organized for young men. The
							two schools soon united under the name of the Fort Wayne College, commonly called the
							Methodist College. In 1854, two hundred and fifty-six students were enrolled,
							ninety-seven of whom were young men. The faculty at that time consisted of Rev. Samuel
							Brenton, Rev. R. D. Robinson, Rev. J. A. Beswick, Miss Maria Freeman, Miss Julia C.
							Steele, Miss Isabel Kilgore and Rev. D. P. Hartman. The graduates from the female
							department of the college, in 1854, were Mary F. Wood, Margaret A. Hartman, Adeline E.
							Leonard, Cornelia B. Meharry, Nancy E. Bryan, Mary Barnes,; Sarah Holloway, Hannah C.
							Todd, Julia A. Brenton, Louisa W. Cooper, Sarah A. Thompson and Elizabeth J. Morgan.
							To the earnest regret of the people of Fort Wayne of today this school, which became a
							powerful factor in the educational work of the middle west, was allowed in later years
							to succumb beneath the weight of debt. The site of the extensive campus is now a
							handsome residence section of the city, and all traces of the college long since have
							been effaced except in the hearts of its many students and friends who remain.
						The institution is now known as Taylor university, having as its seat the town of
							Upland, Indiana.
						
							DR. B. S. WOODWORTH.
							Dr. Woodworth became a resident of Fort Wayne in 1846, and during the remainder of
								his active life was one of the city's most progressive men. Born at Liecester,
								Mass., in 1816, Dr. Woodworth settled at Providence, Ohio, before entering upon the
								practice of medicine at Fort Wayne.
						
						
							CALVIN ANDERSON.
							In 1846 Calvin Anderson came to Fort Wayne to take charge of the celebrated Hedekin
								house. In 1855 Mr. Anderson engaged in the grocery business and continued in this
								line until the time of his death. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by a
								daughter, Mrs. George W. Ely.
						
					
					
					
						BEGINNINGS OF CONCORDIA COLLEGE.
						The Lutherans of America, because of Fort Wayne's growth in power in the affairs of
							the church, selected the Indiana town as the seat of an important theological
							institution known as the Fort Wayne Lutheran Male Academy. Rev. William Loehe, of
							Bavaria, a churchman of means, gave of his influence to the choice of the Fort Wayne
							site.
						In August, eleven students from Germany, under the care of Carl August Roebbelen, a
							theological graduate, reached Fort Wayne. Rev. Dr. William Sihler, pastor of St.
							Paul's Lutheran church, gave the school much attention, with Prof. Roebbelen as his
							assistant. The first regular professor in charge was Rev. A. Wolter. Successors to
							Rev. Mr. Wolter include Prof. Adolph Biewend and Prof. August Craemer. The first
							building, which stood on the present Concordia college site, consisted of four
							rooms.
						Fourteen years later—in 1860—this institution was removed to St. Louis,
							and, in its stead, came Concordia college, transferred from the Missouri metropolis to
							the growing town on the canal. 
								EXTRACTS FROM THE LETTERS OF A PROMINENT PIONEER LAWYER.
								Three fragments of letters written at Indianapolis by Henry Cooper to his wife,
									about the year 1846, are reproduced from the originals in the possession of Mr.
									Cooper's son, William P. Cooper. "The boys" referred to in the extracts were
									Edward B. Cooper, who became a prominent business man and a city official of New
									Orleans, and James Henry Cooper, a fleet captain in the Lee line of packet boats
									plying between St. Louis and New Orleans; later this son was a member of the
									important shipping firm of Cooper, Howard & Co., of Memphis, Tenn.
							
							 The members of the faculty who came to Fort Wayne in
							1861, in company with seventy-eight students, were Professors Schick, Saxer, Lance and
							Kleppisch. The growth of the school has been substantial and continuous, until, today,
							it stands pre-eminent among the Lutheran educational institutions of America. Dr.
							Martin Luecke is the honored head of the college.
					
					
						THE HEDEKIN HOUSE.
						The widely-known Hedekin house, one of the best of the early places of entertainment
							in the middle west, was erected during 1843 and 1844 by Michael Hedekin. Still
							standing, it is used for commercial and hotel purposes. The building is located on the
							east side of Barr street, between Columbia and Main streets. Beginning with 1846,
							Calvin Anderson served as its landlord, and his extended administration was marked by
							the absence of a bar for the sale of liquors. On the occasion of the opening of the
							hotel a grand military ball, one of the memorable social events of the period, was
							given, with the Silver Greys, a crack Detroit military organization, in attendance.
							Mr. Anderson was a native of Manchester, Vermont, born in 1803. In his later years he
							was a successful merchant.
					
					
						DR. M. W. HUXFORD, MAYOR.
						The voters re-elected John M. Wallace as the city's chief executive in the spring of
							1845, but on the 8th of May, the mayor resigned his office. Dr. Merchant W.
								Huxford1 was elected to fill
							the place.
					
					
						THE DECLINE OF THE CANAL.
						Comes now the story of the decline of the great Wabash and Erie canal. Outwardly, an
							air of prosperity brightened the activities of a people filled with a vision of a
							glowing future. But the state was conscious of a burden of debt on account of its
							lavish program of public improvements, a condition made more painfully impressive by
							the appearance of Charles Butler, of New York, who came to press the claims of the
							American and British bondholders. "It is really amazing," he wrote to his wife, "to
							see what a paralysis hangs over the people." In the face of the financial
							difficulties, the state issued white paper scrip based on the canal lands east of
							Lafayette, which became generally known as "white dog," while the terms "blue dog" and
							"blue pup," the latter a fractional currency, were applied to colored scrip issued on
							the canal lands west of Lafayette. Various "promises to pay," both public and private,
							with depreciated values, were in general circulation. The word "dog" came into use in
							this connection as Indiana's companion phrase to "wildcat," which had been adopted in
							Michigan as descriptive of the depreciated currency of that state.
						"My first notice of it [the canal scrip] was when I was employed in the commission
							house of Comparet and Kiser," wrote A. C. Comparet, in 1902. "A man with a yoke of
							cattle drove up and bought a barrel of flour, and handed me five dollars in scrip. We
							rolled it onto his cart and he pulled out. Kiser soon returned from an absence from
							the store, and I handed him the bill I had received. He said, 'We cannot sell flour
							for white dog!' using the nickname. Kiser started out and overtook the man on Berry
							street and got  other money for his flour. The 'white
							dog' was worth only forty cents on the dollar."
						By the summer of 1847, the voices of the creditors of the state of Indiana, demanding
							the payment of their dues, mingled with the rumble of the approaching locomotive,
							sounded the doom of the canal. In 1846, the legislature had passed the Butler bill,
							providing for the payment of the state's debts and the placing of the canal under the
							control of a board of trustees composed of Charles Butler as president, Jesse L.
							Williams, chief engineer, and J. Ball, of Terre Haute, resident engineer.
						In 1862, the state made a contract with a Fort Wayne company composed of A. P.
							Edgerton, Hugh McCulloch and Pliny Hoagland to maintain the central portion. The plan
							failed, as, also, did the proposal of a company of three hundred and seventy-nine
							business men to finance the waterway until 1878. The canal was practically abandoned
							in 1874.
						
							GOVERNOR BIGGER AND HIS GRAVE IN M'CULLOCH PARK.
							An unmarked, horizontal slab in an unfrequented portion of one of Fort Wayne's
								public recreation spots—McCulloch park—marks the resting place of the
								mortal remains of former Governor Samuel Bigger. Born in Warren county, Ohio, in
								1802, Samuel Bigger received his education at Athens university and began his career
								as a lawyer at Lebanon, Ohio. He removed to Indiana and practiced law in Union and
								Rush counties. In 1834 he was elected a member of the legislature from the latter
								county, and at a later date became the president judge of the circuit court, a
								position he held until his election as governor of Indiana in 1840. He was a strong
								advocate of public improvements. Following his term in the governor's chair he
								removed to Fort Wayne and practiced law until his death in 1846. His remains were
								placed in the city cemetery and were not removed to Lindenwood at the time the
								cemetery was abandoned and converted into McCulloch park.
						
						
						In July, 1875, after a bitterly contested hearing in the United States circuit court
							at Chicago, Judges Drummond and Davis issued a decree ordering the canal to be sold to
							satisfy the demands of the bondholders, and appointed Judge Gookins, of Terre Haute,
							as a commissioner to conduct the sale. The canal was sold in sections to investors,
							who made no attempt to operate it, although they received a good income for a time
							from water-power rentals. The section of the canal extending from the eastern boundary
							of Indiana to the lower locks at Lagro, in Wabash county, was purchased in the name of
							William Fleming for $44,500, though Mr. Fleming was joined by Oscar A. Simons, John H.
							Bass and others, and R. T. McDonald was latterly interested in the ownership. These
							men also secured the feeder canal. It was the design to use the feeder as a means of
							conveying water to the city when the matter of waterworks first came up for
							consideration.
						In 1881 the right of way of the canal was sold to the Nickel Plate railroad, and the
							last boat on the waterway was seen in 1882, when the water was drained out and the bed
							graded for the ties and rails of the east and west trunk line of the New York, Chicago
							and St. Louis road.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1846.
						An organization known as the Young Men's Literary Society, which later brought to the
							city some of America's most noted men and women and advanced by active work the
							educational welfare of the town, was brought into existence at a meeting over which L.
							S. Chittenden presided and John Hough, Jr., acted as secretary . . . . Trinity English
							Lutheran church, with S. Cutshall and E. Rudisill, elders, and Henry Rudisill and C.
							Raugh, deacons, was organized. 
								SAMUEL BRENTON.
								In 1849, Samuel Brenton, lawyer and preacher, was appointed register of the land
									office at Fort Wayne. He became the president of the Methodist college, but gave
									up the position to accept a term in congress, beginning in 1850. He was
									re-elected, and served until 1858. Mr. Brenton was strongly opposed to
									slavery.
							
							
								SAMUEL S. MORSS.
								Mr. Morss was Fort Wayne's first town marshal, elected in 1840. Later he served
									as county auditor and member of the city council. His election as mayor of Fort
									Wayne in 1847, as a candidate of the "free" schools faction, was a hotly contested
									victory. The picture is from a photograph loaned by Mrs. Isaac d'Isay, a
									daughter.
							
							 Rev. W. Albaugh served as the first pastor. Succeeding
							pastors of Trinity church were A. S. Bartholomew, W. P. Rathrauff, A. J. Kunkleman and
							Samuel Wagenhals. Rev. Dr. Wagenhals was called to the pulpit in 1868. . . Elza A.
							McMahon succeeded Robert L. Douglass as prosecuting attorney for the circuit court . .
							. Christian Parker was elected state representative. . . . County officers chosen
							were: Auditor, Henry W. Jones; treasurer, T. K. Brackenridge; recorder, Edward F.
							Colerick; coroner, Peter Timmons; surveyor, Henry J. Rudisill; school commissioner,
							Thomas DeKay; commissioners, Rufus McDonald, James S. Hamilton and Zeru Pattee. . . .
							Among the prominent men who settled in Fort Wayne in 1846 were John G. Thieme (born in
							Saxony, in 1821), pioneer tailor; William Paul (born in Hanover, Germany, in 1824),
							canal boat captain and contractor; Christian Schiefer (born in Hamburg, Germany, in
							1829), pioneer shoe merchant; Christian Tresselt (born in Thuringin, Germany, in
							1823), miller; Calvin Anderson, from Ohio, landlord of the Hedekin house, and his son,
							E. G. Anderson, coffee and tea merchant; Frederick J. Beach (born in Berlin, in 1832),
							hardware merchant; Fred Altekruse, from Germany, William Boone, from Ohio; David
							Brundige, from New York, and J. H. Neff, from Pennsylvania.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1847.
						New arrivals among the permanent citizenship in 1847 included Platt J. Wise (born in
							New York in 1815), county recorder and sheriff; Alexander C. Huestis (born in Perry,
							New York, in 1819), a prominent educator and wholesale merchant; J. F. W. Meyer (born
							in Holden, Westphalia, Germany, in 1824), who with his brother, established the
							extensive wholesale and retail drug house of Meyer Brothers Company; Moritz Axt, from
							Germany, a contractor; Herman Wilkin, Henry Bullerman, Louis Scherer and Ludwig
							Schlaudroff, from Germany; Elias Hire, from Elkhart, and E. J. Bulger and William
							Smith, from Ireland. . . . One of the most destructive floods in the early history of
							the town tore out the bridge over the St. Mary's river and caused many families to
							flee from their homes. . . . During a warm political fight, William G. Ewing, whig,
							was accused of owning and employing slaves on one of the southern trading posts
							operated by the Ewing brothers. Although he proved the error of the story, he was
							defeated in the race for congressman by William Rockhill, democrat, who received 6,617
							votes as against Ewing's 6,441. In Allen county Mr. Rockhill received 866 votes and
							Judge Ewing 878. . . . Franklin P. Randall was elected state senator, and Peter Kiser
							and Christian Parker state representatives. . . . A warm fight on the saloon question
							resulted in the casting of 332 votes for "no license," and 51 in favor of licensing
							grogsellers. . . . As a result of the county election, S. M. Black succeeded T. K.
							Brackenridge as treasurer; county commissioners elected were W. M. Parker, James S.
							Hamilton and Zeru Pattee. . . . Joseph Brackenridge was elected prosecuting attorney,
							and R. E. Fleming, county clerk.
						
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXXI.
						(1) Other city officers chosen in 1846
							were: Clerk, William Lytle (succeeded by J. B. Dubois); treasurer, Oliver W. Jefferds;
							attorney, John W. Dawson; engineer and street commissioner, S. M. Black; marshal, C.
							S. Silver; assessor, Joseph Morgan; councilmen, James B. Hanna, Henry Sharp, Richard
							McMullan, James Humphrey, S. S. Morss and Charles Fink. Councilmen Hanna, McMullan and
							Morss resigned, and James P. Munson and Samuel Stophlet were named to fill the
							vacancies. S. S. Morss was elected county sheriff and W. M. Parker and Peter Kiser
							state representatives. Dr. Huxford was re-elected in 1847, together with the following
							minor officers: Clerk, John B. DuBois; treasurer, Oliver P. Morgan; marshal, C. S.
							Silver (succeeded by Jacob Hull); assessor, Samuel Stophlet; councilmen, Jacob Lewis,
							Henry Sharp, John B. Cochrane, James P. Munson, John Cocanour and Charles Fink. With
							the re-election of Mayor Huxford in 1848 the following minor officers were elected:
							Clerk, Oliver P. Morgan; treasurer, N. P. Stockbridge; marshal, T. J. Price; assessor,
							Charles G. French; councilmen, Charles F. Muhler, John Conger, John Cochrane, Henry
							Sharp, John Cocanour and Alexander McJunkin.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXII—1848-1850. The First Telegraph
						Service—The Scourge of Cholera.
					Fort Wayne secures telegraphic connection with the outside world—Chester
						Griswold the first operator—Wire troubles—A week of "no service"—The
						cholera scourge brings death to hundreds—Heroes of the epidemic—The
						cause—The Black swamp—California "gold fever" is contagious—Fort Wayne
						victims—Some of the "Forty-niners"—William Stewart, mayor—Arrival of
						the steam propeller, "Niagara"—Samuel Stophlet, postmaster—The earliest
						dentist.
					THE CONNECTION of Fort Wayne with the outside world by the
						establishment of the first telegraph line was among the great progressive steps of the
						eventful year of 1848. The Ohio, Indiana and Illinois Telegraph company, organized by
						Henry O'Reilly, planned the building of a single wire line from Cincinnati to Toledo,
						and from Toledo to Evansville, Indiana, following the line of the Wabash and Erie canal,
						with side lines from Lafayette, Indiana, to Indianapolis and Chicago. Many Fort Wayne
						citizens bought shares at $50 each; the company was capitalized at $200,000.
					Late in 1848, the line was completed from Toledo to Fort Wayne, and George W. Wood was
						appointed the local representative of the company. As he was not a practical operator
						Chester Griswold, who came from Dayton, Ohio, was engaged to serve in this capacity. The
						office was located in the editorial room of the Times, of which Mr. Wood was the editor,
						situated at the northwest corner of Clinton and Columbia streets. The building was owned
						by Barnett and Hanna.
					Said the late William E. Hood: "I knew Chester Griswold, the
								operator, very well. The telegraph was a new thing, and the office was an attractive
								place for some of us who spent a good deal of time there. Sound reading was unknown
								in those days; the message came in and left its record on a long strip of paper. I
								remember that the president's message made a big pile of paper on the floor. No one
								but Griswold could read it."
					In the beginning there was but a single wire, strung between flexible poles which
						easily were blown down or prostrated by the weight of sleet in the winter periods. The
						instruments used were the original Morse invention, which indented a strip of paper with
						a series of dots and dashes, that were read after the message had been recorded.
					The operation of the line was attended by distress and worry, as is shown by one of
						many like instances recorded in the newspapers of the day. At one time, when the line
						between Fort Wayne and Toledo was out of service, Mr. Wood sent out a repair man to
						ascertain the cause. Says the Times: "He found a pole chopped down and 200 or 300 yards
						of wire gone. It had been down nearly a week. * * * It is some eighty miles from Fort
						Wayne."
					
					
						WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
						During the year following the establishment of the line to Fort Wayne, the company
							encountered financial difficulties, and Ezra Cornell, of New York, was enabled to
							purchase the stock at $2 per share; soon afterward, he transferred his holdings to the
							Western Union Telegraph company, and thereby laid the foundation of the fortune which
							enabled him to found Cornell university. J. McNutt Smith, then an operator at
							Cincinnati, came to Fort Wayne; he remained here as an operator until 1860. Subsequent
							local managers of the office of the Western Union office in Fort Wayne have been
							Charles Jones, Charles H. Currier, Oliver L. Perry, W. E. Black, John Hayes, C. W.
							Mason, F. B. Bradley and J. B. Freeman.
					
					
						THE POSTAL TELEGRAPH SYSTEM.
						The local office of the Postal Telegraph and Cable company was opened in 1890. It
							brought Fort Wayne into close touch with many new sections of outlying territory and
							created a healthy competition in the telegraphic field.
					
					
						THE CHOLERA SCOURGE.
						The people of Fort Wayne, in the midst of their prosperity and progress toward better
							material things, were striken with alarm and horror when, in the summer of 1849, the
							deadly cholera crept within its borders and claimed six hundred of its people before
							the close of the year 1854.
						The disease made its appearance first in Lahore, in India, in 1845, spread to Europe,
							and found its way to New York and New Orleans in 1848. Alarm spread to the cities of
							the Mississippi and Wabash valleys, and Fort Wayne commenced early in the spring of
							1849 to prepare for the coming of the dread visitor from the orient. With a view of
							"adopting stringent measures to prevent the ravages of the approaching cholera," the
							city council met in special session, April 12, and took action to establish a hospital
							at the county farm. A log house, which formerly was a soap and candle factory,
							belonging to Asa Fairfield, was hastily taken to the farm and made ready for the care
							of victims who were in need of its accommodations all too soon. A log house at the
							corner of Calhoun and Berry streets, owned by James Barnett, also was fitted up to
							receive patients. The council appointed a representative citizen in each ward "to
							examine the streets, alleys, stables, pig sties, cellars, standing pools of water,
							slaughter houses and other places," with power to wipe out every "nuisance" which
							might invite the disease to Fort Wayne. The council caused handbills to be placed in
							every house instructing the people in their personal conduct and in the use of lime
							and other disinfectants which were provided liberally.
						With appalling rapidity and certainty, the disease crept in from the east and south,
							claiming hundreds of victims in unfortunate towns. At a meeting held in the courthouse
							"in view of the rapid approach of the malignant epidemic, threatening us and
							devastating many of our large towns," a special appeal was made for a more earnest
							co-operation, and in response to this the council not only redoubled its activities
							but appointed Friday, August 2,  as "a day of
							humiliation, fasting and prayer, during which time no secular work was to be allowed."
							Every citizen was requested to attend divine services in the churches on that day, and
							the ministers led the people in earnest prayers for deliverance from the
							pestilence.
						Directly after the announcement of the dreadful truth that the disease had claimed
							its first victim in Fort Wayne—a canal laborer—Rev. Julian Benoit, of St.
							Augustine's church (the Cathedral), offered the use of the schoolhouse for a hospital.
							The Sisters of 
								A PLANK ROAD POSTER OF 1849.
								The reproduction is from a larger poster printed in February, 1849, advertising
									for bids for the construction of the Lima "plank" road. The highway was
									constructed by the Fort Wayne and Lima Plank Road Company, of which Judge Samuel
									Hanna was the president and O. W. Jefferds was the secretary. Long ago, the planks
									disappeared, but the improved Lima road is one of the favorite automobile routes
									of today.
							
							 Charity became immediately of great service as nurses,
							for now were many homes, chiefly on East Washington, East Jefferson and East Wayne
							streets, afflicted. An August 22, the council appointed a committee to procure "three
							strong, stout-hearted, able-bodied men to attend to the sick and suffering." The
							committee reported its success, but the names of the heroes of the hour do not appear
							in the record.
						Many fled from the afflicted community. Medical treatment seemed to be ineffectual.
							"Drs. C. E. Sturgis and H. Wehmer worked together during this epidemic in every
							stricken home," 
								JUDGE JAMES L. WORDEN.
								James L. Worden, following his admittance to the supreme court of Ohio, practiced
									law at Lancaster and Tiffin, and removed in 1844 to Columbia City, Ind., and from
									there to Albion, where he remained until his removal to Fort Wayne in 1849. The
									chief events of his active life until his death in 1884 may be stated briefly as
									follows: In 1850 he was elected prosecuting attorney for the Twelfth judicial
									circuit. In 1855 he was appointed by Governor Wright to serve as judge of the
									newly-formed Tenth judicial circuit, a place to which he was afterward elected. He
									was nominated as a candidate for congress in 1857, and in the following year
									resigned his position as circuit judge to accept the appointment by Governor
									Willard as judge of the supreme court. Upon his return to Fort Wayne in 1865,
									Judge Worden was elected mayor of the city, but he resigned the office in 1866.
									Again in 1870 and in 1876 he was elected a member of the supreme court, a position
									he occupied during a period of nineteen years. In 1882 he was elected judge of the
									superior court of Allen county; his death occurred while serving in this capacity.
									Judge Worden was a native of Sandisfield, Massachusetts, where he was born May 10,
									1819, the son of John Worden, representative of a family of sturdy New England
									stock founded in America in the early days of colonial history.
							
							
								CHARLES CASE.
								Charles Case served as prosecuting attorney of the court of common pleas of Allen
									county. He was twice elected to congress, his opponents being Judge James L.
									Worden and Judge Reuben J. Dawson. Mr. Case was active in many of the public
									affairs of the '50s and '60s.
							
							
								MUNSON VAN GEISEN.
								Munson Van Geisen served as fire chief of the Fort Wayne department for several
									years.
							
							 says the late Dr. B. S. Woodworth, who also gave of his
							whole efforts to the relief of the sufferers. "The favorite remedy was tremendous
							doses of calomel, the panacea of that age, and cayenne pepper. * * * During each of
							the years 1849, 1852 and 1854 there were about two hundred deaths here."
						A. G. Barnett, in 1916, referring to this dark period, tells of his experience in
							1852. He says: "My father and my mother, with two sisters and
									a brother, took refuge from the cholera by going to the home of Thomas Hamilton,
									north of Leo. I stayed to care for matters at home. We lived then on West Berry
									street, where the Wolf and Dessauer store is today, and where a peach orchard
									occupied the back yard. I remember watching the many funerals at the Methodist
									church across the street, where the Anthony hotel stands."
					
					
						THE RUSH TO THE GOLD FIELDS.
						Simultaneously with the movement of many in their departure from the plague stricken
							town came the inducement to hasten to the Pacific coast, from whence came exciting
							stories of the discovery of gold.
						Among those who bade a temporary or final farewell to Fort Wayne to seek their
							fortunes in the west were George W. Suttenfield, Madison Sweetser, L. G. Jones,
							Charles F. Colerick, Charles Lamb, George E. Smith, Dr. John M. Kitchen, Samuel
							Ballow, Joseph W. Whitaker, William Pratt, John Aveline, J. A. Bartlett, C. R.
							Bartlett, Sabina Wallace, Lucien Martin, S. A. Herrington, H. D. Bartlett, Myron F.
							Barbour, B. Cocanour, Louis T. Bourie, Dr. William Shelden, Joseph P. Dugan, James T.
							Shelden and Wm. Van Alstine. A local company was formed to exploit holdings in the
							gold fields, and many a hard-earned dollar was given a fond farewell. Frederick
							Becker, who arrived from Europe the preceding year, made a large number of wagons of
							the "prairie schooner" type for the Forty-niners who departed from Fort Wayne.
					
					
						WILLIAM STEWART, MAYOR.
						In 1849, the voters elected William Stewart1 to serve as mayor for one year. His services proved so
							entirely agreeable that he was honored with a re-election for two successive terms,
							and then, in 1855 and 1856, he was again elected, following the administrations of Dr.
							Philip G. Jones and Charles Whitmore.
					
					
						A NEW JAIL.
						In spite of the destruction by fire of the old log jail and debtors' prison on the
							courthouse square in 1847, no official action toward the building of another jail
							appears to have been taken until the spring of 1849, when, on the 7th of April, the
							city council ordered that "the mayor [William Stewart] procure a building to be used
							as a jail" to be placed on "the city's lot," the site of the present Anthony hotel. A
							council committee subsequently was appointed to "prepare plans and specifications for
							said jail, and let the contract to some efficient, energetic mechanic." The contract
							was awarded to John Grimes, who completed the work early in July and received $270 for
							his labor and material. During 1849 and  1850 a fund,
							raised throughout the county, through a special tax levy, was applied to the
							construction of a larger building. In the latter year, a contract let to Charles G.
							French, John B. Cocanour and Aaron J. Mershon resulted in the erection of a jail and
							sheriff's residence on the site of the present jail. The new building cost $4,955.34.
							With the completion of the jail in 1852, the people of Allen county were rightly
							aroused over the delivery of two notorious horsethieves—Laertes B. Dean and
							George Pierce—who were placed 
								RUINS OF LOCKS OF WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
								The sketch shows the present condition of the ruins of the important locks of the
									Wabash and Erie canal between Huntington and Lagro, Ind. The large stones, raised
									into position three-quarters of a century ago, present a massive, seemingly
									imperishable monument to the memory of the great waterway. Two sets of locks
									remain in the town of Lagro. The ruins of another set of locks are to be found a
									short distance east of Fort Wayne.
							
							 in the new building for safe keeping. "The jail was
							broken into by a gang of desperadoes," says one of the newspapers. "Unless some plan
							is adopted to render it more secure than it now seems to be, the cost of construction
							would appear to be just that much thrown away." In the following year three men
							escaped from the jail by burrowing through a wall of the basement into a cistern, and
							then through the cistern wall into the basement of an adjoining dwelling. This jail
							served until 1872.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1848.
						About thirty German families connected with St. Augustine's Catholic church (the
							Cathedral), established St. Mary's church, in 1848, at the intersection of Lafayette
							and Jefferson streets. Rev. Edward M. Faller was the first pastor. Succeeding pastors
							were R. Weurtz, Joseph Rademacher and J. H. Oechtering. . . . The Achduth Veshalom
							congregation of B'nai Israel was formed in 1848, and Rabbi Solomon chosen pastor.
							Among the original members were A. Oppenheim, Sigismund Redelsheimer, I. Lauferty and
							F. Nirdlinger. Succeeding pastors have been Rabbis Rosenthal, E. Rubin, Israel Aaron,
							T. Shanfarber, A. Guttmacher, Samuel Hirschberg, Fred Cohn, Harry W. Ettelson, Joseph
							Rauch, William Rice, Meyer Lovitch and Aaron R. Weinstein. The present synagogue was
							erected in 1916-1917. . . . William H. Coombs and Samuel Edsall established a steam
							sawmill on the north side of the canal. . . . The firm of Hill and Orbison (John E.
							Hill and A. M. Orbison), commission merchants, was formed. . .. The city council
							resolved that "the limits of the city are extended one mile in every direction from
							the chartered limits of said city, for judicial purposes." . . . Ochmig Bird was
							elected state senator . . . Warren H. Withers, born at Vincennes, Indiana, in 1824,
							removed to Fort Wayne from Muncie and purchased the Fort Wayne Times and Press from
							George W. Wood. Mr. Withers acted as editor during the Taylor presidential campaign,
							and then sold the paper to Mr. Wood in order to engage in the practice of law, in
							which profession he rose to a position of distinction. . . . The city council passed
							an ordinance prohibiting the operation of distilleries within the city limits. . . .
							County commissioners elected were W. M. Walker, James S. Hamilton and Henry Rudisill.
							. Among the well-known men to locate in Fort Wayne during the year was Sion S. Bass
							(born in Salem, Kentucky, in 1827), who became a prominent manufacturer and a colonel
							in the civil war. The memory of Mr. Bass is preserved by his comrades in arms in the
							naming of one of Fort Wayne's posts of the Grand Army of the Republic. . .. David
							Wallace, attorney, who already had served as governor of Indiana, settled here in
							1848. Governor Wallace made his home, while a resident of Fort Wayne, with Mrs. Samuel
							Lewis, a relative. Several business ventures in which he engaged while here proved
							disastrous, and after two years' residence he removed from the city. Governor Wallace
							was the father of General Lew Wallace. . . . Others who came in 1848 were Conrad
							Neireiter, from Germany, merchant; Joseph Singmaster, a tanner, from Pennsylvania;
							Joseph R. Fox, confectioner and restaurant proprietor, from Germany; Solomon Bash
							(born in Starke county,  Ohio, in 1827), miller and
							grain dealer; B. H. Bueter, miller; Rev. Wolfgang Stubnatzy (born in Bavaria, in
							1829), later a prominent Lutheran minister; Chester Scarlet (born near Springfield,
							Ohio, in 1832), justice of the peace; Henry Stoll (born in Echzal, Germany, in 1840);
							Henry Hilgemann (born in Germany, in 1828), township trustee and councilman; Charles
							L. Hill (born in Chautauqua county, New York), Fort Wayne's earliest music dealer;
							David Kelsey, from southern Indiana; Francis Boley, from France, and Chester Chapman,
							from Ohio. . .. By a division of the First Methodist 
								THE METHODIST COLLEGE.
								The drawings show two views of the famous Methodist college founded in 1846,
									which stood at the west end of West Wayne street, fronting College street. The
									upper picture is from a lithograph printed in 1855. The lower view is from a
									photograph made in 1889, after the main building had been remodeled and
									enlarged.
							
							 Episcopal church (known as the Maumee Mission and later
							as the Berry Street church), the present Wayne Street church was organized, with Rev.
							F. A. Conwell, pastor. At this year's session of the conference, Rev. F. A. Johnson
							was sent to Fort Wayne for the benefit of the "watermen" (the workmen on the canal).
							Succeeding pastors of Wayne Street Methodist Episcopal church have been William
							Wilson, T. H. Sinex, F. A. Hardin, J. Beswick, A. S. Kinnan, Charles Martindale,
							Reuben Toby, F. W. Hemenway, M. H. Mendenhall, A. Marine, N. R. McKeag, A. E. Mahin,
							W. O. Pierce, A. W. Lampfort, C. H. Murray, F. G. Brown, R. M. Barns, G. N. Eldridge,
							H. W. Bennett, W. D. Parr, Asher S. Preston, M. E. Nethercutt, Frank Lenig and C.
							Claud Travis. . . . The congregation of St. Paul's Lutheran church purchased
							"Woodlawn," the beautiful country estate of Colonel Marshall S. Wines; it forms the
							present Concordia college grounds.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1849.
						One of the interesting canal events was the arrival of the steam packet, Niagara,
							Captain W. Dale, which had come from Cincinnati to Toledo and thence to Fort Wayne.
							The fame of the craft had long preceded its appearance, which accounts for this
							comment in the Times: "This celebrated craft has been here and gone again. On Monday
							afternoon she made a pleasure trip crowded with ladies and gentlemen—the elite
							of the city. As an equinoctial storm was 
								CHARLES A. ZOLLINGER.
								Colonel Zollinger, previous to assuming the office of mayor beginning in 1873,
									had served as county sheriff. He enlisted in the civil war as a member of Company
									E, Ninth regiment, and on the expiration of the enlistment period he proceeded to
									organize a company (D) which became a part of the Thirtieth regiment. Later he
									became the colonel of the One Hundred and Twenty-ninth regiment. Returning to Fort
									Wayne, Colonel Zollinger entered at once into the upbuilding of the interests of
									his home city.
							
							
								DAVID WALLACE.
								Former Governor David Wallace, who made his home in Fort Wayne and practiced law
									during 1848 and 1849, first appears in the history of Fort Wayne as a special
									prosecutor for the Allen circuit court in 1828. He served as governor of Indiana
									from 1837 to 1840. His resdience in Fort Wayne was brief owing to the failure of
									important Investments which cost him his entire estate, and he removed in 1850 to
									Indianapolis. Governor Wallace while here made his home with a relative, the wife
									of Major Samuel Lewis, for whom his son, General "Lew" Wallace, was named. He was
									a native of Pennsylvania, born in 1799.
							
							 sweeping over the 'raging canawl,' it is not to be
							wondered at that some of the former became terribly seasick. Weak stomachs should
							never venture upon 'deep water.'" . . . The most destructive fire experienced by the
							town of Fort Wayne up to 1849, laid waste fifteen buildings in the business section.
							The afflicted area extended along the west side of Calhoun street between Main and
							Columbia, and for a considerable distance westward on the latter streets. . . . In
							1849 Samuel Stophlet received the appointment of postmaster of Fort Wayne, to serve
							under President Taylor. The postoffice was located in a frame building on the east
							side of Calhoun street, north of Main, but it later was removed to the southwest
							corner of the same streets, into a building which occupied the site of the present
							Alter cigar store. . . . The year brought to Fort Wayne many substantial citizens.
							Among these were Judge James L. Worden (born at Sandisfield, Massachusetts, in 1819),
							who for twenty-seven years served with honor in judicial and other positions of
							importance in the state; William Moellering (born in Prussia in 1832), contractor;
							Peter Moran (born in Ireland), the first ice dealer; August F. Siemon (born in Saxony,
							in 1821), prominent in commercial circles; Ferd C. Boltz (born in Prussia, in 1848),
							manufacturer and contractor; Henry Volland (born in Bavaria, in 1827), miller; John I.
							White (born in Batavia, New York, in 1842), hardware merchant and manufacturer; Aimee
							Racine (born in Switzerland, in 1834), manufacturer of saddlery; William T. Pratt
							(born in Maryland, in 1825), sheriff and commission merchant; Michael Humbert (born in
							Filsberg, Germany, in 1824), owner of a trucking business; Francis A. Voirol (born in
							Switzerland, in 1820), jeweler; B. H. Schnieders (born in Feren, Germany, in 1819),
							landlord of the American hotel; Horatio N. Ward (born in Manchester, England, in
							1823), merchant; Michael Bruecker, Louis Hazzard and Peter Veith, from Germany, and M.
							V. Metcalf, from Ohio. . . . Samuel Brenton was appointed register of the government
							land office. . . . Townley Brothers, through the purchase of the Hartman and Jones
							general store, established the business which developed into the present George DeWald
							Company, wholesale dry goods. . . . Philo Rumsey opened the Vermilyea house fourteen
							miles southwest of Fort Wayne; he returned later to manage the Rockhill house. . . .
							George Phillips established a stage line between Fort Wayne and Maysville.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1850.
						Fort Wayne's pioneer dentist, Dr. Von Bonhurst, came in 1850. I. D. G. Nelson was
							elected to the state legislature. . . The Lutherans purchased the tract which
							developed into the present Concordia cemetery. . .. Among the prominent men who
							settled in Fort Wayne in 1850 were Sol D. Bayless (born in Butler county, Ohio, in
							1814), attorney, who rose to high honors in Masonic circles; Captain Charles Reese
							(born in Westersoda, Germany, in 1834), city weighmaster for many years; Charles Case,
							attorney and member of congress; Gustave Spiegel (born in Prussia), retail boot and
							shoe merchant; Charles Pape (born in Minden, Germany, in 1837), manufacturer and city
							councilman; John Lillie (born in Scotland, in 1819); Charles F. Diether (born in
							Germany), who,  with his sons, Louis and John H.,
							engaged in the lumber trade; Henry Tons (born in Bremen, Germany), a veteran of the
							Mexican war, who engaged in the insurance business; John and Joseph Mommer, from
							Pennsylvania, and Samuel F. Swayne from southern Indiana. . . . Fort Wayne presented
							an amended charter to the legislature, providing for a revision of the duties of city
							officers.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXXII.
						(1) Minor officers elected in 1849
								were Oliver P. Morgan; treasurer, N. P. Stockbridge; fire chief, John B. Cocanour;
								marshal, collector and street commissioner, S. C. Freeman (succeeded by John B.
								Griffith and John Spencer); assessor, Charles G. French; councilmen, Charles Muhler,
								P. P. Bailey, James Humphrey, Michael Hedekin, B. W. Oakley and Alexander McJunkin.
								J. M. Wilt succeeded H. J. Rudisill as county surveyor; the county commissioners
								elected were Noah Clem, William Robinson and Henry Rudisill.
							The 1850 minor city officers were; Clerk, O. P. Morgan; treasurer, George Wilson;
								high constable and street commissioner, Jacob Lewis; assessor, Henry R. Colerick;
								councilmen, Henry Sharp, W. C. Bryant, James Humphrey, Calvin Anderson, B. W. Oakley
								and Alexander McJunkin. The board of health was composed of I. D. G. Nelson, John
								Cochrane and D. W. Burroughs. County officers elected in 1850 were: Auditor, R.
								Starkweather; treas. urer, Thomas T. DeKay; sheriff, W. H. McDonald; recorder, E. F.
								Colerick; surveyor, J. M. Wilt; commissioners, Simeon Biggs, William Robinson and
								Henry Rudisill; coroner, D. Kiser; prosecuting attorney, James L. Worden.
							Minor city officers of 1851 were: Chief engineer, high constable and street
								commissioner, Morris Cody; treasurer, Thomas DeKay; councilmen, Oliver W. Jefferds,
								Ochmig Bird, James Howe, Peter Kiser, D. P. Hartman and Robert Armstrong.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXIII—1851-1852. The Building of the First
						Railroad—A Plea for Immigration.
					Jesse L. Williams suggests a great railroad project—The beginning of the
						Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad—Allen county votes financial
						aid—Construction work begins—The first locomotive—Discouraging
						failures—Tribute to Judge Hanna—A line west from Fort
						Wayne—Subscriptions paid in land and labor—The first railroad excursion to
						Fort Wayne—Banquet and speechmaking—Railroading before the war—The
						launching of the "H. H. Stout"—A plea for immigration—The vote to exclude
						the negroes—Dr. Philip G. Jones, mayor—"Egging" the anti-slavery
						editor—Court of common pleas—The earliest "bloomers" cause a near-riot.
					THE FICKLENESS of towns is like unto the caprices of the humans who
						inhabit them. We have seen the warmth of the greeting of Fort Wayne to the great
						waterway which, in the words of General Cass, should flow for "centuries hence." Now, we
						are to behold this same city, casting off its first love and gazing with inviting mien
						toward the distant eastern horizon whence, it was said, the locomotive would one day
						come, if properly encouraged. It was properly encouraged. And it came.
					In 1847, Jesse L. Williams, chief engineer of the canal, who was later strongly
						identified with railroad construction, urged the building of a railroad to Chicago,
						"which should connect with a road to Pittsburgh." He pointed to Chicago as the city
						destihed to be "the great commercial center of the northwest." A scrapbook of Mr.
						Williams, in which is preserved a newspaper contribution dealing with the subject,
						contains this notation in the engineer's handwriting: "To my knowledge, this is the
						first suggestion of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad."
					Three years passed, and Mr. Williams saw the beginning of the fulfillment of his dream.
						When, on the Fourth of July, 1849, the ground was broken for the construction of the
						Ohio and Pennsylvania railroad at the boundary line of the states of Ohio and
						Pennsylvania, Fort Wayne became the center of activity in the movement to promote a line
						of railway connecting therewith and creating a continuous route from New York to
						Chicago. The Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad company determined that although its charter
						provided for the construction of a road westward to the Ohio-Indiana line, it would
						terminate its line at Crestline, Ohio, for the reason that interested parties, including
						several Fort Wayne citizens, had suggested the formation of separate corporations to
						construct the western end of the system.
					The Ohio and Indiana Railroad company was formed at Bucyrus, Ohio, July 4, 1850, at
						which time Dr. Willis Merriman was elected president and J. R. Straughan chief
						engineer.
					
						ALLEN COUNTY AIDS THE FIRST RAILROADS.
						On the 15th of January, 1851, at the courthouse in Fort Wayne, the citizens gathered
							to express their opinions on the subject of  giving
							substantial aid to the Ohio and Indiana railroad project. Judge Coleman, of Marion,
							Indiana, was called to the chair, and I. D. G. Nelson acted as secretary. Following
							the delivery of a series of enthusiastic addresses, a committee composed of Madison
							Sweetser, H. W. Jones, Pliny Hoagland, W. G. Ewing, Samuel Hanna, D. Reed, Christian
							Parker, Henry Rudisill and Nelson McLain, reported rousing resolutions pledging
							support to the project.
						The board of county commissioners, accepting the spirit of this demonstration as an
							expression of the majority, called a special election to be held in each township as a
							means of securing the authority to allow the county to become a stockholder in the
							project. The result showed that 1,647 voters favored the plan, while 334 opposed the
							purchase of stock. On June 6 the county commissioners passed a resolution authorizing
							the purchase of stock to the amount of $100,000. At a meeting on July 7 the
							subscription was ordered payable in bonds of $1,000 each, bearing 7 per cent interest.
							Samuel Hanna was named to act as the county's agent in its dealings with the railroad
							company. Robert Starkweather, county auditor, also was chosen to serve as a
							representative of the county "by executing one coupon, or interest warrant, for each
							bond, and for each year the bonds have run, payable at the treasurer's office of said
							county, on the 1st of July, annually." Robert E. Fleming was named a special agent in
							October to succeed Judge Hanna. Pliny Hoagland and Ochmig Bird acted in a like
							capacity at later times. Levies of 20 cents and 22 cents on each $100 property
							valuation were made in 1851 and 1852 to pay the interest on the railroad bonds. The
							contract for the construction of the Ohio and Indiana road was let in 1852.
						The first railway locomotive ever seen in Fort Wayne was brought to the town on a
							flatboat over the canal, in charge of R. W. Wohlfort. It was landed at the foot of
							Lafayette street and placed on the railroad track which extended southward on that
							thoroughfare. Operated by Mr. Wohlfort, the engine was put into service in the
							construction work on the Fort Wayne end of the Ohio and Indiana railroad, and later
							was used for a considerable period in the regular passenger service of the completed
							road. The tracks remained on Lafayette street until 1857, when the depot, freight
							house and other buildings which had been established on the canal bank were removed to
							their more southerly locations. The first engine house on the canal was a frame store
							building, from which the gable end was torn to allow the entrance of the
							locomotive.
						With the actual work of construction, in 1852, Fort Wayne thrilled with new life. On
							the 28th of January, the contract for the building of the entire stretch of road from
							Crestline to Fort Wayne—131 miles—was let to Samuel Hanna, William
							Mitchell and Pliny Hoagland. J. R. Straughan continued as chief engineer of the road.
							But before the work was fairly under way the company found itself confronted by
							financial problems of such magnitude as to discourage many of the leaders in the
							enterprise. Dr. Merriman, the president, resigned. At once the company chose Judge
							Samuel Hanna to take the place made vacant. Judge Hanna hastened to Pittsburgh, where
							he pledged his individual credit and that of the other contractors for the funds
							needed to carry forward the work. He then proceeded  to
							Montreal and Quebec to release large shipments of railroad iron imported from Europe
							which were being held for non-payment of transportation charges.
						This was but the beginning of a succession of events extending to war times, which
							tested the true worth of a leader in the railroad building of the west.
						Said the late Joseph K. Edgerton: "The financial disasters of
									1857 found the consolidated company with an incompleted road, with meager revenues
									and a broken credit. Many of its best friends, even among its own managers, were
									inclined to grow weary and faint by the way. Through all this trying period no man
									worked more faithfully and hopefully, or was consulted more freely, or leaned upon
									with more confidence than Judge Hanna."
						In the midst of the stirring events of 1852, the citizens of the counties between
							Fort Wayne and Chicago met at Warsaw, Indiana, in September, organized the Fort Wayne
							and Chicago Railroad company, and chose Samuel Hanna as its president, with J. R.
							Straughan chief engineer. The survey of the line was completed before the close of the
							year, and by the 8th of June, 1855, the entire line was under contract. The means for
							carrying forward the work were to be derived from the sale of stocks and bonds.
							However, the stock subscriptions which were paid in cash amounted only to about 3 per
							cent. of the final cost of the road. The subscriptions were paid chiefly in
							uncultivated lands, farms, town lots and labor. A large portion of the real estate
							thus secured was mortgaged by the company to obtain means to pay for grading and the
							earlier construction operations. With scant means the work of construction progressed
							very slowly during 1853, 1854 and 1855, and at the close of the latter year only about
							twenty miles of the road was completed, that between Fort Wayne and Columbia City.
							Service between these two points was opened in February, 1856.
					
					
						THE CONSOLIDATED RAILROADS.
						Before the final action in the consolidation of the Pennsylvania and Ohio, the Ohio
							and Indiana, and the Fort Wayne and Chicago railroads, which now comprise about 3,500
							miles of trackage, the Allen county commissioners in 1855 chose Franklin P. Randall to
							act as special agent of the county as a stockholder in the Ohio and Indiana property.
							Mr. Randall reported that he had received "three hundred and fifty-one shares of stock
							in said company, which is the interest on the stock owned by said county up to January
							1, 1855; there is still due the county, the interest from that to the present time
							being about $9,000, making of interest paid and due, $26,550." Whereupon the board
							ordered Mr. Randall to vote the stock "at an election called for that purpose, in
							favor of consolidating the stock of said company, to constitute, when consolidated,
							the 'Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago company.'" This action was taken in 1856, and
							Mr. Randall reported, on the 11th of December, 1857, that he had "procured stock for
							the interest, etc., amounting to 233 shares" in the consolidated company. The county
							then owned stock to the amount of $139,800.
						On June 4, 1861, Mr. Randall was appointed the agent of the  county to act in favor of a reorganization of the road. On November 8 of
							the same year he was succeeded by Byron D. Miner. The stock having greatly
							depreciated, the board, on the 25th of October, 1862, determined to sell a portion of
							its holdings, and Mr. Miner and W. W. Carson were appointed special agents to conduct
							such sale, with instructions to invest the proceeds in the bonds of the county then
							outstanding, issued in 1851 and falling due in 1866. On the 4th of March, 1863, the
							agents reported that they had sold $39,800 worth of railroad stock for $24,830.75,
							leaving the county still the owner of $100,000, which they did not feel authorized to
							put on the market without further instructions; the price ranged from 55 to 67¾ per
							cent. Subsequently, on the 11th of March, 1863, on the proposition of Judge Hanna, the
							county sold to him the remaining $100,000 stock, and the proceeds of the
							interest-stock, in consideration of the county's outstanding bonds, calling for
							$87,000. This left outstanding bonds to the amount of $13,000.
						In the meantime, Chief Engineer Jesse L. Williams, chosen in 1854, to the great task
							of the completion of the consolidated roads, carried forward with energy and skill the
							great transportation connection between the east and the west. In 1852, before the
							Ohio and Indiana road was built into Fort Wayne, Allen Hamilton donated the site for a
							station, and Judge Hanna gave five acres of ground on which to build railroad
							shops.
						On the 26th of April, 1854, a meeting of citizens was held to consider the building
							of a railroad from Fort Wayne to Grand Rapids, Mich. The principal speakers were John
							B. Dubois, R. C. F. Rayhouser, F. S. Aveline, T. P. Anderson and Thomas Hamilton. This
							was the first movement toward the construction of the Grand Rapids and Indiana
							railroad, which was not accomplished until several years had passed.
					
					
						THE FIRST RAILROAD EXCURSION.
						On the 15th of November, 1854, the first railroad excursion train was run into the
							city of Fort Wayne, an event of great importance as viewed from the present time, for
							it marked a new era in the general advancement of the region of which Fort Wayne is
							the center. This train bore to Fort Wayne the officials of the Ohio and Indiana
							railroad and invited guests to a celebration of the completion of the road. An account
							of the event, written by Robert D. Dumm, appearing in a Fort Wayne newspaper of later
							date, contains the following interesting description: "It was
									our good fortune to be among those invited guests who formed the excursion party
									that passed over the line of the road to Fort Wayne. It was in the dusk of evening
									when we arrived, and our first impressions on stepping from the cars were by no
									means of the most favorable kind. It was before the days of Nicholson pavements,
									and our march from the point of disembarkation up Columbia street was one of
									continued tramp in mud and water. True, in honor of the occasion, our pathway was
									lighted by the illuminated windows of the stores and shops which lined the
									thoroughfare, but this opened to view the slush through which we had been wading.
									Upon our arrival at Colerick's hall we were bade welcome, and when our eyes fell
									upon the large tables filled with the most sumptuous of  viands, we forgot the difficulties encountered in our tramp from the
									depot and could but admit the open-hearted hospitality of our
							reception."
						A delegation of citizens in a special train, accompanied by the Mad Anthony guards,
							had met the excursion at Lima, Ohio. Here the guards fired a salute, and Strubey's
							band played its most inspiring music. Before proceeding to Fort Wayne the visitors
							were the guests of people of Lima at a dinner, during which Mayor Charles Whitmore, of
							Fort Wayne, made an address. Upon re-entering the 
								THE JUNCTION OF THE RIVERS IN WAR TIMES.
								The illustration is a drawing from a woodcut in Lossing's "Pictorial Fieldbook of
									the War of 1812" showing the wooden bridge across the Maumee directly below the
									confluence of the St. Mary's and the St. Joseph rivers, which connected the town
									of Fort Wayne with the present Lakeside, then known as "the old apple
									orchard."
							
							 cars, the local committee distributed to the visitors
							cards upon which was printed the information assigning them to places of entertainment
							in the homes of the people of Fort Wayne. During the stay of the guests the city was
							brilliantly illuminated. After a banquet had been served on the evening of the arrival
							of the excursion, David H. Colerick welcomed the company in a stirring address
							delivered in Colerick's hall, which was too small to hold the crowd. The response was
							made by Governor Johnson, of Pennsylvania, who was followed by R. C. Schenck, of
							Dayton, Ohio; Mr. Payne, of Cleveland; Mr. Sherman, of Ohio, and Judge Samuel Hanna,
							of Fort Wayne.
						George W. Wood served as the first agent of the company in Fort Wayne.
					
					
						THE "PENNSYLVANIA" STATION.
						The Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad erected at Fort Wayne a brick
							passenger station between Calhoun and Clinton streets. F. Kanne and Company were the
							contractors. With minor additions and revisions, this building continued in use as a
							passenger station until April, 1914, a period of fifty-four years, at which latter
							time the new station on Baker street between Harrison and Webster streets was
							opened.
						The late James K. McCracken, who in 1863 became the agent of two railroads, the
							"Pittsburgh" and the Wabash, said, concerning his experience during that period: "The brick station of the 'Pittsburgh' road was the only depot
									in the town, and here were sold all of the tickets for both roads. I slept in the
									office so as to be on hand whenever the trains happened to arrive, which was at
									very irregular periods. Often the Wabash trains would seem to arrive on time, but
									they were in reality twenty-four hours late."
						The completion of the main building of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago
							railroad shops was the occasion of a grand ball in 1863. The dancing floor was 220 by
							80 feet, illuminated by 375 gas jets, locomotive headlights and colored lanterns.
							About 2,500 guests were present. The Union band, under Professor Struby, provided the
							music for seventy-five sets of dancers at one time. Two hundred persons were served at
							the refreshment tables in turns.
					
					
						RAILROADING IN 1860.
						In the summer of 1860 an express train on the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago
							railroad struck a large tree that had blown across the track east of the town,
							throwing the engine, tender, baggage car and one coach into the ditch. Said one of the
							newspapers: "Engineer Fish's leg has been taken off. Hd knew
									of the log being across the track when he left the station, but he supposed the
									watchman going east would have made a fire and thus have designated the exact
									spot."
						Until the obstruction could be removed, trains from opposite directions stopped at
							the log and transferred their passengers and baggage.
					
					
					
						LAUNCHING A CANAL BOAT.
						The foregoing brief resume of early railroad operations gives a suggestion of
							conditions which prevailed until the opening of the civil war. We must now turn
							backward to the year 1851 and take up the thread of the general story of Fort Wayne
							from that point of time. That an element of the citizenship held fast to their faith
							in the future of the canal is made evident in the following quotation from the Fort
							Wayne Times, of August 7, 1851: "Quite a crowd assembled at
									the boat yard of Messrs. Shilling and Hastings at 4 o'clock on Saturday to witness
									the launching of the new [canal] boat, H. H. Stout, belonging to Messrs. Comparet
									and Hubbell's line. At the signal, the stays were knocked out and she slid down
									the way in fine style, amid the loud cheers of the multitude, resting in the water
									light and graceful as a swan."
					
					
						A PLEA FOR IMMIGRATION.
						The business men of Fort Wayne, filled with enthusiasm by the prospect of
							outstripping the other cities of the middle west in material progress, felt the need
							of a larger population to carry on the trade of the region and to cultivate the soil.
							Henry Rudisill, in communications to German emigration officials, already had secured
							many German settlers. On the evening of January 21, 1851, Mr. Rudisill presided and
							Judge W. W. Carson acted as secretary at a meeting held for the purpose of petitioning
							the state legislature to adopt effective measures to encourage immigration for the
							special benefit of the northern part of the state. The speakers of the occasion were
							Anthony F. Yeager, W. G. Ewing, Hugh McCulloch and Robert E. Fleming.
					
					
						TO EXCLUDE THE NEGRO.
						The voters, however, appear to have been quite particular in the choice of the people
							who desired to settle within the borders of the town. The state, in this year, called
							upon the counties to say whether or not the negro should be allowed to move into
							Indiana from other states. Allen county's vote stood 1,803 in support of exclusion,
							with only 261 in favor of allowing the blacks to come in. Those who already were
							residents of the state, however, could remain, under certain conditions. In 1855,
							County Clerk Joseph Sinclear, in a published notice to "all negroes and mulattos,"
							called attention to the fact that "the state law strictly requires that all of them
							who have resided in Indiana prior to November 1, 1851, are requested to register, and
							that all who came into the state after the above date are subject to a fine of not
							less than $10 nor more than $500."
						At the 1851 election, the counties voted on the adoption of a new state constitution.
							Allen county expressed itself in favor of the constitution by a vote of 1,775 to 260.
							Allen Hamilton and Judge James W. Borden were chosen as delegates to the
							constitutional convention.
					
					
					
						DR. PHILIP G. JONES, MAYOR.
						Dr. Philip G. Jones1 won the
							election for mayor of Fort Wayne in 1852. Dr. Jones had been active in the affairs of
							the town for several years.
						Following a warm presidential campaign, Allen county polled 1,964 votes for Franklin
							Pierce, and 1,225 for Winfield Scott. At this time, the slavery question received wide
							attention. In 1852, a newspaper called the Democrat was established by R. C. F.
							Rayhouser. The publication continued but a few months when it was merged with the
							Laurel Wreath, a literary paper, edited by Thomas Cook. The latter publication was
							continued until 1854, when it was purchased by D. W. Burroughs, re-named the Standard,
							and used to advance the editor's strong anti-slavery views and to promote the
							interests of temperance and free schools.
					
					
						"EGGING" THE ANTI-SLAVERY EDITOR.
						While the sentiment against the institution of slavery was strong in Fort Wayne, a
							large number of citizens were not in sympathy with the proposed methods of its
							abolishment. The published and spoken utterances of Mr. Burroughs, who spent much time
							on the platform speaking against slavery, brought upon him many threats of personal
							injury. He was active in the "underground railroad" system of the time. "Times were
							stormy then," observes the Fort Wayne Sentinel of February 26, 1889, "but Mr.
							Burroughs was as brave as a soldier and the 'egging' of his newspaper office and the
							murmurs of the crowd had no terrors for him."
					
					
						COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.
						By an act of the general assembly in May, 1852, courts of common pleas were created
							in all the counties of the state. The court also held exclusive probate jurisdiction
							and this caused the abolishment of the probate courts. James W. Borden was the first
							judge of the court of common pleas; he was re-elected in 1856 and held the place until
							1857, when he resigned. Joseph Brackenridge was appointed to succeed him. David
							Studebaker, of Decatur, was the first prosecuting attorney of the newly created
							court.
						The legislature of 1852 also abolished the offices of associate judges of the circuit
							courts of the state.
					
					
						THE FIRST STREET NUMBERING.
						In 1851, the city council adopted an ordinance for the numbering of the business
							houses and residences on Columbia street. It was provided that the numbering "shall be
							commenced at the east end and on the north side of said street, commencing with No. 1
							and numbering alternately on each side of said street, to Harrison street." This was
							the beginning of the street numbering, which underwent several changes of system in
							later years.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1851.
						In the summer of 1851 the first "bloomers" worn by women appeared on the streets of
							Fort Wayne. "Two young women promenaded our streets yesterday with short dresses and
							wide (or  Turkish) trousers," observed the Times. "The
							new style looked exceedingly well and is bound to prevail." The next newspaper mention
							of the new style, however, is a column-length narrative of riot and hubbub. On the
							24th of May, 1854, a modest rural school teacher, attired in the new style garments,
							came to town and stopped at the home of a friend. A hooting, yelling mob surrounded
							the house and the girl fled to the Spencer house for safety. In the course of its
							description of the proceedings, the Times says: "Boys, led by dissolute men, commenced
							firing myriads of firecrackers and shouting until things were confusion worse
							confounded. The proprietors requested the dispersion of the rabble, but to no purpose.
							Shame had fled with the fading sun." . . . Among the new settlers of the year were
							Alfred D. Brandriff (born in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1817), wholesale and retail hardware
							dealer; Lindley M. Ninde (born in Warren county, Ohio, in 1825), a prominent attorney
							and jurist; Orange Angell, from Little Falls, New York, who maintained a stage line to
							Sturgis, Michigan; Nathaniel C. Miller (born in Virgil, New York, in 1829), attorney,
							who came from Sturgis, Michigan; A. H. Carrier (born in France, in 1827), teacher,
							councilman and insurance agent; Peter Pierre (born in Alsace, in 1829), merchant; A.
							J. Read (born in Westmoreland, New Hampshire, in 1815), liveryman; John Draker and
							Anthony Gocke, from Germany; J. S. Tyler, Willis W. Case and Elisha J. Smith, from New
							York; John A. Shoaff, from Pennsylvania; W. H. Jones (born in Fort Union, Virginia, in
							1819), manufacturer. . . . William H. Coombs and L. C. Jacoby served as prosecuting
							attorneys during the services of James W. Borden as judge of the circuit court; Robert
							L. Douglass, who succeeded Mr. Jacoby, removed from the county and was succeeded in
							turn by Elza A. McMahon. . . . Samuel Brenton, whig, was elected to congress,
							defeating Judge James W. Borden, democrat. . . . I. D. G. Nelson was sent to the state
							house of representatives. . . . A heavy downpour of rain in May caused the rivers to
							rise and overflow the downtown streets as well as a large area of the present city,
							which was not yet settled. Canal boats floated about the region of Columbia and
							Harrison streets. Says the Sentinel: "It was with difficulty that some families were
							rescued from their dwellings. Women might be seen wading waist deep carrying their
							children to places of safety. Boats plied the streets, and rafts of lumber and
							driftwood floated in every direction."
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1852.
						Among the year's prominent settlers was John H. Bass (born in Salem, Kentucky, in
							1835), who entered the employ of Jones, Bass and Company, of which his elder brother,
							Sion S. Bass, was a member, and rose to a high place among the manufacturers of the
							middle west. Associated with Sion S. Bass in the firm of Jones, Bass and Company, were
							John Hough, Jr., and W. H. Jones. For three years he was employed as bookkeeper. This
							firm dissolved in 1858, and in the following year John H. Bass became interested in
							the Fort Wayne Machine Works, which succeeded the original concern. The stock of the
							company later came into the hands of Samuel Hanna and Mr. Bass; in 1863, Judge Hanna's
							interest was  transferred to H. H. Hanna. In 1869,
							through the death of the junior partner, Mr. Bass became the sole owner of the
							business. Mr. Bass founded the St. Louis Car Wheel Company in the same year, and in
							1873 established a large foundry in Chicago. The present Bass Foundry and Machine
							Works produces car wheels, Corliss engines and other products known throughout
							America. Mr. Bass is strongly identified with many commercial and financial
							institutions of Fort 
								ALFRED D. BRANDRIFF.
								Mr. Brandriff, who occupied a high place in the commercial life of Fort Wayne;
									was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1817. At Troy, Ohio, he established a manufactory
									of stoves, and in 1851 came to Fort Wayne and opened a retail hardware store which
									developed into the wholesale house of A. D Brandriff & Company. The portrait
									is from a photograph loaned by Mrs. Martha Brandriff Hanna, a daughter.
							
							
								WILLIAM S. ("POPGUN") SMITH.
								Born in 1816, at Hagerstown, Md., William S. Smith learned the gunsmith trade at
									the arsenal of Harper's Ferry (hence the nickname of "Popgun", which was not in
									the least offensive to him). While a resident of Ohio, he became a leading factor
									in the establishment of free schools, although he had been deprived of the
									advantages of an education. The family, consisting of ten persons, came to Fort
									Wayne on a chartered canal boat in 1852. Mr. Smith, while working at his bench
									studied law. He took a leading part in the controversy over the establishment of
									the free schools, and served for a time on the school board. The portrait is from
									a photograph loaned by Mr. Smith's son, Captain Eugene B. Smith.
							
							
								WILLIAM FLEMING.
								William Fleming was born near Dublin, Ireland, in 1828. He came to America in
									1848 with his parents, landing at Quebec. While here in quarantine the father and
									four of the children died. The mother and three small sons then came to Fort
									Wayne. A brief review of the life of Mr. Fleming during his remaining years
									includes these points: After teaching school for some time he was appointed deputy
									sheriff under Richard McMullen, and on the death of Sheriff McMullen he succeeded
									to his office. Twice on the democratic ticket he was re-elected to the same
									position. For eight years afterward he served as city clerk, and in 1878 was
									elected state treasurer. He was a strong factor in securing to Fort Wayne the
									Nickel Plate railroad, and served as a member of the board of directors of the
									road until its purchase by the Vanderbilt interests. He was for a considerable
									period the editor and proprietor of the Fort Wayne Sentinel, treasurer of the
									Indiana School Book Company, president of the Salamonie Mining & Gas Company,
									vice-president of the First National Bank, of Fort Wayne, and president of the
									Hartford City Paper Company, besides holding important interests in many
									enterprises.
							
							 Wayne. . . . Other settlers of 1852 were: Henry Monning
							(born in Westphalia), manufacturer, merchant, councilman and director of the Northern
							Indiana prison; Charles Auger (born near Versailles, France, in 1824), the first
							florist; Dr. G. W. Bowen (born in Delaware county, New York), physician; William Baade
							(born in Winheim, Germany, in 1830), engaged in the transfer business; Edward Seidel,
							from Germany; Leopold Falk (born in Rensburg, Germany, in 1823), merchant; Onslow G.
							Hill, from Portsmouth, New Hampsire, and Samuel Heilbroner (born in Haigerloch,
							Germany, in 1827), merchant.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXXIII.
						(1) Minor officials of Fort Wayne,
								elected and appointed in 1852, were: Treasurer, Thomas T. DeKay (resigned, succeeded
								by Ochmnig Bird); attorney, W. W. Carson (succeeded by F. P. Randall); fire chief,
								B. H. Tower (succeeded by S. C. Freeman); marshal, William Fleming; street
								commissioner, Edward Smith; councilmen, R. McMullan, H. R. Colerick, James Humphrey,
								Ochmig Bird, Jonas W. Townley, Robert Armstrong, O. W. Jefferds, James Howe, P. D.
								Hartman and Peter Kiser.
							County officers elected in 1852 were: Auditor, R. Starkweather; treasurer, Ochmig
								Bird; sheriff, William H. McDonald; recorder, Edward Colerick; surveyor, J. M. Wilt;
								coroner, C. E. Goodrich; commissioners, Simeon Biggs William Robinson and Peter
								Parker.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXIV—1853-1854. While the "Free" Schools Fought
						for Existence.
					The discouraging beginning of the public schools—The first board of education
						and its problems—The opening of the first schools—Citizens vote against the
						proposition to support them—True friends of the schools—The struggle to
						erect the original Clay and Jefferson buildings—George A. Irvin, the first
						superintendent—Activities of the foes of the schools—Early school
						regulations—Later troubles—A great demonstration—Schools close for
						want of financial support—E. S. Green and James H. Smart,
						superintendents—The first graduates—Charles Whitmore, mayor—The
						Hamilton bank—Colerick's Hall—Wayne township library—Beginning of
						artificial gas service—Illuminating the streets—When Fort Wayne went
						"dry"—The first daily newspapers—First county fair—Origin of the name,
						"Summit City"—A "roast" of the city market—John G. Maier,
						postmaster—Mad Anthony Guards.
					A CONSIDERATION of the history of the public schools of Fort Wayne,
						viewed through the vista of the years, causes the student to wonder that it should have
						been necessary to require the foremost institution of the land to fight so long for its
						very life. The explanation is difficult to unfold, nor would the problems of the early
						fifties find ready understanding today. It is sufficient to say, perhaps, that the
						struggle to establish the schools developed a spirit of power and pride which surmounted
						all obstacles and put to shame those who opposed their foundation and maintenance.
					One of the earliest records of attention given to the problem of public schools is to
						be found in the transactions of the town trustees under the date of December 21, 1835,
						when Henry Work and Samuel Edsall were appointed "to employ a suitable number of
						teachers and pay them out of the fund set apart for school purposes." Their report, made
						March 26, 1836, was to the effect that the town "cannot employ teachers on terms
						advantageous to the corporation," and then, after a discussion of ways and means to
						secure funds, the matter appears to have been dropped as a problem beyond the powers of
						the town trustees to solve.
					It remained for the year 1853 to mark the beginning of "free schools." The city
						council, in this year, chose Hugh McCulloch, Charles Case and William Stewart, men of
						proven worth and stalwart character, as a board of trustees, to undertake the solution
						of a knotty problem. The board found itself entrusted with the educational interests of
						a town of 4,000 people, enumerating 1,233 children of school age, with not a single
						school room belonging to the city and with only $330.72 with which to establish and
						maintain the schools for one year.
					The first step taken by the trustees was the renting of the old McJunkin school
						building, on the east side of Lafayette street, between Main and Berry streets. Isaac
						Mahurin was engaged as  principal, and Miss M. L. Mahurin
						as assistant. At the same time, the board engaged Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Hulburd to teach
						the west side school at their home, which occupied the site of the residence of Henry C.
						Paul, at the southwest corner of West Wayne and Ewing streets. Both schools were opened
						in September.
					
						TRUE FRIENDS OF THE "FREE" SCHOOLS.
						Previous to the passage of the state law authorizing the establishment of "free"
							schools, the people of Fort Wayne in 1848 had declared in favor of the act by a vote
							of 1,293 to 440. However, in April, 1853, when the city council resolved that "an
							order be drawn upon the city for the sum of $1,200 on account of money set aside for
							the purchase of school sites and placed in the hands of the trustees," there arose
							such a vigorous opposition that the trustees resigned. This action brought to the
							friends of the school a realization of their laxity, and in the following year, with
							the appointment of James Humphrey, Henry Sharp and Charles G. French as trustees, the
							conditions assumed a brighter appearance. A tax of two mills on each $100 worth of
							taxable property for school purposes was levied, and many of the citizens added to the
							fund by private donations far in excess of the law's requirements. Says the school
							report of 1868: "Some citizens pledged every dollar they were
									worth to the object; others came up to the full measure of their duty, and enough
									was obtained to justify the undertaking [to erect the first school buildings].
									Honor to them all! The buildings that were erected should ever be monuments to
									their liberality and sacrifice."
					
					
						SCHOOL TROUBLES.
						The school board, composed of James Humphrey, Charles G. French and William S. Smith,
							determined, in 1855, to begin the erection of two commodious school houses which would
							meet the pressing needs.
						The first step taken was the purchase of convenient sites—that of the Clay
							school on the east side, at the corner of East Washington boulevard and Clay street,
							for $1,300, and of the Jefferson school on the west side, at the corner of West
							Jefferson and Griffith streets (Fairfield avenue), for $1,170. The former was
							purchased from Samuel Hanna and the latter from Dr. Charles E. Sturgis. Having adopted
							similar plans for both buildings, the board sought bids for the construction work.
							Contractors failed to respond. No one seemed to desire to risk the responsibility of
							the erection of the buildings with the uncertain prospect of receiving his pay,
							especially at a time when other work was plentiful. The board determined, therefore,
							to let the contract for the east side school by piecemeal at such times as they were
							able to find persons willing to assume the risk of a loan to the city. Success crowned
							their efforts and the Clay school was opened February 9, 1857.
						Ten citizens then mortgaged their property to raise $5,000 for the building of the
							Jefferson school.
						As the result of a mass meeting and a heated debate held at the courthouse in 1857, a
							resolution was passed approving the proceedings of the city council "in their efforts
							to sustain the free schools  of the city." The gathering
							pledged itself to give its hearty support to promote the interest of free schools and
							declared that "every effort made to embarrass the city council is productive of evil."
							Foes of the resolution, however, secured an injunction to prevent the city treasurer
							from honoring an order issued by the council directing him to pay to the school
							trustees the sum of $3,500, needed to defray expenses in connection with the erection
							of the Jefferson school, which was then in course of construction. The matter was thus
							thrown into the courts and some time was consumed in litigation. The school board in
							1857 was composed of William Rockhill, Dr. Charles E. Sturgis and William H. Link
							(succeeded by James Humphrey).
					
					
						THE OPENING OF THE CLAY AND JEFFERSON SCHOOLS.
						The following interesting account of the opening of the Clay school, the first to be
							established in a city-owned building, is quoted from the Sentinel of February 4, 1857:
								"The public school at the corner of Clay and Washington
									streets was formally opened on Monday last, with appropriate exercises. A prologue
									was delivered by Dr. B. S. Woodworth, and speeches by Messrs. Peter P. Bailey,
									William S. Smith, Samuel Hanna, Charles Case and others. The large building was
									densely crowded with ladies and gentlemen. * * * The school is a beautiful and
									spacious three-story brick building, calculated to accommodate over 500 pupils. *
									* * Strict order and discipline must be observed, or it will be impossible to
									manage such an institution successfully. This is a fact the parents should impress
									upon their children."
						The Jefferson school was also opened in the fall of 1857 with appropriate ceremonies.
							The school adjourned after the exercises for a parade and a dinner in Ewing's
							grove.
						The list of teachers in 1857 included Rev. George A. Irvin, Messrs. Wallace and
							Mahurin, and Misses Leakin, Hamilton, Mills, Sinclair and Toleston.
					
					
						GEORGE A. IRVIN FIRST SUPERINTENDENT.
						Rev. George A. Irvin had been engaged in teaching in the Presbyterian Academy, in
							Fort Wayne, for some time previous to the opening of the public schools of which he
							was the first superintendent.
						"Rev. Mr. Irvin was a young Kentuckian," says one to whom his characteristics were
							well known, "and he was a liberal user of the switch as well as of chewing tobacco. He
							continued with the schools until 1863, when he became a chaplain in the federal army."
							(See Chapter XXXVI.)
					
					
						CHARLES WHITMORE, MAYOR.
						In 1853, the voters elected Charles Whitmore as mayor of Fort Wayne. He had served in
							the city council and was an active factor in promoting the public welfare. Shortly
							after the organization of the council, that body voted to "plank" Columbia street, the
							principal business thoroughfare of the town.1
					
					
					
						ALLEN HAMILTON AND COMPANY.
						The year 1853 saw the beginning of one of Fort Wayne's leading financial
							institutions, the Hamilton National bank. In this year, Allen Hamilton, Hugh McCulloch
							and Jesse L. Williams formed a partnership known as Allen Hamilton and Company, to
							conduct a private bank of discount and deposit. The business was conducted in a
							building on the west side of Clinton street, south of Columbia. Stephen B. Bond was
							the manager of the bank, and in 1855 was admitted as a partner. Later Charles
							McCulloch joined the company.
						The Hamilton bank, which succeeded the institution of Allen Hamilton and Company, was
							incorporated in June, 1874, with a capital of $200,000. Charles McCulloch was the
							first president, with John Mohr, Jr., cashier, and Joseph D. Mohr, assistant cashier.
							The directors were Charles McCulloch, Jesse L. Williams, Montgomery Hamilton, William
							Fleming, Frederick Eckart, August Trentman and Edward P. Williams. In November, 1879,
							the Hamilton bank was merged into the Hamilton National bank of Fort Wayne, with a
							capital of $200,000 and a surplus of $30,000. The charter of this bank expired in
							November, 1889, at which time the institution was reorganized with Charles McCulloch,
							president; 
								AN INVITATION TO THE FIRST RAILROAD EXCURSION.
								Through the kindness of Robert Learmonth, chief clerk of the operation department
									of the western division of the Pennsylvania, it has been possible to secure the
									loan of the original invitation of which the accompanying engraving is a
									photographic copy. The well preserved relic is owned by J. A. Burkett, agent of
									the Pennsylvania road at South Chicago, and duplicates of it are extremely scarce.
									The invitation, which was extended to many prominent citizens of various parts of
									the country, was accepted by many and the train, which arrived after nightfall on
									November 15, 1854, brought to Fort Wayne the first railroad excursion in its
									history. (See page 423.)
							
							 John Mohr, Jr., cashier; John Ross McCulloch, and Frank
							H. Poole, assistant cashiers. The bank occupied its building at the northwest corner
							of Calhoun and Main streets until April, 1917, when it was consolidated with the First
							National bank under the name of the First and Hamilton National bank.
					
					
						COLERICK'S HALL, THE FIRST THEATER.
						Not until 1853 was the city of Fort Wayne provided with an 
								(See preceding page.)
							
							 amusement place, although the courthouse and various
							other buildings were adapted to the purpose. In this year, Edward F. Colerick
							established the famous Colerick's hall, which stood on the north side of Columbia
							street, midway between Clinton and Barr streets. The stage was small; a gallery
							extended across the room. It was opened on the evening of December 26, 1853, under the
							management of C. C. Hill and S. B. Bond. The attraction was a local minstrel
							performance for the benefit of Mr. Colerick. That the place of amusement was not
							entirely perfect in its arrangements is suggested in the following newspaper comment
							in the Times of July 27, 1865: "A lady must have a neck as
									long as a giraffe and as slender, too, if she expects to see anything on the stage
									from the back of the gallery. People won't pay their dimes to see nothing, or
									break their necks or backs, too, in the effort."
						From the platform of the stage of Colerick's hall, for a period of twenty years, many
							of America's prominent men addressed audiences of intelligence and culture. Musical
							organizations and the leading traveling amusement and theatrical companies appeared
							here. But, by the year 1875 the people demanded a better place of amusement. The
							Sentinel of June 2, 1875, in the course of an argument for a modern playhouse,
							observed that "the old shanty which rejoices in the high-sounding name of Colerick's
							opera house has at last fallen so low that there are none so poor as to do it
							reverence. * * * Good troupes are passing Fort Wayne daily and refusing to stop
							over."
						Colerick's hall became the property of Captain James B. White in later years, when it
							was known as White's opera house. Twice it was damaged by fire, and then rebuilt for
							business purposes.
					
					
						WAYNE TOWNSHIP LIBRARY.
						In accordance with a legislative act of 1852, the Wayne township library, in care of
							the township trustees, was established in 1854, and opened to the public on April 7.
							Bernard Rekers was one of the earlier librarians. The institution, though it served
							its purpose well, went out of existence in 1893.
					
					
						THE FIRST GAS COMPANY.
						At a meeting at Colerick's hall, in 1853, over which Mayor Charles Whitmore presided,
							and John Hough, Jr., acted as secretary, the matter of the establishment of artificial
							gas works was first considered. As a result, the council granted to the Fort Wayne Gas
							Light Company (B. Barker, H. B. Spelman, Charles Whitmore and others) a franchise to
							operate a plant, provided at least one mile of mains was laid within a specified
							period. The rate for gas was not to exceed $3.50 per 1,000 cubic feet. The franchise
							period expired before action was taken, and the matter went over until 1855, when a
							like franchise, except that the rate was established at $5 per 1,000 feet, was granted
							to Joseph A. Sabbatan, Richard Merrifield, Charles Whitmore and others.
						As a result of the investigations of a committee composed of B. W. Oakley, William H.
							Jones and Moses Drake, Jr., the Fort Wayne Gas Light Company was incorporated March 6,
							1855, with a capital of $65,000 (later increased to $225,000), with the  following officers: President, B. W. Oakley; treasurer,
							Robert E. Fleming; secretary, B. D. Angell; directors, John Hough, Jr., William
							Rockhill, B. W. Oakley, Robert E. Fleming and Aaron Clark. Other stockholders were
							Joseph Stratton, Comparet, Hubbell and Company, Hill and Orbison, John Brown and John
							Drake, besides several Cleveland (Ohio) parties.
						
							ALEXANDER M'JUNKIN.
							In the private schoolhouse of Alexander McJunkin, who conducted a pioneer
								institution for several years, was opened the first public school in Fort Wayne. The
								building still stands. Mr. McJunkin was later the auditor of the Pittsburgh, Fort
								Wayne and Chicago railroad. The portrait is from a photograph loaned by Mrs. F. J.
								Hayden.
						
						
							COLERICK'S HALL.
							This famous place of amusement, located on the north side of Columbia street,
								between Clinton and Barr streets, was Fort Wayne's only theater for many years. It
								was built in 1853 by Edward F. Colerick. In 1864 the place was remodeled and
								modernized and later became the property of Capt. James B. White. Twice it was the
								victim of the fire fiend, and finally the owner rebuilt it as a business block.
								During its history as a place of amusement some of America's most noted actors,
								musicians and lecturers appeared on its platform.
						
						
							A SOUVENIR OF FORT WAYNE'S FIRST PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
							The picture is a pen drawing from a silk banner owned by Mrs. Sarah E. Richey,
								widow of the late Amos Richey, Sr. When my husband was a boy of 10 or 12," says Mrs.
								Richey, "he was a pupil of the 'free' public school which opened in 1853 in the
								house of Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Hulburd, at the corner of West Wayne and Ewing streets.
								A school picnic was held to celebrate the event and a procession of the children was
								formed to march to Ewing's grove. Many years later Mr. Richey, while in New York
								city, called on his former schoolmaster, who had advanced to old age. When Mr.
								Hulburd saw him he said, 'You are the boy who carried the banner that day in the
								parade,' whereupon, he brought out the silk banner and gave it to my husband to
								bring home as a souvenir of the opening of Fort Wayne's first public schools." The
								banner is of white silk and the decorations are in oil colors and brilliant gold. On
								the reverse side are the words, "Knowledge Is Power—Our March Is Onward." The
								banner is about three by four feet in size.
						
						
						A plant was established at the junction of Barr street with the canal. Originally,
							service for interior lighting only was provided, but, as the result of an election
							held in 1857 the people authorized the city council to grant a franchise to the
							company to illuminate the streets with gas. The property owners paid for the service
							in proportion to the extent of property frontage on the illuminated streets.
						Upon the termination of the contract between the city and the company, in 1873,
							another organization, the Globe Gas Light company, lighted the streets with kerosene
							lamps for two years, after which time the Fort Wayne Gas Light Company again secured a
							five-year contract. In 1864 A. P. Edgerton was the president of the company; H. H.
							Edgerton, secretary; R. E. Fleming, treasurer and superintendent, and Alfred
							Hattersley, inspector. Later officers were James Cheney, president and treasurer, and
							A. C. Probasco, secretary. With the coming of natural gas service in 1886, the former
							company was dissolved. (See Chapter XLIV.)
					
					
						WHEN FORT WAYNE WENT "DRY."
						Public sentiment in 1854 turned so strongly against the evil influence of the saloon
							throughout the state that the voters sent to the legislature a sufficient number of
							representatives to enact a rigid prohibitory law. In Allen county, however, the
							anti-prohibition forces were the more largely represented at the polls.
						Referring to the situation the Sentinel of April 1, 1874, says: "There was a torchlight procession which passed the residence of John Hough,
									Jr., Jesse L. Williams and other prominent temperance men, and the members gave
									three groans for each of those gentlemen. Afterwards, the procession, headed by
									one of the leading politicians of Fort Wayne, marched up Barr street, where,
									having dug a large grave, they buried their lost liberties in the shape of a keg
									of whisky. But, relying on the plurality in Fort Wayne against prohibition, many
									of the saloonkeepers refused to close up. This aroused indignation in their bosoms
									of the prohibitionists, who got up a popular excitement, held a series of public
									meetings, and finally raised a large fund to be used in the prosecution of the
									law. L. M. Ninde, Esq., was retained to push the cases, which he did with his
									accustomed ability and vigor, and the result was that in a short time there was
									scarcely a place in Fort Wayne where a glass of liquor could be
							obtained."
						A license law was substituted for the stringent act at the following session of the
							legislature.
					
					
						THE FIRST DAILY NEWSPAPERS.
						The Standard and the Times were Fort Wayne's first daily papers. Each made its
							appearance in 1854. D. W. Burroughs appeared with the Standard as a daily, which he
							continued for two years, when the paper was sold to R. D. Turner, who continued it as
							a weekly under the name of the Fort Wayne Jeffersonian, commonly called "The Zebra,"
							because of the striped letters composing its heading. In March, 1858, the paper was
							discontinued.
						Upon the retirement of George W. Wood from the management of the Times, John W.
							Dawson commenced the publication of the  paper as a
							daily, which was continued two years, when it was again issued as a weekly. In 1859
							the paper again was printed each day, and Fort Wayne has been provided with one or
							more daily papers since that date.
					
					
						THE FIRST COUNTY FAIR.
						The year 1853 found Allen county enjoying its first county fair. The affair was given
							"at and about Rockhill's brick tavern" (the present St. Joseph hospital grounds), in
							the west end of the city, and a speech by Samuel Brenton and a plowing match were
							features of the event. R. D. Turner was the secretary of the society. At the annual
							election, Lott S. Bayless was chosen president, F. H. Tyler secretary, and O. W.
							Jefferds treasurer.
					
					
						ORIGIN OF "SUMMIT CITY."
						In the issue of the Times of March 8, 1853, Editor John W. Dawson wrote: "As all cities of any note are assuming names to distinguish
									them from the hackneyed and worn-out names by which they were 
										SOME OLD RAILROAD TICKETS.
										The three railroad tickets here shown are from the collection of W. M.
											Wardrop, former superintendent of the western division of the Pennsylvania
											system. The ticket dated 1852 was issued before the Ohio and Pennsylvania road
											was completed to Crestline. The Ohio and Indiana road was riot finished to
											Fort Wayne until two years later. The lower ticket bears the signature of
											President George W. Cass.
									
									
										OCHMIG BIRD.
										Of the earlier residents of Fort Wayne whose services have been of lasting
											value should be remembered the name of Ochmig Bird. Interested in many local
											projects, Mr. Bird was frequently honored with political positions of trust.
											From 1854 to 1856 he served as county treasurer; in 1849, 1863 and 1867, he
											was chosen as the county's representative in the lower house of the
											legislature, while in 1871 and 1875 he represented Allen, Adams and Wells
											counties in the state senate. Mr. Bird was a man of practical mind, the type
											of citizen to represent the people at a time when many important public
											questions forced themselves upon the state and county authorities.
											Governmental affairs were in an experimental state, and the proper solution of
											many peculiar problems affecting the future welfare of the state came before
											the legislatures of which he was a member.
									
									 christened, we suggest that 'Summit City' will be
									very appropriate for Fort Wayne, its altitude indicating the appropriateness of
									the same."
						From that time forward the name has been applied to Fort Wayne.
					
					
						HOW THE TIMES HAVE CHANGED.
						The antebellum condition of Allen county farms appears to have been deplorable in
							comparison with that of the modern days of progress and prosperity. The Times,
							referring to the newly-established market place, says: "The
									vegetable market of this city is a very poor one, which arises from an
									unparalleled inefficiency, tardiness and unskillfulness in the farming community
									around here. No city in Indiana is surrounded by such a set of sluggards as Fort
									Wayne, and until the present generation runs out we may expect the
							same."
						The comment is amusing in the light of the prevailing times when the farmers of Allen
							county are classed with the most progressive of the middle west.
					
					
						THE CITY MARKET.
						The city market to which the writer refers had been erected by H. Nierman earlier in
							the year 1853, for $2,800, on a contract awarded by the city council. It consisted of
							a building which occupied the site of the present city hall. Extending southward
							between this building and Washington street was a double row of display stands beneath
							the shade of trees planted to afford shelter for the farmers and their patrons. This
							site is now occupied by the modern market house, erected in 1910.
						During the summer of 1860 a retail market was established on the west side of
							Broadway, between Main and Berry streets. It was a one-story structure, provided with
							the usual stalls and counters. Until 1877, when it was demolished, the building was
							used as a storage place for a portion of the fire department equipment.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1853.
						As a result of an exciting election attended by democrats only, John G. Maier was
							chosen postmaster of Fort Wayne, to serve under President Pierce. There were seven
							aspirants. Mr. Maier located the office in his place of business on Columbia street;
							his service extended to the close of the Buchanan administration. Mr. Maier was the
							first postmaster to receive mail by way of the railroad; he met all trains and carried
							the mail in his coat pockets. The first letters to arrive by rail were three for Royal
							W. Taylor. . . . The distant rumble of possible war between the north and the south
							found its frequent re-echo in Allen county. In this year the military spirit was shown
							in the organization of a strong company called the Mad Anthony Guards, with George
							Humphrey, captain, and R. McMullan, O. D. Hurd and C. D. Bond, lieutenants, and the
							Fort Wayne Dragoons (cavalry) with H. W. Jones as captain, and Sion S. Bass and T. N.
							Hood, lieutenants. . . . The city council ordered that the shade trees on the west
							side of Calhoun street  opposite the courthouse square
							be trimmed "so that the branches of said trees offer no obstruction to persons passing
							on the sidewalk." . . . The county commissioners purchased a site for a poor-farm.
							John A. Robinson was hired to build a house thereon for $750, and George Parker was
							engaged to superintend the farm for one year for $600. . . . A new county clerk's
							office was erected 
								PIONEER RAILROADS OF NORTHERN INDIANA AND OHIO.
								The maps show the Ohio and Pennsylvania railroad, the Ohio and Indiana railroad
									and the Fort Wayne and Chicago railraod, which were consolidated as the
									Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad—now under lease by the
									Pennsylvania Railroad company. The stations on these roads are shown as they
									existed in 1859, upon the completion of the line into Chicago. The dates indicate
									the time when the roads were constructed through the various towns. The map also
									shows the other railroads of the period which traversed the territory included in
									the maps. Acknowledgement is made to W. M. Wardrop, late superintendent of the
									western division of the Pennsylvania railroad, for the information here
									presented.
							
							 on the northwest corner of the courthouse square, at a
							cost of $1,856.20; Charles G. French was the contractor. . . . Joseph Fremion (born in
							France, in 1829) established a brick yard north of the city. . . . Among the new
							residents of the year were William S. ("Popgun") Smith (born in Hagerstown, Maryland,
							in 1816), gunsmith and school trustee; Frank B. Vogel (born in Zadeldsorf, Germany, in
							1840), tailor and fire chief, and Rudolph Siemon (born in Germany, in 1837), merchant.
							. . . County commissioners elected were Henry Dickerson, William Robinson and Peter
							Parker. . .. James W. Borden was chosen to succeed Nelson McLain as judge of the court
							of common pleas. . . . A brewery was established in 1853 by Herman Hartman; the
							Phenning brewery was erected later in the same year. . . . St. John's Evangelical
							Lutheran church was founded in 1853. Among the pastors were Revs. Christian
							Hochstaetter, A. Kleinegees, Hugh B. Kuhn, C. Baumann, John Kucher and H. P.
							Dannecker.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1854.
						Among the citizens who dated their residence in Fort Wayne from 1854 were William
							Ropa (born in Germany in 1834), canal boat owner and market-master; Frederick J.
							Rodenbeck (born in Horspen, Germany, in 1831), iron worker; Henry W. Hilgemann (born
							in Germany, in 1830), iron worker; Hiram Poyser (born in Starke county, Ohio),
							contractor and railway coach builder; Solomon Bash (born in Roanoke, in 1853),
							merchant and miller; Thomas Mannix (born in Limerick, Ireland, in 1837), merchant;
							Captain James B. White (born in 1835, at Denny, Stirlingshire, Scotland), who rose to
							prominence in the mercantile, manufacturing and political life of the city and
							attained to high military honors; Jacob Klett (born in Wurtemberg, Germany, in 1831),
							lumber manufacturer; Judge James Cheney, from Defiance, Ohio, prominently identified
							with banking interests, and one of the promoters of the Atlantic cable, the Wabash
							railroad, and gas interests; Charles H. Waltemath (born in Westphalen, Germany, in
							1849), merchant; Kerr Murray (born in Lanton, Scotland, in 1822), founder of the later
							extensive gas machinery plant of the Kerr Murray Manufacturing Company; John J.
							Jocquel (born in France, in 1812), proprietor of a book and stationery store; Dr.
							Cornelius S. Smith (born in York county, Pennsylvania, in 1820), physician; John C.
							Davis, from Bucyrus, Ohio, transportation agent of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and
							Chicago railroad; Thomas R. Pickard (born in Cornwall, England, in 1829), for nearly
							one-fourth of a century superintendent of the Bass Foundry and Machine works; Abraham
							Wolf (born in St. Grethen, Germany, in 1830), merchant; and Anthony Zimmerman (born in
							Baden, Germany, in 1830), merchant. . . . In 1854 Rev. Eleroy Curtis became the pastor
							of the Second (Westminster) Presbyterian church. His son, William Eleroy Curtis (born
							at Akron, Ohio, in 1850), rose to distinction as a traveler, journalist and newspaper
							correspondent. For several years he was director of the bureau of American republics
							and served as chief of the Latin-American department and historical section of the
							World's Columbian exposition at Chicago, in 1893.
						
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXXIV.
						(1) Minor city officials of 1853
								were: Marshal and fire chief, S. C. Freeman; street commissioner, William Lannin;
								treasurer, Ochmig Bird; attorney, F. P. Randall; councilmen, E. Bostick, John J.
								Trentman, James Vandegriff, W. B. Walter, Milton Henry, F. Nirdlinger, Jacob
								Foellinger, John Drake (succeeded by Richard Chute); J. L. Worden, Henry Drover and
								Lambert Martin.
							Mayor Whitmore was re-elected in 1854; the minor officers were: Treasurer, Charles
								F. Muhler; attorney, Charles Case (succeeded by Isaac Jenkinson); fire chief, Louis
								Wolke; marshal, F. J. Franke; sealer of weights and measures, D. W. Burroughs; civil
								engineer, J. M. Wilt; street commissioner, B. Hutker; assessor, S. S. Morss
								(resigned, succeeded by William D. Henderson); councilmen, W. Borger, Francis
								Aveline, J. M. Miller, M. Drake, L. Lauferty, John Arnold, W. H. Link, A. M. Webb,
								John Oriff, H. Wehmer, J. M. Snively and Platt J. Wise; board of health, Dr. W. H.
								Brooks, P. M. Leonard and James Ormiston—the latter resigned and was succeeded
								by Dr. Francis Lieber. W. A. Ellis, elected city clerk, misappropriated funds left
								in his charge, disappeared and left his bondsmen to make good the deficit; A. J.
								Emrick was appointed to fill the vacancy. In 1854 the city was redistricted into
								five wards.
							County officers elected were: Auditor, R. Starkweather; treasurer, Ochmig Bird;
								sheriff, Richard McMullan; recorder, E. F. Colerick; clerk, I. D. G. Nelson;
								surveyor, J. M. Wilt; coroner, John Johnson; commissioners, Henry Dickerson, F. D.
								Lasselle and William T. Daly; prosecuting attorney, Joseph Brackenridge.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXV—1855-1856. The Execution of Madden and
						Keefer—Workingman's Library.
					Two murderers are put to death in the jail enclosure—A tale of horror—The
						building of the Wabash railroad—The earliest photographs—The Workingmen's
						Institute and Library—Major Curtis and his bank—Valuable
						storage—Horace Greeley's "Apology"—Early slavery discussion.
					THE MEMORY of a shocking tragedy, accompanying the execution of the
						demands of the law, remained as a disturbing element in the minds of the people of Allen
						county long after the day of the hanging of two murderers in Fort Wayne in April, 1855.
						The law's victims were Benjamin Madden and George Keefer, who confessed to the murder of
						John Dunbar, on being found guilty after a trial before Judge E. A. McMahon. Samuel
						Romaine, an accomplice, was saved from the gallows by the hand of Governor Wright, and
						he received a life sentence for his crime. The execution of Madden and Keefer, in charge
						of Sheriff Richard McMullen, took place within an enclosure at the Allen county jail.
						Said the Sentinel: "At an early hour large crowds of persons
								began to flock in from the country, and before the time appointed for the execution,
								the jail was surrounded by a multitude of anxious spectators eager to get a glimpse
								of the awful tragedy. The Mad Anthony guards [under command of Colonel George
								Humphrey] and a large police force were stationed around the place to keep the crowd
								back."
					An eye-witness to the execution gives the following detailed account of the tragedy: "The two men were brought from the jail and the two ropes which
								were attached to the cross-beams above were placed around their necks. As the word
								was given, the main rope was cut and the platform dropped, leaving Keefer suspended
								in mid-air, his life rapidly ebbing away. Horrible to relate, however, the rope by
								which Madden was suspended snapped in two and dropped him to the ground with a deep
								red gash at his throat. The miserable wretch walked around among the horror-stricken
								and almost paralyzed witnesses, saying, 'Don't murder me, boys!' No one moved, until
								Joel Forbush took Madden and led him again to the scaffold and fastened the rope a
								second time around his neck. Then a new difficulty presented itself. The platform
								could not be raised to position, because the body of Keefer was still hanging and
								life was not extinct. The rope having been placed around Madden's neck, he was
								suspended a second time, but his feet rested upon the ground. Forbush then climbed
								to the top of the cross-beam and, holding the rope up from the ground with his
								strong arms, literally hanged Madden himself."
					The crime for which Keefer and Madden were hanged was the brutal murder of Dunbar, an
						old man, in a lumber yard which  adjoined on the west the
						present Lincoln Life building, on East Berry street.
					
						THE WABASH RAILROAD.
						The construction of the Wabash railroad, now one of the great trunk lines of the
							middle west, was begun in Ohio in 1854, and the line was completed as far west as
							Lafayette, Indiana, in the fall of 1856. In the following year the road was completed
							to the Indiana-Illinois border line, where connection was made with the Great Western
							and Illinois railroad, then nearly completed to 
								THE ORIGINAL CLAY SCHOOL BUILDING.
								The Clay school, completed in 1856, was the first of the city-owned structures.
									It was destroyed by an incendiary fire in February, 1894, and the present Clay
									school took its place.
							 Decatur, Illinois. Later the two companies were consolidated and th road
							completed to St. Louis, making the original line 436 miles long.
						In 1882 the company lengthened the distances included in its various divisions and at
							this time Andrews, Indiana, was made a divisional point, requiring the removal from
							Fort Wayne of about 150 employes. The company's shops at Fort Wayne, erected at the
							time the first portions of the road were building, included a large dome-shaped
							roundhouse, one of three of the type built by the road, which was afterward
							burned.
						The Butler branch of the road was constructed in 1901 and opened to traffic in
							January, 1902.
					
					
					
						THE FIRST PHOTOGRAPHS.
						The art of photography, as distinguished from the production of daguerreotypes,
							ambrotypes and other forms of pictures by mechanical and chemical processes, was first
							practiced in Fort Wayne by B. H. Benham, who had been engaged, in other lines of
							portraiture. Next in order of the early photographers were William Dunckelberg, who
							came in 1860, followed in 1862 by John A. Shoaff and Theodore Conklin.
					
					
						THE WORKINGMEN'S LIBRARY.
						The Workingmen's Institute and Library, organized in 1855, was the result of a
							meeting held at the courthouse, when the following officers were elected: President,
							Thomas Tigar; vice-president, John Cochrane; librarian, William Fleming; secretary,
							John M. Miller; treasurer, George Humphrey. Others interested were William S. Smith,
							John Drake, W. H. Bryant, D. W. Maples and John Arnold. The establishment of this and
							similar societies and libraries in various parts of America sprang from the
							benevolence and enthusiasm of William Maclure, a native of Scotland, a man of wealth
							and scientific attainments, and an earnest desire to spread the means of popular
							education. The will of Mr. Maclure provided that his estate should give books to the
							value of $500 to any society of 
								THE JEFFERSON SCHOOL.
								The woodcut, re-engraved from one of the earlier reports of the Fort Wayne public
									schools, shows the architectural form of the second city-owned building, the
									Jefferson school at the southwest corner of Fairfield avenue and Jefferson street.
									It was erected in 1856, and gave way to the present building.
							
							 workingmen who already had a library containing at
							least 100 volumes, and this provision easily was met.
						In the same year the Young Men's Literary society merged its organization and library
							with that of the "workingmen," and the institute remained a power for good until 1869.
							A part of the library books are now the property of the Fort Wayne high school; others
							are on the shelves of the Fort Wayne public library.
					
					
						MAJOR CURTIS AND HIS BANK.
						A private banking institution, known as the Bank of Fort Wayne, established by Samuel
							E. Curtis, existed for a brief period during 1856. The decision of the banker to close
							his doors resulted in his attainment to high military honors, for as a West Point 
								FRAGMENT OF A LETTER OF COLONEL GEORGE W. EWING.
								Above is a reproduction of a portion of a letter written at St. Louis in May,
									1856, by Colonel George Washington Ewing to his business associate, Byron D.
									Miner, at Fort Wayne. It gives a suggestion of the importance of the fur trade of
									the region even as late as the period indicated. In a later letter, in the
									possession of the writer, Mr. Ewing informed Mr. Miner that the New York
									manufacturers had discovered a means of preparing muskrat skins in imitation of
									mink and there was a great demand for "rat." In compliance with Mr. Ewing's
									instructions, Mr. Miner organized a secret expedition to the Kankakee marshes,
									where thousands of muskrats were trapped and their hides shipped to New York.
							 graduate he offered his services at the opening of the cival war and became
							Major General Curtis, with a brilliant record as a leader in Missouri, at Pea Ridge,
							and as commander of the United States forces in the campaigns in Arkansas, Missouri
							and Indian Territory.
						When Major Curtis came to Fort Wayn he brought $25,000 in silver, divided equally
							into the contents of twenty-five wooden boxes. These were stored in a room in the
							Hedekin house and guarded day and night while the banking rooms on the east side of
							Calhoun street, north of Columbia street, were being prepared for use. Says Charles
							McCulloch: "He intended to establish a free bank, by
									purchasing bonds and issuing currency, but the rapid depreciation of most state
									securities,  I think, frightened him, and as
									ordinary banking without circulation and local acquaintance and credit did not
									look favorable to him, he closed his doors in a few weeks before he had received
									many deposits. In those days many free banks came into existence and as they could
									buy state bonds on credit, to be paid for as soon as the currency could be
									engraved, many banks started with only capital enough to pay engravers' bills and
									the furniture for a banking office."
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1855.
						William Stewart, who already had served as mayor of Fort Wayne from 1849 to 1851, was
							again chosen to serve as the city's 
								A REMINDER OF A FORGOTTEN BANK.
								Probably the only visible evidence of the existence of the Bank of Fort Wayne is
									the original three-dollar bill owned by James Trythall and of which the above is a
									photographic reproduction. The bank was established in 1856 by Samuel E. Curtis,
									on the east side of Calhoun street, north of Columbia street, but it passed out of
									existence soon afterward and the banker became Major General Curtis, with a
									brilliant civil war record.
							
							 chief executive during 1855 and 1856.1 . . . The list of new residents of Fort
							Wayne, who came in 1855, includes Andrew Weber (born in Eppertshausen, Germany, in
							1828), railroad man and a singer of reputation; T. J. Rodabaugh (born in Summit
							county, Ohio, in 1836), railroad man; Anthony Kelker (born in Lebanon, Pennsylvania,
							in 1835), railway engineer; Frederick J. Thieme (born in Liepsic, Germany, in 1823),
							tailor; John Ferguson (born in 1834, near Quebec), lumberman; Dr. Isaac Knapp,
							dentist; Christian Gumpper (born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in 1833), baker; Jacob
							Weil (born in Lagnau, Switzerland, in 1828), dealer in furs, hides and wool; Marcus F.
							Woodward (born in Varnstead, Vermont, in 1826), railroad man and clothing merchant;
							Thomas C. Mungovan (born in Ennis, County Clare, Ireland, in 1830), railroad man; Neil
							McLachlan (born at Saltcoats, Scotland, in 1819), founder of first boiler factory in
							Indiana; he served as United States consul to Scotland, under appointment of President
							Lincoln; Amos Heit (born in Ulmbach, Germany, in 1836); Henry H. Bossler (born in
							Carlisle, Pennsylvania, in 1824), earliest fire insurance agent. The Summit City
							Journal, edited by the Young Men's Literary society, was published during 1855. . . .
							Samuel Brenton, who had served in congress for two years, was re-elected. Shortly
							afterward Horace Greeley, following a newspaper attack on Congressman Brenton,
							apologized, "not because it was unjust, or that the effect was to injure the
							gentleman, but because it had resulted in exciting a sympathy for Mr. Brenton to which
							he is not entitled."
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1856.
						The Democrat, a German newspaper, published by E. Engler, appeared in 1856; it was
							discontinued after 1858. . . . A campaign newspaper called the Journal was issued
							during 1856, by Hood and Kimball. . . . Franklin P. Randall became a member of the
							board of directors of the southern prison. . . . A secret society, known as the "Sons
							of Malta," with local lodges in many of the larger American cities, was organized in
							1856 by A. G. Barnett and Morton Taylor. The details of the somewhat sensational
							initiation ceremony were laid bare by Frank Leslie, the New York publisher, and the
							order went out of existence. The Fort Wayne lodge enrolled many of the prominent men
							of the day. It was instituted by General Stedman of Toledo, Ohio. . . . James Robinson
							erected a three-story brick building on the site of the present Randall hotel, west
							side of Harrison street, at the head of West Columbia street; this building was
							remodeled in 1871 as the Robinson house. . . . William Barker and B. W. Oakley opened
							a plumbing shop and brass works on Columbia street; this establishment developed into
							the present enterprise of A. Hattersley and Sons. . . . Herman Nierman established a
							brewery at the corner of Harrison and West Superior streets. . . . During the parade
							of a circus the middle span of the canal bridge over the basin at Harrison street
							collapsed under the weight of a band wagon loaded with musicians. Amidst the cries of
							the occupants of the wagon and the screams of the women and children of the crowd, the
							vehicle, musicians, driver and five horses were dashed into the water. There were no
							fatalities. . . During the heated period of the 
							Fremont-Buchanan campaign for the presidency, the slavery question was prominent in
							the discussion of the issues of the time. Public meetings, addressed by local orators
							and visiting campaigners, provided several lively weeks of political activity. Among
							the organizations of the time was the Young Men's Fremont club, of which William P.
							Newman was the president, E. H. Hawley secretary and H. Meredith, treasurer. Allen
							county polled 3,211 votes for Buchanan and Breckenridge, and 1,593 for Fremont and
							Dayton. . . . Among the Fort Wayne residents dating their coming in 1856 were John W.
							Hayden (born in Franklin county, Ohio, in 1837), attorney, pension agent, register in
							bankruptcy, and deputy United States marshal; Charles Stellhorn (born in Prussia, in
							1838), shoe merchant" and coroner; William Ranke (born in Prussia, in 1838),
							manufacturer of cooperage stock; Ignatius Freiburger (born in Alsace-Loraine, in
							1815), prominent farmer and active citizen; William Schmidt (born in Alsace-Loraine,
							in 1823), hardware merchant, and Oscar J. Wilson (from Keene, New Hampshire), railroad
							man.
						
							LOUIS T. BOURIE.
							For many years Louis T. Bourie served the city of Fort Wayne in various official
								positions. With the organization of the city fire department, he was chosen to be
								the chief engineer, his service extending from 1856 to 1858. Again, from 1862 to
								1864, he had charge of the department. During 1861 and 1862 he served as city clerk.
								He was born in 1828 in the old council house which was then owned by his father,
								Capt. John B. Bourie.
						
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXXV.
						(1) Minor city officials elected in
								1855 were: Clerk, R. N. Godfrey; treasurer, Clement A. Rekers; marshal, Patrick
								McGee; street commissioner, John Greer; engineer, Samuel McElfatrick; attorney, W.
								W. Carson; assessor, William D. Henderson; fire chief, James B. Teller (resigned,
								succeeded by Henry Baker); councilmen, F. P. Randall, O. E. Bostick, John M. Miller,
								Henry Baker, Pliny Hoagland, A. Gamble, John Arnold, Cyrus W. Allen, A. M. Webb and
								Charles Fink; board of health, Dr. Jonathan Bricker, J. D. Werden and Frank J.
								Frank. A temperance ticket with Isaac Jenkinson as the candidate for mayor polled a
								good vote. County officers elected were: Auditor, R. Starkweather; treasurer, Ochmig
								Bird; sheriff, Richard McMullan (succeeded by William Fleming); recorder, Platt J.
								Wise; surveyor, William A. Jackson; coroner, John Johnson; commissioners, Henry
								Dickerson, F. D. Lasselle and William T. Daly; state representative, Dr. Charles E.
								Sturgis; president judge of the circuit court to 1858, James L. Worden; prosecuting
								attorney, S. J. Stoughton, of Auburn. Upon the re-election of William Stewart mayor
								in 1856, the following minor officials were chosen: Clerk, A. C. Probasco;
								treasurer, Clement A. Rekers (succeeded by Thomas Meegan); engineer, Charles.
								Forbes; fire chief, B. Saunders (succeeded by L. T. Bourie); marshal, Patrick McGee;
								sealer of weights and measures, S. C. Freeman; street commissioner, J. Hardendorff;
								assessor, Henry Christ; councilmen, Thomas Stevens, J. Ormiston, Henry Baker,
								Michael Hedekin, H.  Nierman, J. D. Werden, William T.
								Pratt, William McKinley, A. M. Webb and Conrad Baker; board of health, Dr. Wehmer.
								John Cochrane and Thomas Tigar; board of school trustees, Franklin P. Randall, Pliny
								Hoagland, John M. Miller and Dr. Charles E. Sturgis.
							County officers elected were: Auditor, R. Starkweather; clerk, I. D. G. Nelson;
								treasurer, Alexander Wiley; sheriff, William Fleming; recorder, Platt J. Wise;
								surveyor, William A. Jackson; coroner. John Johnson; judge of the circuit court.
								James L. Worden; judge of the court of common pleas, James W. Borden; prosecutor of
								the circuit court, S. J. Stoughton, of Auburn; prosecutor of the court of common
								pleas, William B. Spencer.
							John Colerick was elected attorney for the twentieth judicial district.
						
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXVI—1857-1859. "Regulators" and
						Criminals—Railroad Shops—Lindenwood Cemetery.
					Desperadoes terrorize Northern Indiana—"Regulators" capture and hang Gregory
						McDougall "with order and decorum"—The haunt of the criminals—The Kekionga
						Guards—The Perry Regulators, the New Haven Vigilants, the Adams Township Rangers
						and the St. Joe Detectives—Samuel S. Morss, mayor—Charles Case,
						congressman—Bishop Luers and the Fort Wayne diocese—"Planking" downtown
						streets—Beginning of the Pennsylvania railroad shops—Toll gate
						receipts—Lindenwood cemetery—Franklin P. Randall, "war" mayor—The
						first city directory—The city seal.
					AN ORGANIZED gang of desperadoes who terrorized the entire northern
						portion of Indiana during the forties and fifties, became so bold in the commission of
						their crimes that the legislature of 1856 responded to the appeal of the law-abiding
						citizens to organize themselves into bands commonly known as "regulators." The law
						empowered them to capture criminals, give them a fair trial, and, if advisable, to
						inflict the punishment of death.
					Gregory McDougal, a notorious leader of a band of horse thieves, robbers and murderers,
						was caught in 1857, and was shortly afterward tried and hanged. The Fort Wayne
						"regulators" attended the execution, which took place near Diamond lake, in Noble
						county, January 26, 1858. "Their proceedings," says the Sentinel of January 30, 1858,
						"are all conducted with order and decorum. * * * McDougal was escorted by a procession
						of 1,000 armed, mounted men. The condemned man expressed an earnest wish for the success
						of the present movement against the banditti."
					The widow and children of McDougal remained long as residents of Noble county. From
						mysterious sources, they were supplied with the necessities of life. Probably the
						"regulators," whose organization was based on principles of justice, knew well the
						manner of the supply of the family's needs.
					The region of numerous lakes in the northeastern part of the state was well adapted to
						the work of the desperadoes, who were able to defy the regularly-established
						authorities, and to secrete their plunder. Hundreds of horses were stolen by them and
						sold.
					Former Senator George V. Kell tells of a stable belonging to the thieves located in
						what at that time was a great wood, and only about one-half mile southeast of the New
						York Central railway station at Huntertown, in Allen county.
					The legislature placed the membership of the organization of the "regulators" at not
						less than ten or more than one hundred men.
					
						THE KEKIONGA GUARDS.
						A strong Fort Wayne body, called the Kekionga Guards, formed in 1858, was composed of
							the following men, many of whom later  attained to
							renown in the state and nation: Jesse L. Williams, Hugh McCulloch, Hugh B. Reed,
							Samuel E. Morss, B. W. Oakley, Franklin P. Randall, R. W. Townley, Pliny Hoagland, T.
							P. Anderson, F. D. Lasselle, F. Nirdlinger, O. D. Hurd, C. D. Bond, B. H. Tower,
							Samuel Edsall, W. H. Jones, A. M. Webb, Dr. B. S. Woodworth, S. S. Morss, Samuel
							Lillie, Samuel Lillie, Jr., Joseph Stratton, George Messerschmidt, George Humphrey,
							Dr. Isaac Knapp, S. B. Bond, Charles Orff, James Humphrey, R. W. Taylor, O. P. Morgan,
							Dr. W. H. Brooks, C. W. Allen, John Brown, A. D. Reid, John G. Maier, William H. Link,
							John M. Miller, Henry Baker, Jacob Fry, George L. Little, S. C. Freeman, D. Cheesman,
							E. Bostick, M. H. Taylor, W. Wall, D. N. Bash, W. T. Abbott, William Harter, Benjamin
							Moss, W. Beach and I. L. Cutter.
						Other Allen county organizations were the Perry Rangers, the Lafayette Rangers, the
							New Haven Vigilants, the Adams Township Rangers, the St. Joe Detectives and the
							Springfield Detectives.
					
					
						SAMUEL S. MORSS, MAYOR.
						The warm contention over the maintenance of the public schools was carried into the
							municipal campaign of 1857, and Samuel S. Morss1 was chosen mayor on a "free" schools platform, winning
							over his opponent, L. Wolke, by a vote of 763 to 518.
						"Less illegal voting was done than at any election held here for years," observed the
							Times.
						In 1858, the voters re-elected Samuel S. Morss as mayor of the city, together with
							the following lesser officers: Marshal, Patrick McGee; clerk, J. C. Davis; treasurer,
							W. H. Link (resigned); attorney, John Glenn; civil engineer, Samuel McElfatrick;
							assessor, Joseph Price; marketmaster, William Stewart; street commissioner, Charles
							Becker; fire chief, L. T. Bourie; assistant fire chiefs, George Humphrey and George
							Nelson; councilmen, H. N. Putnam, John S. Irwin, E. Vordermark, John M. Miller,
							William T. Pratt, Jacob Foellinger, Charles D. Bond, Orrin D. Hurd, A. M. Webb and
							Christian Becker. The board of education was composed of William Rockhill, Thomas
							Tigar, George A. Irvin, Samuel Edsall and James Humphrey; Mr. Irvin was the
							superintendent of the schools.
						County officials elected and appointed in 1858 were: Clerk, I. D. G. Nelson; sheriff,
							William Fleming; auditor, Francis L. Furste; treasurer, Alexander Wiley; recorder,
							Platt J. Wise; surveyor, William McLaughlin; coroner, W. H. McDonald (succeeded by J.
							P. Waters); commissioners, Francis D. Lasselle, Henry Dickerson (succeeded by J.
							Shaffer) and Theron M. Andrews; superintendent of county infirmary, John B.
							Reinecke.
						In 1858 Joseph Brackenridge was elected judge of the court of common pleas, with John
							Colerick, prosecuting attorney. James L. Worden resigned the judgeship of the circuit
							court, and Reuben J. Dawson was appointed to fill the vacancy, with S. J. Stoughton,
							of Auburn, as prosecutor. At the fall election Edwin R. Wilson, of Bluffton, was
							elected judge of the circuit court. James L. Defrees, of Goshen, who was serving as
							prosecutor, died during his term of office, and John Colerick was appointed to the
							place. At the fall election Moses Jenkinson was elected to the office of prosecuting
							attorney, but the governor refused to recognize his commission, on  the ground that Colerick's appointment was for the entire
							unexpired portion of the term of Mr. Defrees.
						The resignation of Judge Worden was occasioned by his appointment by Governor Willard
							to a place on the bench of the Indiana supreme court made vacant by the resignation of
							Judge Stuart, of Logansport. In 1859 he was elected to the office and at the
							expiration of his six-year term he returned to Fort Wayne and was elected mayor of the
							city.
						Allen Hamilton was elected state senator, and Nelson McLain and Schuyler Wheeler
							state representatives, in 1858.
						The following county officers were elected: Auditor, Francis L. Furst; treasurer,
							Samuel Edsall; sheriff, Joseph A. Strout; recorder, Platt J. Wise; surveyor, William
							McLaughlin; coroner, John P. Waters; commissioners, John Shaffer, Michael Crow and T.
							M. Andrews.
						Joseph Brackenridge was elected judge of the court of common pleas; Augustus A.
							Chapin, of Kendallville (later of Fort Wayne), was chosen prosecuting attorney of the
							circuit court, succeeded by John Colerick; D. T. Smith was chosen prosecuting attorney
							of the court of common pleas.
						Moses Jenkinson and Conrad Trier were elected state representatives, in 1859.
					
					
						CHARLES CASE, CONGRESSMAN.
						Charles Case won in the race for congress, in 1857, by a majority of 749 over James
							L. Worden. Mr. Case had been appointed to serve 
								JUDGE JAMES A. FAY.
								Judge Fay was the first judge of the criminal court of Allen county, appointed by
									Governor Baker. He was born in 1813 at Northampton, N. Y., and came west with an
									engineering party. He taught school at Centerville, Ind., and later, after
									studying law with John Newman, he became a partner of Caleb B. Smith. In 1858 he
									came to Fort Wayne, which was his home until his death in 1876. He was a leader in
									his profession and a man universally admired.
							
							
								WILLIAM T. ABBOTT.
								Mr. Abbott served as auditor of Allen county for a term beginning in 1874. He was
									a native of Farmington, Me., born in 1828, and came to Fort Wayne in 1858, his
									first employment being with George W. Ewing. After conducting a dry goods store
									for some time he entered into partnership with Wade Shoaff. In his later years he
									was engaged in the real estate business. His death occurred in 1901. The portrait
									is from a photograph loaned by the late Mrs. Cynthia A. Hill.
							
							 an unexpired term, on account of the death of Samuel
							Brenton. Mr. Case was returned to congress in 1858, by a vote of 2,321, while his
							opponent, Reuben J. Dawson, received 958 votes. He was a Fort Wayne attorney; later he
							served in the civil war, and rose to the position of colonel of the 129th Indiana
							infantry. His death occurred in Washington, D. C.
					
					
						TWO SCHOOL BOARDS.
						The fight to maintain the schools was carried into the year 1858, which was a
							critical period in the history of the institution. The people at the regular election
							had chosen William Rockhill, Samuel Edsall and Thomas Tigar to serve as the board of
							trustees. The council, ignoring the result of the election, named James Humphrey in
							the place of Mr. Edsall. The ensuing quarrel between factions interested in the
							establishment of the schools added to the troubles of those who had the welfare of the
							institution at heart.
						In the summer of 1858, with Samuel Hanna as president of the day, the Pittsburgh,
							Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad carried two train loads of Fort Wayne people to Warsaw
							for a great "free" school demonstration. Stirring addresses were made by Charles Case,
							Samuel Hanna, Superintendent George A. Irvin and William Rockhill. "Without wishing to
							make an invidious distinction," says the Sentinel, "we feel it a duty especially to
							commend the address made by Master Charles McCulloch, one of the students of our free
							school, which, for facts and argument it contained, the beauty and excellence of its
							language and the ease and grace of its delivery, would have been creditable to the
							ablest and most experienced public speaker on the grounds." A committee composed of
							Dr. C. E. Sturgis, L. C. Jacoby, Rev. R. D. Robinson, Samuel Hanna, D. L. Beaver and
							Peter P. Bailey, solicited a sufficient amount of money from private citizens to allow
							the reopening of the schools in the following September. However, the appeal to the
							people of Fort Wayne for voluntary financial aid to keep the schools open in the
							following year proved ineffective, and, from May, 1859, to January, 1860, the Clay and
							Jefferson buildings were closed. An indebtedness of $16,486.84 was a troublesome
							problem for the trustees, Thomas Tigar, Oliver P. Morgan, Dr. Charles E. Sturgis, R.
							E. Fleming and Samuel Edsall, who served during the period.
						In 1861 the supreme court declared the school law unconstitutional, and the schools
							again were closed for a time. A new and improved law was passed, but the general
							conditions were such as to discourage the efforts of the friends of the institution.
							Not until 1865, when the law was materially changed, did the light finally dawn upon
							the free school system.
					
					
						E. S. GREEN, SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT.
						In June, 1863, Rev. George A. Irvin, superintendent of the schools, resigned his
							place to become a chaplain in the army. He was succeeded by E. S. Green. The fall term
							opened with a total enrollment of 698 pupils. Following is a list of the teachers:
							High school—George N. Glover, Mrs. E. S. Green. Jefferson school—Miss
							Amelia Pettit, Miss Carrie B. Sharp, Isaac Mahurin, Mrs. Susan Hoffman, Miss Mahurin,
							Miss Martha Beecher, Miss Laura Kimball,  Miss Frank
							Sinclair, Miss Emily McCracken. Clay school—Allen W. Pierce, William McQuiston,
							Miss Fletcher, Miss Phelps, Miss Lucy Bird, Miss Catherine Geiry. The school board, in
							1863, was composed of Samuel Edsall (succeeded by Emanuel Bostick), A. Martin
							(succeeded by Virgil M. Kimball), Christian Orff, Dr. C. E. Sturgis and Ochmig
							Bird.
					
					
						THE FIRST HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES.
						In April, 1865, the city council elected Oliver P. Morgan, Edward Slocum and John S.
							Irwin trustees of the schools. In the following June, the first class of graduates
							left the institution, marking a joyous period in the history of the schools. The class
							was composed of four young ladies, Emma L. Baldwin, who later served as a teacher, now
							deceased; Margaret S. Cochrane, for thirty-six years principal of the Washington
							school; Marian E. Humphrey, later Mrs. Brenton, also a teacher, and Abbie J. Sharp,
							who became Mrs. Frank Morton, of San Francisco, California.
					
					
						JAMES H. SMART, SUPERINTENDENT.
						Upon the resignation of E. S. Green as superintendent of the schools, the board
							elected as his successor Dr. James H. Smart, of 
								A BEFORE-THE-WAR SOCIAL AFFAIR.
								One of the prominent social events of the winter season of 1857-1858 was the "New
									Year soiree" at the Rockhill house on the 1st of January, 1858. The printed
									invitation, preserved by Mrs. George W. Ely, is here reproduced.
							
							 Toledo, Ohio, who entered upon his work and prosecuted
							it with such success that he was, after ten years of service here, elevated to high
							positions in the educational world, including the state superintendency of public
							instruction and the presidency of Purdue university.
						The overcrowded condition of the schools, in 1866, is suggested by the action of the
							city council in granting to Miss Nora Davis the use of "the fire engine house situated
							south and near the Wabash railroad shops as a school room to teach small scholars in;
							she pledges herself to keep secure and safe from damage the engine and any other
							property in the building."
					
					
						BISHOP LUERS AND THE DIOCESE OF FORT WAYNE.
						With the division of the Catholic diocese of Vincennes, which comprised the entire
							state of Indiana, the north half was organized in 1857 into the diocese of Fort Wayne,
							which city became the episcopal see. The diocese consisted of forty-two counties. Rt.
							Rev. J. H. Luers (born near Munster, Germany, in 1819) became the first bishop.
							Arriving in Fort Wayne from Cincinnati, where he was serving as pastor of St. Joseph's
							church, he gave prompt attention to the preparations for the erection of the Cathedral
							of the Immaculate Conception, for which Rev. Julian Benoit had already matured plans.
							The church was erected in 1859. In this year Rev. Father Benoit was appointed the
							first vicar general of the diocese of Fort Wayne.
					
					
						THE CATHEDRAL.
						In 1859 Bishop Luers and Father Benoit began the erection of the Cathedral. The
							building committee was composed of Henry Baker, Michael Hedekin, Maurice Cody and
							Jacob Kintz. The abandoned St. Augustine's church, which was superseded by the
							Cathedral, was destroyed by an incendiary fire, after it had been removed to the
							Clinton street side of the square. A large bell, cast in France in 1814 and presented
							to Rev. Father Benoit, was melted in the flames; the metal was later recast into two
							bells, one for St. Augustine's academy and one for the brothers' school.
					
					
						"PLANKING" DOWNTOWN STREETS.
						Owing to its almost impassable condition in wet weather, Calhoun street was ordered
							by the city council, in 1857, to be "planked" from Berry to Lewis streets; the portion
							bordering the courthouse square on the west already had been improved. The contract
							for the work was awarded to T. P. Anderson, but, owing to the disturbed conditions
							which accompanied the opening of the civil war period, the work was not finished until
							1863.
						"The workmen are now laying the planks," observed the Sentinel of November 3, 1863,
							"and, Providence permitting, this thoroughfare will soon be redeemed from the dominion
							of mud that has heretofore ruled supreme over it."
						In 1859, under the direction of H. Venker, contractor, West Main street from Calhoun
							to Union street, and Harrison street from Columbia to Main street, were "planked" at a
							cost of $1.80 per linear foot. The street width was forty feet.
					
					
					
						BEGINNING OF THE PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD SHOPS AND BASS
							FOUNDRY.
						Jones, Bass and Company, whose foundry and machine shops were located on the line of
							the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad, sold their establishment to the
							railroad company in 1857. This was the beginning of the immense Pennsylvania railroad
							shops of today.
						In September, 1857, Sion S. Bass and William H. Jones formed the partnership of Jones
							and Bass, and established a new foundry and machine shop on the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne
							and Chicago railway and the Wabash railway; in the following year, John H. Bass and
							Edward Force formed a partnership and leased the plant. In 1859, this partnership was
							dissolved and the plant sold to the Fort Wayne Machine works, organized with a capital
							stock of $12,000, officered as follows: President, Samuel Hanna; secretary, W. H.
							Jones; treasurer, Hugh Bennigan; superintendent, Neil 
								ALFRED P. EDGERTON.
								Mr. Edgerton was born at Plattsburg, N. Y., in 1813. After his graduation from
									Plattsburg academy he was connected with newspaper work for a brief period before
									removing to New York city to engage in commercial pursuits. In 1837 he located as
									an attorney at Hicksville, Ohio, to represent the landed interests of the American
									Land Co., and the Messrs. Hicks. Mr. Edgerton became the owner of 40,000 acres of
									valuable land in northwestern Ohio. As a member of the Ohio senate in 1845, he was
									the democratic leader of that body, and in 1850 he was elected a representative to
									congress; a re-election followed in 1852. In 1853 he was chosen by the board of
									state fund commissioners of Ohio as financial agent to reside in New York. In 1857
									Mr. Edgerton removed to Fort Wayne, and two years later, with Judge Samuel Hanna
									and Pliny Hoagland, he leased the Wabash and Erie canal, which he controlled as
									general manager until 1868. In the latter year he was a candidate for lieutenant
									governor of Indiana, and four years later declined to become a candidate for
									governor on the ticket of the O'Connor democrats. President Cleveland appointed
									Mr. Edgerton a member of the national civil service commission. In his later years
									Mr. Edgerton served in many important positions, including that of member of the
									Fort Wayne school board for an extended period.
							
							
								ANDREW HOLMAN HAMILTON.
								A. H. Hamilton was a son of Allen Hamilton, one of the foremost citizens in the
									development of the city of Fort Wayne. He was a graduate of Wabash college in 1858
									and a student of Goettengin in Germany for two years, before he entered Harvard
									university, from the law department of which latter institution he graduated. He
									located in Fort Wayne for the practice of law and continued in the profession
									until the death of his father, when the responsibilities of the management of the
									family estate came upon him. During the Lincoln-Douglas campaign he entered the
									political arena and became a powerful factor in crystallizing the democratic
									sentiment of the county. He was elected to represent the Fort Wayne district in
									congress in 1874 and served two terms.
							
							 McLachlan. In 1862 John H. Bass purchased the interest
							of Neil McLachlan. Subsequently, he became the sole owner, and this plant developed
							into the present Bass Foundry and Machine works.
					
					
						THE REPUBLICAN AND THE STAATS-ZEITUNG.
						On the 6th of May, 1858, Peter P. Bailey began the publication of the Fort Wayne
							Republican, in an office located on the west side of Calhoun street, between Main and
							Berry streets. "Mr. Bailey is a warm republican," observed the Sentinel, "and he
							'pitches in' as earnestly as if he actually believes what he writes about disunion,
							pro-slavery and Lecompton juggle." The publication was not destined to live long.
						Gustavus J. Neubert, in the same year, established the Staats-Zeitung, with its
							publication office located on the south side of Columbia street, between Calhoun and
							Clinton streets. In 1862 the paper came under the editorial control of John D.
							Sarnighausen. In 1877 it was issued as a daily.
					
					
						TOLL GATE RECEIPTS.
						The value of the investment in turnpikes, established by stock companies, is
							suggested by the report of the receipts and expenditures of the Fort Wayne and
							Bluffton Turnpike Company for 1857. The amount received from tolls at the gate near
							the present Allen county farm was $1,713.15; from the gate at Ossian, $662.13; from
							the gate near Bluffton, $258.75; total, $2,634.03. The cost of maintenance for the
							year was $2,058.60, leaving a balance of $575.43. Dr. Charles E. Sturgis was the
							president of the company, and W. S. Edsall clerk and treasurer.
					
					
						THE BEGINNING OF LINDENWOOD CEMETERY.
						The year 1859 marks the culmination of the plans of a company of far-seeing citizens
							who had endeavored for several years to secure a suitable location for a cemetery
							which would serve the needs of the city for many years to come—a place which
							would yield to the efforts of the landscape gardener and become a permanently
							beautiful city of the dead. How well their plans matured is attested by the Lindenwood
							of today.
						On the 5th of July, I. D. G. Nelson, Jesse L. Williams, Hugh McCulloch, Charles D.
							Bond, David F. Comparet, Royal W. Taylor, Allen Hamilton, Alexander M. Orbison, John
							E. Hill, Pliny Hoagland, Alfred D. Brandriff and Ochmig Bird purchased a tract of 153
							acres known as the Pollock plat, at a cost of $7,627.50, which developed into the
							present beautiful Lindenwood cemetery. The approach was an almost impassable marsh and
							the ground was covered with thick underbrush. In 1860, when I. D. G. Nelson was
							elected president and Charles D. Bond secretary and treasurer of the Fort Wayne
							Cemetery association, the additional amount expended for improvement was $1,841.52.
							Solemn and impressive ceremonies on May 30, 1860—a date in future years to be
							designated as sacred to the memory of many who were then about to enter  upon the military service of the United
							States—marked the dedication of this beautiful spot.
						John W. Doswell became the superintendent of the cemetery at the time of its
							opening.
					
					
						FRANKLIN P. RANDALL, "WAR" MAYOR.
						Franklin P. Randall, the successful candidate for mayor in the campaign of 1859,
							served until the close of 1864, and has been commonly called Fort Wayne's "war"
								mayor.2
						The legislature in 1859 amended the city charter to extend the term of the mayor's
							tenure and that of other city officers from one to two years, and the terms of
							councilmen from one to four years.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1857.
						The "silver palace" sleeping cars manufactured at the shops of the Pittsburgh, Fort
							Wayne and Chicago railroad attracted the attention of the railway world. The coaches
							were valued at $20,000 each. . . . Among the prominent men who came to Fort Wayne in
							1857 were Alfred P. Edgerton (born in Plattsburg, New York, in 1813), lawyer and
							political leader; James A. Fay (born at Northampton, New York, in 1813), judge of the
							criminal court; John Morris (born near New Lisbon, Ohio, in 1816), judge of the
							supreme court and a foremost citizen; Louis Rastetter (born in Baden, Germany, in
							1834), manufacturer, and John H. Ungemach (born in Zanesville, Ohio, in 1843),
							prominent Lutheran instructor. . . . Judge James W. Borden, on receiving the
							appointment of resident minister of the United States to the Hawaiian Islands,
							resigned his position as judge of the court of common pleas and took up his residence
							in Honolulu; he returned to Fort Wayne in 1863 and again was elected judge of the same
							court. At the time of his resignation, Joseph Brackenridge was appointed to complete
							Judge Borden's term; he was elected to the office in the following year and served
							until 1863.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1858.
						C. S. Williams, of Cincinnati, represented by H. T. Bennett, published, in 1858, the
							first city directory of Fort Wayne. The work contains 2,668 names. At this time the
							system of house numbering had not been adopted, and all locations were indicated by
							descriptions. . . . The present corporation seal of the city of Fort Wayne, designed
							by Franklin P. Randall, came into use in 1858. It bears the design of a pair of
							scales, beneath which is a sword and Mercury's wand. Above the scales is the word
							"Kekionga," and around the outer edge of the design are the words, "City of Fort
							Wayne, Indiana." Previous to 1858, some legal documents were attested by the use of a
							scroll, drawn in ink, within which were the words, "Seal of the City of Fort Wayne,
							Indiana." Others at a later time were given legality by the use of the designed seal
							in circular form, with an American eagle in the center, surrounded by the words, "Seal
							of the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana." . . . The Scotch residents of the city organized
							the Caledonian society, with the following officers: President, John Cochrane; vice
							president, Alexander Stewart; treasurer, James Humphrey; secretary, James Scott;
							directors, Kerr Murray, Thomas Hood and Hugh  Bennigan.
							. . The luxury of a public bathhouse came to Fort Wayne in 1858, when Edward F.
							Colerick opened an establishment which appears to have been greatly needed. "Some few
							of the more wealthy have provided for this necessity by having bath rooms in their
							residences," observed the Sentinel, "but the great mass of our citizens have been
							utterly deprived of the luxury except as they might take a chance to plunge into the
							canal or the rivers." Prominent new-coming residents of the year 1858 were Edward
							O'Rourke (born in Newark, New Jersey, in 1841), judge of the circuit court for
							thirty-six years (1876-1913); Allan H. Dougall (born in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1836),
							prominent in political affairs, government representative in the Philippines and in
							one of the departments at Washington; Bernard O'Connor (born in Ireland in 1817), the
							third telegraph operator in the United States and a construction contractor; Joseph S.
							France (born in Indiana county, Pennsylvania, in 1824), attorney; Dr. George T.
							Bruebach (born in Grossalmerode, Germany, in 1830), physician; William M. Crane, from
							St. Mary's, Ohio, an attorney; Frederick C. Weber (born in Germany), merchant; William
							T. Abbott (born at Farmington, Maine, in 1828), founder of the Abbott Sanitarium,
							merchant, county auditor, and a real estate, dealer, and William Borgman (born in
							Stemmorn, Germany, in 1837), canal boat captain, policeman, contractor and member of
							the Brown Trucking Company, and Dr. H. Van Sweringen (born in Navarre, Ohio, in 1844),
							for many years a leading member of the medical profession.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1859.
						Governor Willard, after a visit of inspection, declined to act favorably on the
							recommendation of a board of commissioners to 
								WILLIAM KING.
								William King, in 1859, became the champion marksman of America in his defeat of
									James Shannon, and Colonel Blanton Duncan. Frere, the European champion, then
									challenged King, who went to England, and made a record superior to the
									challenger. Queen Victoria awarded to him a medal, and for a considerable period
									the Fort Wayne man held tightly to his honor. The portrait is from a photograph
									loaned by George W. Bourie.
							
							
								THE SEAL OF THE CITY OF FORT WAYNE.
								The corporation seal of the city of Fort Wayne was designed by Franklin P.
									Randall and brought into use in 1858. It bears the design of the scales of
									justice, beneath which are the sword and Mercury's wand. Above the scales is the
									word Ke-ki-on-ga, the Indian name of the ancient village which occupied the site
									of Fort Wayne.
							
							 locate the northern state prison at Fort Wayne.
							Michigan City later was selected as the site. . . . In the summer of 1859 the citizens
							raised a fund of $419.22 to engage "Prof." W. D. Bannister to make a balloon
							ascension, the first exhibition of the kind ever made in Fort Wayne. The balloon
							landed eighty miles to the eastward in Ohio. . . . William King won in a
							pigeon-shooting contest with James Shannon, at St. Louis, and claimed the American
							championship, a position which was justified by the defeat of Colonel Blanton Duncan,
							shortly afterward. Mr. King then received, a challenge from Frere, the great English
							marksman, who claimed the world's record. King went to England and defeated the
							British claimant and was for a considerable period the holder of the world's
							championship honors. . . . In 1859, the county constructed the first iron bridge
							across the St. Mary's river at Wells street, at a cost of $3,200, designed by Mosley
							and Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1860 this bridge collapsed while under the burden of
							a large herd of cattle. Many of the cattle were drowned. A large part of the iron of
							the ruined bridge is yet buried beneath the bank of the stream near the plant of Jacob
							Klett and Sons. . . . A lodge of the Independent Order of Good Templars was officered
							by W. S. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Ninde, Mrs. Eliza J. Allen, J. D. Werden, William
							H. H. Hull, Rev. R. D. Robinson, Miss Imogen Smith and Douglass Phelps. The town
							already had a flourishing lodge of the Total Abstinence order. . . Prominent men who
							dated their residence in Fort Wayne from 1859 included Robert S. Taylor (born in 1838,
							near Chillicothe, Ohio), judge of the court of common pleas, member of the Mississippi
							River commission, prominent attorney and public-spirited citizen; William Ranke (born
							in Diehlengen, Westphalia, in 1838), baker and manufacturer of cooperage stock; George
							Geller (born in Koenigsberg, Germany, in 1827), and Captain Robert H. Harrison (born
							in Ireland in 1834), railroad shopman and city councilman.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XXXVI.
						(1) Other city officials elected and
								appointed were: Clerk, Christian Tresselt; treasurer, Conrad Nill; fire chief,
								George Humphrey; marshal, Patrick McGee; street commissioner, Christian Cook;
								engineer, Samuel McElfatrick; assessor, James Howe; councilmen, H. N. Putnam, W.
								Boerger, C. D. Bond, John Orff, Christian Orff, E. Vordermark, William T. Pratt,
								William McKinley, A. M. Webb and C. Becker; board of health, H. Wehmer, John
								Cochrane and O. W. Jefferds; state representatives, Pliny Hoagland and I. D. G.
								Nelson.
							County officers elected in 1857 were: Auditor, John B. Blue (succeeded by Francis
								L. Furste; surveyor, William McLaughlin; judge of the circuit court, James L.
								Worden; prosecuting attorney, circuit court, S. J. Stoughton; prosecuting attorney,
								court of common pleas, William S. Smith.
						(2) Other officers elected and appointed
							were: Clerk, Moses Drake, Jr.; treasurer, William Stewart; marshal, Joseph Price;
							street commissioner, Henry Tons; assessor, H. Bossler; councilmen, J. Burt, B. H.
							Tower, B. D. Miner, O. D. Hurd, Daniel Nestel, J. Trentman, M. Cody. H. Nierman, S.
							McElfatrick, A. C. Beaver; fire chief, James Humphrey.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXVII—1860-1861. Ovation to Douglas—Knights
						of the Golden Circle—Enlistments for the Civil War.
					Vast crowds greet Senator Stephen A. Douglas, opponent of Abraham Lincoln—The
						parade—Nature's amphitheatre—Douglas pleads for "half slave, half free"
						policy—Opposition to the war—"We re-affirm our adherence to the doctrine of
						state rights"—Knights of the Golden Circle—Patriotic
						demonstrations—"Indiana for the Union!"—The news from Fort
						Sumter—Allen county's pledge—The first enlistments—Flag-raising at the
						Wabash shops—Hugh McCulloch's address—Camp Allen—Henry W.
						Lawton—An exciting city election—Building of the fourth
						courthouse—Troubles of the builders.
					MEMORABLE among the stirring events of 1869 was the great political
						demonstration attending the visit of Senator Stephen A. Douglas—the "little
						giant"—democratic candidate for the presidency opposed to Abraham Lincoln.
					Senator Douglas came to Fort Wayne from South Bend, Indiana, on the evening preceding
						the larger demonstration. The route from the station to the Rockhill house, where the
						visitor was entertained, was lined with cheering masses of people, the larger number of
						whom regarded him as the savior of the country from impending civil war. The senator
						rode in the carriage of Frederick Nirdlinger, and a great parade of torch-bearers
						followed the leader, who expressed his gratitude for the show of loyalty in a brief
						address from the hotel balcony. But the greater event was reserved for the following
						day. A parade which required two hours to pass the reviewing stand was the most
						remarkable in the history of the town. The towns of Huntington, Warsaw and New Haven
						were represented by marching clubs, each member dressed in a "hickory shirt and a glazed
						cap." Four brass bands and four fife and drum corps, as well as floats and marchers
						representing the industries of the town, appeared in line. Among the local organizations
						were the Douglas Hickory club, of which Byron D. Miner was the president; Edward Slocum,
						vice president; William Lytle and B. H. McCrary, secretaries, and Caspar Schoepf,
						treasurer, and the Young Men's Democratic club, of which A. H. Hamilton, J. W. McArthur,
						L. M. Bowser, John Tigar, A. Nettlehorst and Clement A. Rekers were the officers.
					Thousands followed the parade to the speaker's stand, which had been placed on or near
						the present Thieme drive, between Main and Berry streets. Looking southward, the speaker
						faced a natural amphitheatre which since has been converted into beautiful streets and
						home sites. The crowd which faced the candidate was estimated at 60,000.
					"Let me ask you," said the speaker in the course of his address, after quoting
						Lincoln's assertion that this nation could not exist half slave and half free, "why
						cannot this nation endure forever as our fathers made it, divided into free states and
						slave states, with the right  on the part of each to have
						slavery as long as it chooses, and to abolish it when it pleases? * * * Why cannot we
						allow the new states and the new territories to do the same thing?"
					A band concert and evening torchlight procession closed the day's celebration. Allen
						county cast 3,224 votes for Douglas, 2,552 for Lincoln, 42 for Breckenridge, and 32 for
						Bell.
					These figures stand as mute evidence of the strong opposition to Lincoln and his
						policies, but the record of the activities of opposing individuals and organizations of
						the period reflect still more strongly the difficulties through which the supporters of
						the president were required to pass in the display of their loyalty to the national
						administration. Especially during political campaigns—local, state and
						national—was the acrimony of the strife manifested, and the terms "copperhead,"
						"butternut," "knownothing," "traitor," and similar epithets—some of which terms
						became incorporated into the language with new meanings, were hurled from one party to
						another. Frequent fistic encounters occurred in public places and the entire war period
						was marked by regrettable episodes which were characteristic of the times in many
						portions of the north. An example of the public declarations is that of the Order of the
						Sons of Liberty (or Knights of the Golden Circle) of Allen and adjoining counties,
						assembled in Fort Wayne on the 13th of June, 1864, who, in the course of resolutions
						denouncing a draft of 500,000 men, declared: "We re-affirm our adherence to the doctrine
						of state 
							JAMES D. NUTTMAN.
							Mr. Nuttman was a native of Elizabeth, New Jersey, born in 1816. He came to Fort
								Wayne in 1839, but remained but a short time, when he removed to Decatur, Indiana,
								and engaged in a manufacturing enterprise. In 1861 he returned to Fort Wayne and
								opened a private financial institution known as the Citizens' bank. In 1863, soon
								after the passage of the national banking law, the institution was reorganized as
								the First National Bank of Fort Wayne and Mr. Nuttman became the president of the
								institution, with which he remained for twenty years. He established the present
								private bank of Nuttman and Company in 1883.
						
						
							COLONEL HUGH B. REED.
							In 1845 Hugh B. Reed came to Fort Wayne from Cincinnati, Ohio, and opened a drug
								store. He was a successful merchant at the time of the breaking out of the civil
								war, but his outspoken loyalty brought to him the appointment of Governor Morton as
								commandant of post, with camp at Fort Wayne. He aided in raising several regiments,
								and was made colonel of the gallant Forty-fourth regiment. Failing health prevented
								Colonel Reed from accepting the nomination of brigadier general by President Lincoln
								and hie returned to Fort Wayne. After the close of the war he removed to New
								Jersey.
						
						 rights. * * * We will never give any aid to this unholy
						and unconstitutional war!" The Sons of Liberty were of two branches, the civil and the
						military. The latter contemplated the formation of a Northwestern Confederacy composed
						of Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin and Michigan, and, failing in success, to cast their
						power with the South.
					
						THE PATRIOTISM OF THE PEOPLE.
						The opponents of the patriotic policy of the government, however, were largely in the
							minority. The great mass of the people of Allen county rallied with enthusiasm about
							the national government, regardless of party affiliations. The best evidence of this
							loyalty is the record of the county in the great struggle for the preservation of the
							union. During the period of the war the county sent 4,103 men to fields of battle; of
							this number 489 lost their lives in the defense of their country. The county paid
							$550,145 in war bounties, gave $73,863 for the relief of the families of the soldiers,
							and to this added $2,000 for miscellaneous expenses, making a total of over
							$630,000—truly a magnificent substantial evidence of the truest patriotism.
						The bounty paid by Allen county for service was $20 per month, to which was added $25
							by the United States and $2 by the state. The county commissioners also paid to every
							married enlisted man $4 per month toward the support of his family, and $1 for every
							child under fifteen years of age. Soldiers were paid $13 in advance of their entrance
							into the service.
					
					
						A PATRIOTIC MASS MEETING.
						Soon after Lincoln's election—on December 15—a great company of citizens
							of all classes and political beliefs assembled at Colerick's hall to declare the will
							of the people in support of the government. Upon the motion of Smalwood Noel, B. W.
							Oakley was called to the chair, and William R. Nelson, whose name was presented by
							Lindley M. Ninde, was made secretary of the gathering. John W. Dawson, called upon to
							state the object of the meeting, declared that "secession is upon us, the country is
							convulsed and we are holding an anxious breath for news of every day pregnant with
							evil! Our influence is small," he continued, "but it will be by just such meetings as
							this all over the land that the union will be saved. Politics have made the
							difficulty, but they cannot settle it. It remains for the people to do it, and they,
							alone, can do it."
						A committee named to prepare resolutions declaring loyalty to the government was
							composed of William S. Smith, Lindley M. Ninde, Warren H. Withers, David H. Colerick,
							I. D. G. Nelson, Samuel Hanna, Allen Hamilton, George W. Ewing, John W. Dawson, Jesse
							L. Williams, Sion S. Bass and Franklin P. Randall—six democrats, five
							republicans and one whose political views were unknown. Others who participated in the
							proceedings were Peter Kiser, John B. DuBois, Samuel Edsall, Madison Sweetser, William
							W. Carson, Joseph Brackenridge, Dr. Isaac Knapp and John Morris.
						"Indiana for the union, first, last and always," was adopted as the slogan of the
							Allen county patriots.
					
					
					
						EFFECT OF THE NEWS FROM FORT SUMTER.
						The fearful news of the firing upon Fort Sumter at daybreak of the 12th of April,
							1861, thrilled the entire north with the highest degree of patriotism. On the evening
							of April 15, three days after the beginning of hostilities, Mayor Randall called to
							order a mass meeting in Hedekin hall, adjoining the Hedekin house on the north. Men of
							all political beliefs crowded the place of assembly. Allen Hamilton and Jesse L.
							Williams were appointed vice-chairmen, with Warren H. Withers secretary. A committee
							composed of Hugh McCulloch, A. P. Edgerton, Samuel Hanna, Hugh B. Reed, Joseph
							Brackenridge, Pliny Hoagland and Lott S. Bayless was appointed to prepare resolutions,
							which declared that, "in the present crisis of our national affairs, there should be
							but one party in the state of Indiana, and that party should stand pledged before the
							country to uphold and sustain, by all the means in its power, the national 
								THE "PENNSYLVANIA" STATION.
								The brick station of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago (Pennsylvania)
									railroad, abandoned in 1914, was built in 1860. The illustration is from a woodcut
									owned by the contractors, Kanne and Company, and shows the building as it stood
									originally. During the half century of its use it was changed but slightly in
									form. For a considerable period the McKinnie house occupied the upper rooms and
									the ground floor dining-room.
							 administration, enforcing obedience to the laws preserving the public
							property and vindicating the honor of the flag."
						Enthusiastic addresses, with patriotic songs by the Messrs. Kimball, together with
							national airs by the band, completed a program which closed when the gathering
							declared that Allen county would guarantee to assist the state to provide three times
							as many men as the first call might require. Major William H. Link, Captain George
							Humphrey and Captain William P. Segur then went forward and commenced the enrollment
							of volunteers by heading he lists with their own names. These lists were afterward
							placed in the offices of Withers and Morris, Judge Hanna and the collector of the
							canal office, where they were liberally signed.
						Fort Wayne troops of Co. E, Ninth Indiana, under Capt. William P. Segur, were the
							earliest in the field. Organized three days after the fall of Sumter, they were first
							on southern soil, and engaged in the first battles of the civil war at Philippi, West
							Virginia, June 1, 1861, Bealington and Carrick's Ford. Henry W. Lawton was orderly
							sergeant of Co. E.
						
						Five days after the firing upon Sumter a second patriotic demonstration was staged at
							the Wabash railway shops. Amidst the playing of the bands and the booming of cannon,
							the Stars and Stripes were raised to wave in the breeze until the close of the war.
							This flag remains among the effects of the late Oscar J. Wilson. Addresses were made
							by William S. Smith, Warren H. Withers and others.
					
					
						JULY 4, 1861.
						Another demonstration, on the Fourth of July, following the departure of some of the
							Allen county soldiers, included an oration by Hugh McCulloch, during the delivery of
							which he said: "Let the storm blow—let traitors rage, and the despots of Europe
							'imagine a vain thing'—liberty is still with us, a living principle, the union,
							though assailed, a reality—and, bound together and cemented as they were by the
							blood of the Revolution, may we not hope that they are indissoluble and imperishable?"
							The Declaration of Independence was read by Mayor Randall. The features of the parade 
								A WAR-TIME PORTRAIT OF HENRY W. LAWTON.
								The portrait of Henry W. Lawton was made in 1864, when he was a captain, at the
									age of twenty-one years. No citizen of Indiana has risen to greater heights of
									military fame than did General Lawton, who was proud to call Fort Wayne his home
									to the end of his eventful life. This loyalty is feelingly exhibited in a letter
									dated August 8, 1899, five months before his tragic death in the Philippines,
									addressed to A. S. Covell, of Sion S. Bass post, G. A. R., at Fort Wayne. General
									Lawton wrote: "I have never wavered in my allegiance to the state of Indiana, and
									have never for a moment contemplated a change of residence—Fort Wayne, Ind.,
									is the only place where I could legally cast a vote or where I could have voted
									since I attained my majority," and then he adds the pathetic words which seemed to
									indicate his knowledge of the events of the near future: "I have heard of the
									death of many of the old comrades, and feel often that the time is close at hand
									when I, too, must join the great majority as they go marching along." Within a few
									weeks the body of Henry W. Lawton reposed in state in the Allen county courthouse
									and his home city united in the highest tribute to his honored memory.
							
							
								COLONEL GEORGE HUMPHREY.
								Colonel Humphrey was a native of Irvine, Ayreshire, Scotland, born in 1825. With
									his brother James, who also became prominently identified with the history of Fort
									Wayne, he came to the frontier settlement in a pirogue by way of the Maumee river.
									He served in the Mexican war as a lieutenant. Returning to Fort Wayne, he
									established himself in 1852 in the manufacture of doors, blinds and sash, and so
									continued until the outbreak of the civil war, when he organized a company and
									reported at Indianapolis. The early war record of Colonel Humphrey was such as to
									raise him to the colonelcy of the celebrated Eighty-eighth regiment of volunteers,
									which was recruited in Fort Wayne. After seeing severe service with his regiment,
									Colonel Humphrey returned to Fort Wayne, temporarily, to place on a firm footing
									his business, which had suffered from the burning of his factory, but he was soon
									in condition, though suffering from a severe wound, to accept the proffered
									appointment as colonel of the One Hundred and Thirty-ninth Indiana volunteers.
									Following his war service, Colonel Humphrey became a prominent contractor, as a
									member of the firm of Cochrane and Humphrey.
							
							 were the artillery company of the Pittsburgh, Fort
							Wayne and Chicago railroad, under command of Captain Joseph Stillwagon, the St. Joe
							Rangers, the Washington Invincibles and the fire departments. Samuel Edsall served as
							marshal of the day.
						Immediately upon the outbreak of hostilities in the south a number of companies were
							formed in Fort Wayne, ready for the president's expected call. Among these were
							Captain George Humphrey's company, of which Joseph Stillwagon and Joseph Price were
							chosen lieutenants; Captain W. H. Link's company, with W. W. Angell, A. F. Reed and
							Jeremiah Ettinger lieutenants; Captain Orrin D. Hurd's company; the Fort Wayne Rifles,
							with W. P. Segur captain and H. A. Whitman and S. W. Story lieutenants; the Randall
							Guards, under Captain George W. Fitzsimmons, with Henry W. Lawton and E. B. Stribley
							lieutenants; Captain J. M. Silver's company, with Joseph Price and Isaiah McElfatrick
							lieutenants; Captain Tanneyhill's company, with U. B. Davis and Philip Grund
							lieutenants. However, many of these organizations were not retained in their original
							form, though the period of their initial existence served as a vigorous training time
							and the air rang with martial music as the young patriots prepared to respond to the
							president's call for volunteers.
					
					
						CAMP ALLEN.
						A tract of land which now forms the more southerly part of "Nebraska," in Fort Wayne,
							was the rendezvous and training ground of several of the regiments and portions of
							regiments recruited in northeastern Indiana during the entire period of the war. It is
							directly southwest of the Main street bridge, opposite Swinney park. In later years it
							was purchased by the city and named Camp Allen park. Hugh B. Reed, acting under a
							commission from Governor Oliver P. Morton, served as post commandant at Fort Wayne and
							assisted in the organization of the local companies and regiments. William S. Smith,
							city attorney, was appointed enrolling and drafting commissioner.
						Camp Allen, the recruiting place of troops from the near-by regions, saw the
							organization of the Thirtieth regiment, with Sion S. Bass as its colonel, on the 20th
							of August, 1861; the Twelfth Indiana infantry, Colonel William H. Link (mortally
							wounded at the battle of Richmond, Kentucky); the Forty-fourth regiment, Hugh B. Reed
							colonel, on the 22d of November, 1861; the Seventy-fourth regiment, organized in 1862,
							Colonel Thomas Morgan; the Eighty-eighth regiment, organized in the summer of 1862,
							George Humphrey colonel, and the One Hundredth regiment, under Colonel Sanford J.
							Stoughton. Another famous Allen County organization, the Eleventh Indiana battery, was
							organized in 1862.
					
					
						MAJOR GENERAL HENRY W. LAWTON.
						A word at this point with reference to Fort Wayne's greatest military leader, Major
							General Henry W. Lawton, is entirely fitting.
						The father of Henry W. Lawton came to Fort Wayne during the building of the Wabash
							and Erie canal, but the family did not locate here permanently until 1858, at which
							time Henry, who was born at Manhattan, Ohio, in 1843, entered the Methodist college as
							a student. He enlisted as a private in the company organized by W. P. Segur, which
							became a part of the Ninth Indiana regiment,  and
							re-enlisted with Captain O. D. Hurd's company, assigned to service with the Thirtieth
							Indiana volunteers. He became a sergeant of Company E, Ninth Indiana infantry, first
							lieutenant of the Thirtieth infantry, and a lieutenant colonel in the closing year of
							the civil war, when he returned to Fort Wayne and entered upon a law course of study
							in the office of Judge L. M. Ninde.
						Acting upon the advice of Judge Ninde, he began the study of law in Harvard
							university, and while thus engaged he received an appointment in the regular army as a
							second lieutenant in the Forty-first Indiana infantry, in 1866. He was transferred to
							the Fourth United States cavalry in 1871, and promoted to captain in 1879.
						In 1876 he was prominent in the campaigns against the Sioux and the Ute Indians.
							General Nelson A. Miles chose him in 1886 to lead a picked body of men to capture the
							bloodthirsty Indian chief, Geronimo. Within three months, on scant, unwholesome
							rations, the little command traversed 1,396 miles of Mexican soil before the chief and
							his band were captured. At the beginning of the Spanish-American war General Lawton,
							then a lieutenant-colonel, was promoted to the office of major-general of volunteers.
							He was in command of the Second division of the Fifth army corps before Santiago, and
							became "the hero of El Caney." At the close of the war he was transferred to the
							Philippines and placed in command of Manila. Here he began an active campaign against
							the 
								COLONEL SION S. BASS.
								Colonel Bass was a brother of John H. Bass, who has grown to advanced years at
									the head of the Bass Foundry and Machine works. Sion S. Bass came to Fort Wayne
									from Salem, Kentucky, in 1848, and soon became a member of the important firm of
									manufacturers of iron products, Jones, Bass and Company. At the outbreak of the
									war of the rebellion he left his business affairs to assist in the organization of
									the famous Thirtieth regiment, which was mustered in September 24, 1861. Of this
									regiment, Sion S. Bass was commissioned colonel, and he led the regiment through
									the preliminary movements at the battle of Shiloh. In the face of the terribly
									destructive fire of the second day the young leader fell mortally wounded. The
									remains were brought to Fort Wayne for burial.
							
							
								THE AVELINE HOUSE.
								The view of the Aveline house is from a woodcut owned by the building contractor,
									D. J. Silver, and shows the architectural form of the building as it appeared
									before its remodeling. The building was erected during the years 1860, 1861 and
									1862, by Francis S. Aveline. For a period of forty-five years the Aveline was Fort
									Wayne's leading hotel. In the eighties a fifth floor was added to the building,
									and a thorough remodeling brought to the place the name of the New Aveline. The
									destruction of the building by fire on the morning of May 3, 1909, attended by the
									loss of twelve lives, stands forth as Fort Wayne's most memorable holocaust.
							
							 native insurgents. On December 19, 1899, a bullet from
							the rifle of a Filipino sharpshooter at San Mateo brought to him almost instant death.
							The body of General Lawton, conveyed to America for burial at Arlington cemetery, lay
							in state in the Allen county courthouse while thousands viewed the closed casket. (See
							Chapter XLVI.) That Governor James A. Mount failed to recognize Lawton's standing in
							the estimation of the Indiana veterans in 1898 is shown by his words in reply to the
							proposition to honor him with the appointment of brigadier general at the outbreak of
							the Spanish-American war. "Lawton is an absolutely unknown quantity in Indiana," said
							he. "His selection would disgust and disrupt the National Guard. I protest vigorously
							against his appointment. It must not be. He has no identity with Indiana. If the
							powers that be insist on his preference, we may as well abandon the camp and 
								MOSES DRAKE, JR.
								Mr. Drake was appointed postmaster of Fort Wayne in 1861. During his incumbency
									he installed a mailbox system. While serving his second term his death occurred,
									and Peter P. Bailey was named as his successor.
							
							
								CAMP ALLEN.
								Camp Allen, the scene of the recruiting of several of the most noted Indiana
									regiments which participated in the war of the rebellion, was located in the
									southerly portion of the district of "Nebraska."
							 disband the troops." The failure to appoint Lawton at this time prevented
							the service of the Indiana troops beyond the border of the United States.
					
					
						AN EXCITING ELECTION.
						The legislature in the passage of the act which lengthened the term of the city
							officers of Fort Wayne from one to two years precipitated a lively scramble for the
							offices. Mayor F. P. Randall won a re-election by a vote of 799 over A. M. Webb (433),
							Sol D. Bayless (330) and William Stewart (139).1
					
					
						THE BUILDING OF THE FOURTH COURTHOUSE.
						In the midst of the war troubles and anxieties the county erected and dedicated its
							fourth courthouse—the building which immediately preceded the present
							magnificent structure. In 1858 a levy of fifteen cents on each $100 of taxable
							property had been made  for a fund to build a courthouse
							which "should last for a century, at least." In the following year the levy was
							increased to twenty cents, and the commissioners advertised for plans. The accepted
							design was prepared by Edwin May, of Indianapolis, and on January 12, 1860, the
							contract was let to Samuel Edsall, Virgil M. Kimball, Ochmig Bird and Louis Wolke
							(Samuel Edsall and Company) for $63,613, although the builder was D. J. Silver.
							Extras, for which allowances were made, increased the cost to $74,271, and the
							furnishings and the equipment brought the total outlay to $78,000. Before the
							completion of the building Mr. Edsall sold his interest in the contract to John Brown
							and Virgil M. Kimball.
						The cornerstone of the building was laid with Masonic ceremonies May 1, 1861, Sol D.
							Bayless, past grand master, officiating. Charles Case delivered an address. This
							cornerstone, of white marble, is preserved in the present courthouse, where it is
							embedded in the wall of the main floor near the Court street entrance. The cutting is
							the handiwork of Bernard S. O'Connor. The board of commissioners accepted the building
							July 23, 1862. It was in use thirty-five years.
						The courthouse was built of brick, with stone trimmings. The length of the building
							was 120 feet, and the breadth 65 feet, exclusive of the east and west wings, which
							were 20 by 40 feet in dimensions. From the ground to the top of the cupola the
							distance was 160 feet. Eight octagonal shafts extended from the ground to a distance
							of eight to twenty feet above the roof of the building.
						The construction of this fourth courthouse was not without its difficulties. Before
							the contract was let, one of the members of the board of commissioners, Theron M.
							Andrews, made an effectual protest against awarding Mr. May the contract. The latter
							was then engaged to superintend the work of construction, but was discharged and the
							duties placed in the hands of Samuel McElfatrick. Later, when a difference of opinion
							arose between the commissioners and the contractors, a board of arbitration composed
							of Joseph K. Edgerton, E. R. Wilson, Jesse L. Williams, I. D. G. Nelson and Pliny
							Hoagland was named to pass on the debated points.
						A bell purchased for the courthouse tower weighed 1,314 pounds. Louis Rastetter was
							engaged to make the town clock to be placed in the tower. Upon the completion of the
							courthouse the old buildings containing the clerk's office and the recorder's office
							on the public square were torn down.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1860.
						Allen county's first organization of practicing physicians—the Allen County
							Medical society—came into existence as a part of the state society in 1860. Dr.
							Isaac M. Rosenthal was the first president. The organization is now known as the Fort
							Wayne Medical society. The charter members were Drs. C. A. Schmitz, Henry P. Ayres,
							William H. Brooks, Thomas P. McCullough, Charles F. Mayer, W. H. Myers, Isaac M.
							Rosenthal, B. S. Woodworth, C. S. Smith, John M. Josse and George T. Bruebach. . . .
							The official census gave Fort Wayne a population of 10,388, an increase of 5,006 over
							1850. The German Catholic Barromeus society was organized in 1860; the officers in
							1864 were: President, H. Branger; secretary,  Henry
							Monning; treasurer, John Mohr. . . . Among the permanent settlers of 1860 were Henry
							J. Ash (born in New Hampshire), wholesale and retail stove merchant; Dr. Isaac M.
							Rosenthal (born in Lauphin, Wurtemberg, Germany, in 1837), physician and a citizen of
							public spirit; Ernest C. Rurode (born in Hanover, Germany), for many years one of the
							most prominent department store proprietors; M. V. B. Spencer (born in Jay county,
							Indiana, in 1840), attorney, county clerk and active citizen; Ronald T. McDonald (born
							in Allegheny City, Pennsylvania, in 1839), dry goods merchant, and latterly a widely
							famed promoter of interests in the manufacture and sale of the products of the Jenney
							Electric Company, the forerunner of the present Fort Wayne plant of the General
							Electric Company. . . . Albert H. Polhamus (born at Sodus, New York, 
								THE FOURTH COURTHOUSE.
								The brick building which was torn down in 1897 to give room for the erection of
									the present Allen county courthouse was built during the war of the rebellion and
									dedicated at a time when the people were weighed down with anxieties and sorrows
									and excited over political dissensions. The cornerstone was laid May 1, 1861, and
									the building was accepted by the commissioners July 23, 1862. The complete cost
									was $78,000. The structure stood in the center of the public square, surrounded by
									a grass plot and shade trees. It served the county for a period of thirty-five
									years.
							
							 in 1837), railroad contractor and public-spirited
							citizen, and Dr. John M. Josse (born in Germany in 1818), a leading physician. . . The
							feature of the Fourth of July celebration of 1860 was an old settlers' reunion at the
							Rockhill house. Souvenirs in the form of canes made from timbers from the old fort
							were presented by Colonel G. W. Ewing. . . . Judge Samuel Hanna served as a member of
							the committee which escorted Abraham Lincoln on his campaigning tour through Illinois
							and Indiana.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1861.
						In 1861 Moses Drake was appointed postmaster by President Lincoln. He kept the office
							for a time in its old location on Clinton street, and then moved it to the Robinson
							block (now the Randall hotel), on Harrison street, and afterwards to the room on Court
							street just north of the Foster furniture store. This ended the migration of the
							postoffice until it found a permanent home. . . William Ellinger, a Baltimore showman,
							visited Fort Wayne and closed a contract with Charles Nestel ("Commodore Foote") and
							his sister, Eliza ("The Fairy Queen") as a theatrical attraction. Each of the Nestles
							measured three feet and eight inches in height. Already Charles had been exhibited in
							several Ohio cities, and the Cincinnati Enquirer had declared that "he is a greater
							curiosity than Tom Thumb." Later, in company with their father, Daniel Nestel, the
							brother and sister spent several years in visits to the states and Canada. Several
							tours of European cities brought them into the royal courts of the leading foreign
							nations. . . . Because of the lack of funds, the public schools were closed for
							several weeks during the spring of 1861. . . . Warren H. Withers was appointed to
							serve as Indiana's first collector of internal revenue, with the duty of organizing
							the department. . . . Byron D. Miner was elected state representative. . .. Among the
							citizens who settled in Fort Wayne in 1861 were M. Baltes, from Prussia, contractor
							and dealer in building supplies; Noble G. Olds (born at Bedford Springs, Pennsylvania,
							in 1818), manufacturer of vehicle wheels, and prominent in the activities of the city;
							Robertson J. Fisher (born at Little Falls, New York, in 1845), an official of the Bass
							Foundry and Machine works.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXXVII.
						(1) Other officers elected in 1861
								were: Clerk, L. T. Bourie; treasurer, H. P. Putnam; marshal, Patrick McGee;
								attorney, W. S. Smith; engineer, John W. McArthur (succeeded by O. D. Hurd);
								assessor, S. C. Freeman; street commissioner, Henry Tons; school trustees, O. P.
								Morgan, William Rockhill, Orrin D. Hurd and J. C. Davis; councilmen, J. Burt, Edward
								Slocum, Morris Cody, B. H. Tower, C. P. Piepenbrink, B. D. Miner, J. Humphrey, John
								S. Harrington, Daniel Nestel and B. H. Kimball. The council appointed Dr. Charles E.
								Sturgis, Michael Hedekin and W. H. Bryant to compose the board of health. Joseph
								Stillwagon was chosen fire chief.
							County officers elected in 1861 were: Auditor, G. F. Stinchcomb; treasurer, O. W.
								Jefferds; sheriff, Joseph A. Strout; recorder, Platt J. Wise; surveyor, J. W.
								McArthur; coroner, John P. Waters; commissioners, John Shaffer, B. D. Miner and
								Isaac Hall.
							Franklin P. Randall was re-elected mayor in 1863, and the following minor officials
								were elected and appointed: Clerk, E. L. Chittenden; treasurer, John Conger;
								marshal, Patrick McGee; attorney, Joseph S. France; fire chief, L. T. Bourie
								(succeeded by Joseph A. Stillwagon, who resigned and was succeeded by Munson Van
								Geisen); street commissioner, C. W. Lindlag; assessor, S. C. Freeman; marketmaster,
								W. D.  Henderson (resigned, succeeded by Thomas D.
								Beard); engineer, John S. Mower; chief of police, Conrad Pens (resigned, succeeded
								by William Ward); councilmen, Edward Slocum, Henry Monning, B. H. Tower, Morris
								Cody, Henry Nierman, C. P. Piepenbrink, John S. Harrington, Dennis Downey, B. H.
								Kimball and A. F. Schele. (Schele, Nierman, Harrington and Slocum resigned before
								the completion of their terms, and Pliny Hoagland, C. Neireiter and William
								Waddington were appointed.)
						
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXVIII—1862-1863. Police—Baseball—The
						First Park—"Shinplaster" Currency.
					The homecoming of the dead—Enlistments for the war—Patriotic women and
						children—Political riots—The first police force—The beginnings of
						baseball—The development of the game—Joseph K. Edgerton,
						congressman—Old Fort Park purchased by the city—The First National
						Bank—"Shinplaster" currency issued by the city—Hugh McCulloch named by
						President Lincoln to serve as the first comptroller of the currency of the United
						States—The success of his services—The Fort Wayne Gazette—The Aveline
						house.
					THE SECOND year of the war of the rebellion found hundreds of the
						remaining young men ready to respond to the calls for additional troops, and soon the
						appeals came with appalling frequency.
					Isaac Jenkinson was appointed enrolling and conscription agent, and all able-bodied
						citizens between the ages of eighteen and forty-five years were held subject to draft in
						case the several townships of Allen county failed to supply their designated quota. Camp
						Allen was a busy center of enlistment and encampment.
					Already flag-draped caskets bearing the bodies of many of the heroic sons of Allen
						county who had fallen early in the struggle were being returned to their sorrowing
						households, and the tolling of the bells proclaimed the despair of many homes. "How
						strange it is," observes one of the papers, referring to a prominent volunteer of the
						county who had lost his life on the battlefield,—"how strange the difference
						between his reception and his parting! Then, the tongue of slander lisped harsh words
						against the loyalty of this young officer—now it is uttering praise." The comment
						suggests the bitterness and unjustness of the times.
					
						PATRIOTIC WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
						Volumes of praise have been written of the heroic women who dared to remain quietly
							at home and bravely play their part in the battle for the right. The wives and mothers
							and sisters of Fort Wayne and Allen county, ever ready to contribute their great
							share, were busy early in 1862, organized to supply substantial means of comfort and
							relief to the fathers and brothers and sons at the front. Among the first
							organizations to render assistance were the Ladies' Soldiers' Aid society, the Young
							Ladies' Patriotic society and the Little Girls' Aid society.
						A committee consisting of E. Bostick, V. M. Kimball, Dr. W. H. Brooks, James Humphrey
							and Morris Cody was named to supervise the care of sick and wounded soldiers and the
							work was undertaken in systematic form.
					
					
						THE THIRD YEAR OF THE WAR.
						President Lincoln's call for 300,000 additional volunteers in 1863 found Allen county
							ready to respond to the limit of its quota,  and the
							sound of fife and rolling drum became the commonplace order of things. The enrolling
							office was in charge of Charles Hanna, L. T. Bourie, Joseph Price and Henry Tons. The
							town was thronged with recruits from all parts of northeastern Indiana and the
							neighboring states of Ohio and Michigan. William Williams (later congressman from the
							Fort Wayne district) was appointed commander of Camp Allen, with authority to raise
							troops, and within a period of six weeks four new regiments were in the field.
						The bitterness of party strife during the congressional campaign of 1862 revealed
							itself in many riots of more or less 
								THE OPERATION OF TRAINS IN WAR TIMES.
								The two pages of printed matter here reproduced are photographed from the
									official book of rules and regulations issued by the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and
									Chicago railroad in 1862 for the information and guidance of its trainmen. The
									reprinted instructions are amusing when compared with the regulations of today.
									The book from which the pages are reproduced is the property of G. P. Davis.
							
							 significance. Many were believed to be engaged in
							giving secret aid to the south, and, whether true or not, the suspicion added fuel to
							the fire of party strife. On one occasion a large crowd of political boosters, each
							member wearing a butternut shell as a party emblem, came from Warsaw. A political
							opponent tore the badge from the coat of one of the visitors, and a rough scene on
							Calhoun street followed, ending with the disappearance of the visitors, who found
							difficulty in reaching their train.
						While Carl Schurz was engaged in delivering a political address at Colerick's hall, a
							cabbage head, hurled at him through an open window, missed the speaker and struck
							Judge Peter P. Bailey, who occupied a seat on the platform.
					
					
						THE FIRST POLICE FORCE.
						The year 1863 brought to Fort Wayne its first regularly organized police force. The
							council named Conrad Pens as "captain of the night watch," with John Sullivan, John
							Phillabaum and William Shopman patrolmen, to serve "from twilight to daybreak." The
							first police station was located on Court street, opposite the courthouse; it
							contained three iron cages on the main floor, with upper rooms for the reception of
							female law violators. Says the Sentinel: "We trust the police
									will exert themselves to keep the city in order and quiet after nightfall and
									render it safe for pedestrians to perambulate the streets once more without
									providing themselves with arms and bludgeons. We call the especial attention of
									rowdies, shoulder-hitters, barn-burners and rag and bobtails generally to this
									long-desired step of the council."
					
					
						OLD FORT PARK.
						The development of the present splendid park system of the city of Fort Wayne
							represents a continued and ofttimes discouraging effort extending over a half a
							century. The first piece of ground to be acquired for park purposes was the fractional
							lot No. 40, Taber's addition to Fort Wayne, purchased from Harry Seymour for $800. The
							little triangular spot—one-fifth of an acre—is the most treasured bit of
							ground in Fort Wayne, as it was a part of the site enclosed within the historic old
							Fort Wayne.
						Henry M. Williams later placed about the tract an iron fence and erected in the park
							a flagpole.
					
					
						THE FIRST AND HAMILTON NATIONAL BANK.
						The First and Hamilton National bank had its beginning in 1861, when J. D. Nuttman,
							of Decatur, Ind., opened the Citizens' bank, a private institution, with W. B. Fisher
							as his assistant. Immediately after the passage of the national banking act in 1863
							Mr. Nuttman became associated with Samuel Hanna, upon whose advice he organized a
							national bank to succeed the Citizens'. The application for a charter was the first
							from Indiana and the sixth in the nation to be filed with the comptroller. The First
							National bank was chartered in May, 1863, with J. D. Nuttman president, Samuel Hanna
							vice-president and W. B. Fisher cashier. The directors were J. D. Nuttman, Joseph
							Brackenridge, John Brown, John Orff, John M. Miller, Amos S. Evans, Warren H. Withers,
							Frederick Nirdlinger  and Alfred D. Brandriff. The bank
							started with a paid-up capital of $100,000, which was shortly afterward increased to
							$400,000. Successive presidents of the First National bank have been Oscar A. Simons,
							John H. Bass and Charles H. Worden. In August, 1905, the White National bank was
							consolidated with the First National. In April, 1917, with the consolidation with the
							Hamilton National bank, the name, First and Hamilton National bank, was adopted. The
							institution has had a continuous history of prosperity.
					
					
						"SHINPLASTER" CURRENCY.
						During the war period the scarcity of small change, which had proven a great
							inconvenience in all matters of trade, had encouraged the circulation of a large
							number of private "tickets, tokens and checks" which passed as money in all Fort Wayne
							transactions. The withdrawal of silver from circulation made the system almost a
							necessity, but its abuse and the uncertain value of the substitutes for money finally
							resulted in a conference of merchants and others, at which James Robinson acted as
							chairman and Watson Wall as secretary, to consider some more satisfactory method of
							meeting the situation. A committee composed of R. W. Townley, B. W. Oakley, W. T.
							Abbott, Watson Wall and William Jacobs conferred with the banks and with the council
							with the result that the council decided to issue orders on the city treasurer to the
							amount of $10,000, in sums less than one dollar, beginning January 1, 1863.
						The appearance of the "city scrip" caused the withdrawal of most of the private
							substitutes for money of small denominations.
						This temporary currency was commonly known as "shinplasters," because of its small
							size. The first issue, in denominations of fifty cents, twenty-five cents, ten cents
							and five cents, was printed on paper six and one-half by two and one-half inches in
							size. A subsequent issue was printed on sheets five and one-half by two and one-half
							inches in size. The "shinplasters" were redeemed by the city as soon as silver
							currency was returned to circulation. This fractional paper currency bore the
							portraits of the mayor, Franklin P. Randall, and the city clerk, Louis T. Bourie.
					
					
						HUGH M'CULLOCH, COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY.
						In 1863 Salmon P. Chase, secretary of the treasury department under President
							Lincoln, offered to Judge Hugh McCulloch, of Fort Wayne, the newly created position of
							comptroller of the currency of the United States, an honor which came as a surprise to
							the banker. The acceptance was promptly made, however, and within two years the state
							banks throughout the nation were superseded by the national, and all was accomplished
							without the disturbance of business conditions. The success of Judge McCulloch led to
							his appointment as secretary of the treasury in 1865, a position he held under
							appointment of three presidents.
					
					
						THE FIRST BASEBALL CLUB.
						In the midst of the distressing news from the fields of battle, but at a time when it
							appeared that the struggle was soon to end, a number of Fort Wayne young men found
							time to form their first baseball organization, known as the Summit City club. Many of
							the members of the club of 1862, however, soon were enlisted in  their country's cause, and some died on the southern fields of carnage. A
							few are active citizens of Fort Wayne today.
						At a meeting held April 23, 1862, Charles S. Brackenridge was elected president of
							the club, William B. Fisher secretary and Thomas B. Shoaff treasurer. The members were
							Dr. C. C. Kingsbury, E. L. Chittenden, Byron S. Thompson, Charles McCulloch, Samuel
							Lewis, J. D. Bohd, Dr. A. J. Erwin, John W. McArthur, H. J. Olds, W. B. Chittenden, T.
							L. Jefferds, F. P. Drake, W. L. G. Thompson, W. R. Nelson, F. A. Stapleford, William
							Brady, C. B. Woodworth, S. C. Ayres, M. S. Robinson, George A. Kauffman, J. G. Bryant,
							John E. Hill, H. H. Robinson, E. C. Rurode, H. Wilder, A. H. Hamilton, Joseph B. Fry,
							William A. Dripps, Washington Haskell and Lafayette M. Bowser.
					
					
						J. K. EDGERTON CONGRESSMAN.
						Joseph K. Edgerton, of Fort Wayne, was elected to congress in 1862 over William
							Mitchell, of Kendallville, by a majority of 436 votes, after a memorable campaign. Mr.
							Mitchell had won the 1860 election by nearly 3,000 votes. Prior to 1860 Mr. Edgerton
							had been a whig, but he became a stanch supporter of Stephen A. Douglas. His
							popularity in Allen county two years later is shown by his polling of a plurality of
							2,600 votes over his opponent, Joseph H. Defrees, of Goshen, in the race for congress;
							nevertheless, the opposing vote of the remainder of the district was sufficiently
							strong to defeat him.1
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1862.
						A "Society of St. George" was organized "to render aid and assistance to such English
							persons as may need it" as a result of war service. Thomas Tigar was the president and
							T. Stevens secretary. . . . C. L. Centlivre established the "French" brewery. . Four
							of the well-known new residents of the town in 1862 were John D. Sarnighausen, state
							senator and editor of the Fort Wayne Staats-Zeitung; Edward L. Craw, from Cleveland, 
								MUNICIPAL "SHINPLASTER" FRACTIONAL CURRENCY.
								The decision of the Fort Wayne city council to issue fractional currency to the
									amount of $10,000, beginning January 1, 1863, brought relief to the people who
									could not obtain coin of the smaller denominations for the ordinary transaction of
									trade, on account of the withdrawal of silver coin from circulation during the war
									of the rebellion. The city scrip was issued in denominations of 50 cents, 26
									cents, 10 cents and 5 cents. The 5-cent notes bore the portrait of Mayor Randall,
									and the 10-cent issue the picture of Louis T. Bourie, city clerk. The illustration
									is a redrawing of a bill owned by James Trythall.
							
							 deputy postmaster and real estate dealer; John W. Orr,
							from West Virginia, identified with railroad work and in the retail oil trade, and
							William Tagtmeyer, from Prussia, active in railroad work. . . . D. W. Jones, of Grant
							county, Indiana, established the Fort Wayne Gazette, an afternoon daily paper.
							Succeeding owners of the Gazette were Isaac Jenkinson and Homer C. Hartman, James R.
							Willard and Amos R. Wright, Robert G. McNiece and D. S. Alexander, J. J. Grafton,
							James B. White, General Reub Williams and Q. A. Hossler, Keil Brothers (S. D. Keil and
							Frederick W. Keil), B. M. Holman and T. P. Keator, C. C. Miller, N. R. Leonard and
							Frank M. Leonard, Charles R. Lane and M. E. Beall. In 1899 the Gazette was merged with
							the Fort Wayne Journal, to form the Journal-Gazette, a morning democratic publication.
							. . . After three years of effort to obtain sufficient financial support Francis S.
							Aveline completed the construction of the Aveline house, which 
								A RELIC OF THE WOOD-BURNING LOCOMOTIVE DAYS.
								During the period in which wood was used as fuel on the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne
									and Chicago railroad, farmers and woodmen along the route provided a vast amount
									of firewood which was piled up near the right-of-way. Much of the road was built
									through dense forests. Whenever a locomotive was halted to take on fuel, the
									engineer was required to deposit with the woodman a brass check and these were
									surrendered when the woodman received his pay from the company. During a period of
									blizzards, one locomotive burned seventy-five cords of wood between Fort Wayne and
									Chicago. The brass check here pictured is the property of R. B. Rossington.
							
							
								FORT WAYNE'S FIRST BASEBALL GROUNDS.
								Contrary to the general impression, the Kekionga baseball team was not the first
									to be organized in Fort Wayne. In 1862—six years before the organization of
									the Kekiongas by Charles F. Taylor and R. J. Fisher—the Summit City club was
									formed, with Charles S. Brackenridge as president. (See Chapter XXXVIII.) At that
									time Allen Hamilton donated the use of his vacant grounds, now a crowded business
									section west of Calhoun street and south of Lewis street.
							 was building during this period. The Aveline house was located at the
							southeast corner of Berry and Calhoun streets, site of the present Shoaff building.
							Originally it was a four-story brick structure and the largest hotel of the region. D.
							J. Silver was the building contractor. In January, 1863, the hotel was finished, but
							the proprietor found himself embarrassed by conditions which are revealed in the
							comment of one of the newspapers of the day, which observed that "this house, now
							finished, remains unopened for want of means to furnish it. This being so, are there
							no moneyed men here to aid in the opening? The edifice is a credit to the city, and
							without being opened is only a thing of beauty." The situation was relieved by the
							substantial assistance of public-spirited citizens,  and
							the hotel was opened with a grand banquet later in the year. One of the toasts of the
							evening bore the title, "Washington Hall and the Aveline House-the First Represented
							the Primitive Condition of the City, the Latter Our Present Growth and Prosperity."
							The Aveline house entertained some of America's most noted people during the
							forty-five years of its history. It was destroyed by fire on the morning of May 3,
							1908, with the loss of twelve lives.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1863.
						Residents of Fort Wayne who dated their coming in 1863 include William P. Breen, from
							Terre Haute, Indiana, a leading member of the legal profession of Indiana; William V.
							Douglass, from New Hampshire, active in real estate and insurance circles; Gottfried
							Schmidt, tailor; Samuel M. Hench, from Port Royal, Pennsylvania, judge of the criminal
							court, judge of the superior court, prosecutor of the criminal court and chief of the
							law and miscellaneous division of the comptroller's office of the United States
							treasury department; John C. Eckart, from Pennsylvania, cigar manufacturer; Daniel
							Ryan, from Junction City, Ohio, justice of the peace for twenty-nine years; George W.
							Ely, from Oswego, New York, merchant and councilman, and S. C. Lumbard, from New York
							City, insurance man, organizer of the first telephone company and an active factor in
							many public enterprises. . . . The county built a bridge across the Maumee at East
							Main street to replace a former structure which had passed into a state of decay.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XXXVIII.
						(1) James H. Schell, of Goshen, was
								elected prosecutor of the circuit court in 1862, and David Colerick prosecutor of
								the court of common pleas. The county elected Pliny Hoagland state senator, and John
								P. Shoaff and Ochmig Bird state representatives.
							County officers elected in 1862 were: Clerk, William Fleming; sheriff, William T.
								Pratt; treasurer, Alexander Wiley; surveyor, J. W. McArthur; recorder, Clement A.
								Rekers; coroner, John P. Waters.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXXIX—1864-1866. Strikes and Early Labor
						Unions—First Street Paving—The State Fair.
					The strike of the employes of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago
						railroad—Troops sent to protect property—The earliest labor unions—The
						railroad men and the printers—Fincher, the organizer—Bitter opposition to
						Lincoln's policies—Helping the needy families of the soldiers—North Side
						(Lawton) park is purchased by the city—Fort Wayne entertains the Indiana State
						Fair—The Pomological society—The first street paving—James L. Worden
						mayor—The original Kekionga Baseball team—The town "goes mad" over the
						coming national game—The Kekiongas spread the fame of Fort Wayne—In the
						first National League—Peter P. Bailey postmaster.
					ALTHOUGH the year 1877 is remembered as the time of the greatest
						industrial upheaval in the history of Fort Wayne, a widespread strike of shopmen and
						trainmen of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad extended its activities to
						this city during a period of weeks during 1864. All departments of the Fort Wayne shops
						were closed, four hundred men were idle and troops were sent from the east to guard the
						company's property.
					The trouble was precipitated in January by an announcement of the railroad company that
						all wages after a certain date would be paid in company warrants instead of national
						currency. The employes, fearing these warrants would be redeemed only at a discount,
						presented a vigorous formal protest. The company declined to change its plans of
						payment. The men ceased work.
					An orderly parade of 500 strikers and their friends marched to the office of the
						superintendent of the western division of the road, H. A. Gardner, and made a formal
						demand for their wages due.
					In the midst of the trouble with the shopmen the company was called upon to meet a
						protest from the engineers and firemen based upon alleged smallness of pay in return for
						long hours of service. When these men left their posts no trains on the system except
						those carrying the United States mails were allowed to move. The engineers asked for a
						raise of wages from $75 to $90 per month, while the firemen insisted upon an increase
						from $35 to $45; both demanded that the runs be reduced in length from one hundred miles
						and more to seventy-two or eighty miles per day.
					The railroad company, fearing that the strikers might injure or destroy their property
						at Fort Wayne, asked for military protection, and a company was sent from
						Pittsburgh.
					"With fixed bayonets they entered the city but to find peace and quietude," says the
						Times. "They went into quarters in the various shops with the ostensible purpose of
						guarding them from harm," but there proved to be no need of their presence and they were
						soon returned to the east.
					
					
						THE FIRST LABOR UNIONS.
						The difficulty between the company and its employes was soon adjusted to the
							satisfaction of the parties involved. After the settlement of the strike Charles D.
							Gorham succeeded H. A. Gardner as superintendent of the western division of the
							road.
						The railroad men had, in 1863, formed the first organized body of laboring men, known
							as the Fort Wayne Union of the Brotherhood of the Footboard. This organization,
							however, was abandoned, and the union became Local No. 12 of the Brotherhood of
							Locomotive Engineers, whose charter bears the date of December 12, 1864.
						While the Brotherhood of the Footboard was in existence the members of the printing
							craft organized a local known as the Fort Wayne Typographical union the charter of
							which body was dated August 29, 1864. This union maintains that it is the oldest in
							Fort Wayne, as no other organization possesses a charter bearing an earlier date. The
							Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, on the other hand, claims an existence dating
							from 1863.
						In December, 1865, a prominent union labor leader, Jonathan C. Fincher, visited Fort
							Wayne. He was a Philadelphia machinist and the editor of Fincher's Trade Review, a
							pioneer in the eight-hour movement. A torchlight procession, headed by O'Niel's band,
							escorted the speaker through the streets to Colerick's hall. An impression of
							Fincher's address is reflected in this comment by the Gazette: "Guided by sound, practical men such as Mr. Fincher has shown himself to be,
									this movement may be made to result in much good to the laboring men of the city
									without at all interfering with the rights of others. We wish it abundant success.
									We will aid it all we can, and trust the laboring men of Fort Wayne will at once
									organize their associations and engage in the great battle for the improvement and
									elevation of their class."
					
					
						BITTER OPPOSITION TO LINCOLN'S POLICIES.
						Allen county was the center of determined anti-Lincoln sentiment during the campaign
							of 1864. A great majority of the people opposed the president's war policies from the
							beginning, and "Old Abe" was not infrequently denounced through the public prints and
							from the platform as a traitor and a destroyer of his country. The spirit of the
							people is shown by their vote in Allen county, of which Lincoln and Johnson received
							only 2,244, while McClellan and Pendleton were favored with more than double the
							number 4,932.1 Upon the
							proclamation of the defeat of McClellan, John W. Dawson, publisher of the Fort Wayne
							Times, announced in disgust that the publication of the paper would be
							discontinued.
					
					
						HELP FOR THE NEEDY.
						The honors of war in the field were not unaccompanied by severe suffering and want in
							the homes of large numbers of the soldiers. Although many individuals and societies
							already had rendered much assistance to the needy, the work was now undertaken in a
							larger and more united way by the organization of the Fort Wayne Relief society, which
							entrusted the task to a committee composed of Samuel Edsall, John H. Jacobs, Jesse L.
							Williams, Henry Baker, John S. Comparet, William Meyer, A. M. Orbison and Bernard
							Trentman,  whose duties required the securing of gifts
							of firewood from the farmers. P. O. Blaisdell and G. F. Stinchcomb, with the
							assistance of Samuel Edsall, served as a finance committee. Over $1,000 in cash, three
							hundred cords of wood, eighteen hundred pounds of meat, eighty barrels of flour and a
							large quantity of other supplies brought cheer to one hundred and thirty-five needy
							families. "When the donors come to settle their accounts with Him who settles all
							things," said General Chairman Edsall in his report, "they will find every load of
							wood and every dollar to their credit, and it will be a great assistance to them in
							crossing the River Jordan."
					
					
						LAWTON PARK.
						The city authorities, supported by a growing civic pride, purchased, on the 24th of
							January, 1864, the major portion of the lands which now comprise Lawton park. In the
							beginning the tract was known as the City park, later as North Side park and, finally,
							in honor of General Henry W. Lawton, by its present name.
						The purchase was made from William Fleming, S. B. Bond, C. D. Bond, W. H. Jones, Hugh
							B. Reed, Henry J. Rudisill and J. W. Dawson at a cost of $35,500. The balance of the
							tract was purchased in 1866 and 1881 from Mathias Mettler for an additional sum of
							$37,255.
						In 1872 the city council donated to the Fort Wayne, Jackson and Saginaw (New York
							Central) railroad twenty acres of the west portion of the park for a right-of-way and
							railroad shops.
					
					
						FIRST COUNCILMANIC ACTION ON PARK PURCHASES.
						The first action taken by the city council toward the purchase of park
							lands—other than that of the acquiring of Old Fort park in 1863—was that
							of the evening of November 14, 1865, when the council "Resolved, That the mayor and
							city attorney be and are hereby required to communicate to the city council their
							opinion as to whether the city can purchase real estate for parks or public grounds
							upon bonds or evidence of debt in payment therefor."
					
					
						FORT WAYNE ENTERTAINS THE STATE FAIR.
						Fort Wayne drew to itself enviable attention as the city of entertainment of the
							Indiana State Fair in 1865. In response to an invitation from the Allen County
							Horticultural society, supported by liberal financial contributions from citizens, the
							exhibition was held from the 2d to the 7th of October on grounds which now form a
							portion of Lawton park.
						Several large, barn-like buildings were erected for the displays and the fair was
							opened under favorable conditions. The gates registered 2,100 admissions and the total
							receipts from all sources amounted to $14,000, which figure was far in excess of the
							expenditures for premiums and all other financial obligations.
						For convenience a pontoon bridge was built across the St. Mary's river to connect the
							grounds with the town. A swampy section of the fair grounds was converted into a small
							lake from the center of which spouted a fountain fed from the waters of the feeder
							canal.
						
						Among the leading local promoters of the exposition were I. D. G. Nelson, a leader in
							horticulture; Robert S. Taylor, who had charge of Fine Arts hall, and Henry J.
							Rudisill, superintendent of the Floral hall.
						Fort Wayne manufacturers were well represented at the fair. Included among these
							were: French, Hanna and Company, woollen cloth and yarn; Peter Kline and Kelcher and
							Saxton, boots and shoes; Weiser and Company, tanned leather; I. N. Topliff, carriages;
							C. Stanley and Thomas Stevens, wagons; C. Schmidt and Company, files; Olds, Hanna and
							Company, wheels; Bass and Hanna and Murray and Bennigan, engines.
						In conjunction with the state fair the Indiana Pomological society held its sessions
							and drew to Fort Wayne some of America's leading fruit growers.
						During the fair Governor Oliver P. Morton addressed a large street audience from the
							balcony of the Aveline house. The fire department entertained the visitors with a
							parade and a demonstration of the efficiency of the fire-fighting equipment of the
							town.
					
					
						THE FIRST STREET PAVING.
						Six squares of Nicholson wooden block paving were laid during 1865—three on
							Columbia street and three on Calhoun street. Kimball, Bond and Fleming were the
							contractors.
						"And so we have our first Nicholson paving," observed the Gazette. "The old rattling
							planks are out of the way, the holes are filled up, the mud and mire are driven out,
							we hope, for twenty years to come."
					
					
						JAMES L. WORDEN MAYOR.
						Upon the completion of his work as a member of the supreme court of Indiana, Judge
							James L. Worden returned to Fort Wayne and was elected mayor of the city at the May
								election.2 After serving less
							than one year Judge Worden resigned the office in order to give attention to his legal
							practice, and Benjamin Saunders was chosen to fill the vacancy.
					
					
						THE ORIGINAL KEKIONGA BASEBALL TEAM.
						The first baseball team in Fort Wayne to bear the magic name of Kekionga was formed
							in 1866, although it was not until 1871 that the team of that title appeared as a part
							of the original National league. The captain of this first organization was J. R.
							Hoagland, and the following named players completed the roster: William Hadden, Joe
							Bell, Hugh M. Diehl, S. C. Lumbard, John Aveline, C. D. Gorham, F. A. Gorham, Robert
							Milliman and Martin H. Miller. This club during the winter months continued as a
							debating and singing society.
						In this year, also, the Summit City team was reorganized, with J. E. Hill as captain
							and George J. E. Mayer, Simonson, Simons, George W. Stevens, Charles Prentice, Joshua
							B. Prouty, Scott, Cassius Miller, Hiram Moderwell, Metcalf, John A. Shoaff and Cook
							comprising the line-up.
						Fort Wayne was represented in the first state baseball association, formed at
							Indianapolis. One of the rules adopted by the 
							association declared that "any club which plays practice games on Sunday shall be
							expelled from this association."
						The organization of the Kekionga and Summit City baseball teams in 1866 was followed
							in 1867 by the formation of a number of other lively clubs, including the Twightwees,
							the Concordia Empires, the Keystones, the Socials, the Athletics and the
							Mechanics.
						The Kekiongas elected Robert Milliman president, F. A. Gorham vice-president, C. D.
							Gorham recording secretary, H. B. Ayres corresponding secretary and Bramble treasurer.
							Hugh M. Diehl was the captain of the "first" nine. In 1870 the Kekionga baseball team
							elected the following officers: President, Silas MeManus (succeeded by Charles M.
							Dawson); directors, Max Nirdlinger, Charles M. Dawson, Frank Wolke, D. H. Towne,
							George J. E. Mayer; players, D. H. Towne, George J. E. Mayer, Charles M. Dawson, Silas
							MeManus, Paul Schroeder, Wheeler and Sprandle.
						The Kekionga baseball team, as finally organized, was the result of a meeting held on
							the north steps of the courthouse, in response to a call issued by Charles F. Taylor
							and Robertson J. Fisher. Among the original members were F. A. Gorham, now (in 1917)
							of the Grand Rapids (Michigan) Trust Company; Charles D. Gorham, of Fort Wayne, former
							superintendent of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad; Hugh M. Diehl, late
							chief of police and airbrake instructor of the Pennsylvania lines; Cassius Miller, a
							Chicago salesman; William H. McMullan, undertaker, and George J. E. Mayer, John W.
							Stophlet and Martin Miller (deceased).
						During the 1870 season the Kekiongas became the champions of Indiana, and their fame
							spread to the entire baseball world. The team made a tour of a number of cities,
							including Wabash, Logansport, Lafayette, Laporte and South Bend, Indiana, and
							Danville, Decatur, Springfield, Bloomington, Peoria, LaSalle, Ottawa, Joliet and
							Chicago, Illinois. At the close of the Chicago game rowdies stoned the omnibuses in
							which the Fort Wayne boys were riding and some were severely injured by broken
							glass.
						The team at this time had been strengthened by the addition of several good players
							belonging to the Baltimore Oriole team, which disbanded at Fort Wayne. These included
							Robert Matthbws (reputed originator of the curved ball and the slow drop ball), "Pat"
							Cassidy, Kelly and James Foran.
						A tract of ground north of Camp Allen, in Nebraska, between the canal and West Main
							street, was converted into a baseball park for the lively contests which occurred in
							1870 and succeeding years. The citizens raised a fund to erect a grandstand, the
							ornamental central section of which was christened "The Grand Duchess."
					
					
						KEKIONGAS IN NATIONAL LEAGUE.
						The early spring of 1871 found the celebrated Kekiongas included with the clubs of
							Philadelphia, Chicago, Boston, Washington, Troy, New York, Cleveland and Rockford in
							the first National Baseball league. The team closed the season near the bottom of the
							percentage column, but it made a name for the live western city which was considered
							worthy advertising. On the 4th of May the team won a game from the Forest City team at
							Cleveland with a  score of 0 to 2, the lowest score made
							in any game played in the United States up to that time.
						R. J. Fisher, as treasurer, took the team on the trip to the eastern cities. Sam
							Nirdlinger, of New York, later a theatrical man and owner of a large number of
							metropolitan theaters, accompanied the organization. Many interesting events
							characterized the expedition. Referring to one of these, Mr. Fisher says: "The game
							with the Haymakers at Troy in June broke up in a row. I had a lively time getting our
							money, and caught the last coach as 
								JUDGE M'CULLOCH'S COMMISSION AS SECRETARY OF THE UNITED STATES
									TREASURY.
								The original of the above interesting document is among the treasured papers of
									Charles McCulloch. It is the certificate of the selection of Judge Hugh McCulloch,
									father of Charles McCulloch, as the secretary of the treasury of the United
									States, by appointment of President Lincoln, and bears the date of March 7,
									1865.
							
							 our train pulled out for Boston. The excited crowd
							almost tore me in pieces."
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1864.
						During the winter of 1864 thirty-five German-speaking Catholics organized St. Paul's
							Catholic church and erected a building at the corner of West Washington street and
							Fairfield avenue. Rev. Edward Koenig was the first pastor, followed by Rev. H. F.
							Joseph Kroll. . . . Peter P. Bailey was appointed postmaster of Fort Wayne, to succeed
							Moses Drake, Jr., whose death occurred during his second term. . . . Jesse L. Williams
							was appointed by President Lincoln to serve as a director of the Union Pacific
							railroad, a position which he held by reappointments of Presidents Johnson and Grant.
							. . . Among the settlers of 1864 were Primus Scherzinger, from Baden, Germany,
							jeweler; Edward Gilmartin, from Ireland, railroad and telegraph construction
							contractor and lumberman; James H. Simonson, manufacturer; Dr. David D. Wiessel, from
							New York, dentist; E. B. Kunkle, valve manufacturer, and A. H. Currier, from Maine,
							manager of the office of the Western Union Telegraph Company. . . . A popular place of
							amusement of the time was the Melodeon, or Palace Hall. . . . Contractors Hall and
							Kimball built a wooden bridge "sided and roofed" across St. Mary's river at Main
							street; the bridge was replaced by the present iron structure in 1878. . . . A mill
							for the manufacture of "print" paper, and a better quality of paper for book printing,
							was established by the Fort Wayne Paper Company, composed of Messrs. Freeman, Bard and
							Dublinski. A. G. Barnett became interested in the venture in 1867. The plant was
							destroyed by fire in 1871 and was not rebuilt. The mill was located about five miles
							north of Fort Wayne on the right bank of the St. Joseph river. It was operated by
							water power.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1865.
						The Merchants National bank, with a charter dated May 1, 1865, opened for business at
							the northwest corner of Berry and Calhoun streets. The first officers were: Peter P.
							Bailey, president; Dwight Klink, cashier; Peter P. Bailey, Sol D. Bayless, David F.
							Comparet, George I. Little and John Studebaker, directors. The institution, though
							considered safe, conservative and well managed, discontinued business in 1874. . . .
							Royal Baking Powder, one of the most widely known products for household use, had its
							beginning in Fort Wayne in 1865, when Joseph C. Hoagland, druggist, compounded a
							combination of chemicals to meet the needs of the housewife. Samples of the powder,
							distributed to the homes of Fort Wayne, were found to meet with popular favor. Mr.
							Hoagland later removed to New York and entered upon the manufacture and sale of the
							article. In 1893 he declined an offer of $12,000,000 for his holdings. Later a
							syndicate of which William Ziegler was the head purchased the business. Thomas M.
							Biddle and Cornelius N. Hoagland were associates of Mr. Hoagland in the beginning of
							the manufacture of the product in Fort Wayne. . . . Among the settlers of 1865 was
							Mason Long, grocer and restaurant proprietor, who became known as the "Reformed
							Gambler." Mason Long was  a convert to temperance in
							1877, and he embraced Christianity in 1878 during a series of religious services held
							by Rev. J. R. Stone of the First Baptist church. Mr. Long, attired in a white robe,
							made an appealing address on the evening of his baptism. Soon afterward he
							discontinued the conduct of his restaurant and entered upon his country-wide tours,
							delivering addresses from the carriage in which he drove from town to town. As a
							reformed gambler he spread the gospel which drew thousands from ways of intemperance
							and wrongdoing. . . . Other settlers of the year were L. O. Hull, wall paper merchant;
							Christian Kelly, town marshal; Dennis O'Brien, street commissioner; Celestine
							Trenkley, who, with Primus Scherzinger, engaged in the watchmaking and jewelry
							business; Ferdinand Tapp, contractor, and J. B. Downing, contractor and large property
							owner. . . . A. C. Huestis and Montgomery Hamilton embarked in the wholesale grocery
							business. . . . The Central Express Company established an office in Fort Wayne, with
							E. F. Reiter as agent. . . . The first post of the Grand Army of the Republic was
							organized August 24, 1865. It was known as Post No. 2, District of Allen, Department
							of Indiana. The men who assembled at the Aveline house, with Colonel J. O. Martin, of
							Indianapolis, to form the post were Colonel George Humphrey, Major James S. Gregg,
							Captain Christopher Hettler, Lieutenant J. H. Ehlers, Lieutenant James C. Woodworth,
							Lieutenant Colonel Chauncey B. Oakley, Captain Arnold Sauermeister, Lieutenant Henry
							M. Williams, Colonel Charles Case, Colonel Robert S. Robertson, Lieutenant John H.
							Jacobs and Private Gustavus Boltz. George Humphrey was elected post commander, Henry
							M. Williams quartermaster and John H. Jacobs adjutant. This post was later numbered
							72. "It died of politics," observed the late Colonel Robert S. Robertson. "Bickerings
							engendered by political strife bore fruit and resulted in dissolving the post without
							any official action of either the post or the department to declare it moribund, or
							give it funeral rites." However, with the passage of time, Sion S. Bass post was
							organized in 1881, Anthony Wayne post in 1883, George Humphrey post in 1888 and
							General Lawton post in 1900. The present Lawton-Wayne post No. 271 is the successor of
							the Anthony Wayne, the George Humphrey and the General Lawton posts. . . . The
							destructive ravages of foxes upon the sheepfolds of the farmers of Allen county
							brought into being a large organization of farmers and citizens of Fort Wayne, who
							indulged in fox hunts on an extensive plan. Strict rules governed the sport, in which
							scores of men participated, each acting under instructions of the appointed marshals,
							with the result that the hunted animals were driven to a common center, where those
							who escaped the fire of the sportsmen fell a prey to the dogs.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1866.
						In May, 1866, Dr. S. B. Brown, dentist, performed the first operation in Fort Wayne
							for the removal of teeth without pain. The patient was a woman and the dentist was
							assisted by Dr. W. H. Myers. "This," observed a local paper, "is the new method of
							producing local anaesthesia by the ether spray invented by Dr. Richardson, of London."
							. . . In 1866, the city purchased the sites  for the
							high school on East Wayne street and the Washington school, and Contractors Cochrane
							and Humphrey commenced building operations at once. The original Hoagland school was
							also erected in 1865. Miss Swann (later the wife of Superintendent James H. Smart) and
							Miss Funnell served as the instructors of the first teacher training school. Other
							school buildings were erected by the city as follows: The present Hoagland school,
							supplanting the original wooden structure, was erected in 1899. The original Hanna
							school, Hanna and Wallace streets, was erected in 1869; enlargements were made at
							various times. The present Hanna school, East Williams and Lafayette streets, built in
							1904, supplanted the old structure, which was for years used for manufacturing
							purposes. The old Presbyterian Academy, which stood on the site of the old high school
							building on East Wayne street, was removed to Harmar 
								DR. JAMES H. SMART.
								Dr. Smart served with distinction as he superintendent of public schools of Fort
									Wayne for a period of ten years. He was born in 1841 at Center Harbor. New
									Hampshire, and came west in 1863 to engage in school work at Toledo, Ohio. In 1865
									he assumed the superintendency of the Fort Wayne schools. As state superintendent
									of public instruction from 1870 to 1880, he attained to high honors, which gave
									into his hands the presidency of Purdue university.
							
							
								FIRST HOAGLAND SCHOOL, REMODELED.
								The first Hoagland public school was erected in 1866, a one-story frame building
									containing three rooms. At various times the building was enlarged until it
									contained thirteen rooms. The photograph of the remodeled building was made in
									1876. The present Hoagland building was erected in 1899.
							 and East Jefferson streets and opened as the Harmar school. A brick
							structure which supplanted it in 1876 was torn down in 1914, and the modern building
							took its place. The original Rudisill school, Elizabeth and North Lafayette streets,
							was torn down to make room for a brick building on the same site, and this, in turn,
							gave way to the present building on Spy Run avenue, opened in 1914. The northwestern
							districts known as Bloomingdale3 and Bowserville were annexed to the city of Fort Wayne in 1871. Among the
							problems which the action brought before the authorities was the provision of school
							facilities for these districts. A one-room frame building was erected. To this two
							rooms were added the next year, and in 1875 the board purchased an additional lot,
							tore away the original building and erected an eight-room structure which was  enlarged in 1884 by the addition of four rooms. This
							building gave way to the present Bloomingdale school in 1912. Three public school
							buildings—the Nebraska, Holton avenue and Miner structures—were erected
							during 1886. The Fort Wayne Normal was established, with Jessie B. Montgomery
							principal, succeeded in 1902 by Miss Flora Wilber. The present Lakeside and South
							Wayne school buildings were erected in 1896, the new Jefferson building in 1904, the
							present high and manual training school in 1904, the James H. Smart school in 1909,
							the new Rudisill school in 1912, and the new Harmar school in 1915. . . . Among the
							settlers of 1866 were William H. Goshorn, born in Pennsylvania in 1836, who became
							county surveyor, city civil engineer and superintendent of public buildings; Judge
							Allan Zollars, who served with honor as a member of the legislature, city attorney,
							judge of the superior court, judge of the state supreme court, and in other
							responsible capacities; Colonel Robert S. Robertson, from North Argyle, New York,
							prominent as a member of the bar, lieutenant-governor of Indiana, a well-known
							historian of the middest west, and a leader in many public movements; Dr. James S.
							Gregg, prominent in the profession of medicine and surgery; Hugh M. Deihl, chief of
							police and for many years an active railroad man; Robert L. Romy, real estate dealer,
							and Frederick W. Kuhne, from Germany, who founded the abstract company of F. W. Kuhne
							and Company. . . . The Merchants Union Express Company opened an office in Fort Wayne
							with Dr. Read as agent. . . . The cigarmakers formed a union.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XXXIX.
						(1) The district and local elections of
							1864 resulted as follows: Representative in congress, Joseph H. Defrees; judge of the
							circuit court, Robert Lowry, of Goshen, later of Fort Wayne; judge of the court of
							common pleas, James W. Borden; prosecutor of the circuit court, James H. Shell;
							prosecutor of the court of common pleas, David Colerick; clerk, William Fleming;
							county commissioners, John Shaffer, John A. Robinson and David H. Lipes.
						(2) Other city officers elected in
								1865 were: Clerk, E. L. Chittehden; treasurer, John Conger; attorney, F. P. Randall;
								city engineer, W. S. Gilkinson; marshal, Patrick McGee; street commissioner, P.
								Falahee; assessor, John B. Rekers; city councilmen, Henry Monning (resigned to
								accept the nomination of county treasurer, and was succeeded by David Holt), William
								Waddington, B. H. Tower, Morris Cody, Pliny Hoagland, F. Nirdlinger, Dennis Downey,
								A. P. Edgerton, P. S. Underhill and B. H. Kimball; fire chief, Munson Van Geisen;
								board of health, Drs. B. S. Woodworth, I. M. Rosenthal and T. McCullough.
							As the result of a special election H. J. Rudisill was elected county auditor over
								P. S. O'Rourke, and Nathan Butler was chosen county surveyor.
						(3) Bloomingdale is the north side
							district of which Wells street (named for Captain William Wells, whose descendants
							pre-empted the Wells reserve) is the central thoroughfare. It received its name from
							the broad fields of flowers planted in an early day by a Mr. Western, father of Mrs.
							George Strodel. The Bowserville of the earlier days was a section platted by J. C.
							Bowser, bounded by First, Fourth and Wells streets, and the alley between Orchard and
							Clark streets. The name is now generally applied to a southeastern district
							surrounding the manufacturing plant of S. F. Bowser and Company.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XL—1867-1870. A Den of Thieves—The Beginnings
						of Hospitals—Building of Four Railroads.
					A reign of lawlessness—Burning of the rendezvous of the criminals—Henry
						Sharp, mayor—Beginnings of three hospitals, Hope, St. Joseph and
						Lutheran—The Criminal court—The first observance of Memorial
						Day—Building of four lines of railroad—The disastrous flood of
						1867—The Fort Wayne Journal—Olympic theatre, Hamilton's hall and Ewing's
						hall—"The Ghost at the Vault"—Wallace A. Brice and his History of Fort
						Wayne—Westinghouse and his airbrake—The Rink (Academy of Music)—J. J.
						Kamm, postmaster—Washington Haskell and his original bicycle.
					FORT WAYNE, in 1867, suffered keenly under a reign of lawlessness, a
						condition which appears to follow every great war. For two years the city had been a
						paradise for gamblers and pickpockets thoroughly organized under the leadership of a
						notorious character, Edward Ryan. Their influence in politics and governmental affairs
						had reached an appalling state and public sentiment was ripe for revolt. Only one bold
						deed on the part of the criminals was needed to precipitate a war against them. This
						event occurred in February, when a stranger named Tucker was robbed at the depot of the
						Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad.
					As the news of the crime spread to the railroad shops a crowd of men numbering probably
						five hundred surrounded Ryan's saloon (formerly known as Carey's) on the north side of
						Railroad street, between Calhoun and Clinton streets, directly north of the old
						Pennsylvania station, and applied the torch. The fire department made no attempt to save
						the structure. The state of the public mind is reflected in the comment of the Sentinel,
						which said: "We are not an advocate of mob law, and yet it is impossible to suppress the
						sympathy that all good citizens feel for the men who have rid the community of a
						terrible nuisance."
					Ryan, who, with several fellow criminals, was placed under arrest, was given a hearing
						before Justice C. V. N. Milliman, in the courthouse, while a crowd of one thousand
						persons surrounded the building. Many of the men in the crowd were members of a
						vigilance committee organized at the courthouse the preceding evening in anticipation of
						possible hostile acts of the criminals. The accused men were released on bonds of from
						$5,000 to $15,000, and Ryan soon disappeared.
					
						THE CRIMINAL COURT.
						Governor Baker appointed James A. Fay as the first judge of the Allen county criminal
							court, which was established by a legislative act of May 11, 1867. James W. Borden was
							the first judge elected to the bench of this court. Robert S. Taylor was the first
							prosecuting attorney, followed by Edward O'Rourke.
						
						Judge Taylor was appointed in 1867 to the vacancy on the bench of the court of common
							pleas, caused by the resignation of Judge Borden. William S. Smith served as the
							prosecuting attorney of this court.1
					
					
						HENRY SHARP MAYOR.
						The municipal election resulted in the choice of Henry Sharp for mayor, over B. H.
							Tower, by a majority of 693. Mr. Sharp was a native of Albany, New York, and came to
							Fort Wayne in 1837. He was a hat manufacturer by trade. He was the first republican to
							be elected mayor of Fort Wayne, though his name headed a so-called citizens'
								ticket.2
						A new law required the registration of all voters in 1867. The city was divided into
							nine voting districts and for the first time the citizens departed from the plan of
							using one central voting place.
					
					
						THE BEGINNING OF THREE HOSPITALS.
						The years 1868 and 1869 brought into existence three of the city's
							hospitals—Hope, St. Joseph, and Lutheran. As the result of a movement headed by
							Dr. W. H. Myers, the City Hospital—known since 1900 as Hope Hospital—was
							established in the former residence of William S. Edsall, at the southwest corner of
							Main and Webster streets. Neighbors forced the removal of the institution through
							injunction proceedings and a new site at the southwest corner of Hanna and Lewis
							streets was secured. In 1878 the City Hospital association was formed. At the request
							of the family of the late Jesse L. Williams, large donors toward the support of the
							institution, the name of Hope Hospital was adopted in 1900. The site at the southwest
							corner of East Washington and Barr streets was occupied beginning in 1893. A training
							school was added in 1897. The site at the corner of Clinton and Suttenfield streets
							was purchased in 1916 for the erection of a six-story building to cost $125,000. In
							July, 1917, temporary quarters were occupied in the Ways Sanitarium on West Lewis
							street.
						The existence of St. Joseph hospital dates from 1868, when the Rockhill house, at the
							southwest corner of West Main street and Broadway, was purchased by the St. Joseph
							Hospital association, of which Rev. Julian Benoit was the president and Henry Monning
							the secretary.
						The mother house of the Poor Handmaids of Christ was established in connection with
							the hospital upon the arrival from Germany of eight sisters of a Catholic order. A
							nurses' training school is maintained by these sisters. The great expansion of this
							institution has made it one of the most important in the middle west.
						The Evangelical Lutheran Hospital association was organized in April, 1869, with Rev.
							W. Stubnatzy, president, and August L. Selle, secretary and treasurer. It was not
							until 1904, however, that the L. M. Ninde home, on Fairfield avenue, was purchased as
							the beginning of the present important Fort Wayne Lutheran hospital.
					
					
						THE FIRST MEMORIAL DAY.
						On the 30th of May, 1868, the people of Fort Wayne first united in the observance of
							Memorial or Decoration Day. The program was arranged by a committee composed of Rev.
							Nathan S. Smith,  Colonel R. S. Robertson, J. I. White,
							Colonel George Humphrey and Homer C. Hartman, with Colonel Humphrey as marshal of the
							day. A parade, which formed at the corner of Harrison and Berry streets to march to
							Lindenwood, was composed of Jones' Silver Cornet band; little girls representing the
							states and territories, bearing flowers; Grand Army of the Republic and other
							veterans; fire department, municipal officers and citizens in carriages and on
							foot.
					
					
						A PERIOD OF RAILROAD ACTIVITY.
						During the period of three years—1869 to 1871—four lines of steam
							railroad were completed to connect the growing city of Fort Wayne with the outside
							world. These lines were the Fort Wayne, Jackson and Saginaw road, the Grand Rapids and
							Indiana, the Fort Wayne, Muncie and Cincinnati, and the Fort Wayne, Richmond and
							Cincinnati.
						The Fort Wayne, Jackson and Saginaw became an important branch of the Lake Shore and
							Michigan Southern system (now the New York Central); the Fort Wayne, Richmond and
							Cincinnati road 
								THE OLD HIGH SCHOOL.
								The illustration, reproduced from an early woodcut, gives a view of the high
									school building on East Wayne street, between Calhoun and Clinton streets, erected
									in 1867 by Cochrane, Humphrey and Company, contractors. The school was first
									occupied in September, 1867, at the same time that the original Washington school
									was opened. The high school building was enlarged from time to time, and continued
									in service until the completion of the present magnificent structure on Barr
									street, between Lewis and Montgomery streets. The old building is still retained
									as the office of the superintendent and for emergency use during the temporary
									closing of other school buildings.
							
							 is now the southern portion of the Grand Rapids and
							Indiana road, controlled by the Pennsylvania railroad; the Fort Wayne, Muncie and
							Cincinnati road was later absorbed by the Lake Erie and Western, and forms an
							important branch of that system.
						Construction work on the Lake Shore line to Jackson, Michigan, was begun at Fort
							Wayne, March 20, 1869, under the supervision of A. J. McDonald, contractor. In
							celebration of the event the people of the town assembled at the point of the
							beginning of the work and listened to an address by Joseph K. Edgerton. The first
							train over the road, in 1870, carried a large crowd of Fort Wayne people to the
							Michigan State Fair at Jackson. This road had received $200,000 aid in bonds and money
							and twenty acres of land in Fort Wayne.
						In November, 1869, the completion of the construction work of the Fort Wayne, Muncie
							and Cincinnati road was celebrated with a grand excursion of Fort Wayne people to
							Bluffton. "Temporary seats in the box cars were assigned to the ladies, while the
							flats were enjoyed by the gentlemen, standing," observed the Democrat. The southern
							portion of the Grand Rapids and Indiana road was not in service until Christmas day,
							1871.
						On Thursday, June 10, 1870, the first train northward on the Grand Rapids road
							carried to Sturgis, Michigan, Charles E. Gorham, superintendent; H. D. Wallen,
							assistant superintendent; Oscar A. Simons, general roadmaster; Jesse L. Williams,
							chief engineer and receiver; Pliny Hoagland, director; A. C. Probasco and the
							contractors.
						From the time of the organization of the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company by
							the consolidation of three existing corporations, in 1857, the project had been beset
							by financial difficulties. Joseph Lomax, president of the company, resigned in 1866,
							and Samuel Hanna was elected his successor. The death of Judge Hanna three months
							after assuming his duties placed the responsibility of the leadership upon Joseph K.
							Edgerton, of Fort Wayne, who entered upon a five-years' service as president of the
							company.
						In 1856 congress granted liberal donations of land in Michigan, and in 1866 the grant
							was enlarged by a gift of 200,000 acres of land extending along the right of way from
							Fort Wayne to Traverse bay. In this latter year track-laying was begun between Grand
							Rapids and Cedar Springs, and at the following session of the Michigan legislature Mr.
							Edgerton succeeded in securing an extension of time required for the completion of the
							work. The struggle to sustain the company's credit against the opposition of powerful
							commercial opponents was a task of great proportions.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1867.
						A notable fire of the year was that which destroyed the Tremont house, which had been
							established by Joseph Morgan. The Tremont formerly was called the American house. It
							occupied the site of the present Wayne hotel. Among its earlier proprietors were
							Francis Comparet, Mr. Butt and B. H. Sneiders. In the year following the fire a
							three-story brick building was erected on the site. Its proprietors were C. C.
							Fletcher, J. C. Hursh, B. H. Sneiders, A. Gilbert, J. P. Jones, C. B. Oakley, Mrs.
							Goodman, Stouder and  Shoup and Brownell and Shoup. . .
							. Captain Henry McKinnie opened the McKinnie house, in connection with the
							"Pennsylvania" station. His son, William McKinnie, was later associated with him in
							the management of the Wayne hotel. . . . A flood, beginning March 29, is thus
							described by the Gazette of March 30: "Nebraska is so submerged as to interrupt access
							to the city. * * * The grandest scene of the natural panorama is the broad expanse of
							waters that extend on either side of the road leading from the lower St. Mary's bridge
							far back to the Spy Run creek. * * * Proudly flowing to the sister flood of the St.
							Joe, the waters of the St. Mary's soon merge them and expand the volume of aquatic
							currency that seeks 'liquidation' at Toledo." . . Bethel (now First) Evangelical
							church was organized in 1867, with Rev. W. M. Steffey as pastor; the first church
							building stood at the corner of Clinton and Holman streets. Succeeding pastors were J.
							N. Gomer, W. Krueger, J. Schmidli, E. Evans, P. Roth, Joseph Fisher, S. H.
							Baumgartner, M. Hoehn, Jacob Miller, D. D. Speicker, J. H. Evans, Daniel E. Zichel, C.
							D. Rarey and E. Q. Laudeman. . . . With Rev. Nathan S. Smith as its pastor, the Third
							Presbyterian church was organized. The original frame building, and its successor,
							built of brick, stood at the northeast corner of Calhoun and Holman streets.
							Succeeding pastors were John Woods, H. D. Mendenhall, William B. Minton, J. V.
							Stockton, S. F. Marks, David S. Kennedy, John M. Boggs, J. A. P. McGraw, Frank M. Fox,
							Edward Montgomery, and H. B. Hostetter. . . . Among the prominent nent new residents
							of Fort Wayne were Andrew J. Moynihan, for many years editor of the Fort Wayne
							Journal-Gazette; Peter D. Smyser, of S. Bash and Company; Henry H. Robinson, attorney,
							newspaper man and hotel proprietor; Louis Wolf, dry goods merchant, and Theodore
							Geller. . . . Simpson Methodist Episcopal church, known at the beginning as Centenary
							Chapel, was organized in 1867. Rev. A. J. Wells was the first pastor. Succeeding
							pastors were C. H. Wilkinson, W. F. Walker, D. P. Hartman, J. Baldwin, P. Carlan, W.
							S. Morris, H. J. Norris, F. L. Wharton, C. W. Church, M. C. Cooper, T. J. Thorp, A. T.
							Briggs, G. B. M. Rogers, D. Markey, John M. Driver, W. R. Suman, J. A. Welch, O. E.
							Wilcox, R. J. Wade, J. W. Paschall, T. J. Johnson, J. A. Patterson, J. C. Dorwin, J.
							M. Canse, L. M. Edwards, R. C. Jones, W. A. Greist, and H. L. Overdeer.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1868.
						In December, 1868, the Fort Wayne Journal was established by Thomas S. Taylor and
							Samuel T. Hanna as a republican newspaper. Succeeding owners of the Fort Wayne Journal
							were Clark Fairbank and Judge Samuel Ludlum, Senator Thomas J. Foster, C. H. Eyansides
							and M. V. B. Spencer. The difficulties encountered by the earlier publishers are
							suggested by the comment of the Sentinel of March 7, 1883, to the effect that
							"Eyansides had to borrow three dollars from County Superintendent Hillegass to get out
							of town with." Eyansides formerly lived at Louisville, Kentucky. Mr. Spencer organized
							a stock company, with G. W. Lunt as business manager and George F. Shutt, editor. Mr.
							Shutt was succeeded by William P. Cooper and Mr. Lunt by Samuel Miller. Successors to
								 the latter's interest were Colonel Charles A.
							Zollinger and Christian Boseker. In June, 1889, Wright W. Rockhill, H. C. Rockhill and
							Andrew J. Moynihan purchased the property. In 1899 the Fort Wayne Gazette was absorbed
							by the Journal and issued as the Journal-Gazette, democratic. The combined properties
							were sold in the spring of 1916, by Andrew J. Moynihan, Martin H. Moynihan and
							Elizabeth H. Moynihan, to Lew G. Ellingham and Edward G. Hoffman. . . . A popular
							place of amusement, the Olympic theatre, was built in 1868 by the estate of George W.
							Ewing, at the southwest corner of Clinton and Columbia streets, the site of the
							Schlatter hardware store. William Earle and Robert L. Smith were the lessees at
							different times. The name of the theater was later changed to the Bijou. It had a
							seating capacity of 1,300. Fire damaged the building in 1869, and in 1881 flames
							completely destroyed the structure. Hamilton's hall, erected on the site of the Rurode
							Dry Goods Company building, on Calhoun street, was also built in 1868. Another popular
							amusement place of the time was Ewing's hall, at the southwest corner of West Main and
							Harrison streets. . . . Allen county cast 5,604 votes for Seymour and 3,047 for Grant
							in the presidential election. . . . Allan Zollars and B. D. Miner were elected state
							representatives. . . . Among the settlers of 1868 were Gilbert E. Bursley, from
							Boston, organ manufacturer and wholesale grocer; George D. Crane, attorney and
							abstracter; Cecilius R. Higgins (born in Kalida, Ohio, in 1847), postmaster and ice
							dealer; Frederick Klaehn, from Germany, railway contractor; Henry Pfeiffer, from
							Bremenhaven, Germany, hardware merchant; and John Gilbert, from Rockford, Illinois,
							engaged in the drug and oil trade. . . . The extensive hardwood lumber concern of the
							Hoffman Brothers Company was founded by J. E., A. E. and W. H. Hoffman. . . . Says the
							Gazette of January 27, 1868: "The latest thing out is a piano manufactured by W. H.
							Walthers, music dealer on Clinton street, everything pertaining thereto being made in
							the city, even to the keys. This piano compares favorably with those of foreign make,
							the sound of the instrument being very clear and sweet."
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1869.
						In the month of May the timid residents of the town were kept in a state of
							excitement and anxiety by the rumor that strange cries were heard proceeding from the
							tomb of a prominent family in the Broadway cemetery, now McCulloch park. Thousands
							visited the burial place. When the sensation had reached its height the newspapers
							pleaded with the cool-headed citizens to assist in calming the more excitable among
							their number. "We would advise all to treat the whole thing as a delusion, cease their
							visits and assist in ridding the community of a sensation that has been instituted,
							perhaps, for the sole purpose of casting odium and disrespect upon a worthy family,"
							says the Democrat. It has been stated that the agitation was the result of the
							activity of a practical joker, who possessed powers of ventriloquism. A sensational
							story involving well-known residents grew from a mere rumor to prominent proportions,
							but the tale was dispelled with the passage of time and the return of the truth. . . .
							During the year 1869 Wallace A.  Brice, a visiting
							journeyman printer, wrote a "History of Fort Wayne," which has served as a standard
							work of information for nearly half a century. "Mr. Brice," says Fremont L. Jones,
							proprietor of the Troy Laundry, "was a man of middle age, who, when he came to Fort
							Wayne to work on the newspapers, was deeply impressed with the history of the region.
							Previous to this time Judge Samuel Hanna, in a series of addresses before the Young
							Men's Literary society, had covered the ground quite thoroughly. Judge Hanna's
							addresses were published in the Times, together with supplementary comment by John W.
							Dawson, the editor, who was also interested in the subject. This material, together
							with information he was able to secure from the early settlers then living and from
							published works, formed the foundation of the history. My father, D. W. Jones, founder
							of the Gazette, assisted by writing a large portion of the book. He was not only
							interested in the subject, but in the printing of the book, for it was issued from his
							presses on Pearl street. The book was bound by Mrs. Ogden Pierce and Miss Amanda
							Jones. The paper on which the book was printed came from the Fort Wayne paper mills."
							. . . George Westinghouse, the inventor of the airbrake—formerly called the
							atmospheric brake, which has revolutionized methods of railroading—brought his
							appliance to Fort Wayne, where it was successfully tested. . . The celebrated place of
							amusement known for many years as "The Rink," and latterly as the Academy of Music,
							was erected in 1869 on the north side of Berry street, the site of the Lincoln Life
							building. The Fort Wayne Rink association, capitalized at $25,000, with Sol D. Bayless
							president, John H. Bass vice-president, C. D. Bond secretary and Edward P. Williams
							treasurer, erected a substantial brick building 60 by 150 feet in size with a floor
							space capable of accommodating 500 skaters. For several seasons the reputation of the
							place attracted some of America's leading professional ice skaters. Hervey Brothers
							built the structure and became the managers of the place, succeeding G. M. Anderson.
							During the portions of the year when the rink could not be used for skating it was the
							scene of many notable public gatherings. . . . The Fort Wayne Chess club, which
							included among its members J. D. Bond, Dr. W. H. Myers, B. D. Skinner, R. Siemon, F.
							W. Kuhne and Rev. W. Stubnatzy, played a series of match games by telegraph with the
							Chicago Chess club. . . . J. J. Kamm was chosen by a general election of republican
							voters to serve as postmaster of Fort Wayne during President Grant's administration,
							succeeding Peter P. Bailey. His incumbency extended over a period of eight years. . .
							. On July 1 the Fort Wayne Savings bank was opened for business at the southwest
							corner of Berry and Calhoun streets, with A. C. Huestis president, W. H. Withers and
							George DeWald vice-presidents, John Hough, Jr., treasurer and E. J. Sturgis secretary,
							together with John H. Bass, William T. Pratt, John Morris and Henry Baker trustees.
							The institution discontinued business in 1875, at the time of the death of John Hough,
							Jr., the active head. . . . The African Methodist Episcopal church was organized in
							1869. The first place of worship was the building formerly used by the congregation of
							St. John's Reformed church. Early pastors  were Jason
							Bundy, M. Patterson, C. Russell, Daniel Burden, A. H. Knight, G. O. Curtis, Robert
							McDaniel. J. W. Saunders was pastor of the church in 1917. . . . Emanual Evangelical
							Lutheran church was organized in 1869, with Rev. W. Stubnatzy as pastor. Succeeding
							pastors were Charles Gross and William Moll. . . . The Episcopal Church of the Good
							Shepherd was organized in 1869 with Rev. John Gay as rector, followed by Rev. Walter
							Scott. The organization disbanded after a brief existence. . . . Among the well-known
							citizens who came to Fort Wayne in 1869 were Sylvester L. Gorsline, from Adams county,
							Indiana, engaged in railroad work and farming, and his son, Homer A. Gorsline, later
							chief of police; 
								ENTRANCE TO "THE RINK."
								The view is from a photograph made in 1899, when the celebrated place of
									amusement known first as "The Rink" and latterly as the Academy of Music, had
									served for a period of twenty years. It stood on the site of the present Lincoln
									Life building (originally called the Elektron building), on the north side Of East
									Berry street, between Clinton and Barr streets. "The Rink" was erected in 1869 by
									the Fort Wayne Rink association, of which Sol D. Bayless was the president. It was
									60 by 150 feet in size, with a floor space capable of accommodating 500 ice
									skaters. Some of America's most noted men addressed immense audiences here and the
									place was the scene of many notable gatherings.
							
							
								JOHN J. KAMM.
								In 1869, during Grant's administration, several candidates sought the appointment
									of postmaster of Fort Wayne, and it was decided to submit the choice to the
									patrons of the office at a popular election, which resulted in the selection of
									Mr. Kamm. He served two terms, and during the latter period the present carrier
									system was established. Mr. Kamm was a native of Marlburg, Germany, born in 1835.
									He came to Fort Wayne in 1854 and engaged in business as a painter and
									paperhanger. Mr. Kamm was one of the enterprising citizens who built the Keystone
									block at the southwest corner of Calhoun and Columbia streets which still holds a
									prominent place among the business structures of the city. He was a prominent
									member of the Masonic fraternity. His death occurred in 1877.
							 Clark Fairbaink, from Boston, editor of the Fort Wayne Journal and a leading
							insurance man; Amos R. Walter, from Ohio, pioneer mail carrier, a grocer and
							representative of the national government in important appointive positions; Dr. T. S.
							Virgil, from Cape Vincent, New York, a prominent medical practitioner; Peter J.
							Scheid, from Pittsburgh, railroad man and city councilman, and Charles M. Dawson, born
							in DeKalb county, Indiana, a graduate of Pennsylvania college, who became a banker and
							a lawyer of distinction and who served as prosecuting attorney of the circuit court
							and judge of the superior court. . . . Washington Haskell appears to have been the
							first resident of Fort Wayne to own a bicycle, then known  as a "velocipede," the forerunner of the automobile and the motorcycle. This
							primitive vehicle was similar in general form to the modern "safety" bicycle. It had
							two wheels of equal size, with the seat situated as in the modern bicycle, but the
							pedals were attached to the front wheel. Later the front wheel was enlarged and the
							rear wheel reduced in size. This latter style of bicycle went out of use promptly upon
							the appearance of the modern safety bicycle. Referring to Haskell's "velocipede," the
							Democrat of January 15, 1869, observed: "He is always endeavoring to keep up with the
							times." One month later the same paper said: "Ezra Haskell appeared on the streets
							riding at a fearful rate. * * * He has as good control of it [the velocipede] as an
							engineer has of his engine. The velocipede, under his management, is made to go slow
							or rapid at his pleasure; he can cut a figure 8 in a room eight by eight feet in
							size." The first "high" bicycle in Fort Wayne in its perfected form was owned by
							Clement W. Edgerton, who purchased it in 1879. It was a Columbia machine, the product
							of the Pope Manufacturing Company, of Hartford, Connecticut. . . . The important
							German singing society known as the Fort Wayne Saengerbund was organized at Kabish's
							hall, on the north side of West Main street, between Calhoun and Harrison streets,
							with J. M. Koch president, P. Raquette secretary, Julius Kabish treasurer and J. J.
							Weber musical director. The organization was chartered in 1873. . . . Franklin P.
							Randall by a majority of forty-seven votes, won a re-election for mayor over Henry
							Sharp. . . . Isaac Jenkinson was appointed United States consul at Glasgow, Scotland .
							. . Andrew J. Foster engaged in the tailoring business.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1870.
						With Rev. John Aylesworth as pastor, the West Jefferson Street Church of Christ was
							organized. Succeeding pastors were L. L. Carpenter, Thomas Mason, William Aylesworth,
							George P. Ireland, George P. Slade, M. L. Blaney, George H. Sims, J. V. Updike, P. J.
							Rice, E. W. Allen, Ray O. Miller, Earl M. Todd and O. E. Tomes. . . . Plymouth
							Congregational church dates from 1870. The first pastor, Rev. John B. Fairbank, was
							succeeded by Anselm B. Brown, Joel M. Seymour, Edward A. Hazeltine, J. C. Cromer,
							James S. Ainslie, J. Webster Bailey, Henry T. Sell and Arthur J. Folsom. . . . Salem
							Reformed church, formed in 1870, had as its first pastor Rev. C. C. Cast. Succeeding
							Rev. Mr. Cast were M. Muhler, C. Baum, M. Kriete, John Kuelling, Mr. Saunders, Philip
							Ruhl, Edward Kielsmeyer, Philip Vollmer, F. W. Knatz and F. W. Kratz. . . . Among the
							well-known citizens who settled in Fort Wayne in 1870 were A. Mergentheim, from
							Germany, who engaged in the notions and millinery trade; Mendel Frank, from Russian
							Poland, dry goods merchant; Alfred D. Cressler, manufacturer; Herman Berghoff, from
							Dortmunder, Germany, brewer; Dr. Brookfield Gard, from Huntington, Indiana, physician,
							and Dr. Samuel C. Metcalf, physician. . . . The Adams Express Company opened an office
							in Fort Wayne in 1870. H. A. Grout was the first agent. . . S. Freiburger and Brother
							established a leather business. . . . The population of Fort Wayne in 1870, according
							to the  government census, was 17,718. The population of
							Allen county was stated at 43,494. . . . J. C. Eckart established a cigar factory. . .
							. Winslow Pierce and A. J. Emrick engaged in the manufacture of furniture in a factory
							on Pearl street. . . . W. Yergens, W. Ranke, Fred Brandt and Christian Hettler
							established a factory for the making of spokes, staves and headings, and Payne,
							Aynsworth and Company founded a similar establishment on the Grand Rapids and Indiana
							railroad tracks south of the canal. . . A. C. Tucker began the manufacture of hubs and
							spokes in a building on Dwenger avenue, east of Glasgow avenue.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XL.
						(1) Various officers elected during 1867
							were: State representatives, John P. Shoaff and Peter Kiser; state senator, William W.
							Carson; clerk, William Fleming; auditor, H. J. Rudisill; treasurer, Henry Monning;
							attorney, James L. Worden, recorder, Clement A. Rekers; sheriff, John McCartney;
							surveyor, Nathan Butler; commissioners, John A. Robinson, William A. Long and David
							Lipes; coroner, John P. Waters.
						(2) Other city officials elected in 1867
							were: Clerk, E. L. Chittenden; treasurer, Christian Piepenbrink; engineer, John Ryal;
							attorney, R. S. Robertson; assessor, George Fischer; marshal, William Lindeman; street
							commissioner, William H. Briant; councilmen, W. T. McKean, William Waddington, M.
							Cody, J. C. Bowser, B. W. Oakley, F. Nirdlinger, John Arnold, A. P. Edgerton, J.
							Cochrane, B. H. Kimball, J. Merz, M. Hogan, G. Jacoby, George DeWald, George Link and
							J. Taylor; fire chief, J. B. Fry (succeeded by Hiram Poyser).
						(3) Other officers elected and appointed in 1869 were: Clerk, S. P. Freeman;
								treasurer, Christian Piepenbrink; marshal, Patrick McGee; assessor, Conrad Pens;
								attorney, Allan Zollars; city engineer, C. S. Brackenridge; marketmaster, William
								Schneider; street commissioner, B. L. P. Willard; chief of police, Fred R. Limecooly
								(succeeded by Patrick McGee); fire chief, Thomas Mannix; assistant fire chiefs,
								Richard Rossington and George Fisher; councilmen, William Waddington, T. Hogan,
								George Link, A. H. Carter, O. E. Bradway, G. W. Brackenridge, Jacob C. Bowser, N. C.
								Miller, George Jacoby, George Doerfier, J. R. Prentiss, M. Hedekin, M. F. Schmetzer,
								J. D. Hance, Henry Trier and T. J. Hutchinson; board of education, O. P. Morgan,
								John S. Irwin and Edward Slocum.
							Franklin P. Randall was re-elected mayor of Fort Wayne in 1871. The following
								lesser officers were elected and appointed: Clerk, S. P. Freeman; treasurer, J. A.
								Droegemeyer; marshal, C. Uplegger; assessor, Peter Mettler; attorney, Allan Zollars;
								engineer, C. S. Brackenridge; marketmaster, William Schneider; street commissioner,
								B. L. P. Willard; police chief, Fred R. Limecooly; board of health, Drs. I. M.
								Rosenthal, William H. Myers and A. J. Erwin; fire chief, Thomas Mannix; assistant
								fire chiefs, Peter Ohnhaus and Henry D. Miller; city council, A. H. Carter, William
								Waddington, Louis Dessauer, John Stoll, Conrad Tremmel, J. S. Goshorn, O. E. Radway,
								W. B. Fisher, Jacob Shryock, O. P. Morgan, William Tegtmeyer, B. H. Tower, G. H.
								Wilson, John W. Bull, Samuel T. Hanna, John Shoaff and P. S. Underhill. John M. Koch
								succeeded C. A. Rekers as county recorder. William S. Edsall was appointed county
								clerk.
							As a result of the fall election of 1870 Robert Lowry was elected judge of the
								circuit court, W. W. Carson of the court of common pleas and Joseph Brackenridge of
								the criminal court. Joseph S. Dailey was elected prosecutor of the circuit court and
								Edward O'Rourke of the court of common pleas. Other officials elected were: Joint
								senator, John Sarnighausen; representatives, Robert S. Taylor and Jacob S. Shute;
								clerk, William Fleming; auditor, H. J. Rudisill; treasurer, John Ring; sheriff,
								Charles A. Zollinger; recorder, Clement A. Rekers; commissioners, Jacob Hillegass,
								John Begue and John C. Davis; surveyor, William H. Goshorn; coroner, John P.
								Waters.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLI—1871-1874. The First Horse-Drawn Street
						Cars—Equal Suffrage—Free Mail Delivery.
					The first street car ride—Development of the original system—Organization
						of the first society for the advocacy of woman suffrage—Free mail
						delivery—Charles A. Zollinger mayor—The fair grounds at the present Swinney
						park—Race meets—The Fort Wayne Light Guards—The town well a costly
						"hole in the ground"—Bishop Dwenger—The Lauferty and Cheney banks—The
						Fort Wayne Daily News.
					SATURDAY, the 6th day of January, 1872, was a notable day in the
						advancement of the transportation facilities of the city of Fort Wayne, for it was on
						that day that the first horse-drawn street car was placed at the service of the people.
						At 3:45 o'clock in the afternoon, with Charles S. Brackenridge, city engineer, holding
						the reins, the first "coach" started from the south terminus of the route, having on
						board the members of the newly formed street railway company and representatives of the
						press. Reaching the Aveline house, at the corner of Calhoun and Berry streets, room was
						made for some of the "first citizens," who rode to the "Pennsylvania" tracks and
						return.
					The first car driver on the line was David D. Blair; "Tony" Lintz was the second to
						enter the service. Fred Barrett was the first track foreman.
					The Citizens' Street Railway Company, with John H. Bass president, Gilbert E. Bursley
						secretary and superintendent, Henry M. Williams treasurer and S. B. Bond, Samuel T.
						Hanna, John H. Bass and Robert S. Taylor directors, had been incorporated in September,
						1871, to operate a street railway with horse-drawn cars.
					The innovation was highly appreciated by the people of the town, and, although the
						equipment was crude and the accommodations limited, the patronage was such as to
						encourage the extension of the line and the incorporation of other companies to build
						and operate additional lines in other portions of the town which were later combined
						into one system.
					The succeeding steps leading up to the introduction of electricity as the motive power
						to operate the cars on the city system may be summed up as follows: In August, 1887, on the foreclosure of a mortgage for $22,000, executed to
								Oliver P. Morgan and Edward P. Williams, the original system was purchased by
								Stephen B. Bond and John H. Bass, representing the Fort Wayne Street Railroad
								Company, which had been formed to acquire the property of the original company.
								Others interested were Jesse L. Williams and Charles D. Bond. At that time a track
								extended along Calhoun street from Main street to Creighton avenue, with a branch on
								West Creighton avenue from Calhoun street to Fairfield avenue, and on Wallace street
								from Calhoun street to Hanna street. These extensions reached a large area of land
								owned by those who were chiefly interested in the 
								railway property, and transportation facilities added greatly to the development of
								those regions. The cars were run at intervals of twenty minutes.
					This company continued to operate the line until August, 1892, when the Fort Wayne
						Electric Railway Company was incorporated to take over the property and convert it into
						an electrically operated system.
					In the meantime the C. L. Centlivre Street Railway Company built, in 1889, a horse-car
						line extending from the corner of Calhoun and Superior streets to the Centlivre brewery,
						by way of Superior street and Spy Run avenue.
					The Lakeside Street Railway Company, incorporated in 1892 with R. T. McDonald as the
						moving spirit, established a line extending on Columbia street and Columbia avenue from
						Calhoun street to Delta lake.
					During the months succeeding the first appearance of the "trolley car," all of the
						horse-car lines were purchased by the Fort Wayne Electric Railway Company. (See Chapter
						XLV).
					
						THE FIRST SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT.
						One of the earliest women's organizations in Fort Wayne was the Allen County Women's
							Rights association, formed in March, 1871, during a three-day session held at Hamilton
							hall. About sixty men and women were in attendance. The first president was Mrs.
							Lindley M. Ninde. The organization existed during a period of only three years, but in
							this time the society and its friends listened to such prominent universal suffrage
							advocates as Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
						Miss Anthony made a second visit to Fort Wayne in the winter of 1878, when she spoke
							before a discouragingly small audience at the Berry Street Methodist church.
						"This much-abused and grossly-caricatured woman," observed the Sentinel, "is a fine
							looking old lady of good physique, with a kindly expression which gives no sign that
							she can say cutting and severe things with so little effort."
						The Twelfth District Women's Suffrage association in its annual convention at the
							Berry Street Methodist church in 1887 was addressed by Miss Anthony, Mrs. Helen M.
							Gougar, Mrs. May Wright Sewall and Mrs. Z. G. Wallace. The local officers of the
							reorganized society were: President, Mrs. Ninde; vice-presidents, Mrs. W. D. Page,
							Miss Jennie Gorsline, Mrs. M. B. Gorsline, Mrs. S. C. Williams, Miss Eliza Rudisill,
							Miss Laura Kimball, Mrs. Julian Randall, Miss Angie Henderson, Mrs. Margaret Swayne,
							Mrs. W. B. Walter, Mrs. E. J. Hamilton; secretary, Mrs. Kate Eaton; treasurer, C. J.
							Winch.
						The present Women's Equal Suffrage league was organized in the fall of 1912. The
							original officers were: President, Miss Katheryn Hamilton; first vice-president, Mrs.
							Clark Fairbank; second vice-president, Mrs. W. S. O'Rourke; secretary, Miss Elizabeth
							Sihler; treasurer, Mrs. A. J. Moynihan. Full right of suffrage was granted to the
							women of Indiana by the legislature of 1917.
					
					
						FREE MAIL DELIVERY.
						The growth of Fort Wayne was recognized by the government in 1873, and on the appeal
							of Postmaster J. J. Kamm, who was  reappointed in 1873,
							a system of free delivery of mail in the city was established.
						The original five mail carriers were Adam Link, Amos R. Walter, Robert Jacobs, August
							Feustel and Henry S. Mensch. Mr. Walter's route, carried twice a day, embraced all of
							the city west of Fairfield avenue and Fulton street, including "Nebraska" and south to
							the city limits.
					
					
						CHARLES A. ZOLLINGER MAYOR.
						With the election of Col. Charles A. Zollinger as mayor of Fort Wayne that worthy
							citizen entered upon twelve years of service in the executive's chair. During this
							period Fort Wayne experienced a remarkable advancement toward metropolitan
							proportions. In the 1873 election Colonel Zollinger received 2,300 votes, against
							1,432 for E. L. Chittenden.
						Colonel Zollinger was a native of Wiesbaden, Germany, born in 1838. With his father,
							Christian Zollinger, he came to Fort Wayne in the fifties. During the war he served
							with such distinction as to bring to him the command of the One Hundred and
							Twenty-ninth regiment of Indiana volunteers. In 1870 he was elected sheriff of Allen
								county.1
					
					
						THE FAIR GROUNDS (SWINNEY PARK).
						The present beautiful Swinney park, formerly a portion of the farm of Colonel Thomas
							W. Swinney, became, in 1874, the place for the holding of the Allen county fairs and
							race meets of succeeding years. The grounds were enclosed, large buildings were
							erected, accommodations for stock were established and a half-mile track laid out. The
							place was the scene of many notable gatherings, and thousands of persons were
							attracted to the city by the events held there each year.
						In February, 1874, a mass meeting was held to consider the question of purchasing the
							grounds, and a committee composed of A. C. Remmel, Oscar A. Simons, W. S. Edsall,
							Captain McEnrie, and Henry J. Rudisill was named to solicit funds. Later, arrangements
							were made by the Allen County Agricultural society to lease the property for a period
							of twenty years, and James H. Smart, E. L. Chittenden and S. C. Lumbard headed a
							committee to sell stock in the association to the amount of $30,000.
						Work on the property progressed rapidly, and by June, 1874, the grounds were in good
							condition for the first of the series of race meets, attended by over 2,000
							spectators. Gates were established at Washington and Jefferson streets. The annual
							fair opened in September, with all the buildings and display pens in condition for a
							successful event.
						The officers of the association for the year were: Franklin P. Randall, president;
							George F. McCoy and W. B. Felt, vice-presidents; William Lyne, secretary, and Adam
							Link, treasurer.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE LIGHT GUARDS.
						The Fort Wayne Light Guards were organized in 1874 and incorporated for three years.
							The company gave bond to the city and the city drew from the state the required arms.
							The organization  was officered as follows: Captain, J.
							D. Bond; first lieutenant, George S. Fowler; second lieutenant, Alfred T. Lukens;
							first sergeant, Thomas Andrew. This body of young men, employed in the banks, offices,
							mercantile establishments and railroad offices, was declared to be the best-drilled
							company in the state. The organization was disbanded in 1877.
					
					
						A. H. HAMILTON CONGRESSMAN.
						The lively congressional campaign with Andrew Holman Hamilton and Robert S. Taylor as
							opposing candidates resulted in the polling of 6,035 votes for the former and 3,735
							for the latter. Mr. Hamilton was a son of Allen Hamilton and a native of Fort Wayne.
							Following his graduation from Wabash college in 1858 he was a student of the
							University of Goettingin, Germany, and returned to enter Harvard university, from
							which institution he was graduated. He returned to Fort Wayne from Harvard and entered
							upon the practice of law.
					
					
						A COSTLY HOLE IN THE GROUND.
						The city of Fort Wayne, pursuing a commendable desire to establish a town well,
							beginning in 1870, found itself four years later with nothing to show for the
							expenditure of thousands of dollars but a useless hole in the ground on the courthouse
							square. Allen county was its partner in the expensive enterprise. When the year 1875
							came in its turn it was found that the city had sunk a total of $4,783.66, while the
							county was out exactly $9,380.45, making a combined sum of $14,164.11. A
							discouragingly larger sum was added to this before the city and county secured a
							flowing well.
						The sinking of the well was the result of an agitation beginning in 1869, which
							caused the city council in the following year to make a proposition to the county
							commissioners to sink the shaft at the joint expense of the city and county. In 1872
							J. S. Goshorn was engaged to begin the work, but the time limit expired and the task
							was undertaken by J. W. Ackerly and J. Hopkins, of Ashtabula, Ohio. Many
							discouragements and disappointments caused the city and county to accept the offer of
							financial assistance from Thomas W. Swinney, Ulerich Stotz, George Fox and Henry
							Monning, in consideration of the choice of a new site for the well at a point nearer
							to the real estate owned by the gentlemen named. In 1874, while there were still no
							prospects of success, a memorial from the grand jury bearing the signatures of a large
							number of citizens was met by an order from the county commissioners granting a
							further prosecution of the work. The well was sunk to a depth of 3,000 feet before
							satisfactory results were obtained. This was after six years of discouragement, when
							J. Hopkins came forward and proposed that "he at his own expense tube the artesian
							well for the purpose of ascertaining if the water will flow by doing so; and if, by
							tubing, he fails to get flowing water, he will then test the well for
							gas—provided, however, that if he obtains gas in sufficient quantity to make it
							profitable for illuminating purposes, then the said Hopkins shall have one-half of the
							benefit arising from the use of said gas; but if he obtains flowing water, he shall
							have no benefit whatever."
						
						J. Hopkins "lost out." The well contained little or no gas. It became a flowing well,
							and the city and county erected above it at the northeast corner of the courthouse
							square an ornamental canopy and drinking fountain. This canopy was removed from the
							square at the time of the demolition of the old courthouse, in 1902, and it now stands
							in Swinney park.
						The Sixteenth Annual Report of the Indiana Department of Geology, page 127, referring
							to the "town well," states that the following strata were penetrated during the
							progress of the drilling: Drift, 88 feet; Niagara limestone, 802; Hudson shales, gray,
							206; Utica shales, black, 260, and into Trenton limestone 1,590 feet. The surface of
							the ground is 772 feet above sea level, and the well of 3,000 feet extends 2,228 feet
							below sea level.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1871.
						The sudden death of Bishop J. H. Luers, of the diocese of Fort Wayne, occurred while
							the prelate was visiting in Cleveland, Ohio, and the appointment of Rev. Joseph
							Dwenger by Pope Pius IX brought to him the honor of serving as the second bishop of
							the diocese. He was a native of Auglaize county, Ohio. His consecration by Archbishop
							Purcell to the high office took place in the Cathedral of Cincinnati. . . . Isaac
							Lauferty, a clothing merchant, with his son, Alexander Lauferty as assistant,
							established a private banking house in a room on Calhoun street, opposite the
							courthouse, and later removed the institution into a room in the Aveline hotel, facing
							Calhoun street. The business was continued until 1891, the year of the death of Mr.
							Lauferty. A private bank of loans and discounts was also established about the same
							time by James Cheney. Its career was not extended and the bank was closed voluntarily
							by the proprietor. . . . Colonel R. S. Robertson was appointed register in bankruptcy
							and United States commissioner. Colonel Robertson also served as the government
							volunteer weather observer. . . . Citizens who date their residence in Fort Wayne from
							1871 include William D. Page, postmaster and founder of the Fort Wayne Daily News;
							Robert C. Bell, attorney, state senator and United States court commissioner; Captain
							John H. Rohan, county treasurer and public spirited citizen; Dr. Joseph H. Jones,
							physician, and Nelson Leonard, father of Elmer and Wilmer Leonard, attorneys. . . .
							Rudolph Worch established the Indiana Volksfreund, a German publication which
							continued but a few months. . . . J. H. Buckles opened the Robinson house on Harrison
							street. . . . A singular tragedy of the year 1871 was the fatal shooting of Chief of
							Police Patrick McGee, by Dr. I. N. Thacker. The grand jury, believing the shot to have
							been fired in self-defense, failed to hold the physician. . . . The burning of the
							White Fruit House, on West Berry street, damaged several near-by structures.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1872.
						On the 4th of October the county advertised for bids for the erection of a jail to
							replace the structure erected in 1850. The contract was let to Christian Boseker for
							$81,498. The total cost was $92,069.84. This building is still in use. . . . The
							present  important manufacturing institution, known as
							the plant of the Packard Company, makers of the celebrated Packard pianos and player
							pianos, had its origin in 1872, with the founding of the Fort Wayne Organ Company. The
							company commenced business with a capitalization of $24,000. S. B. Bond was the
							president; J. D. Bond, treasurer; Gilbert E. Bursley, secretary and manager, and R. T.
							Keith, superintendent. The enterprise, located on Fairfield avenue, has grown to
							immense proportions. In recent years the manufacture of organs has given place almost
							wholly to that of pianos and player pianos, which have a large sale in all portions of
							the world. The affiliated Bond Piano Company occupies a portion of the plant. . . .
							The manufacturing institution afterward known as the White Wheel Works, was
							established by Captain James B. White, who purchased the A. C. Tucker plant. Christian
							Boseker was connected with the operation of the plant for a time; then John W. White
							became a member of the firm. In 1890 the plant was absorbed by the American Wheel
							Company, a syndicate with headquarters in Chicago, which paid $150,000 for the Fort
							Wayne property. In the same year the plant was destroyed by fire, causing a loss of
							$160,000. . . . St. Peter's Catholic church was formed in 1872, with Rev. J. Wemhoff,
							pastor. The successors of Rev. Mr. Wemhoff were A. Messman, F. Koerdt, John Biederman
							and Charles H. Thiele. . . . The year 1872 drew to Fort Wayne many worthy citizens,
							including W. L. Carnahan, from Lafayette, Indiana, wholesale boot and shoe dealer;
							William Kaough, postmaster and dealer in coal and farming implements; Gottlieb Haller,
							from Switzerland, engaged in the meat trade; S. D. Bitler, from Pennsylvania,
							manufacturer of cooperage stock; and Joseph H. Brimmer, from Chicago, painter. . . .
							The Fisher Brothers Paper Company was established.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1873.
						Prof. Thomas Powers opened the Fort Wayne Business College in the Burgess block, on
							Main street, between Calhoun and Harrison streets. Prior to this, an institution known
							as the Bryant and Stratton Business College, under the management of Prof. H. H.
							Lipes, occupied rooms in the same building. Still earlier, a commercial school was
							conducted on Harrison street near the present Randall hotel by Prof. W. J. Francisco.
							. . . In July, 1873, a home for the friendless was organized, with Mrs. A. S. Evans,
							president; Mrs. Charles Taylor, secretary, and Mrs. L. M. Ninde, chairman of the board
							of managers. Two years later the sum of $4,600 was paid for a location for the home.
							In 1880 Mrs. M. A. Carter was the matron of the institution, and Mrs. Ninde,
							treasurer. . . The Allen County Agricultural society and the Horticultural Society of
							Northern Indiana were consolidated, with Franklin P. Randall, president; Adam Link,
							treasurer, and William Lyne, secretary. . . Charles D. Law, appointed civil engineer
							of the western division of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad, with
							headquarters in Fort Wayne, became, in 1880, the superintendent of the division. Mr.
							Law was succeeded by J. B. McKim, William M. Wardrop and Otto Schroll. . . . The firm
							of William Geake and J. J. Geake, stone cutters, was formed.  . . . Among the prominent citizens who came in 1873 were August Bruder,
							from Germany, engaged in the retail jewelry trade; Charles B. Fitch, of Medina County,
							Ohio, insurance; and Perry A. Randall, from Avilla, Indiana, attorney and citizen of
							public spirit. As a spontaneous expression of the high esteem in which Perry A.
							Randall was held by his fellow citizens, their action immediately following his sudden
							death in 1916 is in evidence. A fund was raised by voluntary subscription to erect a
							life-size portrait bust of Mr. Randall, now to be seen in Swinney Park, as a
							remembrance of his years of effort and sacrifice in promoting the welfare of his
							fellow-citizens. The monument was erected in the autumn of 1916. . . . The Free
							Methodist church was founded in 1873. The pastors in succession have been John W.
							Sharp, Scepter Roberts, A. Godman, A. V. Leonardson, O. Barfell, John Harden, J. P.
							Brooks, W. H. Jones, G. P. Wilson, M. C. Boner, George B. Day, John Harden, M.
							Edinger, Edward Matthews, Nathan Stambaugh, Parry Botts, P. S. Shoemaker, Robert
							Clark, U. G. Hoover, H. C. Ingersoll, W. T. Loring, Carson Moore, E. F. Aiken and B.
							L. Olmstead.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1874.
						The first edition of the Fort Wayne Daily News was issued in June by William D. Page
							and Charles F. Taylor. The paper during its earlier history was a small sheet, often
							called a "handbill," but it sparkled with enterprise. In November, 1887, Mr. Taylor
							sold his interest in the publication to Mr. Page, who continued its management until
							1892, when a company composed of Clarence F. Bicknell, Ernest P. Bicknell and Alvin T.
							Hert purchased the property. Mr. C. F. Bicknell assumed active charge of the paper and
							it has grown to metropolitan proportions and popularity. Jesse A. Greene has served as
							editor of the News for several years. The News2 has always been strongly republican in its political
							policies . . . Rev. W. S. Morris became the pastor of the newly-organized Trinity
							Methodist Episcopal church. Succeeding pastors of Trinity church were D. M. Brown, W.
							D. Barr, J. R. McConehy, D. M. Shackleford, W. R. Wones, J. B. Alleman, E. F.
							Alberson, Sherman Powell, C. E. White, George Cocking, David Wells, R. L. Semans, W.
							P. Herron, T. M. Hill and C. W. Shoemaker. . . . Fort Wayne Lodge, No. 2, Independent
							Order of Foresters, was organized. . . . Frederick J. Hayden (born in Coburg, Canada,
							in 1836), prominent in the Indiana legislature and in the commercial affairs of the
							city, located in Fort Wayne in 1874 . . . Henry W. Ortman established a cigar
							manufactory.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XLI.
						(1) Other city officials elected and
								appointed in 1873 were: Clerk, S. P. Freeman; treasurer, John A. Droegemeyer;
								marshal, Christopher Kelly; assessor, Henry Steup; attorney, Allen Zollars;
								engineer, Charles S. Brackenridge; marketmaster, William Schneider; street
								commissioner, Henry Trier; board of health, Drs. W. H. Myers, I. M. Rosenthal and B.
								S. Woodworth; board of school trustees, John S. Irwin, O. P. Morgan and Pliny
								Hoagland; fire chief, Frank Vogel; councilmen, N. H. Putnam, William T. McKean, O.
								P. Morgan, Montgomery Hamilton, Louis Dessauer, William Mever, Charles McCulloch,
								William Macphail, Peter Hahnhouser, Christian Becker, Timothy Hogan, John Shoaff,
								George Jacoby, John Iten, Henry Schnelker, Henry Stoll and James Lillie.
							In 1873 Joseph D. Hance succeeded Charles A. Zollinger as sheriff; Samuel E.
								Sinclair succeeded James W. Borden as judge of the court of common pleas; at the end
								of his term the court was abolished. Judge Sinclair was a native of Fort Wayne, born
								in 1840. In 1882  he served as a member of the general
								assembly, and in 1885 was a candidate for mayor. J. R. Bittenger served with Judge
								Sinclair as prosecuting attorney, and Joseph S. France was appointed prosecutor of
								the criminal court. John D. Sarnighausen was elected state senator, and Jefferson C.
								Bowser and Mahlon Heller state representatives. Jacob R. Bittenger was appointed by
								Governor Hendricks to act as prosecutor of the circuit court; he was later elected
								and served to 1877. The court of common pleas was abolished in 1873, and its
								business transferred to the circuit court. County officers elected in 1873 were:
								Auditor, W. T. Abbott; treasurer, John Ring; sheriff, J. D. Hance; recorder, John M.
								Koch; surveyor, W. H. Goshorn; coroner, John P. Waters; superintendent of county
								schools, Jerry Hillegass; commissioners, John Begue, Jacob Hillegass and Henry K.
								Turner.
							In 1874 R. C. Bell was elected state senator and Patrick Horn and Mahlon Heller
								state representatives. Other officers elected were: Judge of the criminal court,
								Joseph Brackenridge (succeeded by James W. Borden); clerk, F. H. Wolke; auditor,
								William T. Abbott; treasurer, John Ring (succeeded by M. F. Schmetzer); sheriff, J.
								D. Hance; recorder, John M. Koch (succeeded by Joseph Mommer, Jr.); surveyor, W. H.
								Goshorn; coroner, A. M. Webb; assessor, Alvin Hall. Samuel M. Hench was appointed by
								Governor Hendricks to complete the unexpired term of Joseph S. France (deceased),
								prosecuting attorney of the criminal court. Judge Hench was elected to the office in
								1874, 1876 and 1878.
							In 1875 the following city officials were elected and appointed: Mayor, Charles A.
								Zollinger; clerk, John M. Godown; treasurer, Charles M. Barton; attorney, Allen
								Zollars; marshal, Christian Kelly; assessor, John H. Pranger; engineer, John Ryall;
								street commissioner, Conrad Baker; chief of police, M. Singleton; board of health,
								Drs. John M. Josse, Theodore Heuchling and Thomas J. Dills; board of education, A.
								P. Edgerton, Pliny Hoagland and John S. Irwin (succeeded by Oliver P. Morgan).
							In 1877 Mayor Charles A. Zollinger was re-elected and the following minor officials
								elected and appointed: Clerk, John H. Trentman; treasurer, Charles M. Barton;
								marshal, Christopher Kelly; assessor, John G. Maier; attorney, Henry Colerick; city
								engineer, John Ryall; chief of the fire department, Frank B. Vogel; street
								commissioner, Dennis O'Brien; chief of police, Hugh M. Diehl; councilmen, Charles
								Riese, H. N. Putnam, Morris Cody, C. Hettler, James Breen, E. L. Chittenden, C. F.
								Muhler, E. Zorbaugh, S. Bash, J. M. Riedmiller, T. Hogan, D. B. Strope, J. E.
								Graham, J. Holmes, Andrew T. Dreier, H. Schnelker, C. H. Leinker and C. Pfeiffer.
								Jerry Hillegass was re-elected county superintendent of schools; M. E. Argo
								succeeded William T. Abbott as county auditor.
						
						(2) Among the newspapers and other
							publications of Fort Wayne which are not otherwise mentioned in the Pictorial History
							and which had a more or less prosperous experience are the following: The Call,
							published by W. R. Ream; the Item, by George R. Benson; the Mail, by W. J. Fowler; the
							Summit City Journal, issued during 1855 and 1856 by the Young Men's Literary
							association; the American Farmer, established in 1883 by E. A. K. Hackett and edited
							by S. D. Melsheimer; the Plow Boy, an agricultural paper published by R. D. Turner;
							the Boys' World, by W. J. Bond; Poultry and Pets, by Page and Taylor; the Alert, a
							campaign paper issued during 1851; the Dollar Weekly Press, by D. W. Jones, published
							during 1867 and 1868; the Casket, issued by the students of the Methodist college,
							beginning in 1851; the People's Advocate, published for a time, beginning in 1883, by
							George B. Fleming, of Arcola, Indiana, and the Dispatch, organ of the "Greenback"
							party, which appeared in 1878 with James Mitchell as editor and Frank Orff business
							manager.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLII—1875-1878. Railroad Strike—Rival Medical
						Schools—Lawlessness.
					Industrial controversies precipitate a general strike of railroad employes—Mayor
						Zollinger reads the "Riot Act"—Officials in clash with strikers—Troops sent
						to quell the outbreak—Settlement of the difficulty—Rival medical schools and
						their differences—The grand jury's reproof—Grave robberies arouse alarm and
						indignation—First graduates of medical schools—Superior court is
						established—Lawlessness—The great meteor—James H. Smart superintendent
						of schools—Olympic (Bijou) theatre.
					THE YEAR 1877 found the busy city of Fort Wayne in the throes of a
						wild industrial upheaval—a strike of the men employed on the lines of the
						Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago road and the Grand Rapids and Indiana railway.
						Already, in 1864, the town had passed through an experience of rioting due to disturbed
						conditions among the railroad men; but now it faced a situation still more threatening
						to the peace and safety of the people.
					The strike was general at first over the entire system of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne
						and Chicago railroad, as well as other lines, following the refusal of the companies to
						meet a demand for increased wages.
					In Fort Wayne the disturbed conditions continued for a period of nearly two weeks, at
						the end of which time one of the newspapers, expressing the general feeling of relief,
						said: "It is generally rejoiced at that the difficulty has
								terminated without bloodshed or wanton destruction of property. Fort Wayne has been
								resting on a powder magazine during the past twelve days and only a spark was needed
								to produce an explosion which would wipe out all that makes this city what it is. *
								* * Assurances were received that a large force of regular troops and militia would
								arrive in the city during last night, and that today a conflict would take place. C.
								E. Gorham gave assurance that the strike was terminated, and if the men reported for
								duty, no one would be discharged. Reluctantly, the men voted to return to their
								places."
					On Saturday evening, July 21, two hundred conductors, firemen and brakemen had left
						their places of duty, and an idle crowd of 1,500 citizens gathered about the shops to
						observe the developments when Superintendent Gorham, Master Mechanic Boone and Master of
						Transportation Clark offered to man the engines of freight trains if any volunteers
						among the employes would act as firemen. One who had offered his services was promptly
						induced by the strikers to decline to serve. Members of the crowd then spiked and
						guarded the switches and removed all the coupling pins from the cars in the yards, so
						that none of the rolling stock could be moved.
					During the entire first night of the trouble the crowds surged about the shops and
						yards of the railroad. Finally, at 2 o'clock on Sunday morning, Mayor Charles A.
						Zollinger, assuming an  elevated position where his voice
						could be heard by many in the vast throng, read a proclamation commanding the members of
						the crowd to disperse.
					"The law must and shall be vindicated," said he. "Now, unless you quietly disperse at
						once, it will be my duty to see that you are not only punished, but to compel you to
						disperse by the strong arm of the law." The proclamation was received with derisive
						laughter.
					All arriving trains were stalled by the removal of coupling pins. On Sunday evening,
						July 22, all of the railroad shops were closed and eight hundred men were added to the
						roll of strikers. This number was soon enlarged by the addition of the conductors,
						firemen and yardmen of the Wabash road. Directly, the employes of the H. G. Olds spoke
						factory joined the strikers. Mr. Olds appealed to the city to prevent the burning of his
						plant.
					On the 28th of July, Superintendent Gorham, of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago
						railroad; Superintendent P. S. O'Rourke, of the Grand Rapids and Indiana road; Sheriff
						Charles A. Munson and Mayor Zollinger, with an engineer and fireman, took possession of
						a locomotive and ran it to a point near the Calhoun street crossing, where the strikers
						had made their headquarters in a coach and a caboose. Upon the refusal of the occupants
						to leave, the locomotive was attached to the cars and they were taken eastward to the
						neighborhood of Lafayette street. Here the strikers seized the engine, removed the
						engineer and fireman, and drove the engine into the roundhouse, where a strong guard
						prevented the officials from removing any of the rolling stock from the building.
					
						ARRIVAL OF THE SOLDIERS.
						In the meantime the disturbance at Pittsburgh, Chicago and other points had reached
							such alarming proportions that military help was required to restore quiet and order.
							Then followed the conferences and negotiations between the men and their employes
							which resulted in the ending of the trouble after twelve days of disturbance, which
							was marked in other cities by rioting and bloodshed. The final settlement of the
							trouble was followed by a glad feeling of relief, and in a few days normal conditions
							were restored.
						The troops sent to Fort Wayne from Chicago—Companies A and C, under command of
							Colonel E. C. Otis—did not reach the city until the day following the settlement
							of the strike, and they proceeded eastward without delay.
					
					
						STORMY CAREER OF THE MEDICAL SCHOOLS.
						Nor were other groups of men of a different sphere of action entirely at one with
							their brothers. A second tale of inharmony deals with the organization of rival
							medical colleges in Fort Wayne. Briefly, the tale unfolds as follows: On March 10, 1876, at the Aveline house, the Fort Wayne College
									of Medicine was organized by Drs. C. B. Stemen and H. A. Clark, teachers in a
									medical college at Cincinnati, and Drs. B. S. Woodworth, I. M. Rosenthal and W. H.
									Myers, of Fort Wayne. The building, later occupied by W. F. Geller, at the
									southwest corner of Broadway and Washington boulevard, was fitted up as the
									college home. The original faculty consisted of Drs. Stemen, Woodworth,  Clark, Rosenthal, Myers, J. H. Ford, M. M. Latta, H.
									D. Wood, A. M. Hunt, R. W. Thrift, H. Van Sweringen, S. H. Swan, A. E. Van Buskirk
									and E. Melchers. Two well-attended sessions followed the opening of the
									institution.
						At the end of the second session, a controversy between factions of the faculty of
							the college resulted in a reorganization which endured for one year, after which
							period two institutions—the Fort Wayne College of Medicine and the Fort Wayne
							Medical college—came into being simultaneously. Each claimed the other to be an
							intruder and not legally established. During the three years of the existence of the
							latter institution, which was located at the southeast corner of Calhoun and Baker
							streets, the controversy continued, and wordy conflicts provided frequent and varied
							forms of entertainment for the non-professional portion of the population.
						Added to the earlier internal troubles of the medical school was the hostile attitude
							of many people of the town, who failed to appreciate the advanced methods of the
							school in the teaching of certain branches through the means of dissecting human
							bodies. Dr. W. H. Myers, on the occasion of the graduation of the class of 1878,
							described the experience of the school as a purification "by passing through the
							refining quarantine of prejudice."
						The grand jury, of which I. D. G. Nelson was the foreman, condemned the dissecting
							room of the college on the ground that it was "used for the purpose of depositing,
							concealing and dissecting human bodies, a portion of which, at least, are stolen from
							cemeteries or graveyards in this vicinity, in violation of law, common decency and the
							proprieties of life." The report added that the alleged practice "has produced and is
							producing great excitement, anxiety and indignation, especially among those who have
							families or have recently lost friends."
					
					
						GRAVE ROBBERIES.
						The report refers to several cases of the removal of bodies from Lindenwood and other
							cemeteries, which had resulted in the arrest of six physicians and one student. The
							investigation of the cases was replete with sensational features. In one instance,
							when the body of a Roanoke (Indiana) man was found within the college walls, a
							prominent member of the faculty declared that he believed that professional
							graverobbers in the employ of the enemies of the institution had placed the body there
							"with a view to bringing our college into disrepute." The physician added the
							information that within a brief period thirty graves had been robbed.
						In 1877, ghouls removed the body of a prominent citizen from a grave in Lindenwood
							cemetery; the cemetery association offered a reward of $1,000 for information leading
							to the arrest of the culprits.
						It is of interest to note that the Fort Wayne College of Medicine survived the
							attacks made upon it and became recognized as one of the leading institutions in the
							middle west. During its later years and until the college was made a part of Purdue
							University, it occupied the home of the late Judge Hugh McCulloch, on West Superior
							street, now the headquarters of the Fort Wayne Turnverein Vorwaerts. In later years
							the medical department of Purdue  was taken over by the
							Indiana University and the course of study includes attendance in departments at
							Bloomington and Indianapolis.
					
					
						FIRST GRADUATES OF MEDICAL COLLEGE.
						The first class of graduates to leave the Fort Wayne College of Medicine was composed
							of Drs. William Jones, L. L. Dent, James McClure, Elijah Mumaw, A. Wooley, J. H.
							Renner, C. B. Rice, Charles W. Gordon, T. B. McNabb, N. E. Bachman, L. A. Abbott, I.
							N. Myers, A. A. Jolleff, W. W. DePuy and G. W. McGovern. The commencement event was
							held at the Wayne Street Methodist church in June, 1877, and addresses were given by
							Dr. B. S. Woodworth and Rev. R. D. Robinson.
					
					
						SUPERIOR COURT ESTABLISHED.
						With the establishment of the Allen county superior court, in 1875, with nearly equal
							jurisdiction with the circuit court with the exception of criminal and probate powers.
							Allen Zollars was named by Governor Williams as the first judge. Judge Zollars
							retained the office but a short time, however, when he resigned and Robert Lowry was
							appointed in his stead. Judge Lowry's election followed at the fall election of 1878.
							Succeeding judges of the superior court have been James L. Worden (1882), Lindley M.
							Ninde (appointed, 1884), Samuel M. Hench (elected, 1884), Augustus A. Chapin (1886),
							Charles M. Dawson (1890), William J. Vesey (appointed, 1899), Owen N. Heaton (1902),
							Carl Yaple (1912).
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1875.
						"Fort Wayne, by the record, is the most lawless town in Indiana," observed the
							Chicago Times, editorially, in the winter of 1875. "For some time murders and affrays
							more or less fatal have been reported, the cap-sheaf of lawlessness coming this
							morning in the shape of a canal crew feud, in which both parties proceeded to actual
							combat. The general existing impunity of crime in the city has encouraged the
							outbreak." That the severe arraignment by the Chicago publication was not without
							reasonable foundation is shown by the words of Judge Borden, of the criminal court,
							who, in delivering his charge to the grand jury, said: "It is useless to shut our eyes
							to the fact that for the past year crime has been increasing. Scarcely a day passes
							that the papers do not teem with accounts of murders, robberies, rapes and other
							crimes which cause the blood to chill in our veins." . . . With Rev. R. L. Walgus as
							pastor, Cavalry United Brethren church was organized in 1875. Succeeding pastors were
							J. L. Luttrell, D. A. Johnson, J. P. Stewart, John Lower, J. W. Lake, George F. Byrer
							and John W. Borkert. . . George Moon was appointed deputy revenue collector, Hiram
							Iddings pension agent and John F. Curtice register in bankruptcy; Mr. Curtice was
							succeeded by John W. Hayden. . . . James B. Harper, a graduate of the University of
							Indiana, began the practice of law and rose to a high position among the members of
							the Indiana bar. . . . J. H. Buckles remodeled the Little and McCulloch grain house
							and opened it as the Grand hotel. . . . New residents of the city were John M.
							Landenberger, of  the Indiana Road Machine Company, and
							John B. Reuss, of the Centlivre Brewing Company. . . . The Fort Wayne Medical society
							was organized, with Dr. B. S. Woodworth, president, and Dr. Joseph Beck, secretary. .
							. . Robert Lowry resigned as judge of the circuit court, and Governor Hendricks
							appointed William W. Carson to fill the vacancy. . . . With the incoming of Rutherford
							B. Hayes as president of the United States, Frederick W. Keil was named as postmaster
							of Fort Wayne. . . . A. H. Hamilton was re-elected to congress over Mr. Bonham by a
							vote in the district of 19,142 to 12,777. Thomas J. Foster and Charles B. Austin were
							elected state representatives . . . With the election of Edward O'Rourke as judge of
							the circuit court, that official entered upon a period of thirty-six years in the same
							position of important trust.1 .
							. . The discovery of a wholesale plot to carry through a fraudulent scheme on
							presidential election day called the people in a mass meeting at the courthouse, when
							A. P. Edgerton was chosen chairman, Charles A. Munson, secretary, and thirty other
							prominent citizens as vice presidents. A large number of fraudulent ballots had been
							printed, but the watchful opponents of the move prevented their use.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1876.
						In the national campaign, Allen county gave Tilden and Hendricks, democrats, 7,732
							votes, and Hayes and Wheeler, republicans, 4,013. . . . The people of Allen county
							were treated to the unusual sight of the passage of a monster meteor on the night of
							December 21. L. C. Cone, of Pierceton, Indiana, writing under date of November 14,
							1914, says concerning this spectacle: "The meteor passed about directly over Fort
							Wayne at 9 o'clock. It was first seen in Kansas. It traveled in a direction a little
							north of east at a fearful rate. It struck the ground in northern New York not far
							from Lake Ontario. It exploded while passing over Illinois, producing a brilliant
							display of fire and a noise like a battle of artillery." . . . Fort Wayne members of
							the Indiana commission to the Centennial exposition at Philadelphia were A. P.
							Edgerton, R. C. Bell, J. M. Coombs, W. W. Worthington, J. H. Bass, S. B. Bond, J. D.
							Sarnighausen, Mrs. F. P. Randall, Mrs. I. D. G. Nelson, Mrs. Jesse L. Williams, Mrs.
							Allen Hamilton and Mrs., Henry P. Ayres. . . . New residents of Fort Wayne in 1876
							were Maurice L. Jones, from Peru, Indiana, photographer and wholesale photographic
							supplies; George W. Pixley, from Utica, New York, clothier and banker; James M.
							Barrett, from Illinois, attorney, state senator and leader in electric traction
							enterprises, and Dr. Carl Proegler, from Germany, physician. . . . Princess Rink, used
							for thirty-eight years as the assembling place of large audiences, was erected at the
							southeast corner of West Main and Fulton streets; it was destroyed by fire in 1914. .
							. . The election of James H. Smart as state superintendent of public instruction left
							a vacancy in the superintendency of the Fort Wayne schools, which was filled by the
							appointment of Dr. John S. Irwin, who had served for ten years as a member of the
							school board. Dr. Irwin came to Fort Wayne in 1853, and was first employed as a
							bookkeeper in the banking house of Allen Hamilton and Company. Later he was the teller
								 of the Merchants' National bank. Dr. Irwin resigned
							in 1896 and removed to Lafayette, Indiana, in 1897. Following is a list of the
							principals of the public schools in 1876: High school, Charles K. Latham; training
							school, Ada E. Remmel; Jefferson school, Carrie B. Sharp; Clay school, Mary L.
							Thompson; Hoagland, Miss Frank Hamilton; Hanna, Miss M. M. Macphail; Bloomingdale,
							Temple H. Dunn; Harmar, Hettie Mark; East German, John J. Weber; West German, Carl
							Schwanz; Nebraska, Rev. Edward Rubin.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1877.
						A few days after the rebuilding of the "feeder" dam across the St. Joseph river, one
							abutment of the aqueduct which conveyed the "feeder" canal across Spy Run creek
							collapsed, causing a loss of $6,000. The ruins of this aqueduct still may be seen near
							the intersection of North Clinton street and Jacobs avenue. . . In 1877, Colonel D. N.
							Foster became the resident manager of the Fort Wayne branch of the firm of Foster
							Brothers, which had been established here in 1868. Following the establishment of the
							Fort Wayne branch of the firm of Foster Brothers, a store was opened at Terre Haute,
							Indiana, in 1870, and another at Lafayette, Indiana, in 1885. John G. Foster, who had
							charge of the western branches, died in 1878. Scott Foster retired from the firm on
							assuming the presidency of the People's bank in New York city, and his Fort Wayne
							interests were purchased by David N. and Samuel M. Foster, the former 
								CHARLES A. MUNSON.
								Charles A. Munson was a son of James P. Munson, who came from Connecticut and
									became a pioneer merchant of Fort Wayne. Charles was born in Fort Wayne in 1843.
									After his service in the civil war he became a traveling salesman for the
									wholesale grocery house of Huestis and Hamilton and was so employed for sixteen
									years. He served for four years in the city council and in 1876 was elected
									sheriff of the county. He was re-elected in 1878 by a majority of 4,370 votes.
									Twice—in 1886 and 1888—he was nominated as the democratic candidate
									for secretary of state. Mr. Munson later became the Chicago representative of the
									Fort Wayne Electric Company and was noted as a successful manager of salesmen of
									electrical machinery in the middle west. His death occurred in 1901.
							
							
								SAMUEL E. MORSS.
								Mr. Morss, a son of former Mayor Samuel S. Morss, was a native of Fort Wayne,
									born in 1852. Early in life he engaged in newspaper work as the city editor of the
									Fort Wayne Gazette, and in partnership with William R. Nelson, purchased the Fort
									Wayne Sentinel in 1879. The following year the paper was sold to E. A. K. Hackett,
									and Messrs. Morss and Nelson established the Kansas City Star. In 1888 he
									organized a company for the purchase of the Indianapolis Sentinel. President
									Cleveland appointed Mr. Morss to the important post of consul general at Paris, an
									honor which came unsolicited.
							
							 assuming control of the furniture and carpet portion of
							the business, and the latter, who came to Fort Wayne in 1879, continuing the dry goods
							department. A. Z. Foster acquired the business at Terre Haute. Since 1885 the Fort
							Wayne and Lafayette stores have been operated under the corporate name of the D. N.
							Foster Furniture Company. In 1886 Samuel M. Foster sold his dry goods business in
							order to give his entire time to the management of his shirtwaist factory, which has
							since become one of the leading manufacturing institutions of the city. Mr. Foster is
							known as the "father of the shirt-waist," for it was he who introduced the becoming
							and convenient style of garment to the women of America. In recent years he has given
							his attention to the affairs of the German-American National bank, of which he is the
							president. . . . Louis Fox engaged in the manufacture of confectionery and baked
							goods. . . . Fremont L. Jones established the Troy laundry. . . . Among the new
							citizens of the year were Dr. A. E. VanBuskirk, from Harrisburg, Ohio, physician;
							Edward F. Yarnelle, from Springfield, Illinois, wholesale heavy hardware dealer;
							Charles T. Strawbridge, from Bloomingrove, Ohio, of the Bass Foundry and Machine
							Works; Daniel L. Harding, from Ireland, mayor, and Dr. John W. Younge, physician,
							traveler and adventurer. . . George W. Doswell established a floral greenhouse. . . .
							Weil Brothers founded a fur and hide business. . . . The Fort Wayne Conservatory of
							Music was established. . . . Fred Eckart erected the first buildings of the present
							extensive plant of the Eckart Packing Company. . . . The business men of Fort Wayne,
							appreciating the need of a more united common interest, met at the courthouse December
							26 and organized the Fort Wayne Board of Trade, with the following officers:
							President, A. P. Edgerton; vice presidents, John H. Bass and G. R. McNiece; secretary,
							F. S. Shurick; treasurer, Charles McCulloch. The directors were S. Carey Evans, S. B.
							Bond, A. C. Trentman, A. Waring, B. Thanhouser, Solomon Bash and John Orff.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1878.
						The famous organization of singers known as the Haydn quartet, which delighted
							hundreds of audiences during a period of more than thirty years, was organized. Its
							members were Charles H. Worden, president of the First National bank of Fort Wayne;
							Charles L. Olds, president of the Olds Construction Company; Edward F. Yarnelle, of
							the wholesale heavy hardware firm of Mossman, Yarnelle and Company, and A. J. Lang, of
							the George DeWald Company, wholesale dry goods. . . . A new iron bridge was built
							across the St. Mary's river at Main street. . . . Drs. George W. McCaskey, C. B.
							Stemen and W. H. Gobrecht established a magazine, the Fort Wayne Journal of Medical
							Science. . Among the well-known citizens who came to Fort Wayne in 1878 are Dr. Miles
							F. Porter, Dr. A. J. Laubach, George H. Loesch, druggist, and Samuel R. Alden, Thomas
							E. Ellison and William J. Vesey, prominent members of the bar of Indiana. . . .
							William Fleming was elected treasurer of the state of Indiana. Walpole G. Colerick,
							democrat, made a successful campaign for  congress
							against John Studabaker, republican, Colerick's majority being 6,676.2
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XLII.
						(1) Other officers elected were:
							Prosecutor for the circuit court, J. F. Morrison; prosecutor for the criminal court,
							Samuel M. Hench; county treasurer, Michael Schmetzer; sheriff, Chas. A. Munson
							(succeeding Platt J. Wise). Hugh M. Diehl was appointed chief of police. William
							Gaffney succeeded A. M. Webb as coroner.
						(2) County officials elected in 1878
							were: State senator, Thomas J. Foster; representatives, Elihu Reichelderfer and O. E.
							Fleming; judge of the superior court, Robert Lowry; judge of the criminal court, James
							W. Borden; prosecuting attorney, superior court, Samuel M. Hench; prosecuting
							attorney, criminal court, James F. Morrison; clerk, M. V. B. Spencer; auditor, M. E.
							Argo; treasurer, John M. Taylor; recorder, Joseph Mommer, Jr.; sheriff, Charles A.
							Munson; commissioners, Jacob Goeglein and Timothy Hogan; coroner, William Gaffney;
							surveyor, W. H. Goshorn.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLIII—1879-1884.
						Waterworks—Telephones—Electric Lighting—Political Disturbances.
					The proposition to use the "feeder" canal as a means of city water supply precipitates
						a warm fight—Moses Lane's plan—Council restrained from taking
						action—The people elect anti-canal councilmen—J. D. Cook's plan is
						adopted—Deep wells are sunk—The first pumping station—The first
						telephone system proves to be a financial failure—The Western Union
						venture—Absorbed by the "Bell" company—Development of the "Bell" and "Home"
						systems—Building of the Nickel Plate railroad—The first electric
						lights—Beginnings of the Fort Wayne Electric Works—The execution of Samuel
						McDonald—Crowds prevent James G. Blaine and William McKinley from
						speaking—Rival torchlight processions—The Masonic Temple—Knights of
						Labor—The first typewriter—A world-championship baseball game.
					THE YEAR 1879 gave to Fort Wayne its original waterworks plant and
						its first telephone system. During 1875, the agitation for a municipally-owned
						waterworks system for Fort Wayne resulted in earnest activity for preference in the
						councilmanic election of 1876.
					The owners of the disused feeder canal, which brought the waters of the St. Joseph
						river into the city limits from a point seven miles north of the town, sought to sell
						the artificial waterway to the city under the claim that the water supply was sufficient
						and the quality satisfactory. Two factions engaged in a controversy over the
						advisability of using the canal water, while others were firm in the belief that the
						entire question should be deferred for further consideration. The council, however,
						engaged a competent hydraulic engineer, Moses Lane, who prepared and submitted plans for
						a system of water supply. The canal owners offered to construct a plant in accordance
						with the Lane plan at a cost of $380,000, including the laying of 21.18 miles of pipe
						and the erection of a standpipe five feet in diameter and two hundred feet high.
					A majority of the members of the council favored the use of the canal water, but their
						further action was stopped by a restraining order secured by certain citizens, and
						before the time set for the point at issue a councilmanic election was held which
						resulted in the defeat of every candidate who favored the use of canal water.
					The successful candidates, together with the hold-over members, were N. H. Putnam, C.
						Hettler, E. L. Chittenden, E. Zorbaugh, W. H. Withers, D. B. Strope, Joshua Holmes,
						Henry Schnelker, C. F. Pfeiffer, W. T. McKean, J. B. White, M. Baltes, C. A. Munson, D.
						L. Harding, T. Hogan, Silas Tam, Frank Wittenburg and John Wilkinson.
					On the 15th of May, 1879, the council authorized the waterworks trustees, Henry
						Monning, Charles McCulloch and C. Boseker, to employ J. D. Cook, of Toledo, a competent
						hydraulic engineer, to prepare plans for a waterworks system. These plans contemplated
							 the building of a reservoir—the same, in fact, as
						was finally constructed—but the council did not favor the reservoir idea. At a
						special election, however, the people declared in favor of the plan by a vote of 2,593
						to 591. Ground was broken in the fall of 1880. The work, exclusive of the reservoir,
						cost $236,865. The reservoir was later built at an expense of $20,000.
					Many citizens favored the plan to pump the water from the St. Joseph river. The owners
						of the feeder canal urged its purchase by the city, and a third element succeeded in
						inducing the council to decide to use the waters of Spy Run creek, which flows into St.
						Mary's river at a point between the Clinton street and Spy Run avenue bridges. Little
						realizing that the supply would soon prove inadequate, the city erected its pumping
						station on this little stream, near Clinton street, and equipped it with a valuable
						low-pressure engine capable of pumping 3,000,000 gallons daily, in addition to which
						there was also installed a high-pressure engine and a battery of boilers to equip a
						first-class pumping plant.
					Near this pumping station (No. 1), which is operated in connection with the municipal
						light and power plant, a reservoir was constructed. During the first summer of the
						history of the waterworks plant a serious drought made necessary the tapping of the
						feeder canal and the use of its impure water. Originally, about twenty miles of pipe was
						laid, and from this small beginning the present great system has been developed. All of
						the water is now drawn from deep rock wells. There are three widely separated pumping
						stations.
					
						THE MARVELS OF THE TELEPHONE.
						The marvelous invention of Alexander Graham Bell, which came to be called the
							telephone and which was revealed to an astonished world during the Philadelphia
							Centennial celebration of 1876, found its way to Fort Wayne in the summer of 1879,
							when Sidney C. Lumbard erected poles and strung the first wires connecting various
							places within the town.
						The strangeness of the innovation is suggested by the comment of the Sentinel, which
							observed that "conversations have been carried on between the City hospital and
							Eckart's packing house as satisfactorily as between two parties in the same room. A
							day or two ago," continues the same paper, "Dr. Myers sent a prescription by telephone
							from the City hospital to Meyer Bros.' drug store and it was promptly filled." The
							same paper tells of the singing of solos over the telephone lines by Mrs. Lumbard and
							Nellie Angell, which were heard distinctly by people at the various wire connections.
							The Lumbard exchange was located in the Foellinger block, on the west side of Calhoun
							street north of Main. Bell patent telephones and transmitters were installed, and the
							system secured over one hundred subscribers. The enterprise proved a financial
							failure, however, and was later abandoned.
						In July of 1879 the Western Union Telegraph Company also established a system in Fort
							Wayne, known as the Edison exchange, with its central office in the Nill building on
							the west side of Calhoun street north of Wayne. Orrin Perry served as chief operator,
								 assisted by Thomas Bicknell. The system was absorbed
							by the Bell company, which, as already noted, was obliged to discontinue the service
							because the times were not far enough advanced to accept the modern convenience and
							make it a permanent feature of the advancing life of the west.
					
					
						DEVELOPMENT OF THE TELEPHONE.
						It was not until 1881 that the telephone became a fixture in Fort Wayne. At that time
							a permit was granted the Fort Wayne Telephone Company to string wires along certain
							streets and alleys, to which territory additions were made in grants to the Western
							Union Telephone Company and to the Fort Wayne Telephone Company in 1887. A small
							exchange was put in and the Central Union (Bell) Telephone Company (then known as the
							Midland Telephone Company) soon afterward acquired the property. The service was
							gradually expanded until the company operated a total of 1,000 telephones. In
							February, 1894, the Bell exchange in the Foellinger building was destroyed by fire,
							and temporary quarters at the northwest corner of Main and Calhoun streets were
							secured. In 1895 the exchange was removed to its present location in the Tri-State
							building, Berry and Court streets. This system developed into an important toll
							connection with distant points, following its affiliation with the American Telephone
							and Telegraph Company, but its local service has been very largely absorbed by the
							Home Telephone and Telegraph Company, which was incorporated in 1896. In 1895, at the
							Aveline house, the Bell Telephone Company gave the people of Fort Wayne their first
							opportunity to hear voices and music sent over the wires from points nine hundred
							miles distant. Edgar L. Taylor is the local manager of the Bell interests.
					
					
						HOME TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
						The Home Telephone and Telegraph Company, composed of local stockholders, was
							organized for the announced purpose of providing a more extended service at a lower
							price than had prevailed up to that time. The company was incorporated in October,
							1886, and commenced business with eight hundred subscribers. The chief promoters were
							Charles S. Bash, William J. Vesey, Charles McCulloch, Samuel M. Foster, George W.
							Beers and Christian Hettler. The company had been organized with a capital stock of
							$100,000, with an equal sum in bonds, which was increased three years later to
							$250,000, with a like amount in bonds. In 1900 the company bought the property of the
							National Telephone and Telegraph Company, consisting of several Indiana, Ohio and
							Michigan exchanges, together with 1,000 miles of toll lines, paying preferred stock
							therefor, which added $350,000 of capital stock to the company's authorized issue. The
							company has since grown steadily until today it is one of the strongest factors in the
							commercial and social life of the region of which Fort Wayne is the center. William L.
							Moellering is the president and general manager of the company, with Frank E. Bohn as
							secretary and assistant general manager.
					
					
					
						THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN OF 1880.
						The political year of 1880 was marked by a number of interesting events. During an
							exciting campaign General Benjamin Harrison, General Carl Schurz, General Benjamin F.
							Butler and others delivered memorable addresses, and on election day the voters of the
							county gave General Hancock a majority of 2,291 over General Garfield. Walpole G.
							Colerick won a re-election to congress by a majority of 770 over Judge R. S.
								Taylor.1
					
					
						NICKEL PLATE RAILROAD.
						The first survey of the trunk line of railroad which later became the New York,
							Chicago and St. Louis (Nickel Plate) system extended north of Fort Wayne, but through
							the efforts of William Fleming, Calvin S. Brice, president of the company, came to
							Fort Wayne and purchased the route of the old Wabash and Erie canal through the city
							as a right-of-way, enabling him to accomplish the remarkable feat of carrying a
							railroad through a good-sized city, touching a point less than two squares distant
							from the courthouse without the necessity of tearing down a single building. The price
							was $137,000 cash. The road was completed during the following year. Originally, the
							construction of this now important east-and-west trunk line was for the purpose of
							providing a parallel line to compete with the Vanderbilts' Lake Shore and Michigan
							Southern line and to compel the latter interests to purchase the Fort Wayne road. The
							plan succeeded, although Commodore Vanderbilt declared the Nickel Plate road to be "a
							string of dirt leading from nowhere to no place." For a considerable period the Nickel
							Plate road was used almost exclusively for freight shipments.
					
					
						THE GENERAL ELECTRIC WORKS.
						The great Fort Wayne plant of the General Electric Company, manufacturer of standard
							electrical apparatus used throughout the civilized world, had its beginning in 1881,
							when James A. Jenney, inventor of an electric arc lamp and a small dynamo, came to
							Fort Wayne and installed his apparatus in the establishment of Evans, McDonald and
							Company. On November 1, of this year, with an authorized capital of $100,000, Ronald
							T. McDonald organized the Fort Wayne Jenney Electric Light Company, a manufacturing
							and selling concern, with the following officers: H. G. Olds, president; Perry A.
							Randall, vice-president; Oscar A. Simons, secretary, and R. T. McDonald, treasurer and
							general manager. This original company occupied a building at the southwest corner of
							Calhoun and Superior streets used by John H. Bass as a boiler shop, and later removed
							to a building on the south side of West Superior street at the foot of Wells street, a
							site afterward occupied by the first electric light plant. The third uptown building
							used by the concern was a rented structure located on East Columbia street. Next the
							company purchased the small vacated plant of the Gause Agricultural works at Broadway
							and the tracks of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago railroad, which has formed a
							nucleus of the building expansion of the concern. At this time the company had an
							authorized capital of $500,000, of which $366,000 had been issued.
						
						In 1885 M. M. M. Slattery, of Massachusetts, was engaged as chief electrician. The
							Thompson-Houston Electric Company, of Lynn, Massachusetts, secured a controlling
							interest in the stock in 1888, and at that time the word "Jenney" was dropped from the
							name of the concern. Henry J. Miller succeeded Oscar A. Simons as secretary. In
							November, 1888, the entire plant was destroyed by fire, but it was rebuilt, and
							operations were resumed in July, 1889. With the acquisition of the Brooklyn factory of
							the Thompson-Houston Electric Company in May, 1890, James J. Wood, who had licensed
							the company to manufacture under his patents, was engaged to come to Fort Wayne to
							superintend the manufacture of arc lighting apparatus under his rights, and also the
							Slattery incandescent apparatus. Many expert workmen were added to the force. The
							"Wood" systems soon attained a nation-wide reputation.
						Financial difficulties resulted in June, 1894, in the leasing of the plant to the
							newly organized Fort Wayne Electric Corporation on the day of the appointment of a
							receiver for the concern. The officers of the corporation were: R. T. McDonald,
							president; Charles S. Knight, vice-president; Charles C. Miller, secretary and
							treasurer; James J. Wood, electrician and general superintendent, and Fred S. Hunting,
							chief of the engineering department. Soon after the death of Mr. McDonald, in
							December, 1898, while on a trip to Texas, the plant again was in financial
							difficulties, resulting in a receivership, in January, 1899. At a receiver's sale a
							few weeks later, the plant was purchased by the General Electric Company, of
							Schenectady, New York. It was generally understood at that time that to the efforts of
							Mr. Wood is due the decision of the company to continue to operate and enlarge the
							Fort Wayne plant.
						The officers of the new company, the Fort Wayne Electric Works, organized in May,
							1899, were: Henry C. Paul, president; S. D. Green, vice-president; M. F. Westover,
							secretary, and Fred S. Hunting, treasurer and sales manager, while Mr. Wood continued
							his services as factory manager and chief electrician. From this period to the present
							much of the success of the plant had been due to the efforts of Mr. Hunting and Mr.
							Wood, surrounded by an organization of progressive, capable men. In June, 1911, the
							Fort Wayne Electric Works was merged with the General Electric Company, but the
							business was carried on in much the same form as before, but under the name of the
							Fort Wayne Electric Works of the General Electric Company, in reality a department or
							division of the General Electric Company. This plan of operation was abandoned in
							January, 1916, since which time the plant has operated as the Fort Wayne Works of the
							General Electric Company, one of the most important of the plants of that
							organization. One of the several incandescent lamp plants of the company was
							established in the Katzenberg bakery on Montgomery street in the summer of 1906, and
							the present large plant on Holman street was built during the winter of 1907 and 1908.
							This building was the first re-enforced concrete structure to be erected in the
							city.
					
					
						THE FIRST ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
						When James A. Jenney came to Fort Wayne in 1881 he brought one of the Langley arc
							lighting outfits for the purpose of  experimenting and
							selling the right of manufacture. The lamps were given a private testing in the Evans,
							McDonald and Company establishment, and during the following week, when the lamps were
							displayed at a public demonstration, more than two thousand Fort Wayne people looked
							for the first time upon an electric arc lamp.
						The first electric incandescent lamps for interior lighting were installed by Messrs.
							McDonald and Olds in the Home billiard hall.
						The first temporary private lighting plant was installed in Library hall at the
							northwest corner of Calhoun and Lewis streets. It consisted of four lights, driven by
							a traction engine.
					
					
						EXECUTION OF SAMUEL M'DONALD.
						One of the shocking crimes committed within the county during 1883 was the murder of
							Louis Laurent at Arcola. A jury, of which R. Morgan French was the foreman, heard the
							trial before Judge Samuel M. Hench, and found the accused man guilty of murder.
						The execution of McDonald took place within the jail yard in Fort Wayne on the 10th
							of October. Thousands sought entrance to the enclosure, but Sheriff Schiefer issued
							only 250 tickets of admission. For several hours the condemned man watched the crowds
							from his cell window. Ascending the stairs of the scaffold, McDonald said: "Gentlemen,
							I have nothing to say. God will forgive me." Then the drop fell.
						McDonald, it was learned, had planned to kill the turnkey, Schroeder, and to escape
							in a carriage outside the jail, to be provided by his brother, James McDonald.
					
					
						WESTMINSTER SEMINARY.
						To provide an institution of higher education for young ladies, Miss Carrie B. Sharp
							and Mrs. Delphine B. Wells, experienced teachers of the public schools, established
							Westminster seminary on West Main street. The school enjoyed a prosperous career for
							many years.
					
					
						THE BLAINE EPISODE.
						The memorable Cleveland-Blaine campaign of 1884 was marked in Fort Wayne by several
							notable affairs culminating on October 20 in a disorderly demonstration on the
							occasion of the visit of James G. Blaine, republican candidate for the presidency.
							Accompanied by General Benjamin Harrison, Major William McKinley and other
							distinguished men, Mr. Blaine, on reaching the city, attempted to make an address from
							the north balcony of the Aveline house, but the disorder in the street prevented the
							fulfillment of the program. The statesman was then taken in a carriage to the corner
							of Calhoun and Lewis streets, where he and Major McKinley succeeded in the delivery of
							brief addresses.
						The followers of Grover Cleveland arranged a torchlight procession for the evening,
							which came into conflict with the republican parade at the corner of Hanna and
							Washington streets, where, observed the Gazette, "there were a few fights and much
							profanity." Mr. Blaine witnessed the parade from the portico of the residence of Jesse
							L. Williams on West Wayne street.
						
						Allen county gave Cleveland 8,904 votes and Blaine 4,932. General Benjamin F. Butler,
							candidate for the presidency on the national labor and greenback ticket, who visited
							the city and delivered an address during the campaign, received 84 votes. Other
							distinguished speakers were General John A. Logan and Thomas A. Hendricks, opposing
							candidates for the vice-presidency, and Isaac P. Gray and Major W. H. Calkins, rival
							candidates for the governorship of Indiana.
						Robert Lowry was re-elected to congress over Theron P. Keator by a majority of
							2,550.
						Fred J. Hayden was elected a member of the legislature.
					
					
						THE MASONIC TEMPLE.
						The Masonic Temple theatre was dedicated in November, 1884, with a series of four
							grand operas given by the Emma Abbott company at a price of $10 for the season ticket.
							The lodge rooms of the Masonic temple were not occupied until two years later.
						The Masonic Temple association had been organized since February 13, 1878, at which
							time plans for a magnificent structure were completed. After the first story had been
							finished it was found impossible to complete the building at the agreed price, and the
							contractors abandoned the work. For a period of four years efforts were made to raise
							a sufficient amount to complete the building, and this was accomplished only through
							the active continued efforts of the various Masonic bodies and their friends.
					
					
						THE RAILROAD Y. M. C. A.
						The railroad department of the Young Men's Christian association was organized in
							1884, with D. F. More secretary. The association has occupied, for many years, its own
							building at the southeast corner of Calhoun and Holman streets.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1879.
						During the session of 1879 congress authorized the establishment of a United States
							district court at Fort Wayne. The presiding judge was Walter Q. Gresham, with W. W.
							Dudley as United States marshal. John W. Hayden was appointed deputy marshal, with
							Homer C. Hartman as deputy clerk to serve under Noble C. Butler, clerk. In this year,
							also, the United States commissioners' court was established, with Colonel Robert S.
							Robertson commissioner, succeeded by James B. Harper. . . . Among the prominent
							citizens to settle in Fort Wayne in 1879 were Samuel M. Foster, banker and
							manufacturer; Louis F. Curdes, real estate dealer; Dr. James M. Dinnen, chief surgeon
							of the Nickel Plate railroad, and Dr. James Caldwell, physician. . . . Charles M.
							Dawson was appointed prosecuting attorney of the Thirty-eighth judicial district by
							Governor Williams; he was elected in 1880, and re-elected in 1882 and 1884. . . .
							Judge Robert Lowry was elected the first president of the Indiana Bar association.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1880.
						Fort Wayne's population reached a total of 26,880 in 1880. . . Reservoir park was
							added to the city's park system.  . . A telephone line
							was constructed between Fort Wayne and Toledo. . . . The Standard Oil Company
							established a distributing depot in Fort Wayne. . . . The large wholesale grocery
							house of G. E. Bursley and Company was established. . . . The first society of the
							Women's Christian Temperance Union was organized, with Mrs. G. C. Smith president . .
							. The Fort Wayne (Methodist) college cadets, with A. T. Lukens as captain, were
							organized.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1881.
						Charles A. Zollinger was re-elected mayor in 1881.2 . . . An epidemic of smallpox developed 300 cases, with
							many deaths. The board of health, composed of Drs. W. H. Myers, James M. Dinnen and S.
							C. Metcalf, was handicapped by the lack of facilities to isolate the afflicted
							persons. . . . Judge R. S. Taylor was appointed by President Garfield as a member of
							the Mississippi river commission and served until March, 1913. . . . St. John's
							Evangelical Lutheran cemetery was established. . . . Judge John Morris was appointed a
							member of the Indiana supreme court commissioners. . . . C. A. Prince, Fort Wayne
							oarsman, made a record of two miles in thirteen minutes and twenty-four seconds . . .
							By the collapse of the Clinton street bridge over the St. Mary's river Henry C. Hanna,
							son of Judge Samuel Hanna and father of former Postmaster Robert B. Hanna, lost his
							life.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1882.
						The national labor organization known as the Knights of Labor became established in
							Fort Wayne with the cigarmakers and the printers' unions as the first to affiliate
							with the order. The organization grew in strength and influence and latterly played an
							important part in labor affairs and political campaigns. By the year 1885 the ranks of
							the local Knights of Labor were swollen to the number of 4,500. In July the
							organization declared a general strike on the Wabash railroad and the shops were
							closed for a brief period, after which the men declined to respond to the dictates of
							the leaders of the organization. . . . Upon his resignation from the presidency of the
							First National bank, Joseph D. Nuttman established the private banking institution of
							Nuttman and Company, of which Oliver S. Hanna and Mrs. M. E. Hanna became the sole
							owners. . The Fort Wayne Baseball club was organized, with W. W. Rockhill president
							and D. C. Fisher, Charles P. Wise, F. C. Boltz, C. L. Olds, R. J. Fisher, W. D. Page,
							H. J. Trentman and William Rogers in other official positions. Al Foote, who organized
							the Golden Eagle club, was engaged as manager. A. Aronson managed the Golden Eagle
							team. . . . In the congressional campaign of 1882 Judge Robert Lowry won over his
							opponent, W. C. Glasgow, by 3,363 majority. He was re-elected in 1884. . . . Previous
							to the fall election of 1882 Warren H. Withers served as judge of the criminal court,
							on appointment of Governor Porter, to complete the term of Judge James W. Borden,
							deceased. . . . Judge Allen Zollars was elected a member of the Indiana supreme court.
							. . . On the evening of December 16 the First Presbyterian church, corner of Clinton
							and Berry streets (site of the present government 
							building) was destroyed by fire, at a loss of $14,500. . . . Jay Gould visited the
							Wabash shops on an inspection tour which resulted in the discharge of many employes in
							an effort to reduce the operating expenses of the system. . . . The Fort Wayne
							Orphans' home of the Reformed church was established, with Rev. John Rettig
							superintendent. This splendid institution occupies a fine tract of ground a short
							distance east of the Fort Wayne city limits. . . . The first typewriter to be used in
							Fort Wayne was a Remington placed in the office of Coombs and Company, heavy hardware
							dealers, in the summer of 1882. W. H. Shoemaker, who came from Chicago, served as the
							first stenographer who used a typewriter. Charles C. Miller, of the Wayne Paper Goods
							Company, states that the second machine to be brought to the city was used in the
							office of the Jenney Electric Light Company. It was used by Mr. Miller after its
							arrival in the fall of 1882. A Caligraph was placed in the office of E. H. McDonald a
							short time later in the same year. . . . Zion Evangelical Lutheran church was
							organized, with Rev. F. Dreyer pastor. Later pastors were Henry Juengel and C. Henry
							Luehr.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1883.
						The jewelers abandoned the use of "sun" time as a standard and adopted "railroad"
							time. . . . Walpole G. Colerick succeeded John Morris as supreme court commissioner. .
							. . Grace Reformed church was organized, with Rev. T. J. Bacher pastor. Rev. Dr. A. K.
							Zartman succeeded Rev. Mr. Bacher in 1888, and continued in service until 1916, when
							he was succeeded by Rev. Nevin H. Schaaf. . . . The criminal court of Allen county was
							abolished in 1883 and its business transferred to the circuit court. . . The eyes of
							baseball "fans" of all America were centered upon Fort Wayne in the fall of 1883, when
							the teams representing Chicago and Providence in the two major leagues played the
							final game of a world series on a neutral diamond. Chicago won. Thousands of
							interested persons were present from all portions of the country. . . . Fort Wayne was
							represented in the Northwestern Baseball league in 1883, and continued in the same
							organization during 1884, with Max Nirdlinger as president. Mr. Nirdlinger established
							a factory on West Main street for the manufacture of baseball bats. His first order
							was from A. G. Spalding for 50,000 bats. . . . The Fort Wayne Veterans, with J. H.
							Rohan as its first captain, was organized in 1883. The organization served three years
							as Company L, of the First regiment, Indiana National Guard.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1884.
						Five thousand veterans of the civil war attended a reunion at Camp Allen in August. A
							monster parade was reviewed by General John A. Kountz, commander of the G. A. R. . . .
							On September 20 an earthquake shook the city for a period of three minutes during
							which time a rumbling sound caused general alarm and the people sought safety in the
							open. The Harmar school was dismissed for fear of the collapse of the building. . . .
							Adams county (Indiana) "Regulators" came to Fort Wayne and sought to storm the  jail and remove therefrom one Fred Richards, charged with
							the murder of Amos Backensto, at Berne, Indiana. At the close of the second trial for
							the crime Richards received a life sentence. . . . Lindley M. Ninde was appointed
							judge of the superior court, to succeed James L. Worden, deceased. . .. President
							Cleveland appointed A. P. Edgerton a member of the civil service commission. The
							president appointed James Wilkinson deputy United States marshal.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XLIII.
						(1) County officers elected in 1880
								were: Prosecuting attorney, circuit court, C. M. Dawson; prosecuting attorney,
								criminal court, W. S. O'Rourke; sheriff, F. K. Cosgrove, Jr.; treasurer, John M.
								Taylor; coroner, William Gaffney; surveyor, W. H. Goshorn; commissioners, Francis
								Gladio, Jacob Goeglein and Timothy Hogan. R. C. Bell was elected state senator and
								L. S. Null, S. E. Sinclair and H. C. McDonald representatives.
							County officers elected in 1882 were: Judge of the circuit court, Edward O'Rourke;
								judge of the superior court, James L. Worden; judge of the criminal court, S. M.
								Hench; clerk, Willis D. Mayer; prosecuting attorney, C. M. Dawson; sheriff, William
								D. Schiefer; recorder, T. S. Heller; treasurer, John Dalman; auditor, A. L. Griebel;
								surveyor, D. M. Allen; coroner, Dr. Kent K. Wheelock; commissioners, Henry Hartman,
								William H. Bryant, Jeremiah D. Gloyd; attorney, Thomas E. Ellison; school
								superintendent, Jerry Hillegass.
						(2) Other city officers elected in 1881
							were: Clerk, W. W. Rockhill; treasurer, Charles M. Barton; marshal, Frank Falker;
							assessor, Louis Jocquel; waterworks trustee, Charles McCulloch; city councilmen,
							Charles Reese, Montgomery Hamilton, L. S. Chittenden, Charles F. Muhler, P. J. Wise,
							John Welch, John Mohr, Jr., William Doehrmann and F. C. Bolts.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLIV—1885-1890. Natural Gas—The State
						School—South Wayne Tangle.
					When Fort Wayne was a "natural gas town"—Wanton waste—First company formed
						in 1885 fails to find gas within the city limits—Citizens invest heavily in
						Salamonie company, which lays ninety-eight miles of pipe to convey gas from Blackford
						county to Fort Wayne—Charles F. Muhler mayor—Beginnings of the plant of S.
						F. Bowser and Company—James B. White congressman—The Robertson episode in
						the legislature—Founding of the Indiana School for Feeble Minded Youth—The
						South Wayne tangle—The first Labor Day celebration—Daniel L. Harding
						mayor—The first football game—The beginnings of golf—Marvin Kuhns,
						desperado.
					FOR A SCORE of years Fort Wayne was known as a "natural gas town."
						During that period nearly every home in the city was heated and many were illuminated by
						gas flames, and, but for the wanton waste of the commodity, the period of its service
						might have been extended for many years.
					In 1885 the discovery of natural gas in northwestern Ohio inspired Fort Wayne citizens
						to art investigation of the prospects of finding a supply in and near their home city.
						The first meeting to take decisive action was held in the circuit court room. Here was
						organized the Fort Wayne Natural Gas and Fuel Company, with Robertson J. Fisher
						president and Charles, B. Woodworth secretary. The company drilled four wells within the
						city limits of Fort Wayne. The first well supplied gas enough to operate the engine to
						drill the second well. In this first venture, however, the promoters lost about $12,000,
						and a new company, organized by J. C. Peltier, E. L. Craw and others, drilled two more
						wells with unsuccessful results.
					In the spring of 1887 the Salamonie Mining and Gas Company was organized to pipe
						natural gas from Blackford county to Fort Wayne, a distance of forty-five miles. R. C.
						Bell was elected president and W. W. Worthington secretary-treasurer. After a long
						debate in the city council a franchise was granted this company in 1888, and the
						corporation was reorganized with a capitalization of $600,000, of which about $250,000
						was subscribed by New York capitalists. William Fleming was elected president and Henry
						C. Paul treasurer and general manager of the reorganized company, and contracts for
						laying pipe were let for $400,000. G. Max Hofmann installed the system. There were in
						all ninety-eight miles of pipe. In 1905 the supply of gas became exhausted and the
						service was cut off in November. The Fort Wayne Gas Company, successor to the Salamonie
						Company, installed an artificial gas plant to meet the need. The Indiana Lighting
						Company (now the Northern Indiana Gas and Electric Company) succeeded to the
						business.
					
						CHARLES F. MUHLER MAYOR.
						The municipal election in May, 1885, resulted in the choice of Charles F. Muhler as
							mayor. Mr. Muhler was a native of Fort  Wayne, born in
							1841, the son of Charles M. Muhler, of Sulzdorf, Bavaria, who came to the city in
							1840. He served in the city council in 1876, 1877 and 1878. He was twice elected
								mayor.1
					
					
						BEGINNING OF THE BOWSER WORKS.
						The immense plant and business of S. F. Bowser and Company, manufacturer of oil
							handling and measuring apparatus, had a beginning in 1885, when S. F. Bowser invented
							a self-measuring oil pump. With indomitable will and energy the inventor began the
							manufacture and sale of the original article which laid the foundation for the success
							which has raised the enterprise to fame throughout the civilized world. Although the
							plant was twice destroyed by fire, the energy which has characterized the management
							gave to the project larger and better factory and office equipment. The concern
							employs thousands of persons in its plant, and its great force of traveling salesmen
							is managed through its many branch offices in America and foreign countries.
					
					
						CAPTAIN JAMES B. WHITE CONGRESSMAN.
						A hotly fought race for congress in 1886 resulted in the election of Captain James B.
							White over Robert Lowry by a majority of 2,484. The latter contested the election
							unsuccessfully on the ground that Captain White was not a naturalized citizen.
					
					
						THE ROBERTSON EPISODE.
						Colonel R. S. Robertson, on the resignation of General M. D. Mason as lieutenant
							governor of Indiana in 1886, was elected to the position, but the democratic majority
							of the legislature, at its 1887 session, forbade Colonel Robertson the right to assume
							the duties of presiding officer. An injunction suit brought the ruling of the supreme
							court to the effect that in the legislature was vested exclusive jurisdiction in the
							premises. Colonel Robertson was forcibly excluded from the senate chamber and the
							action caused the wildest excitement, but the subject of the controversy counseled his
							friends to refrain from retaliatory acts. Aside from serving as presiding officer of
							the senate Colonel Robertson fulfilled the duties of his office. (For details of this
							affair see Colonel Robertson's account, "The Indiana Rebellion of 1887;" Fort Wayne
							Public Library).
					
					
						DESTRUCTION OF ST. MARY'S CHURCH.
						The explosion of the boiler in the basement of St. Mary's Catholic church on January
							13 destroyed the church and adjoining school building and brought death to two
							persons, Anton Evans, the sexton, and Alberta Willard, thirteen-year-old daughter of
							B. L. P. Willard. The latter was passing the church at the time and was crushed by the
							heavy doors as they were thrown into the street by the force of the explosion. The
							present St. Mary's church was erected in 1887.
					
					
						INDIANA SCHOOL FOR FEEBLE MINDED YOUTH.
						The history of the great state institution known as the Indiana School for Feeble
							Minded Youth, a model of its kind, dates from  the year
							1879, when by a legislative act an asylum for feeble minded children was made an
							adjunct of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' home at Knightstown. In 1887 a separate
							institution was decided upon and Fort Wayne was chosen as the site, after a lively
							legislative controversy. The board of trustees, of which E. A. K. Hackett was the
							president, chose the present location, and in the following year the first
							appropriation of $50,000 was expended for the site and the erection of the main
							building. John F. Wing and M. S. Mahurin were the architects of the structure.
						The present magnificent institution has developed as a result of superior management
							and the earnest co-operation of the state authorities.
						The superintendents of the Indiana school from the beginning are John G. Blake, James
							H. Leonard, Alexander Johnson, Albert E. Carroll and Dr. George S. Bliss.
					
					
						THE WAYNE HOTEL.
						The Wayne hotel, located on West Columbia street between Calhoun and Harrison
							streets, one of the best-known places of entertainment in northern Indiana, was opened
							in 1887 by J. C. Peters. For a number of years William McKinnie served as the landlord
							of the Wayne.
					
					
						SOUTH WAYNE INCORPORATED.
						The present residential district of South Wayne was incorporated in 1888 as a
							regularly organized town, governed by a board of trustees composed of William J.
							Vesey, Harry W. Ninde, Owen N. Heaton and Ernest W. Cook. The latter held the position
							of town clerk and treasurer. The South Wayne town hall was located at the corner of
							Indiana and Lincoln avenues.
						As early as 1872 Judge R. S. Taylor, S. B. Bond, C. D. Bond, Judge John Morris, Dr.
							Isaac Knapp, G. E. Bursley, H. C. Hartman, Judge James A. Fay, the Fort Wayne Organ
							Company, Daniel Markley, Judge L. M. Ninde and fifteen others presented a petition to
							the county commissioners asking that a settlement south of the city of Fort Wayne
							containing 350 voters be incorporated as the town of South Wayne. The city of Fort
							Wayne, by its attorney, appeared before the board to object to the application, and
							induced the board to defer action in the matter until its next session.
						Meanwhile, the city council took action to annex the territory, making it a part of
							the city of Fort Wayne and ordering the newly acquired property to be assessed for
							city taxes. On the same day, previous to the action of the city council, a suit was
							begun in the circuit court by Judge R. S. Taylor et al. against the
							city of Fort Wayne, to perpetually enjoin the council from passing such an ordinance.
							After the council had taken action a supplemental complaint was filed in the circuit
							court by the citizens asking that the ordinance be set aside.
						In the meantime, the county commissioners dismissed the application to incorporate
							the town of South Wayne. An appeal to the circuit court was taken. The original case
							of Taylor et al. against the city came before Judge J. R. Slack, of
							Huntington, Indiana, who rendered a decision in favor of the city. An appeal to the
							supreme  court, however, set aside the action of the
							council in annexing the territory. Thus the matter rested until 1888, when the suburb
							was incorporated as a distinct town government.
						After the suburb had been bonded for public improvements, in 1894, the city annexed
							the territory and assumed its financial obligations.
					
					
						THE 1888 ELECTION.
						In 1888 Allen county polled 9,692 votes for Grover Cleveland, democrat, for the
							presidency, as against 5,456 for General Benjamin Harrison, republican.
						Judge C. A. O. McClellan, democrat, defeated Captain James B. White for re-election
							to congress by a majority of 1,311. In 1900 Captain White declined the nomination for
							congress and Judge McClellan won a second term with James N. Babcock, of Lagrange
							county, as his opponent.
						Fred J. Hayden was elected joint state senator, and James M. Barrett and W. H.
							Shambaugh state representatives.2
					
					
						WESTERN GAS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
						The Western Gas Construction Company, now grown to large proportions, had its
							beginning in 1888 in the efforts of Olaf N. Guldlin, a mechanical engineer of wide
							experience, who formed a partnership with F. D. Moses and W. A. Croxton for the
							manufacture of gas-making machinery.
					
					
						RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.
						Former President Rutherford B. Hayes headed a delegation of distinguished citizens of
							Ohio who joined with many from Indiana in 1888 in the annual gathering of the Maumee
							Valley Monumental association in Fort Wayne. A parade was followed by a great
							demonstration in "Mad Anthony" park (in the present Lakeside), during which time
							addresses were made by Mr. Hayes, Colonel R. S. Robertson, Judge Joseph Cox, Stephen
							G. Johnson and James McGrew. Former Chief Justice Waite, of the United States supreme
							court, was the retiring president of the association. A miniature reproduction of the
							old fort was displayed in Old Fort park.
					
					
						FIRST LABOR DAY DEMONSTRATION.
						Although Labor Day was not recognized by the state of Indiana as a legal holiday
							until 1891, the people of Fort Wayne joined in the first celebration of the day on
							Monday, September 2, 1889. A large parade was followed by an immense gathering at the
							fair grounds (Swinney park), where Mrs. E. C. Williams, a Chicago newspaper writer and
							an organizer of the Knights of Labor, delivered the principal address of the day.
					
					
						DANIEL L. HARDING MAYOR.
						The city election of 1889 resulted in the choice of Daniel L. Harding as mayor. Mr.
							Harding was a public-spirited citizen and his administration was marked by many
							permanent projects for the general good. He was a native of Ireland, and came to
							America in 1865. He located in Fort Wayne as a civil engineer for the  Nickel Plate railroad. Later he was connected with the
							Pennsylvania railroad. During his latter years he was engaged in the insurance
							business.
					
					
						THE FIRST FOOTBALL GAME.
						The first game of football ever played in Fort Wayne took place on Thanksgiving Day,
							1890, between the Electrics, of the Jenney Electric Light Works, and the Athletics. A.
							L. Hadley and James B. White, Jr., were the managers of the contending teams, the
							personnel of which was as follows: Electrics, Dr. Crouse, Dr. Hines, Tompkins,
							Sessions, William Stemen, John Dalton and Arthur L. Hadley; Athletics, Edward White,
							Longacre, J. B. White, Samuel C. Moffat, Joss and W. H. W. Peltier. The Electrics
							carried off the honors.
					
					
						THE FIRST GOLF CLUB.
						The present Fort Wayne Country club, with its extensive links and modern clubhouse
							southwest of the city, on the line of the Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction
							Company, had its beginning in 1890, when a few enthusiasts played the game on the
							Hamilton field. Grounds in Lakeside were secured the following year. In 1893 the White
							grounds east of the city were leased by the organization, which was then known as the
							Kekionga Golf club, and were occupied until the opening of the present grounds in May,
							1911.
					
					
						THE CAPTURE OF MARVIN KUHNS.
						Officer John Kennelly, of the Fort Wayne police force, was severely wounded in a
							hand-to-hand revolver fight with Marvin Kuhns, the noted desperado, when Kennelly,
							Sheriff George H. Viberg, Chief of Police Frank Wilkinson and Deputy Sheriff Thomas
							Wilkinson overtook Kuhns and James Mease on the highway near Churubusco, Indiana.
						Kuhns was a desperate criminal, born eight miles from Churubusco. At the age of
							eighteen he had served a penitentiary sentence. Later he broke jail at Albion,
							Indiana, but was arrested at Huntington, Indiana, and made his escape while the
							officers were attempting to place him in jail. At Prospect, Ohio, Kuhns was arrested
							for horse stealing, but while his trial was in progress he drew his revolvers,
							scattered the crowd and escaped. He then murdered for money a companion, William
							Campau. On December 6, 1890, Kuhns came to Fort Wayne and, after a talk with
							acquaintances, he disappeared and drove toward Churubusco in a road cart with James
							Mease. They were overtaken by the Fort Wayne officials. In the fight which ensued
							Kuhns received four bullets, but he managed to escape after shooting Kennelly, and
							made his way to a farmhouse where he was later taken into the custody of the
							officers.
						Before the close of his eventful life, after serving a term in the Ohio penitentiary,
							Kuhns figured in several criminal enterprises, the most notable being his escape from
							the Columbus prison and his recapture near Lafayette, Indiana. He was killed at Van
							Wert, Ohio, in a running battle with officers.
					
					
					
						THE MORNING PRESS.
						In 1890 Ferd W. Wendell and Joseph A. Davis established a daily republican newspaper
							called the Morning Press. The office of publication was located in the Foster block,
							now occupied by the German-American National bank. In the spring of 1893 the
							publication was changed to an evening daily, and in this year was discontinued. Among
							the well-known newspaper men connected with the Press were Harry M. Williams and H. H.
							Paramore. Mr. Paramore, writing under the nom de plume of "Alas P.
							Yorick," earned a reputation as one of the most popular newspaper humorists of the
							day.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1885.
						Judge Robert S. Taylor, John H. Welch, John H. Waldo, Willis Meier, Alexander
							Muirhead, G. P. Gordon, W. D. Page and others organized the Northern Indiana Poultry
							association and gave the first poultry exhibition ever held in Allen county. . . . The
							enforcement of an ordinance to prevent cows running at large caused much trouble for
							Fred Woenker, poundmaster, who was compelled to file affidavits against angry cow
							owners—chiefly women—who assailed him during the performance of his
							duties. . . . George F. Felts succeeded Jerry Hillegass, county superintendent of
							schools. . . . Joseph C. Straughan was appointed surveyor general of the state of
							Idaho. . . . The Rich hotel was opened by Sanford Rich. . . . The Fort Wayne Rifles,
							with Frank Wise captain, was organized.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1886.
						Under appointment of President Cleveland, William Kaough was made postmaster of Fort
							Wayne. . . . During the reunion of thirty-six posts of the Grand Army of the Republic,
							and the gathering of numerous bodies of cadets and newly organized companies of
							troops, a sham battle, illustrating a portion of the action on the field of Shiloh was
							witnessed by 30,000 people. . . . The first park area donated to the city was
							McCulloch park, the gift of Hugh McCulloch and wife; it contained 4.07 acres. The city
							in 1886 also secured the site of Hayden park by purchase from H. W. Hanna, S. D.
							Hanna, Jessie E. Bond and C. H. Hanna (six lots, for $4,500), to which was added one
							lot by Mrs. Eliza Hanna-Hayden. . . The Business Men's Exchange was organized, with
							James B. White president, E. C. Rurode vice-president, J. B. Monning financial
							secretary and Charles McCulloch, A. C. Trentman and Charles S. Bash trustees. . . .
							Although Battery B, Indiana National Guard, was not given the name until 1900, its
							predecessor, the Zollinger gun squad—later the Zollinger battery, and still more
							recently the Twenty-eighth light battery—was formed in 1886. The organization
							became prominent in the military life of the state and made a good record during the
							Spanish-American war. . . . St. Vincent's Orphans' home was founded in 1886, the
							cornerstone of the first building being laid by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger on September
							27.
					
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1887.
						Captain James B. White camp, Sons of Veterans, was organized, with T. W. Blair
							captain. . . . The Salvation Army established barracks on Holman street, in charge of
							Mrs. Greaves, captain. . . . The Berghoff Brewing Company's plant was established. . .
							. The Fort Wayne Humane society was organized with Charles McCulloch president, Miss
							M. V. Hamilton vice-president, Dr. E. J. McOscar secretary, F. H. Bernard treasurer
							and M. L. Graff attorney. Moses Read served as the first humane officer. . . . St.
							Paul's Methodist Episcopal church was organized as a mission in 1887. Rev. M. C.
							Cooper was the first pastor (1888), succeeded by Henry Bridge, J. W. Paschall, J. M.
							Stewart, B. Sawyer, Lewis Rehl, H. S. Nickerson, C. M. Hobbs, C. W. Jeffras, F. H.
							Cremean and L. M. Krider.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1888.
						Judge Samuel M. Hench was appointed by President Cleveland to serve as chief of the
							law division of the comptroller's office in the United States treasury department. . .
							. Company L, Third regiment, Indiana National Guard, was organized by German veterans
							of the Franco-Prussian war, with Herman Hohenholz captain. . . . William J. D. Hunter
							was appointed collector of internal revenue. . . . John Morris, Jr., served as deputy
							clerk of the United States district court and of the United States circuit court.
							Elmer Leonard was appointed United States commissioner.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1889.
						With the return of the republican party to power C. R. Higgins was appointed
							postmaster of Fort Wayne, to succeed William Kaough. . . . The Tri-State Building and
							Loan Company was organized with a capital stock of $50,000, with George W. Pixley
							president, A. D. Cressler vice-president, C. A. Wilding secretary and J. W. Bell
							treasurer. . . . A spirited controversy arose over the question of the abandonment of
							the site of the East Main street bridge over the Maumee river and constructing a new
							bridge at Columbia street. In 1890 the present iron bridge at the latter site was
							erected. . . . Major Henry W. Lawton was named by the president as inspector general
							of the American army, with the rank of lieutenant colonel. . . . The railroad known as
							the Findlay, Fort Wayne and Western, later absorbed by the Cincinnati, Hamilton and
							Dayton road, was built to connect Fort Wayne with the main line in Ohio. . . . After a
							prolonged controversy the Hayden farm northeast of the city was leased by the Fort
							Wayne Trotting association, of which H. C. Rockhill, W. W. Rockhill, William Fleming,
							D. N. Foster and P. A. Randall were the principal stockholders. This organization
							continued to use the grounds until 1891, when the Fort Wayne Driving club was
							organized, with William H. Watt president, H. C. Rockhill secretary and S. M. Foster
							treasurer. The club expended $40,000 on the improvement of the grounds. Various
							reorganizations of the management of the Driving park took place during succeeding
							years. In 1913 the entire tract was converted into one of the city's most attractive
							residence sections.  St. Patrick's Catholic church was
							organized, with Rev. Thomas O'Leary as pastor, succeeded by Rev. Joseph F. Delaney. .
							. . Williams park at Calhoun street and Piqua avenue was donated to the city by Henry
							M. and Mary Hamilton Williams.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1890.
						The Allen County Building and Loan association was organized, with Gottlieb Haller
							president, C. W. Orr vice-president, E. W. Cook secretary and H. A. Keplinger
							treasurer. . . . The Morning Musical was organized through the efforts of Jennie Ninde
							Brady and Essie Preble Myers. . . . The heavy hardware firm of Mossman, Yarnelle and
							Company was organized; in 1908 the present large building was constructed.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XLIV.
						(1) Other city officials elected in
								1885 were: Clerk, W. W. Rockhill; treasurer, Henry C. Berghoff; attorney, Henry
								Colerick; marshal, Diedrich Meyer; assessor, Charles Reese; street commissioner,
								Dennis O'Brien; chief of police, H. M. Diehl; fire chief, Henry Hilbrecht, Jr.; city
								engineer, Jacob S. Goshorn; councilmen, John C. Kensill, C. Kramer, Christian
								Tresselt, John Mohr, Jr., James Woulfe, Henry A. Read, George W. Ely (succeeded by
								M. N. Webber), Anthony Kelker, Herman Michael, J. A. M. Storm, Edmund Lincoln, Fred
								Schwartz, J. Wessel, P. J. Scheid, Frank Gocke (succeeded by C. H. Buttenbender),
								William Doehrmann, Joseph Racine (succeeded by Charles Haiber), Amie Racine; board
								of health, Councilmen Kramer, Lincoln and Prentiss, Dr. Samuel C. Metcalf
								(secretary); board of police commissioners, Councilmen Doehrmann, Scheid, Ely and
								Kramer; waterworks trustees, J. F. W. Meyer, Thomas B. Hedekin, Charles McCulloch;
								P. J. McDonald (secretary).
							The city council of 1887 was composed of John C. Kensill, Daniel Shordan, James
								Woulfe, M. N. Webber, H. Michael, Levi Griffith, J. Wessel, C. H. Buttenbender,
								Charles Haiber, C. Kramer (succeeded by William Meyer), Daniel Monahan, Henry A.
								Read, Anthony Kelker, J. A. M. Storm (succeeded by Daniel Lahmeyer), William
								Schwartz (succeeded by J. J. Williams), P. J. Scheid, William Doehrmann and Aime
								Racine (succeeded by Louis Hazzard).
							Upon the election of D. L. Harding mayor in 1889, the following minor officers were
								elected and appointed: Clerk, W. W. Rockhill (succeeded by Rudolph C. Reinewald);
								treasurer, H. C. Berghoff (succeeded by Charles J. Sosenheimer); attorney, Henry
								Colerick; marshal, Henry C. Franke; assessor, Charles Reese; street commissioner,
								Dennis O'Brien; chief of police, H. M. Diehl (succeeded by Frank Wilkinson); fire
								chief, Henry Hilbrecht, Jr.; city engineer, Charles S. Brackenridge (succeeded by O.
								B. Wiley); weighmaster, William Ropa; secretary of the board of health, Dr. S. C.
								Metcalf; police commissioners, W. D. Meyer, Henry Hilbrecht, Sr., Charles Haiber and
								F. W. Bandt; waterworks trustees, Christian Boseker, Henry Monning and Charles
								McCulloch; councilmen, John C. Scheffer, W. D. Meyer, Maurice Cody, H. Michael,
								Joseph L. Gruber, W. F. Meyer, George W. Ely, Henry F. Hilgeman, Henry Hilbrecht,
								Louis P. Huser, Frank Dalman, Robert Cran, P. J. Scheid, G. B. Gordon, John Smith,
								H. P. Vordermark, Ferd C. Bolts, Louis Hazzard, Valentine Ofenloch and J. E.
								DeLagrange.
							County officials elected and appointed in 1886 were: Judge of the superior court,
								Augustus A. Chapin; clerk, Dr. George W. Loag; prosecuting attorney, James M.
								Robinson; sheriff, DeGroff Nelson; recorder, T. S. Heller; treasurer, John Dalman;
								auditor, A. L. Griebel (succeeded by J. B. Niezer); surveyor, O. B. Wiley; engineer,
								W. H. Goshorn; coroner, Henry C. Stellhorn; commissioners, Henry Hartman, John H.
								Brannan and Jerome D. Gloyd, attorney, R. C. Bell; school superintendent, George F.
								Felts; state senator, J. M. Barrett. Other officials were: Register in bankruptcy,
								John W. Hayden; United States deputy marshal, James Wilkinson; collector of internal
								revenue, Louis S. C. Schroeder.
						(2) Other officers elected in 1888
								were: Judge of the superior court, A. A. Chapin; prosecuting attorney, James M.
								Robinson; sheriff, George H. Viberg; treasurer, Isaac Mowrer; recorder, Milo
								Thompson; coroner, Henry C. F. Stellhorn; surveyor, O. B. Wiley; commissioners,
								Henry Hartman, John H. Brannan and Jerome D. Gloyd; attorney, R. C. Bell; school
								superintendent, Geo. F. Felts.
							In 1890, the following county officials were elected: State senator, J. D. Morgan;
								representatives, S. M. Hench and John Biegler; joint representative, W. S.
								Oppenheim; judge of the superior court, Charles M. Dawson; prosecuting attorney,
								James M. Robinson; clerk, Daniel W. Souder; auditor Clarence Edsall (died in office,
								succeeded by L. J. Bobilya); recorder, George W. Fickel; treasurer, Edward Beckman;
								coroner, A. J. Kesler; surveyor, Henry E. Fischer; commissioners, Jasper W. Jones,
								H. F. Bullerman and J. H. Stellhorn; sheriff, George H. Viberg.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLV—1891-1894. "Trolley" Cars—Strike of
						Street Railway Men—City Building—Public Library.
					Electrically-driven street cars supersede horse-drawn cars—The development of
						the system—The Slattery storage battery drives the first car by electric power
						around the "belt" line—Wayne Knitting Mills—The City Building—Allen
						County Orphans' Home—Strike of the street railway employes—Prominent deputy
						sheriffs—The Public Library—Early efforts to establish the library—The
						new city charter—Chauncey B. Oakley mayor—Dedication of the Soldiers'
						monument—The Women's Club League—The Wayne Club.
					FORT WAYNE'S system of electrically driven street cars dates from
						1892, when the Fort Wayne Electric Railway Company was formed to purchase the property
						of the Fort Wayne Street Railway Company, over whose lines the horse-drawn cars had been
						in operation for twenty years.
					Two years afterward, in 1894, the C. L. Centlivre Railway Company's horse-car line,
						extending from the corner of Calhoun and Superior streets to the plant of the Centlivre
						Brewing Company on Spy Run avenue, was acquired by the Fort Wayne Electric Railway
						Company. The latter company was succeeded by the Fort Wayne Consolidated Railway Company
						in 1895. In 1899 John H. Bass and H. C. Rockhill, receivers, conveyed the property to
						the Fort Wayne Traction Company. In 1900 Albert L. Scott, receiver of the Lakeside
						Street Railway Company, which operated an electric car line from Calhoun street east on
						Columbia street and Columbia avenue to Crescent avenue, sold this property to the Fort
						Wayne Traction Company, which, through this final transfer, became the owner of all the
						street railway property in the city of Fort Wayne. In 1904 the Fort Wayne and Wabash
						Valley Traction Company succeeded the Fort Wayne Traction Company, and the latter, in
						1911, gave place to the Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction Company, which also
						operates two important interurban lines out of Fort Wayne. The pay-as-you-enter cars
						were first used on the city lines in the spring of 1913.
					
						AN EARLY EFFORT.
						An interesting incident, preceding the appearance of the "trolley" cars in Fort
							Wayne, was the trial of the Slattery storage battery in the operation of street cars.
							On the 11th of November, 1891, the battery designed by M. M. M. Slattery was tested on
							the Fort Wayne lines at night, after the horse cars were withdrawn. With forty-six
							persons on board, the car, in charge of W. R. Kimball, Mr. Slattery's assistant, and
							Superintendent L. D. McNutt of the street railway company, made the circuit of the
							"belt" line, a distance of about four miles, in twenty-eight and one-half minutes.
							This car later was used on the West Jefferson street "short line," but the  experience failed to demonstrate the feasibility of the
							storage battery in the operation of street cars.
					
					
						WAYNE KNITTING MILLS.
						The Wayne Knitting Mills, now famed throughout America for their production of "Wayne
							Knit" hosiery, were established in 1891, with the following officers: President, Henry
							C. Paul; vice-president, C. S. Bash; treasurer, William H. Dreier; secretary and
							manager, Theodore Thieme. Other stockholders were William A. Bohn and G. C. Thieme.
							The original company, which leased the three-story building at the northeast corner of
							Clinton and Main streets, was capitalized at $30,000. The Wayne Knitting Mills were
							established through the enterprise of Theodore F. Thieme, who visited Germany and made
							a study of the possibilities of the project and then employed his energy in the
							development of the idea of an American-made line of fine hosiery. This important
							manufactory maintains a large dormitory and clubhouse for the use of its hundreds of
							employes.
					
					
						CITY BUILDING.
						The late Judge Samuel Hanna donated to the city of Fort Wayne a large part of the
							site of the present city building, at the southeast corner of Barr and East Berry
							streets. In 1892 C. A. Zollinger, Herman Michael, George W. Ely, Ferd Boltz and Peter
							Eggeman were appointed a committee to look after the preliminary details of the
							construction of the present building, and municipal bonds were sold to raise the
							necessary building fund. The structure was designed by J. F. Wing and M. S. Mahurin.
							To Christian Boseker was awarded the building contract. The structure, completed in
							1893, cost, with its furnishings, $69,256. On the occasion of the dedication addresses
							were made by Mayor C. A. Zollinger, Herman Michael, C. F. Muhler, O. P. Morgan, J. B.
							White, Judge Edward O'Rourke, Colonel D. N. Foster and Colonel C. B. Oakley.
					
					
						ALLEN COUNTY ORPHANS' HOME.
						In 1892 a committee composed of Thomas E. Ellison (chairman), J. D. Bond, J. F. W.
							Meyer, Matthew A. Ferguson, George H. Wilson and George W. Brackenridge took the
							initial steps toward the establishment of the present Allen County Orphans' home, with
							Mrs. Ida M. Overmeyer as matron. The buildings now occupy spacious grounds just
							outside the southwestern limits of the municipality.
						To assist in the support of this splendid institution Allen county pays thirty-five
							cents per day for each child, but extensive donations from public-spirited citizens
							are required for its maintenance.
					
					
						WHITE NATIONAL BANK.
						The White National bank was organized in 1892, with John W. White president, Thomas
							B. Hedekin vice-president, and H. A. Keplinger cashier. After a successful career of
							thirteen years this bank was merged with the First National bank in August, 1905.
					
					
						STRIKE OF THE STREET RAILWAY MEN.
						The first labor difficulty experienced by the street railway company developed on
							Memorial Day, 1893, when the motormen and  conductors
							refused to continue their services unless their wages of thirteen and one-half cents
							per hour were increased to fifteen cents.
						Throughout the period of riotous proceedings of the next two days the strikers
							remained quietly in the Knights of Labor headquarters, and the regrettable lawless
							demonstrations were due to the acts of their unwise sympathizers. Substitute car men
							were pelted with decayed eggs and other missiles; at the transfer corner one car was
							thrown from the tracks and in other portions of the city the movement of cars was
							prevented by the placing of obstructions on the rails. A number of arrests were
							made.
						Mayor Charles A. Zollinger, on the 1st of June, issued a proclamation of warning
							against further disturbance of the peace, but the lawless acts were continued until
							the night of June 2, when an open-air mass meeting attended by probably 3,000 persons
							was held in the courthouse yard. Here addresses were made by C. L. Drummond, president
							of the Trades and Labor council, and others, all counseling observance of law and
							order.
						James M. Barrett, attorney for the traction company, appealed for an enlarged police
							force to protect the company's property, after Sheriff E. F. Clausmeier had offered
							the service of his office to assist the city authorities. The sheriff then appointed a
							large force of deputy sheriffs, the list including the following well-known citizens:
							Charles McCulloch, S. C. Lumbard, Henry C. Berghoff, D. N. Foster, Henry C. Paul,
							Charles S. Bash, George H. Wilson, Charles B. Woodworth, George W. Ely, Harry Friend,
							Isador Mautner, E. J. Golden, Louis Wolf, Val Gutermuth, O. B. Fitch, A. J. You,
							Robert Dreibelbiss, Charles E. Read, Henry Rothschild, Solomon Rothschild, A.
							Oppenheim, Henry P. Scherer, Charles Meyer, John Dalman, Emanuel Bush, Moses Lamley,
							Frank Alderman, E. Moritz, William Meyer, Jr., and Charles O. Essig. Among those who
							addressed the meeting which was called to consider measures to end the strike were
							Samuel M. Foster, Henry Colerick, Henry C. Berghoff, Charles McCulloch, H. C. Paul, A.
							J. You and S. M. Hench.
						The speedy settlement of the difficulty followed the activity of a committee of
							arbitration chosen from among the men named as deputy sheriffs. The company conceded
							the demands of the men, whose increase of wages dated from June 15th. The company
							insisted, however, on the retention of the men who had remained loyal during the
							trouble.
					
					
						THE PUBLIC LIBRARY.
						The first actual results of a movement of 1878 to establish a public library in Fort
							Wayne bore fruit in 1893, when the Woman's Club league secured the favorable action of
							the city council to use for library purposes a room in the city building and to impose
							a tax for the development and maintenance of the institution.
						The signers of the petition to the council were Mrs. Charles Dryer, Mrs. G. E.
							Bursley, Mrs. D. L. Harding, Mrs. R. S. Taylor, Mrs. C. M. Dawson, Mrs. D. N. Foster,
							Mrs. W. H. Myers, Mrs. S. C. Hoffman, Mrs. M. V. B. Spencer, Miss Agnes Hamilton, Miss
							Lottie Lowry and Miss Lizzie Chapin.
						
						The agitation for the establishment of a public library had its beginning in 1878,
							when Colonel D. N. Foster and Colonel R. S. Robertson drafted and presented a bill to
							the state legislature providing for the establishment and maintenance of a public
							library for Fort Wayne. The bill met with defeat, but it was made a law by the
							legislature of 1881. The discouraging attitude of the city council prevented the
							authorization of a tax levy at that time. Meanwhile, in 1887, a free reading room was
							established by Mrs. Emerine J. Hamilton and her daughters, Mrs. Mary Hamilton
							Williams, Mrs. Ellen Hamilton Wagenhals and Miss Margaret V. Hamilton, on the south
							side of West Wayne street between Calhoun and Harrison streets. After the death of
							Mrs. Hamilton it was given the name of the Emerine J. Hamilton reading room. Early
							librarians were Mrs. S. C. Hoffman, Miss Laura Goshorn (Mrs. A. J. Detzer), Miss
							Nannie McLachlin and Miss Tracy Guild (Mrs. Oscar L. Pond). The institution grew in
							importance and usefulness until the establishment of the public library, when most of
							the books were donated to the library of the Young Women's Christian association.
						After the favorable action of the city council in 1893, rapidly moving events enabled
							the promoters to open the library in one room of the city building in 1894. Mrs. S. C.
							Hoffman served as the first librarian. In 1895, the library was removed to the
							residence of Sol D. Bayless, southwest corner of Wayne and Clinton streets, site of
							the present Strand theatre. Miss Clara Fowler was appointed librarian in 1896, and,
							upon the death of Miss Fowler, in 1898, Miss Margaret M. Colerick succeeded to the
							position. In 1898, the library was removed to the Brackenridge residence, southwest
							corner of Wayne and Webster streets. During the period of the building of the present
							library on this latter site, temporary quarters,in the Lincoln Life (then the
							Elektron) building were occupied.
						Andrew Carnegie gave $90,000 toward the erection of the present library building,
							which was dedicated June 7, 1904. Judge R. S. Taylor was the principal speaker on this
							occasion. The entire cost was $110,700. This splendid institution is maintained by a
							tax of five cents on each $100 of assessed property valuation. Samuel M. Foster,
							former treasurer of the school board, gave to the board a check for $4,118 to apply on
							the payment for the Brackenridge property, on which the library was erected. Says the
							Sentinel of July 27, 1898: "Mr. Foster was a pioneer in the advocacy of the
							proposition to use the interest of the school fund for the purpose of building a
							public library, and he is the first man to accept the opportunity to so apply it." The
							library is operated under the direction of the board of trustees of the public
							schools.
					
					
						NEW CITY CHARTER.
						The state legislature of 1893 conferred upon the city of Fort Wayne a new charter
							which provided for the choice of a mayor and a city council composed of two members
							from each ward, and a board of public works, a board of public safety, and the
							departments of law, finance and health, the heads of departments to be chosen by the
							mayor, with the approval of the council. Provision  was
							also made for a waterworks board of three members, to be chosen by popular election.
							The charter became effective in May, 1894.
					
					
						CHAUNCEY B. OAKLEY MAYOR.
						Upon the death of Col. C. A. Zollinger, while an incumbent of the mayor's chair, the
							city council in 1894 appointed Henry P. Scherer to serve until the voters at the
							subsequent election could select a successor. Then came the memorable contest in which
							all factions fought warmly for preference, resulting in the choice of Chauncey B.
							Oakley, independent, for mayor, over William H. Shambaugh, democrat. Mayor Oakley was
							known as the "Reform" candidate and his administration is remembered because of the
							rigid enforcement of the laws.
						Mr. Scherer was elected to the office of mayor in 1897, and served two terms.
					
					
						YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION.
						Miss Rena B. Nelson, Miss Agnes Hamilton and Mrs. Minnie Moon were the leaders of the
							movement in 1894 to organize a Young Women's Christian association, of which the first
							officers were: President, Miss Agnes Hamilton; vice president, Mrs. Peter D. Smyser;
							recording secretary, Miss Rena B. Nelson; corresponding secretary, Mrs. W. E. Mossman;
							treasurer, Mrs. A. L. Griebel. The charter membership numbered one hundred and
							thirty-five.
						The first rooms were located at No. 27 West Wayne street, the site of the Ozaki
							studio. In 1896, the association removed to No. 130 Washington boulevard west; two
							years later, it took the quarters on West Berry street which were occupied until the
							present splendid association building was completed in 1913.
					
					
						THE SOLDIERS' MONUMENT.
						The dedication of the monument erected to the memory of the Allen county men who died
							in defense of the union was the occasion of a memorable military and civic
							demonstration in 1894. Following a parade which ended at the North Side (now Lawton)
							park, Anthony Kelker, one of the original promoters of the plan to erect the monument,
							made a presentation address, to which a response was spoken by Mayor C. B. Oakley. On
							behalf of the donors—Louis A. Centlivre, Charles F. Centlivre, John B. Reuss and
							others—R. C. Bell presented the monument to the veterans of Allen county. Among
							other speakers was Col. I. N. Walker, of Indianapolis.
						The pedestal of the monument is inscribed with the words: "A Tribute from Patriotic
							Citizens to the Heroic Sons of Allen County Who Fell in Defence of the Union,
							1861-1865. Vicksburg, Chickamauga, Gettysburg. In bronze, surmounting the pedestal, is
							the figure of Columbia placing a laurel wreath upon the brow of the common soldier.
							The figures are life-size.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1891.
						The city election of 1891 resulted in the return of Charles A. Zollinger as mayor. He
							had been absent from the mayoralty chair for one term after having served five terms
							at earlier periods. His  opponent, D. L. Harding, lost
							the election by 97 votes.1 . .
							. At a mass meeting of Bloomingdale citizens held at Hake's hall, in November, in
							response to a call issued by a faction of citizens who desired the change of the name
							of the suburb to "North Wayne" or "North Side," the chairman, A. H. Bittenger, retired
							amidst confusion and the assembly, placing A. R. McCurdy in the chair, voted to retain
							the time-honored name of Bloomingdale. . . . The Monday Morning Times, established
							early in 1891 by Gart Shober, was made a daily in May under the name of the Morning
							Times-Post. The paper supported the cause of free silver. Among the well known
							newspaper men and others connected with the publication before its existence closed in
							1896, were Charles S. Bliss, Louis A. Centlivre, Dr. A. J. Boswell, George F. Felts,
							Charles J. Meegan, Harry M. Williams and Charles L. ("Sandy") Drummond. Members of the
							Fort Wayne Trades and Labor Council, with F. E. Lanterman and Edward ("Peg") Miller as
							business and editorial managers, established the Labor Herald. After encountering
							financial difficulties, the paper came under the control of Walter F. Austin and O. H.
							Ballard, who continued it as a populist organ in support of General James B. Weaver,
							for president. In December, 1893, the publication was discontinued, but the name,
							combined with that of the former Monday Morning Times, was revived in 1896, when Gart
							Shober established the Labor Times-Herald. The latter publication ceased its
							appearance in 1914. . . . Sol K. Blair succeeded C. D. Gorham as superintendent of the
							Nickel Plate railroad. . . . Grace Evangelical Lutheran church was organized, with
							Rev. Theodore Stellhorn, pastor. Succeeding pastors were J. F. Miller, A. O.
							Swinehart, B. F. Brandt and Armin P. Meyer.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1892.
						Allen county polled 10,010 votes for Grover Cleveland, democrat; 5,486 for Benjamin
							Harrison, republican; 176 for Bidwell, prohibitionist, and 449 for Weaver,
								populist.2 . . . The city
							purchased from John Orff a piece of ground on the east bank of the St. Mary's river
							for the re-location of West Main street when the present iron bridge was built. This
							ground, and the triangular piece which was given the name of Orff park, was valued at
							$5,550. . . . Beaver Chapel (Baptist) was established at the corner of Home and
							Cottage avenues. . . . Fred J. Hayden was appointed by Governor Hovey as a member of
							the Indiana World's Fair commission; he served as treasurer of the body. . . . The
							state encampment of the Indiana department of the Grand Army of the Republic, held in
							Fort Wayne, was marked by the largest parade ever held at a state meeting of the
							veterans. . . . The central body, composed of the leading clubs and other progressive
							organizations of Fort Wayne, known as the Woman's Club League, was formed in 1892,
							with Mrs. Alice P. Dryer, president, and Mrs. Ellen R. Bursley, secretary. . . . Five
							thousand visitors were attracted to Fort Wayne on the occasion of the republican state
							convention, which nominated Ira P. Chase for governor and Theodore Shockney for
							lieutenant governor. John K. Gowdy officiated as temporary chairman and Charles W.
							Fairbanks as permanent chairman of the convention. . . . Flavius J. Young succeeded
								 George F. Felts, resigned, as superintendent of the
							county schools. . . . Christ Lutheran church was organized in 1892. The pastors of the
							church from the beginning have been J. S. Nelson, A. A. Hundley, L. J. Motschman, W.
							H. Schrock, P. J. Alberthus and H. C. Hadley. The present church building was erected
							in 1916 and 1917, at a cost of $60,000.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1893.
						The Wayne club was organized in 1893, with R. J. Fisher, president; R. T. McDonald,
							H. C. Paul, S. C. Lumbard and Benjamin Rothschild, vice presidents; Louis Fox,
							treasurer, and James H. Fry, secretary; S. M. Foster, William Beck, W. P. Breen, W. W.
							Atterbury, C. G. Guild and S. R. Alden, directors. . . . Upon the death of Bishop
							Joseph Dwenger, Rev. Joseph Rademacher was appointed bishop of the Catholic diocese of
							Fort Wayne. . In 1893, the city entered into contract with the heirs of the late
							Thomas W. Swinney, whereby the city secured immediate possession of Swinney park by
							paying a rental of $600 per year and taxes. . . . President Cleveland appointed W. W.
							Rockhill postmaster of Fort Wayne. . . . In December, Company G. Third regiment,
							Indiana National Guard, was organized, with John B. Fonner, captain. . . . During the
							period of financial depression, S. M. Foster served as general chairman of a movement
							for the relief of the needy; many unemployed were kept busy laying water mains in the
							new suburb of Lakeside. . . . Alexander Johnson, later of nation-wide prominence as an
							authority on charities and correction, was chosen superintendent of the Indiana School
							for Feeble Minded Youth. . . . The Teutonia Building and Loan association was
							organized, with Paul Richter, president, and Carl Weber, secretary. . . . The Fort
							Wayne Rifles and a part of the membership of the Zollinger Battery were summoned to
							Roby, Indiana, to assist in preventing the staging of a prize fight. . . . The Fort
							Wayne Trust Company was organized, with Henry C. Paul, president, and Charles A.
							Wilding, secretary . . . The English Lutheran Church of the Redeemer was organized,
							with Rev. M. J. F. Albrecht as pastor pro tem. Rev. C. F. W. Meyer
							was the first regular pastor, succeeded by Theodore F. Hahn and J. R. Graebner. . . .
							Trinity Evangelical Lutheran church was founded, with Rev. Joseph Bohn, pastor,
							succeeded by Paul Stoeppelwerth and Gustave Doege. The present church structure was
							erected in 1916.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1894.
						The congressional election of 1894 resulted in the choice of J. D. Leighty, of St.
							Joe, over William H. McNagny, of Columbia City. . Bethany Presbyterian church,
							succeeding a society known as the West Side Mission, was organized with Rev. George E.
							Davies, pastor. The present church building, Boone and Fry streets, was erected in
							1896. Succeeding pastors of Bethany Presbyterian church were William A. Bodell, John
							C. Breckenridge, Dubois H. Loux, James W. Campbell, J. A. Daly and C. O. Shirey. . . .
							A local society of the Sons of the American Revolution was organized with Seneca B.
							Brown, president. . . . "General" Randall's army of "Commonwealers" was fed by the
							city while encamped in  Centlivre park. The "army" was
							passing from the west to the national capital. . . . During the great strike of the
							American Railway Union against the Pullman Car company, a large force of deputy
							marshals and police guarded valuble railroad property in Fort Wayne. Governor Claude
							Matthews summoned the Fort Wayne Rifles (Captain Charles Reese), Zollinger Battery
							(Captain W. F. Ranke), and the Fort Wayne True Blues (Captain J. B. Fonner) to assist
							in the protection of railroad property at Hammond, Indiana, during the progress of the
							strike.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XLV
						(1) Other city officials elected and
								appointed in 1891 were: Clerk, Rudolph C. Reinewald; treasurer, Charles J.
								Sosenheimer; marshal, Henry C. Franke; attorney, William H. Shambaugh; street
								commissioner, John J. Mungen; city engineer, Frank M. Randall; chief of police,
								Frank Wilkinson; waterworks trustees, Charles McCulloch, Christian Boseker and
								William Bittler; secretary to the board of health, Dr. Louis T. Sturgis; councilmen,
								W. D. Mayer, Morris Cody, Peter Eggeman, Anthony Kelker, Charles Buck, Louis Fox,
								Philip Keintz, H. P. Scherer, Louis Hazzard and F. Charles Meyer.
							The following members of the city council were elected in 1892: Robert B. Hanna, H.
								Michael, William Meyer, Jr., B. W. Skelton, Chauncey B. Oakley, W. L. Pettit, P. J.
								Scheid, Paul E. Wolf, W. H. McClelland and Thomas DeVilbiss.
							City officials elected and appointed in 1894 were: Clerk, William T. Jeffries;
								treasurer, L. C. Hunter; comptroller, J. H. Simonson; attorney, B. F. Ninde;
								marshal, Henry C. Franke; street commissioner, John J. Mungen; superintendent of
								police, James Liggett; fire chief, Henry Hilbrecht, Jr.; engineer, Frank M. Randall;
								councilmen, R. J. Fisher, E. H. McDonald, Charles Waltemath, John Mohr, Jr., Charles
								Griebel, W. H. Tigar, H. G. Somers, G. H. Loesch, Anthony Kelker, Henry Hild, W. M.
								Glenn, Peter J. Scheid, Paul E. Wolf, J. F. Young and B. Borkenstein; board of
								health, William Meyer, W. L. Pettit, W. H. McClelland, Dr. S. C. Metcalf, secretary;
								police commissioners, H. Michael, Louis Hazzard, Charles Buck and Anthony Kelker;
								board of public safety, Charles S. Bash, D. N. Foster and R. B. Rossington, A. J.
								You, secretary; board of public works, Thomas D. DeVilbiss, Levi Griffith and Willis
								Hattersley, A. J. You, secretary; board of waterworks trustees, William Bittler,
								Charles McCulloch and Henry Graffe, P. J. McDonald, secretary; board of school
								trustees, O. P. Morgan, John M. Moritz and A. E. Hoffman, John S. Irwin,
								superintendent.
							Upon the election of Henry P. Scherer mayor in 1896 the following minor officers
								were elected and appointed: Clerk, Henry P. Monning; comptroller, Henry C. Berghoff;
								auditor, Clarence W. Edsall (died in office and was succeeded by Louis J. Bobilya);
								treasurer, L. C. Hunter; attorney, William H. Shambaugh; engineer, F. M. Randall;
								superintendent of police, Homer A. Gorsline; fire chief, Henry Hilbrecht, Jr.;
								custodian of parks, C. A. Doswell; street superintendent, Frank Weber; clerk of
								official boards, August M. Schmidt; water works trustees, Murray Hartnett, Emmett H.
								McDonald and William Bittler, P. J. McDonald, secretary; school trustees, Samuel M.
								Foster, O. P. Morgan (succeeded by William P. Cooper), and A. E. Hoffman, John S.
								Irwin, superintendent; board of public works, Peter Eggeman, P. H. Kane and J. H.
								McCracken; board of public safety, Charles McCulloch, A. T. Friend (succeeded by C.
								H. Buck) and George H. Wilson; board of public health, Carl Schilling and James E.
								Miller, A. J. Kesler, secretary; councilmen, R. J. Fisher (succeeded by Sylvester
								McMahon). John Mohr, Jr., Charles Waltemath, Frank E. Purcell, William Meyer, Jr.,
								W. H. Tigar, H. G. Sommers, H. G. Nierman, C. W. Weller, Charles Haag, William M.
								Glenn, Peter J. Scheid, C. H. Buhr, F. X. Schuhler and B. Borkenstein.
						(2) County officers elected in 1892
								were: Prosecuting attorney, Phil B. Colerick; joint senator, Ochmig Bird;
								representatives, John F. Rodabaugh, Charles Dalman and S. M. Hench; treasurer,
								Edward Beckman; sheriff, Edward F. Clausmeier; coroner, Morse Harrod; surveyor,
								Charles W. Branstrator; assessor, Stephen Heath; commissioner, Jasper W. Jones.
							County officers elected in 1894 were: State senator, Thomas E. Ellison;
								representatives, Louis J. Bobilya, George V. Kell and Charles Dalman; judge of the
								circuit court, Edward O'Rourke; prosecuting attorney, N. D. Doughman; clerk, Henry
								M. Metzgar; auditor, Clarence W. Edsall; recorder, W. A. Reichelderfer; treasurer,
								L. C. Hunter; sheriff, E. F. Clausmeier; coroner, Dr. Morse Harrod; surveyor,
								Charles W. Branstrator; commissioners, S. F. Baker, M. A. Ferguson and J. H.
								Stellhorn.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLVI—1895-1899. Centennial Celebration of the
						Building of Wayne's Fort—The Fifth Courthouse—The First Automobile.
					Fort Wayne celebrates the centennial anniversary of the establishment of General
						Wayne's fort—The central committee—Perry A. Randall general
						chairman—The parades and drills—The sham battle—Building of the fifth
						courthouse—Temporary quarters for county offices—The laying of the
						cornerstone—The first automobile—William D. Page postmaster Troops for the
						Spanish-American war—Memorial to General Henry W. Lawton—Citizens Trust
						Company—The first rural mail delivery.
					GENERAL ANTHONY WAYNE built the original Fort Wayne in 1794. The
						people of the city of Fort Wayne, a century later, found themselves so thoroughly
						occupied with other matters that they did not awaken to a realization of the situation
						until it was too late to observe the occasion of the one hundredth anniversary year.
						They decided, however, not to allow the circumstance to pass unnoticed, so they
						immediately made preparations to hold an appropriate celebration in 1895. The one man
						whose untiring zeal and personal sacrifice made the event a great success was Perry A.
						Randall.
					It was on the 22d of October, 1894, exactly one hundred years from the time of the
						dedication of Wayne's fort, that the committee composed of Mayor Chauncey B. Oakley,
						Colonel R. S. Robertson, Charles McCulloch, Captain James B. White, J. F. W. Meyer and
						Charles F. Muhler was selected to present its wishes before the Indiana legislature.
						This body authorized Allen county to appropriate $2,000 for the celebration, to which
						amount the city of Fort Wayne was enabled to add $3,000. In August, 1895, Mr. Randall
						was made general chairman of arrangements.
					On the morning of October 16, 1895, the celebration was opened by the firing of one
						hundred guns by the Zollinger battery, and this salute opened a week of festivities in
						which many other cities participated. The decorations of the streets included the
						erection of several arches spanning the principal downtown thoroughfares, the main arch
						extending across Calhoun street at Wayne street. One unique arch, constructed of gas
						pipe and covered with burners, was brilliantly illuminated at night.
					Thousands of citizens and visitors crowded Princess rink to listen to addresses by
						Colonel R. S. Robertson and others dealing with the early history of Fort Wayne, and
						here, also, was held a great campfire.
					A monster parade, five miles in length, requiring one hour and fifteen minutes to pass
						the reviewing stand, was a feature of the week.
					Military prize drills, held at the Driving park, which drew competing companies from
						other cities, were witnessed by Governor Claude Matthews and staff. A band contest and
						an illuminated bicycle parade were also features of the event.
					
					Ammunition to the value of $1,500 was consumed during the progress of the sham battle
						scenes which opened with a reproduction of the attack of Indians on a stage coach. A
						second scene illustrated the attack of the savages on a cabin, the capture of the
						settlers, the attempted burning at the stake, and the rescue of the captives by the
						United States troops. The closing scenes illustrated a battle between the savages and
						the whites.
					A large exhibit of historic mementos, including the camp bed of General Wayne, was
						shown, and a model of the old fort, made under the direction of Isaac Bush, was a center
						of interest.
					The celebration closed with a brilliant display of fireworks which included the
						following "set" pieces: "Fort Wayne Welcomes All," "George Washington," "General Anthony
						Wayne," "The Old Fort," "P. A. Randall," "Spirit of '76," "The Bicycle Rider," "Niagara
						Falls," and "Good Night."
					
						THE CAMPAIGN OF 1896.
						The Bryan-McKinley campaign for the presidency aroused great activity among the
							members of the contending factions in Allen county as did also the congressional,
							state and local contests.
						The county gave William Jennings Bryan 9,909 votes, with 8,467 for William McKinley.
							In October, a delegation of republicans from Allen county to the number of six hundred
							visited Major McKinley at his home, Canton, Ohio. In August, and again in October, Mr.
							Bryan visited Fort Wayne and addressed immense audiences at Princess rink and
							Saengerbund hall.
					
					
						JAMES M. ROBINSON CONGRESSMAN.
						The congressional contest resulted in the choice of James M. Robinson, by a vote in
							Allen county of 10,212 over 8,271 for J. D. Leighty. Mr. Robinson's plurality in the
							entire Twelfth district was 564. He was re-elected in 1898, 1900 and 1902.
						Louis J. Bobilya was elected joint state senator, and George V. Kell, H. I. Smith and
							William C. Ryan, state representatives.
					
					
						HENRY P. SCHERER MAYOR.
						The municipal campaign of 1896 resulted in the choice of Henry P. Scherer for mayor,
							by a vote of 5,221 against 3,885 for Chauncey B. Oakley. Mr. Scherer had already
							served as mayor for a short period, by appointment, following the death of Colonel
							Charles A. Zollinger.1
					
					
						ROBISON PARK.
						Originally called "Swift" park, because the property formerly belonged to a Mr.
							Swift, the present Robison park, seven miles north of the city of Fort Wayne and
							considered the leading pleasure park in Indiana, was formally opened June 28, 1896. R.
							C. Bell officiated as toastmaster of the dedication banquet. The park is named in
							honor of M. Stanley Robison, then general manager of the traction company, owner of
							the property, and a leader in the movement to establish the park. On July 4, 1896,
							thirty thousand persons visited the park. Mr. Robison later was one of the best known
							promoters of the national game of baseball.
					
					
					
						JUSTIN N. STUDY SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT.
						On August 1, 1896, Justin N. Study succeeded John S. Irwin as the superintendent of
							the public schools of Fort Wayne. Under his supervision, the advancement of the
							schools has been such as to place them among the model institutions of America.
					
					
						BUILDING OF THE PRESENT (FIFTH) COURTHOUSE.
						The builders of Allen county's fourth courthouse declared in 1861, at the time of its
							dedication, that the structure was designed to last a century. Only one-third of this
							period had passed when the county found the old building inadequate to meet the needs
							of the times. The board of county commissioners advertised in 1895 for bids on a new
							courthouse, but it was two years before satisfactory plans—those of Brentwood C.
							Tolan—were finally accepted.
						During the period of the demolition of the old courthouse by C. E. Moellering and
							Company, the court sessions were held in the Saengerbund building, corner of West Main
							street and Maiden Lane. The temporary courthouse was rented for county purposes at the
							rate of $300 per month. The first session of court to be held in the unfinished new
							building was opened in September, 1900.
						The contract for the erection of the courthouse was let in May, 1897, to James
							Stewart and Company, of St. Louis, Missouri, for the sum of $479,336. This contract
							did not include the building of the heating and power station and the connecting
							subway. The total cost of the building and equipment was $817,533. The commissioners
							who made the contract for the county were Matthew A. Ferguson, John H. Stellhorn and
							Sylvanus F. Baker.
						The ceremony of the laying of the cornerstone was the occasion of a notable morning
							pageant composed of military, fraternal and civic bodies, viewed by Governor James A.
							Mount and staff from a position of honor at the corner of Main and Clinton streets. In
							the afternoon, the services of the laying of the stone, conducted at the northeast
							corner of the building site, were the occasion of addresses by Rev. Samuel Wagenhals,
							Charles McCulloch, Judge John Morris, Colonel R. S. Robertson and William P. Breen.
							The committee selected to place the mementos in the copper box enclosed in the stone
							was composed of Colonel D. N. Foster, J. F. W. Meyer, A. F. Glutting and Matthew A.
							Ferguson. A chorus of school children sang "America" as a closing feature of the
							day.
						The Allen county courthouse has few equals in architectural beauty and service among
							the similar buildings of the cities of America.
						Its completion was the occasion of a second and larger demonstration which attracted
							visitors from many sections in September, 1902. Charles McCulloch officiated as
							chairman of the day. The presentation address was delivered by James M. Barrett. W.
							Bourke Cockran, of New York, and Governor W. T. Durbin were guests of honor. Others
							who participated in the service of dedication were Bishop H. J. Alerding, Rev. Dr. D.
							W. Moffat, S. M. Foster, Judge John H. Aiken, Judge Allen Zollars, Mayor Henry C.
							Berghoff, James B. Harper, Henry Beadell, Theodore Frank, and James M. Robinson.
						
						The building is constructed of Bedford stone. The heroic statue of Liberty
							surmounting the dome is fourteen feet in height. The facades present the busts of
							General Anthony Wayne, Colonel John Allen, George Washington, Chief Little Turtle and
							Chief Tecumseh, and full figure bas reliefs of the nation's great men in many lines of
							endeavor. The interior is truly a "dream in marble." Its many rare mural decorations
							and bronzes are the admiration of all art lovers.
						The dimensions of the structure are 134 by 270 feet. The distance from the street
							level to the top of the statue of Liberty is 225 feet. The clock dials of the dome are
							thirteen feet in diameter.
					
					
						THE FIRST AUTOMOBILE.
						H. W. Meyer brought the first automobile to the city of Fort Wayne in 1897. Others
							who appeared with "horseless carriages," as they were called in the earlier years of
							their use, were W. H. W. Peltier, E. B. Kunkle and Dr. G. A. Ross.
					
					
						TROOPS FOR THE SPANISH-AMERICAN WAR.
						With the outbreak of hostilities between the United States and Spain, in the spring
							of 1898, Allen county came forth with many willing volunteers to serve their country.
							On April 6, the Hibernian Rifles, J. E. Ford, captain, offered their services to
							Governor Mount, but the only troops mustered in were those of Company B (Captain
							Charles E. Reese), and Company D (Captain O. C. Meyers, Jr.), of the One Hundred and
							Fifty-seventh Indiana volunteer infantry, and the Twenty-eighth Indiana battery
							(Captain William F. Ranke).
						From Indianapolis, both of the former Allen county companies were transferred to
							Chickamauga Park, then to Port Tampa, Florida, and later to Fernandina, in the same
							state; here they remained until the cessation of hostilities. The battery, with its
							equipment, was transferred to Chickamauga Park, and here it remained in camp to the
							close of the war.
					
					
						THE MEMORIAL TO HENRY W. LAWTON.
						While Fort Wayne was fortunate in that none of her volunteer soldiers died in battle
							during the Spanish-American war, it was called upon to suffer deeply the sorrow which
							came with the news of the tragic death of their former townsman, Major General Henry
							W. Lawton, who was shot down by a Filipino sharpshooter in the Philippines, on
							December 19, 1899. When the body of General Lawton reached Fort Wayne, on the way to
							Washington, where it was interred in the National Cemetery, the flag-draped casket was
							conveyed from the railway station to the rotunda of the Allen county courthouse by an
							escort consisting of several bands of music and many military and other societies, but
							the most impressive portion of the procession was that in which appeared the men who
							were his comrades in arms during the civil war. The tattered battle-flag of Lawton's
							Thirtieth Indiana regiment was carried by Thomas Toomey, who had borne it through the
							period of the rebellion. Sixteen other survivors of the same regiment were also in
							line.  The caisson, bearing the remains, was followed by
							a detachment of veterans of the Ninth Indiana regiment in which Lawton first enlisted.
							The casket, unopened, was viewed by saddened thousands. (See Chapter XXXVII).
					
					
						THE CITIZENS TRUST COMPANY.
						In 1898, the Citizens Trust Company was formed, with John Ferguson, president; F. L.
							Jones, first vice president; Herman Michael, second vice president; C. W. Newton,
							third vice president, and Ernest W. Cook, secretary.
					
					
						FIRST FREE RURAL MAIL DELIVERY.
						The present network of rural mail delivery routes throughout Allen county had its
							beginning in 1899, when, on the 16th of October, D. Lafayette Beaber commenced to
							serve a population of eight hundred people on a route twenty-five and one-half miles
							in length, extending to the southward from Fort Wayne.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1895.
						During the street parade of Ringling Brothers' circus in May, a frightened horse
							dashed into the crowd, causing the instant death of Mrs. Eliza LeMay and the fatal
							injury of several other persons. Damages to the amount of $1,433 were paid by the city
							of Fort Wayne to the families of the victims, to which amount Ringling Brothers added
							$600. The incident was the cause of the enactment of a drastic city ordinance
							governing the appearance of elephants and camels on the public streets. . . . A
							crematory for the incineration of the bodies of the dead was established in 1895 in
							Lindenwood cemetery. It was the first of its kind in the state of Indiana. . . .
							Shortly after 5 o'clock on Friday, November 1, three distinct earthquake shocks
							alarmed persons living in various sections of the city. . . . An independent military
							company, known as the Hibernian Rifles, was organized in October with J. E. Ford,
							captain, and M. J. Cleary and F. J. Monahan, lieutenants. This company became
							prominent in military circles and continued in service until a recent period. . . .
							Heidelberg Reformed church, which occupied the former synagogue, was organized; the
							church disbanded in 1900. . . . The German Baptist (Dunkard) church was formed with
							Rev. Jacob Ahner, pastor. . . . The Catholic Church of the Precious Blood was
							organized, with Rev. Francis Nigsch as the first pastor, succeeded by Rev. Chrisostom
							Hummer. . . . General Lew Wallace acted as toastmaster on the occasion of the banquet
							of the Loyal Legion. The local members were Captain Allan H. Dougall, Colonel R. S.
							Robertson, Colonel D. N. Foster, Adjutant John I. White, Lieutenant Colonel Orrin D.
							Hurd, Lieutenant Henry M. Williams and Dr. E. L. Sivers, the latter by virtue of the
							rank of his father, which descends to the eldest son. . . . The city garbage crematory
							was established at Clinton street and the St. Mary's river.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1896.
						For a period in 1896 "The Voice of the People," a paper edited by L. C. Kasten, was
							published in support of the populist party  ticket. . .
							. With the purchase of the business of McDonald and Wilt the wholesale grocery house
							of A. H. Perfect and Company was established. . . . Sam Wolf and Myron E. Dessauer
							founded the Wolf and Dessauer department store. . . . At a meeting held in May, the
							West Creighton Avenue Church of Christ was organized with 114 members. Pastors of the
							church in order were J. V. Updike, P. O. Updike, John J. Higgs, Z. A. Harras, M. F.
							Rickoff, W. P. Shamhart, Henry W. Schwan, J. H. McCartney and M. L. Buckley.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1897.
						The school enumeration gave a total of 12,805 persons of school age within the city
							limits. . . . High water tore away the St. Joseph river dam at Rudisill mill. . . .
							The First Church of Christ, Scientist, was founded in 1897, the original members being
							Mrs. M. L. Brown, Mr. and Mrs. I. N. Woods, Miss Ora Shaver and Miss Emma Rosenthal.
							For a considerable time the church occupied the smaller Jewish synagogue. The present
							building, formerly the Charles McCulloch home, has been occupied since 1913. . . . An
							iron bridge was built across the Maumee river at Anthony boulevard (Walton avenue). .
							. . A footbridge was placed across the St. Mary's river to connect Swinney park with
							"Nebraska." . . . Mrs. James B. Harper was appointed to a membership on the board of
							trustees of the Indiana School for Feeble Minded Youth. . William J. Vesey was
							appointed judge of the superior court, to succeed Charles M. Dawson, deceased. . . .
							With the incoming of the republican administration of President William McKinley,
							William D. Page was named as the postmaster of Fort Wayne.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1898.
						Judge John Morris was appointed to serve as the first referee in bankruptcy of the
							Fort Wayne district. . . . The board of waterworks trustees consisted of Murray
							Hartnett, William Tagtmeyer and Philip Singleton. . . . Members of the board of school
							trustees were William P. Cooper, Dr. A. J. Boswell and Samuel M. Foster. . . . The
							Allen county board of children's guardians, appointed by Judge Edward O'Rourke to care
							for "abused, neglected, deserted or dependent children of Allen county," was officered
							as follows: President, Rev. H. P. Dannecker; treasurer, Alexander Johnson; secretary,
							Maria B. Gorsline; A. H. Bittenger, Helen F. Fleming and Helen F. Guild. . . . A
							flowing well was drilled at Swinney park. . . . A street fair of large proportions was
							held in October, 1898. With P. A. Randall as president and Allan H. Dougall secretary,
							an excellent exhibit of stock, poultry, fruit and the like was made. . . . Dr. George
							B. McGoogan was appointed United States deputy revenue collecter. . . . Among the Fort
							Wayne men attracted to the Alaskan gold fields by the tales of good fortune which had
							come to many in the Klondike were S. S. McQuown, John Murphy, Clarence F. Cook, John
							Koehler, Henry Rinehart, Edward Ohneck and Dr. H. C. Nierman.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1899.
						Dr. L. Park Drayer was chosen to serve as the first city bacteriologist. . . . City
							pumping station No. 2 was established at  Van Buren
							street and the St. Mary's river . . . The Fort Wayne Commercial club was organized
							July 8. . . .. Concordia Evangelical Lutheran church was organized, with Rev. A. H.
							Lange as the first pastor. . . . B. Ruf became the superintendent of the orphans' home
							of the Reformed church. . . . St. Rochus's hospital for the treatment of tuberculosis
							was established with the purchase of the John Orff home on West Main street; it has
							been conducted in connection with St. Joseph hospital. . . . John W. Hayden was
							appointed to serve as deputy revenue collector, to succeed August E. Martin, resigned.
							. . . The International and the Fort Wayne business colleges were consolidated under
							the management of T. L. Staples. . . . The plant of the National Handle Company
							(northern division) was established. . . The Fort Wayne Drug Company was founded. . .
							. William Geake was made grand master of the order of Masons in Indiana.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XLVI.
						(1) With the re-election of Henry P.
								Scherer as mayor, in 1898, the following councilmen were selected: G. R. Hench, P.
								Poirson, John J. O'Ryan, J. J. Bauer, Charles Haag, S. McMahon, P. J. Scheid, C. H.
								Buhr, E. J. Ehrman, W. J. Hosey, D. C. Eckert J. J. Hayes, J. F. Zurbuch, H. F.
								Schwartz, W. J. Lennart, Dr. K. K. Wheelock, F. X. Schuhler, B. Borkenstein, A. W.
								Clark and W. E. Gerding. Board of public works; Peter Eggeman, P. H. Kane and J. H.
								McCracken. Board of public safety: C. H. Buck, L. C. Kasten and George H.
								Wilson.
							County officers elected in 1898 were: State senator, George V. Kell;
								representatives, Robert B. Shirley, George W. Louttit, George B. Lawrence; judge of
								the superior court, C. M. Dawson (succeeded by W. J. Vesey); prosecuting attorney,
								E. V. Emrick; clerk, Frank J. Belot; auditor, William Meyer, Jr.; treasurer, John H.
								Rohan; recorder, C. M. Gillett; sheriff, A. E. Melching; coroner, Dr. W. W. Barnett;
								surveyor, John A. Bushman; commissioners, Sylvanus B. Baker and C. E. Orff; joint
								senator, William C. Ryan.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLVII—1900-1908. Interurban
						Railroads—Commercial Advancement.
					The building of five electric lines gives Fort Wayne a place of prominence as an
						interurban center of the middle west—Henry C. Berghoff mayor—Police
						court—Newton W. Gilbert congressman—William J. Hosey
						mayor—German-American National Bank—Lincoln National Life Insurance
						Company—Clarence C. Gilhams congressman—Municipal Electric Lighting and
						Power Plant—Anthony Hotel—Baltes Hotel—Loss of twelve lives in the
						burning of the Aveline Hotel—Scottish Rite Cathedral—Cyrus Cline
						congressman—Robert B. Hanna postmaster—Activities of nine years of
						progress.
					THE OPENING YEARS of the twentieth century in the development of Fort
						Wayne were distinguished by the coming of the electric interurban railway, which has
						made the Allen county capital an important center of passenger and freight traffic of
						the middle west.
					The line of the present Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction Company (originally
						the Fort Wayne and Southwestern, and later the Fort Wayne and Wabash Valley), extending
						from Fort Wayne to the southwest, was the earliest to be constructed. It is now known as
						the Logansport division of the system. The first car over the line was drawn by a steam
						locomotive. It carried a party of one hundred and twenty city officials, newspaper men
						and others from Fort Wayne to Huntington and return September 28, 1901. The first
						regular car from Huntington to the city limits of Fort Wayne came December 12, 1901. The
						service to the Pearl street station (the building now occupied by the Seavey Hardware
						Company, Pearl and Harrison streets) was formally opened March 30, 1902. The first car
						to make the complete trip was in charge of William McKinley, motorman, and O. F. Saylor,
						conductor.
					The Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction Company's second interurban line (Bluffton
						division) was put into operation in March, 1906. This company also owns the Fort Wayne
						city lines and the line to Robison park.
					The Fort Wayne and Northwestern traction line (originally the Toledo and Chicago
						system) was opened in 1905, and on the 22d of September of the same year the Ohio
						Electric was put into service. On the 2d of January, 1907, the Fort Wayne and Decatur
						line was opened for the use of the public.
					Union passenger and freight stations, conveniently located, accommodate an immense
						amount of patronage each year.
					
						HENRY C. BERGHOFF MAYOR.
						The city election of 1901 resulted in the choice of Henry C. Berghoff, democrat, for
							mayor, over Captain Charles E. Reese, Jr., republican. The vote stood 5,176 to 3,317.
							Martin H. Wefel, socialist, polled 716 votes.1
					
					
					
						THE FIRST POLICE COURT.
						In 1902 the supreme court of Indiana held as valid the appointment by Governor
							Winfield T. Durbin of Robert B. Dreibelbiss, republican, to serve as the first judge
							of the municipal (police) court. George W. Louttit, democrat, who had held the office
							for a brief period, was removed from the bench on the ground that the newly created
							office did not come into existence until two days after Louttit's election. The case
							had been carried to the circuit court, after Mayor Berghoff had declined to approve
							the bond of Mr. Dreibelbiss, on the ground that the law was unconstitutional. Judge
							O'Rourke, of the circuit court, upheld the opinion of the mayor, and the case was
							taken to the supreme court.
					
					
						NEWTON W. GILBERT CONGRESSMAN.
						In 1904 Newton W. Gilbert, republican, of Allen county, was elected to congress over
							James M. Robinson, democrat, of Allen county. The county's vote in the presidential
							election gave Theodore Roosevelt, republican, 10,261 votes and Alton B. Parker,
							democrat, 9,250.
					
					
						WILLIAM J. HOSEY MAYOR.
						In 1905 William J. Hosey, democrat, was elected mayor over Edward White, republican,
							by a vote of 6,257 to 4,881. Mr. Hosey was a machinist employed in the Pennsylvania
							shops and had served as a councilman. Following the administration of Jesse Grice he
							was again elected mayor in 1913.
					
					
						GERMAN-AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK.
						The German-American National bank, with Samuel M. Foster president, Theodore Wentz
							first vice-president, Charles F. Pfeiffer second vice-president and Henry C. Berghoff
							cashier, was organized in 1905. The institution has risen to a place of prominence
							among the financial institutions of the middle west.
					
					
						LINCOLN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
						With its home office occupying the Lincoln Life building on East Berry street, the
							Lincoln National Life Insurance Company was organized in 1905, with Arthur F. Hall, of
							Indianapolis, and Daniel B. Ninde, of Fort Wayne, as the active promoters. The company
							has enjoyed a phenomenal growth, and has attained to a place of prominence among the
							insurance institutions of America. In 1913 the Lincoln Life absorbed the Michigan
							State Life Insurance Company, and in 1917 the Pioneer Life Insurance Company of North
							Dakota. The officers of the company in 1917 were: President, Samuel M. Foster; first
							vice-president and general manager, Arthur F. Hall; second vice-president, B. Paul
							Mossman; third vice-president and manager of agencies, Walter T. Shepard; secretary
							and actuary, Franklin B. Mead; treasurer, H. C. Rockhill.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE CLEARING HOUSE.
						On the 8th of February, 1905, representatives of the financial institutions of the
							city organized the Fort Wayne Clearing House.  These
							institutions pass their exchanges through the clearing house each business day. The
							original officers were: President, Charles McCulloch; vice-president, John W. White;
							manager, Paul F.Kuhne.
					
					
						C. C. GILHAMS CONGRESSMAN.
						The Twelfth congressional district, in 1906, elected Clarence C. Gilhams, republican,
							of LaGrange county, to serve as its representative in congress over Dr. John W. Morr,
							democrat, of Noble county, by a vote of 19,345 to 16,695.
					
					
						MUNICIPAL LIGHTING AND POWER PLANT.
						As the result of the accumulation of a fund for the purpose, a municipal lighting and
							power plant was established in 1908. On September 27, 1898, the city council had
							declared in favor of the establishment of the plant and placed a levy of two and
							one-half cents on each one hundred dollars' valuation of taxable property. On
							September 25, 1906, the construction of the plant was ordered, subject to the decision
							of the voters, who expressed themselves in favor of the move at a special election
							held November 6, 1906, by a vote of 8,996 to 2,175. Plans prepared by Owen Ford,
							engineer, were adopted, and construction work was begun in 1907. The first service
							meter was set December 24, 1908. The power plant, located on Clinton street, in the
							edge of Lawton park, is provided with equipment of the most modern type.
					
					
						THE ANTHONY HOTEL.
						The organization, in 1905, of the Fort Wayne Hotel Company resulted, in 1908, in the
							completion of the Anthony hotel, at the northeast corner of Berry and Harrison
							streets. The building, costing $500,000, is fireproof, nine stories in height, and
							contained originally two hundred and sixty-three guest rooms. The hotel was opened
							with a banquet on the 27th of February, 1908, on which occasion Judge R. S. Taylor
							presided. H. J. Keenan has managed the house from the beginning.
					
					
						THE BALTES HOTEL.
						The Baltes hotel, under the management of William Knapp and Charles Moreland, was
							opened in 1908. It has been conducted as a place of entertainment of male guests.
					
					
						BURNING OF THE AVELINE HOUSE.
						Early on the morning of May 3, 1908, a fire of unknown origin destroyed the Aveline
							hotel at the southeast corner of Calhoun and Berry streets. Twelve persons lost their
							lives. Many guests of the upper floors were saved by leaping from windows or making
							their way to the roofs of adjoining structures. The site is now occupied by the Shoaff
							building. (See Chapter XXXVIII).
					
					
						SCOTTISH RITE CATHEDRAL.
						A magnificent stone building, the pride of the Masonic fraternity of Indiana, the
							Scottish Rite Cathedral, was erected during 1908 and 1909, at a cost of $225,000. The
							dedicatory service occurred in November of the latter year, when a class of two
							hundred and  ninety-one persons was given the higher
							Scottish Rite degrees. The building is located at the southeast corner of East
							Washington and Clinton streets.
					
					
						CYRUS CLINE CONGRESSMAN.
						In the presidential election of 1908 Allen county gave William J. Bryan, democrat,
							11,975 votes and William H. Taft, republican, 9,468 votes. Cyrus Cline, democrat, of
							Steuben county, was elected to represent the Twelfth district in congress, over
							Clarence C. Gilhams, republican of Lagrange county.2
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1900.
						Rt. Rev. Herman J. Alerding succeeded Rt. Rev. Joseph Rademacher as bishop of the
							Catholic diocese of Fort Wayne. . . . Allen county gave William J. Bryan, democrat,
							10,764 votes for president, against 8,250 for William McKinley. . . . The official
							census gave Fort Wayne a population of 45,115, as compared with 35,393 in 1890. . . .
							During the national encampment of the Union Veteran Legion a captured Spanish cannon,
							mounted on a stone pedestal in Old Fort park, was dedicated. Prominent participants in
							the event were Governor James A. Mount, National Commander W. R. Wooster, of
							Philadelphia, Corporal James Tannerand William J. Bryan, of Nebraska. . . . The
							citizens, by a vote of 4,805 to 1,565, declared favorably in the matter of granting a
							subsidy to construct the Butler branch of the Wabash railroad, provided the company
							would expend $50,000 in the improvement of the local shops. . . . A cloudburst caused
							the overflow of Shawnee run, and many homes in South Wayne were inundated. . . . The
							Henry W. Lawton camp, Spanish War Veterans, the first in the state, was organized. . .
							. The Allen County Law Library was established, with Henry P. Ryan as the first
							librarian. . . The Fort Wayne Academy of Medicine was founded.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1901.
						The Mary Penrose Wayne chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution was
							organized, with Mrs. Frances Haberly-Robertson as regent. The charter was granted in
							1902. . . . John A. Scott was appointed deputy United States marshal. . . . Eugene B.
							Smith succeeded George F. Felts as a member of the board of public school trustees.
							... . G. C. A. Ortlieb succeeded to the office of county auditor when the position of
							William Meyer, Jr., was declared vacant on account of a defalcation. . . . The
							Knott-VanArnam Manufacturing Company (now the VanArnam Manufacturing Company), maker
							of plumbers' supplies, was established. . . . Thomas Turflinger was appointed
							superintendent of the county farm.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1902.
						The Fort Wayne Fair association was formed, with Alexander Johnson president, Fred J.
							Hayden, vice-president, W. H. Fleming secretary and William A. Johnson assistant
							secretary. The association took control of the Driving park, northeast of the city. .
							. . The Heit-Miller-Lau Company, manufacturer of confectionery, was  organized. . . . Postal sub-stations were established in
							many portions of the city, all located in drugstores. . . . "Brookside," the handsome
							suburban home of John H. Bass, was destroyed by fire on the night of February 11,
							causing a loss of $150,000; the house was rebuilt. . . . William C. Baade was named to
							complete the unexpired term of George R. Hench, councilman, deceased. . . . In a
							spirited race for congress James M. Robinson, democrat, won over Clarence C. Gilhams
							by a vote of 8,297 to 6,971. . . . A carrier pigeon owned by Henry Beach broke the
							world's thousand-mile record; time, eight days, three hours and five minutes. . . .
							Straus Brothers established the Commercial bank, a private institution. . . . Dr.
							Robert Nohr introduced into the public schools a system of physical culture. . . . The
							Boss Manufacturing Company's glove factory was established.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1903.
						In compliance with a legislative act, Judge Edward O'Rourke, of the circuit court,
							appointed Jesse Patton as Fort Wayne's first probation officer; the act also provided
							for the establishment of a juvenile court over which the circuit court judge shall
							preside. . . . The Craig Biscuit Company, with James C. Craig as president, was
							organized . . . Chauncey B. Oakley succeeded Charles R. Lane as deputy oil inspector
							for the Twelfth congressional district; upon the death of Mr. Oakley the appointment
							came to Alfred T. Lukens. . .. Captain Allan H. Dougall was appointed to a position as
							auditor in the government insular office at Manila, Philippine islands . . . Henry G.
							Felger was appointed by the Allen county township trustees to succeed Flavius J.
							Young. Mr. Felger's office was declared vacant in 1913, and D. O. McComb became his
							successor. . . . The polo craze attracted vast crowds to Princess rink. . . . The Fort
							Wayne Rolling Mills were established in 1903; two hundred and fifty workmen were
							brought from Chicago when the mills were opened. . . . Albert E. Carroll succeeded
							Alexander Johnson as superintendent of the Indiana School for Feeble Minded Youth. . .
							. The Tri-State Loan and Trust Company was organized with Charles A. Wilding president
							and George W. Pixley secretary. Its predecessor, the Tri-State Building and Loan
							Company, was organized in 1889. . . The People's Trust and Savings Company was
							organized, with W. L. Moellering president and P. J. McDonald secretary. . . . The
							first session of the United States district court, A. B. Anderson judge, was held. . .
							. Sol Mier and Company established the Bank of Wayne, a private institution which
							discontinued business in 1914.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1904.
						Robert Millard was elected president of the Commercial club. . . . The original brick
							building of the Fort Wayne Bible Training School was erected at the corner of South
							Wayne avenue and Rudisill boulevard. The building was dedicated in January, 1905. . .
							. The Majestic theatre, owned by Stair and Rice, was opened October 24. . . . A flood
							early in March did much damage to property bordering the rivers. . . . The Indiana
							Grand Lodge of the Ancient Order of United Workmen met in Fort Wayne in  April. . . . A homing pigeon owned by Dr. John Schilling
							broke the world's thousand-mile flight record in five days, two hours and fifteen
							minutes. . . . The Fort Wayne Retail Merchants' association was organized. . . . The
							Lake Erie and Fort Wayne Belt Line railway, a short line operated within the
							manufacturing district of the west end, was incorporated. . . . Charles S. Bash and
							Dr. W. O. Gross were appointed to places on the school board. . . . Wesley I. Work was
							chosen county truancy officer.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1905.
						Sol A. Wood succeeded E. V. Harris as referee in bankruptcy. . . Ernest W. Cook was
							appointed to membership on the school board. . . . Edward G. Hoffman was appointed
							county attorney, to succeed Newton D. Doughman, resigned.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1906.
						Robert B. Hanna, who was appointed postmaster of Fort Wayne by President Roosevelt,
							served through the succeeding administration of President Taft. . . . Captain Ivers W.
							Leonard became the first instructor in military tactics at Concordia college. . . .
							George B. McGoogan was appointed United States consul at LaPaz, Mexico. . . . B. Paul
							Mossman succeeded Charles W. Orr as president of the Commercial club. . . . Lew P.
							Sharp received the appointment of deputy revenue collector. . . . The Mennonite
							church, with Rev. Ben B. King pastor, was established. . . Newton W. Gilbert was
							appointed by President Taft to a judgeship in the Philippine islands; later he became
							vice-governor of the islands.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1907.
						The East Creighton Avenue (Third) Church of Christ was organized, with Rev. H. E.
							Stafford pastor. Succeeding pastors were R. A. Thibos, Frank L. Taylor, E. H. Clifford
							and E. Miller. . . E. H. Merritt was elected president of the Commercial club. . . .
							On the 22d of October, with B. Paul Mossman and Perry A. Randall as speakers, the Mary
							Penrose Wayne chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution dedicated a "marker"
							and bronze tablet on Wayne Trace indicating the route by which Wayne's troops left the
							fort in 1794 and the way by which General Harrison's troops came to the relief of the
							garrison in 1812. . . . On the occasion of the reunion of the Indiana department of
							the Grand Army of the Republic an imposing parade was given. Benjamin W. Skelton, of
							Fort Wayne, was elected vice-commander. . . . The Walther League of America held a
							convention in Fort Wayne in July. F. A. Klein, of Fort Wayne, was elected national
							president. . . . The present temple of Fort Wayne Lodge No. 155, Benevolent and
							Protective Order of Elks, was erected. . . The overflow of the rivers in January
							wrought much property damage. . . . The Trade-Mark Title Company, with Samuel M.
							Foster president and E. H. Merritt secretary, was organized.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1908.
						Floods in March raised the rivers beyond all records of many preceding years. The
							extent of the flood is suggested by the  circumstance
							that the waters of the St. Mary's river swept across Spy Run avenue. . . . The Lyric,
							used for a time as a vaudeville house, later as a motion picture theatre, was erected.
							. . . With the consolidation of the Freie Presse and the Staats-Zeitung the
							German-speaking portion of the citizenship was supplied with but one local daily
							paper. For a few months, however, the Fort Wayne Abendpost, edited by Anselm Fuelber,
							was circulated. . . . The first taxicabs were placed in service by the Motor Transfer
							Company. . . The Church of God was organized, with Rev. H. H. Spiher pastor.
							Succeeding pastors have been Charles Manchester and J. E. S McColley.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XLVII.
						(1) Minor city officials elected and
								appointed in 1901 were: Clerk, August M. Schmidt; comptroller, Joseph V. Fox;
								attorney, William H. Shambaugh; board of public works, Peter Eggeman, William
								Doehrmann, Henry C. Zollinger; board of public safety, Charles H. Buck, L. C.
								Kasten, George H. Wilson; councilmen, E. J. Ehrman, Frank Baker, John J. O'Ryan,
								Ferdinand Meler, Charles Sordelet, William Gerding, G. R. Hench, W. J. Hosey, E. J.
								Lennon, H. C. Baade, A. Foellinger, William Glenn, William Griebel, John J. Bauer,
								J. E. Zurbuch, P. J. Scheld, Edward C. Miller, John C. Figel, Bernard Borkenstein;
								waterworks trustees, William Kaough, Philip Singleton, William Tagtmeyer.
							In 1903, the following members of the city council were elected: J. N. Pfeiffer,
								Henry A. Wiebke, John J. O'Ryan, J. Willis Pearse, F. J. Baker, Daniel F. Hauss,
								Thomas N. Hall, Charles B. Woodworth, Charles D. Crouse, Joseph Bursley, Byron A.
								Strawn, Michael Kinder, F. W. Scheimann, William Meyer, John Grund, Jesse Brosius,
								Arwid Polster, Philip Wyss and William Sthair. Waterworks trustees, Hugh T. Hogan,
								Edward White and Julius Tonne.
							Minor officers elected and appointed in 1905 were: Clerk, J. Frank Mungovan; judge
								of city court, Benjamin W. Skelton; comptroller, August M. Schmidt; attorney, Guy
								Colerick; police chief, Martin Ankenbruck; secretary of waterworks board, Julian
								Franke; board of public works, E. J. Lennon, Henry F. Schwartz and Jesse Brosius;
								board of public safety, George Herrman, James J. Hayes and Calvin K. Rieman; board
								of public health, Dr. H. O. Bruggeman, Dr. J. W. McCausland; councilmen, W. C.
								Schwier, W. A. Bayer, John H. Welch, Marion B. Johnson, R. H. Harrison (succeeded by
								W. D. Henderson), Gustave W. Boerger, Louis C. Langard, Otto Seidel, J. M. Henry,
								Dr. George B. Stemen, Dr. William M. Enslen, Michael Kinder, Charles H. Rodenbeck,
								Walter E. Cook and Philip H. Wyss.
						(2) County officers elected in 1900
								were: State senator, George V. Kell; joint senator, Stephen B. Fleming;
								representatives, Charles L. Drummond (died before taking office), George B. Lawrence
								and George W. Louttit; judge of the circuit court, Edward O'Rourke; judge of the
								superior court, John H. Aiken; prosecuting attorney, E. V. Emrick; treasurer, John
								H. Rohan; sheriff, George W. Stout; coroner, Dr. W. W. Barnett; assessor, Peter
								Eggeman; surveyor, John A. Bushman; commissioners, August R. Schnitker, Martin L.
								Moudy and C. E. Orff; clerk, F. J. Belot; recorder, C. M. Gillett; auditor, William
								Meyer; Jr.
							In 1902, the following county officers were elected: State senator, Lew V. Ulrey;
								representatives, Michael Sheridan, H. L. Somers and William S. Wells; judge of the
								superior court, Owen N. Heaton; prosecuting attorney, Ronald Dawson; clerk, William
								A. Johnson; auditor, Dr. J. L. Smith; treasurer, Jacob Funk; sheriff, George W.
								Stout; coroner, Joseph W. Stults; surveyor; John A. Bushman; commissioners, Martin
								L. Moudy, Charles A. Griebel; county council, Edward Ely, Jacob Gable, H. F. E.
								Kruse, George H. Loesch, Fred Kahn, William Rorick and William Ringwalt.
							County officers elected in 1904 were: Representatives, W. F. Ranke, Michael
								Sheridan, Albert R. Parker; prosecuting attorney, Daniel B. Ninde; recorder, George
								L. Ashley; treasurer, Jacob Funk; sheriff, Jesse Grice; coroner, Dr. J. E. Stults;
								surveyor, David E. Spindler.
							County officers elected in 1906 were: Senator, W. F. Ranke; representatives,
								William S. Wells, A. R. Parker, William Fruechtenicht; judge of the circuit court,
								Edward O'Rourke; judge of the superior court, Owen N. Heaton; prosecuting attorney,
								Albert E. Thomas; clerk, Joseph N. Mason; sheriff, Joseph F. Getz; auditor, George
								Lindemuth; treasurer, William H. Scheiman; assessor, William Eggeman; surveyor,
								David Spindler; coroner, Dr. A. J. Kesler; commissioners, F. William Franke, Joseph
								Tonkel, John B. Wyss; county council, Hiram B. Roller, Louis A. Centlivre, William
								Smith, Jacob Gable, G. W. Coverdale, Valentine I. Shaffer, Martin V. Metcalf.
							County officers elected in 1908 (presidential year) were: Joint senator, Stephen B.
								Fleming; representatives, William S. Wells, R. B. Shirley, A. Roggen; prosecuting
								attorney, Albert E. Thomas; treasurer, William H. Scheiman; recorder, Robert E.
								Kelly; sheriff, A. M. Reichelderfer; surveyor, David Spindler; coroner, Dr. A. J.
								Kesler; commissioners, J. D. Butt and John B. Wyss.
							In 1910, with the re-election of Cyrus Cline over Owen N. Heaton, for congress, the
								following county officers were elected: Prosecuting attorney, Harry H. Hilgemann;
								judge of the circuit court, Carl Yaple; state senator, Frank Greenwell;
								representatives, Clifford J. Moran, W. H. F. Moellering, A. Roggen; clerk, William
								E. Gerding; auditor, Calvin H. Brown; treasurer, J. Herman Bueter; sheriff, A. M.
								Reichelderfer; coroner, Dr. Edward H. Kruse; assessor, William Eggeman;
								commissioner, F. William Franke.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLVIII—1909-1915. Civic Awakening—"Indiana's
						Second City"—Track Elevation—The Flood of 1913.
					Legislature authorizes Fort Wayne to proceed with civic improvements—Revision of
						park laws—The work of Charles Zueblin, Charles Mulford Robinson, George E.
						Kessler, Metcalf and Eddy and others—Growth of the park system—City Forestry
						Department—Fort Wayne awarded second place among Indiana cities in point of
						population—Jesse Grice mayor—The Boy Scouts—Weather Bureau—Art
						Smith, aviator—Elevation of railway tracks—The disastrous flood of March,
						1913—The Rotary Club—The Palace theatre—The new county
						farm—Lincoln Highway celebration—Commercial, religious and civic
						advancement.
					A CIVIC awakening, resulting in permanent activity in the
						beautification of the city of Fort Wayne and the education of the people along practical
						lines of sanitation and the conservation of its physical resources, stands forth as a
						prominent feature of the seven years included within the scope of this chapter.
					In compliance with an act of the legislature in 1906, passed in response to an appeal
						from the people of Fort Wayne, the department of public parks was established to take
						over the work which formerly had come under the control of the board of public works.
						The earlier months of effort secured, in 1909, the co-operation of the Commercial club,
						which, through its president, Howell C. Rockhill, Charles H. Worden, Robert B. Hanna and
						others, entered actively upon a campaign of civic betterment. Professor Charles Zueblin,
						of the University of Chicago, was engaged to deliver a series of lectures on municipal
						improvements; Charles Mulford Robinson, of Rochester, New York, civic improvement
						expert, made an exhaustive report recommending extensive works of beautification and
						sanitation. Delegations of interested citizens visited other cities and returned with
						practical ideas for carrying forward the general plan of improvement. The legislature of
						1911 gave to Fort Wayne a duplicate of the park law which had proved to be of great
						benefit to the city of Indianapolis. Under this law the board of park commissioners was
						allowed to proceed with the establishment of needed boulevards, parks and parkways,
						pleasure drives and playgrounds, and to acquire such grounds and their improvement could
						levy a tax against benefited property; such levy, however, not to exceed a total of 15
						per cent of the value of the land.
					The city council created a River Front Commission, composed of city officials and
						citizens, and a fund for its use was raised by a tax levy of four and one-half cents on
						each $100 of assessed property valuation. George E. Kessler, of St. Louis, Missouri,
						landscape architect, and Metcalfe and Eddy, sewer experts, were engaged to consider in
						full the city's needs. The disastrous flood of March, 
						1913, turned attention sharply to the paramount need of protection against damage by the
						overflow of the rivers, and the city council appropriated a fund of $5,000 for the
						immediate use of a special commission, the River Improvement Association, which entered
						upon an investigation of means to prevent a recurrence of the damage by floods.
					Various forward steps along these lines have been taken. During the spring and summer
						of 1916 Mrs. Josephine L. Nesbit, of Ohio, working in conjunction with the city health
						board and the management of the public schools, carried forward a "backyard campaign"
						which was an inspiration to hundreds of children and their parents to create attractive
						home surroundings.
					In October, 1916, Fort Wayne became the center of interest as the city in which was
						executed one of the most unique plans of modern civic advancement. Following a "city
						planning" exhibit held under the auspices of the Woman's Club League in the corridors of
						the courthouse, in charge of John E. Lathrop, director of the city planning department
						of the American City Bureau, a tour to create interest in the subject of city planning
						was made in automobiles, under the direction of Lee J. Ninde, of Fort Wayne, president
						of the Indiana Real Estate Exchange. Many men prominent in the work of the advancement
						of civic ideals united in the movement, the influence of which is shown in a changed
						public attitude toward questions of housing, home improvement, school gardens, parks,
						boulevards, playgrounds and many other elements of modern development.
					
						GROWTH OF THE PARK SYSTEM.
						Under its enlarged privileges Fort Wayne's park board has taken many forward steps.
							The original part of Lakeside park, acquired from the Fort Wayne Land and Improvement
							Company in 1908 for $5,000, received a gift of three entire squares and other areas
							from the Forest Park Company in 1908 and 1912. In the latter year the city purchased
							an additional area, making the total cost of the ground $7,800. Improvements to the
							amount of $17,500 were made in 1912.
						Camp Allen park, in the "peninsula" portion of Nebraska, was purchased by the city in
							1912; John H. Vesey park, Pontiac Place park and Hirons park were all donations to the
							city in 1912, but the most considerable gift of park lands in the history of the city
							came through the munificence of Samuel M. and David N. Foster, who gave to the city
							Foster park, a beautiful tract of sixty-four acres of wooded land bordering the St.
							Mary's river, south of the Broadway bridge. The formal dedication of this largest of
							the Fort Wayne parks took place in a ceremony of speechmaking and music in July,
							1912.
						With the platting of Westfield addition in 1908, the owners set aside about eight
							acres of land, called Rockhill park, for the use of the city. In the following year
							Weisser park was purchased from Magdalena Weisser. Other donations and purchases have
							provided a modern system of parks and boulevards.
					
					
					
						CITY FORESTRY DEPARTMENT.
						Upon the establishment of the municipal department of forestry, in April, 1912, Carl
							J. Getz, a graduate of Purdue, was engaged to serve as city forester. The work of the
							department has proved to be of incalculable value in the conservation of the city's
							trees and in the instruction of the people in the field of tree culture.
					
					
						"INDIANA'S SECOND CITY."
						In October, of 1915, the United States Census Bureau announced that as a result of a
							comparison of figures representing the comparative growth of Indiana cities, Fort
							Wayne had outstripped Evansville and was, therefore, entitled to second place in
							population among the cities of Indiana. The census bureau estimate gave Fort Wayne a
							population of 74,352, and Evansville 72,125. The phrase, "Indiana's Second City," came
							into immediate use.
					
					
						JESSE GRICE MAYOR.
						In the municipal election of 1909 Jesse Grice, republican, was elected to serve as
							mayor of Fort Wayne over August M. Schmidt, democrat, by a vote of 7,440 to 6,598.1
					
					
						WEATHER BUREAU.
						In July, 1911, Fort Wayne was made an observation center of the United States Weather
							Bureau, with Walter S. Palmer forecaster in charge. Upon the death of Mr. Palmer, in
							1915, P. J. McDonough succeeded to the office.
					
					
						ART SMITH, AVIATOR.
						Art Smith, twenty-one years of age, who later achieved world-wide fame in the field
							of aviation, built an aeroplane during the winter of 1910 and 1911, and made his first
							flight to New Haven, Indiana, and return on the 11th of October of the latter year. He
							was engaged for a season of flights at the Panama-Pacific exposition at San Francisco
							in 1915, and spent several Weeks in Japan in 1916, and also in 1917.
					
					
						ELEVATION OF RAILROAD TRACKS.
						Years of discussion of means to eliminate grade crossings of railroad tracks within
							the limits of Fort Wayne resulted in an agreement between the city and the
							Pennsylvania and Wabash railroads, which saw the beginning of the work in March, 1910.
							The original bill providing for the elevation of the tracks was passed by the state
							legislature in 1905. It provided that sixty-five per cent of the cost of such
							improvement should be borne by the railroads and thirty-five per cent by the city. The
							plan proved unsatisfactory to the city administration and no action was taken until
							the legislature passed an amendatory act in 1907 by which the railroads assume
							seventy-five per cent of the cost and the city twenty-five per cent, while electric
							railways are required to assume ten per cent of the city's share on streets over which
							such electric railways operate. Actual operations to elevate the tracks were commenced
							in March, 1910.
					
					
					
						THE FLOOD OF MARCH, 1918.
						The most disastrous flood in the history of Fort Wayne caused the loss of six lives
							and wrought incalculable property damage during the last week of March, 1913. Scores
							of other cities throughout Ohio and Indiana suffered from the effects of the two heavy
							rainstorms which broke over a broad region within a few hours' period. On the 24th of
							March a general rainfall of 2.76 inches, following a heavy precipitation on the 21st,
							raised the waters of the rivers within Fort Wayne to such a height that by Tuesday,
							the 25th, two thousand homes were submerged. Many factories and outlying business
							houses were under several feet of water. Broad areas in Nebraska, Bloomingdale and Spy
							Run were covered by the flood, and when the Lakeside dikes of the St. Joseph river
							broke at two points that broad residential section became inundated so quickly that
							many had difficulty in escaping from their homes.
						The peril of the flood caused the management of the Allen County Orphans' Home to
							seek a plan to convey the inmates to a place of safety. While a boat filled with
							children was being rowed from the home, the craft capsized and four young girls were
							drowned. One man, assisting in the work of rescuing members of families who were
							penned in by the flood, was drowned, and the death of another citizen resulted from
							shock during the perilous experience.
						A distress call sent to Chicago brought Captain Wallace and a crew from the
							government life-saving station, who landed safely the remaining inmates of the
							orphans' home.
						It is estimated that 15,000 persons were made temporarily homeless during the period
							of about one week. During this time the city water service was cut off, and only a
							part of the electric lighting service was in use. A relief organization, brought into
							existence early in the period of the flood, gave assistance to 11,187 persons.
						The rapidity with which the flood came upon the people is suggested by the fact that
							on March 23 the stage of the river was 6.7 feet. On the morning of the 24th the water
							had risen to a height of 19.6; the crest of the flood came at 11 o'clock on the night
							of March 26, when the gauge registered 26.1 feet. A total of 4.75 inches of rain fell
							between 7:25 of the morning of March 23 and 9:45 on the night of March 25.
					
					
						EARLIER FLOODS.
						From the most authentic sources the following record of dates and water stages have
							been gathered: On the 28th of January, 1828, the rivers rose to a height which broke
							all earlier records. Jesse L. Williams, chief engineer of the Wabash and Erie canal,
							writing in 1876, said of this flood: "The water marks of this highest of all floods
							were of use in guiding the location of public works in the Scioto valley, then in
							progress. Four years afterward, on reaching Fort Wayne, an axe mark made at the
							highest stage of the same flood on a walnut sapling standing near the pickets of the
							old fort was shown to me. This, as in Ohio, served as a guide in determining the
							necessary heights of banks and bridges on these rivers. The bed of the St. Mary's
							aqueduct [of the Wabash and Erie canal] was fixed by it."
						
						Records of floods up to 1892, as kept by R. Morgan French and A. R. Henderson, show
							the most destructive floods to have occurred in January, 1828; July, 1844; January,
							1848; June, 1858 (9.75 feet); February, 1859 (10 feet); June, 1859 (17 feet); April,
							1860 (12 feet); April, 1861 (13 feet); February, 1867 (18 feet); May, 1867 (15 feet);
							March, 1868 (18 feet); March, 1869; February, 1875; February, 1883 (20.34 feet);
							March, 1883 (19 feet); February, 1884 (20 feet); February, 1887 (20.34 feet); April,
							1892 (14 feet). The records kept by the government weather bureau beginning with
							December, 1907, show the following figures: December 30, 1907 (18.8 feet); February
							16, 1908 (18.4 feet); March 8, 1908 (22.5 feet); February 25, 1909 (19.7 feet);
							January 22, 1910 (16.3 feet); March 4, 1910 (17.5 feet); March 20, 1912 (19.2 feet);
							April 2, 1912 (21 feet); January 22, 1913 (19.1 feet); March 6, 1913 (26.1 feet); May
							13, 1914 (18.7 feet); February 13, 1915 (16 feet); January 6, 1916 (20.6 feet);
							February 2, 1916 (20.2 feet); March 30, 1916 (18.3 feet).
					
					
						THE FORT WAYNE ROTARY CLUB.
						On the 15th of January, 1915, the Fort Wayne Rotary club was organized with the
							following officers: President, Martin H. Luecke; vice-presidents, Fred H. McCulloch
							and Dr. E. W. Dodez; secretary, Frank E. Bohn; treasurer, George Waldschmidt;
							sergeant-at-arms, Van B. Perrine; statistician, Frank J. Rahe. The second year's
							president was Frank E. Bohn (succeeded in 1917 by Robert Koerber). The club has
							entered actively into movements for the upbuilding of the community. Its slogan is "He
							Profits Most Who Serves Best."
					
					
						THE PALACE THEATRE.
						During the greater portion of the year 1914 construction work on the Palace theatre,
							erected by Frank E. Stouder and B. H. Barnett, was in progress. The splendid edifice
							was dedicated on the evening of January 25, 1915, on which occasion Governor Samuel M.
							Ralston was the guest of honor. Addresses were made by Governor Ralston, Mayor William
							J. Hosey and others. The Palace theatre is one of the finest buildings of the kind in
							America. It cost $200,000, has a seating capacity of 2,000 and is of fireproof
							construction.
					
					
						THE NEW COUNTY FARM.
						In 1915 the county commissioners purchased for use as a county farm 797 acres of land
							known as the Fleming, Geller, German and White farms, located eight miles north of the
							city on the lines of the Fort Wayne and Northwestern Traction Company and the Grand
							Rapids and Indiana railroad. The first step in the fise of the property was the
							establishment of "Fort Recovery," an anti-tuberculosis camp under the auspices of the
							Allen County Anti-Tuberculosis society. In 1916 the county council appropriated the
							funds needed to establish winter quarters for the patients, and the good work of the
							summer of 1916 has been continued through all seasons.
					
					
					
						THE LINCOLN HIGHWAY CELEBRATION.
						One of the most successful and significant public demonstrations ever held in Fort
							Wayne was the monster celebration of June 21, 1915, which marked the dedication of the
							Fort Wayne section of the great Lincoln Highway, which extends from the Atlantic to
							the Pacific oceans. A decorated automobile parade miles in length passed over the city
							streets and to the town of New Haven and return. A car decorated by James B. Crankshaw
							was awarded the first honors for artistic beauty.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1909.
						Charles B. Fitch was elected president of the Commercial club. . . . The Ideal Auto
							Company, manufacturer of automobile trucks, was founded. . . . Jesse Macbeth succeeded
							James H. Fry (resigned) as a member of the school board. . . . The Indiana Bankers'
							association met in Fort Wayne in June. . . . The Centlivre hotel was erected by a
							company headed by Charles F. Centlivre. . . . The American Steel Dredge Company was
							founded.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1910.
						William J. Hess succeeded Edward L. Craw, deputy postmaster. . . . The Indiana State
							Medical association met in Fort Wayne in October. . . . The state convention of the
							Woman's Christian Temperance Union was held in Fort Wayne in November. The government
							census gave Fort Wayne a population of 63,933, as compared with 45,115 in 1900. The
							school enumeration showed a total of 16,658. . . . The Holman Street Playgrounds were
							established. . . . The Crescent Avenue Evangelical church was founded, with Rev. C. A.
							Hirschman pastor, succeeded by Rev. Clyde E. Boyer. . . . St. Andrew's Catholic
							church, with Rev. George H. Horstman pastor, was organized. . . . St. Hyacinth's
							Catholic church (Polish) was organized by Rev. Samuel J. Wrobel; Rev. Michael
							Swiatkowski served as the first pastor. . . . The Central Catholic High School, with
							Rev. A. E. Lafontaine in charge, was established. . . . Governor Thomas R. Marshall
							appointed George A. Bittler a member of the state accounting board. . . . Perry A.
							Randall was elected president of the Commercial club. . . . The present city market
							was erected on Barr street at a cost of $20,000. . . . The Anthony Wayne club and the
							Commercial club were consolidated. . . . With Samuel M. Foster president, Theodore
							Wentz first vice-president, Maurice C. Niezer second vice-president, Robert Millard
							third vice-president and Henry W. Lepper secretary, the German-American Trust Company
							was organized. The south branch was opened in 1911.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1911.
						The South Side Baptist church, with Rev. Charles E. Ehle, pastor, was organized; Rev.
							M. C. Tunison succeeded Mr. Ehle. . . . Following the destruction of its plant by
							fire, the Mayflower flouring mills purchased the Volland Mills. The present plant was
								 erected in 1912 . . . Captain William F. Ranke was
							elected state president of the Spanish War Veterans. . . . With appropriate
							ceremonies, a beautiful tablet, designed by Josef Korbel, sculptor, was dedicated at
							Thieme park to commemorate the gift of Theodore F. Thieme and his practical
							demonstration of the beautification of river banks . . . The government postal savings
							bank was established . . . James H. Fry was appointed state oil inspector. . . . A
							number of persons lost their lives as the result of the wrecking of a fast
							Pennsylvania railroad train which left the rails at Swinney park. . . . Dr. George W.
							Gillie was appointed to serve as Fort Wayne's first meat and dairy inspector. . . .
							The Guldlin playgrounds and the Bowser playgrounds were established.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1912.
						The municipal asphalt plant, for street repair, was placed in operation in September
							. . . Dr. H. A. Duemling succeeded Dr. A. P. Buchman (resigned) as a member of the
							board of health. Oscar W. Tresselt and Joseph M. Singmaster, members of the board of
							park commissioners, were succeeded by E. F. Yarnelle and Louis Fox. . . . The national
							meeting of the Luther League was held in Fort Wayne in July. . . . Allen county cast
							8,659 votes for Woodrow Wilson, democrat, for president; 3,415 for Taft, republican;
							4,246 for Roosevelt, progressive, and 1,512 for Debs, socialist.1 . . . Cyrus Cline, democrat, was elected to
							congress, over Charles R. Lane, republican. . . . George A. Bittler, of Fort Wayne,
							was elected state treasurer of Indiana. . . Theodore F. Thieme was elected president
							of the Commercial club. . . . The Empress (Strand) theatre was opened in the fall. . .
							. A free employment bureau, established by legislative action, was opened, with John
							Wessel, Jr., in charge. ... The Aqueduct elub, composed of men who, as boys, "went
							swimming" in the old Wabash and Erie canal aqueduct, which spanned the St. Mary's
							river, was organized. . . . Thomas A. Wilkinson succeeded Wesley I. Work as truancy
							officer. Mr. Work became county probation officer. . . . The Indiana Federation of
							Women's Clubs met in Fort Wayne in October.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1913.
						The "Safety First" movement had its first demonstration in Fort Wayne in 1913, when
							rules and regulations were promulgated by the Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction
							Company. . . . William M. Griffin was elected president of the Commercial club. . . .
							The state convention of the Travelers' Protective Association was held in May. . . . A
							homing pigeon, owned by Oscar W. Anderson, broke the world's one thousand-mile flight
							record in one day, eleven hours and thirty minutes. The bird flew from Abilene, Texas,
							to Fort Wayne. . . . Miss Fannie Winch was appointed to serve as Fort Wayne's first
							police matron; her services commenced in November. . . . St. Joseph's Catholic church
							(Italian) was established, with Rev. Anthony Petrilli, as pastor . . . Following a
							spirited municipal campaign, William J. Hosey, democrat, who served as mayor from 1906
							to 1909, again  was elected to the office. He polled
							5,540 votes while his opponents, Charles H. Buck, non-partisan, received 4,340;
							William H. LaTourette, republican, 1,015, and W. H. Bolinger, socialist, 1,288.3
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1914.
						Under the direction of Miss Flora Wilber, principal of the Fort Wayne Normal,
							assisted by the instructors of the school, the children on October 22 presented a
							pageant in Lakeside park, illustrative of the history of Fort Wayne. . . . Westfield
							Presbyterian church (formerly Grace chapel) was organized in June, with Rev. T. P.
							Potts pastor . . . W. M. Wardrop was elected president of the Railroad Young Men's
							Christian Association. . . . The Indiana state conference of the Daughters of the
							American Revolution was held in Fort Wayne in October. . . . E. A. Schott succeeded
							Dr. George W. Gillie as city meat and milk inspector. . The municipal electric
							lighting plant showed earnings of $84,161.87 during 1914, an increase of $45,000 over
							1913. A total of $85,000 was expended for buildings and equipment.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1915.
						In January, those portions of St. Joseph, Washington and Adams townships within the
							corporate limits of Fort Wayne were annexed to the city, and the county commissioners
							added these portions to Wayne township. This placed the city of Fort Wayne within
							Wayne township. . . . The rivers reached a flood stage of 16.8 feet on the 14th of
							February. . . The congregation of Shaare Zedek, Jewish, was formed, with Rabbi E. B.
							Goldberg, pastor. The first meetings were held in Dehm's hall. . . . Van B. Perrine
							was elected president of the Commercial club. . . . Edward C. Miller was named by
							President Woodrow Wilson to serve as postmaster of Fort Wayne. . . . On the 6th of
							July, 50,000 persons gave a glad reception to the Liberty Bell, which was being taken
							from Philadelphia to the Panama-Pacific exposition at San Francisco. The bell was
							mounted on a fiat car which was drawn along a Pennsylvania railway side-track on
							Murray street. . . . The summer of 1915 was notable for its many severe rainstorms and
							generally cool weather. According to the report of W. A. Kelsey, of the Farmers Mutual
							Fire Insurance Company, damages to the amount of $250,000 were wrought by storms
							during the year. . . . Ten thousand persons attended the ceremony of dedicating the
							new Harmar school on the 23d of October. . . . The Fort Wayne Morris Plan Company
							opened its place of business during the year. . Immanuel Baptist church was organized,
							with Rev. John Walton, pastor, succeeded by Rev. J. B. Bair. . . . The Indiana Real
							Estate Association met in Fort Wayne in October. . . . A strike of street railway men,
							opening in September, extended through a period of several months, the men demanding
							the reinstatement of members of their union who had been discharged. The company
							secured substitute conductors and motormen and kept the lines in operation until,
							during the earlier part of 1916, the differences between employees and employers were
							satisfactorily adjusted. . . . Mrs. Clark Fairbank was elected president of the
							Indiana Federation of Women's Clubs at the annual session held at  Indianapolis. . . . The Lawton Home Monument Association, organized to
							take the necessary steps to erect a memorial to the late Major-General Henry W.
							Lawton; D. N. Foster was elected president, T. W. Blair, secretary, and S. S. Kelker,
							treasurer.
						NOTES ON CHAPTER XLVIII.
						(1) Other city officers elected and
							appointed in 1909 were: Judge of the city court, J. Frank Mungovan; clerk, William T.
							Jefferies; attorney, Harry G. Hogan; comptroller, W. Sherman Cutshall; secretary of
							waterworks board, Martin Detzer; city engineer, Frank M. Randall; police chief, W. F.
							Borgman (succeeded by B. H. Elliott and Dayton F. Abbott); board of public works, F.
							T. Benoy (succeeded by George H. Loesch), Henry Hilgeman (succeeded by Henry
							Schwegman) and Edward J. Lennon; board of public safety, J. C. Hutzell, W. D.
							Henderson and Marion B. Johnson; board of park commissioners, Ferdinand Meier, Joseph
							M. Singmaster, D. N. Foster and Oscar W. Tresselt; board of health, Drs. Eric A.
							Crull, A. P. Buchman and H. O. Bruggeman; councilmen, Allen Hamilton, Gust F. Rogge,
							Charles E. Welch, John J. Bauer, Charles H. Buck, Gottlieb Haller, Charles W. Dittoe,
							Paul P. Kinder, Dr. Budd VanSweringen, L. S. C. Schroeder, Harry G. Pfleger, Edward A.
							Wagner, B. F. Sarver, Peter M. Braun, Harry G. Pinniger and Henry W. Felger.
						(2) County officers elected in 1912
								were: Judge of the circuit court, John W. Eggeman; prosecuting attorney, H. H.
								Hilgemann; joint senator, Stephen B. Fleming; representatives, Clifford J. Moran, W.
								H. F. Moellering and Chas. W. Koenig; treasurer, J. Herman Bueter; recorder, Allen
								Hursh; sheriff, A. C. Gladieux; coroner, Dr. E. H. Kruse; surveyor, R. W. Guenther;
								commissioners, A. J. Black, J. D. Butt and William C. Schwier.
							County officers elected in 1914 were: Judge of the superior court, Carl Yaple;
								state senator, Ochmig Bird; prosecuting attorney, F. A. Emrick; representatives,
								Michael Kinder, John B. Wyss and Joseph Tonkel; clerk, David C. Stout; auditor, Will
								Johnson; treasurer, W. F. Ranke; sheriff, A. C. Gladieux; coroner, Dr. J. E.
								McArdle; surveyor, R. W. Guenther; assessor, William Eggeman; commissioners, W. C.
								Schwier, A. J. Black and Henry Wetzel.
						(3) The following minor officers were
							elected in 1913: Judge of the city court, H. Waveland Kerr; clerk, Gustav W. Boerger;
							councilmen, G. F. Rogge, William A. Bayer, Charles E. Welch, Paul F. Kinder, Jacob
							Hartman, Jacob Agne, Frank Schlebecker, Charles O. Lepper, Eugene B. Smith, Peter
							Ofenloch, Albert H. Keller, Peter A. Deitschel, Herman J. Korte, Robert Johns and J.
							B. Mills. Mayor Hosey made the following appointments: Comptroller, Louis Schmoe
							(succeeded by William C. Baade); attorney, Guy Colerick; engineer, Frank M. Randall;
							board of public works, Frank E. Singrey, Robert E. Kelly and Henry Hilgemann; board of
							public safety, George Hermann, James J. Hayes and Calvin K. Rieman; board of health,
							Drs. J. H. Gilpin, H. A. Duemling and H. O. Bruggeman; chief of police, Charles Lenz;
							secretary of waterworks board, Charles A. Beuret. The board of park commissioners was
							composed of D. N. Foster, Abe Ackerman and Louis W. Dorn.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XLIX—1916-1917. Indiana's
						Centennial—Coliseum—Y. M. C. A.—Troops to the "Border."
					Fort Wayne celebrates the one-hundredth anniversary of the admission of Indiana to
						statehood—The committees—The Industrial Exposition—The
						parades—William H. Taft guest of honor—Harmar's Ford "marker"—The
						great Historical Pageant, "The Glorious Gateway of the West"—Donald Robertson and
						Wallace Rice—The six great scenes of the pageant—The Centennial
						Hymn—The Fort Wayne flag—Two companies of troops sent to the Mexican
						border—The Anthony Wayne monument—The Municipal Coliseum—Young Men's
						Christian Association building—History of the organization—Fort Wayne
						Anti-Tuberculosis League—"Fort Recovery," tuberculosis camp—Perry Randall
						fresh-air school—Erie-Michigan barge canal—Monument to Perry A.
						Randall—The "Johnnie Appleseed" tablet—The Vocational Public
						Schools—Infantile paralysis epidemic—The Presidential election—Strike
						of street railway employes—The Boy Scouts—Civic health
						parade—News-Rotary swimming pool—Nearly one hundred miles of
						paving—St. Joe river dam and park.
					WE HAVE chosen to reserve for the closing chapter of the Pictorial
						History of Fort Wayne the story of the city's patriotic answer to the nation's call to
						war, and to confine the scope of Chapter XLIX to those notable developments of the years
						1916 and 1917 which properly may be separated from the story of the war. Yet the reader
						must know that through it all the terrible struggle on the European battlefields
						influenced all thought in growing measure even from the time of its beginning in
						1914.
					The most glorious achievement of the year 1916 was the celebration, in June, of the
						one-hundredth anniversary of the admission of Indiana to statehood. This notable
						demonstration, of an entire week's duration, even with the handicap of almost continuous
						cold, rainy weather, stands forth as the most auspicious celebration ever held in the
						city of Fort Wayne.
					A preliminary mass meeting, held at the Commercial Club October 6, 1915, over which J.
						Ross McCulloch presided, was addressed by Samuel M. Foster, of Fort Wayne, a member of
						the Indiana Historical Commission, and others. In December of the same year a
						corporation known as Fort Wayne's Indiana Centennial Association was formed, with Edward
						C. Miller, postmaster, as general chairman. Mr. Miller selected as the chairmen of
						standing committees the following citizens: Pageant, Frank E. Stouder (Harry W. Muller,
						secretary); publicity, Martin H. Luecke; arrangements, E. W. Puckett; legal, Harry G.
						Hogan; public safety, William H. Shambaugh; ticket sale, Sam Wolf; speakers, Samuel M.
						Foster; municipal, William J. Hosey; homecoming, William H. Scheiman; entertainment of
						distinguished visitors, B. Paul Mossman; contests, James L. Shields; illuminations and
						decorating, J. B. Crankshaw; programs and souvenirs, Byron H. Somers; concessions,  Samuel E. Mulholland; county, Edward G. Hoffman; finance,
						Louis F. Curdes; music, Ross Franklin; Captain George L. Byroade, commanding Concordia
						cadets.
					The celebration, broad in the scope of its general plan, contemplated a demonstration
						of the greatness of the modern city of Fort Wayne through the medium of a comprehensive
						Industrial Exposition, as well as a magnificent historical pageant.
					The week's festivities were opened on the afternoon of Sunday, June 4, with a monster
						union service of music at the pageant grounds in Reservoir Park, when a chorus choir of
						six hundred 
							OLD FORT WAYNE. DRAWN AFTER THE MODEL OF ISAAC BUSH.
							This view is a pen drawing of old Fort Wayne in the latter days of its existence,
								prepared from information gathered by the late Isaac Bush. Mr. Bush, as a boy, lived
								in one of the last remaining buildings of the old fort. Increasing interest in the
								historic structure grew with the passage of the years, and he gathered all available
								information from those who remembered the architectural form of the buildings which
								were standing in the early thirties when the construction of the Wabash and Erie
								canal necessitated the removal of a portion of the fort. This knowledge Mr. Bush put
								into definite form in the building of a model of the fort about the year 1870. At
								that time, he engaged the services of Frank Kincaid, a carpenter, and the latter
								constructed the model after the plans as prepared by Mr. Bush. "I remember this
								model very well," says Mrs. E. K. Bush, daughter-in-law of Isaac Bush. "It was about
								twenty feet square, and hundreds of people came to see it when it was placed on
								exhibition near the Baker homestead on Delaware avenue. The model was preserved for
								many years and formed an interesting part of the exhibition at the Centennial
								celebration of 1895. I don't know what became of it." Four photographic views of the
								model were made. One of the original negatives is the property of the Parrot studio.
								The view which was used for reference in making the above drawing was loaned by Mrs.
								Martha B. Hanna.
						
						 trained voices, representing all of the city churches,
						were joined in songs of praise. Among the selections was the Fort Wayne Centennial Hymn,
						sung for the first time. Donald Robertson, pageant master, delivered an address. The
						Industrial Exposition, which opened June 5, was held within an enclosure which included
						the league baseball park on Calhoun street, north of Superior street. Here were shown,
						in a long line of specially constructed booths, the various products of the Fort Wayne
						factories, as well as the lines of goods sold by the jobbing and retail interests. Daily
						aeroplane flights in connection with the exposition were given by Aviator Heth. 
							DR. SLOCUM'S CONCEPTION OF OLD FORT WAYNE AND SURROUNDINGS,
								1794.
							The drawing from which the above engraving was reproduced was prepared under the
								direction of Dr. Charles E. Slocum, of Toledo, Ohio, author of the History of the
								Maumee River Basin. It is here reproduced from that work by the consent of the
								author. Dr. Slocum spent much time in Fort Wayne making surveys to determine the
								location of the fort and the contour of the land of the region at the time of
								General Wayne. He was assisted materially by the late Colonel R. S. Robertson, whose
								assistance is gratefully acknowledged by Dr. Slocum.
						
						 Tuesday, June 6, was known as "Fraternal Day," marked by
						a parade of members of many societies. Wednesday, "Homecomers' Day," was devoted largely
						to the reception of former residents, who were taken in automobile trips about the city.
						Thursday, "Woman's Day," was observed in the opening of the Women's building and a
						reception to thousands of visitors. The old high school building on East Wayne street
						served as the place of the women's displays. Here the committees, working under the
						general chairmanship of Mrs. August J. Detzer, provided many interesting displays. One
						room was devoted to a showing of native birds. Hundreds of treasured pieces of household
						furniture and wearing apparel of other days were of special interest to the members of
						the younger generation. The Daughters of the American Revolution and other societies
						were appropriately represented. Young ladies in the quaint costumes of the war period
						received the visitors. Former President William H. Taft, guest of honor for "Woman's
						Day," made several brief addresses, but the principal event scheduled for the afternoon
						at the pageant grounds—Reservoir Park—was transferred, because of rain, to
						the auditorium of the new Moose hall. A chorus choir of one thousand school children,
						directed by Prof. William Miles, sang patriotic songs from an amphitheatre on the
						courthouse square.
					Mary Penrose Wayne Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution contributed a
						permanent reminder of the Centennial celebration in the erection of a marker upon the
						park strip at the foot of Dearborn street in Lakeside, upon the bronze panel of which
						are these words: "To the memory of Major John Wyllys and his brave soldiers who were
						killed near this spot in the battle of Harmar's Ford October 22, 1790, with the Miami
						Indians, under Chief Little Turtle. Erected by the Mary Penrose Wayne Chapter, D. A. R.,
						in the Centennial year, 1916." Robert B. Hanna was the orator of the occasion, and
						Former President Taft made a brief address. A chorus of school children, with
						accompaniment by the Elks' band, sang patriotic songs.
					On Friday, "Musical and Carnival Day," an exhibition of physical training in the public
						schools was given, under the direction of Prof. Henry Meyer and Miss Clara A. Snively.
						Sixteen hundred children participated in the demonstration on West Wayne street, between
						Harrison street and Fairfield avenue. During the week the instructors and pupils of the
						Fort Wayne Normal School in Lakeside, Miss Flora Wilber principal, placed metal
						"markers" on the sites of many historic spots within the city of Fort Wayne.
					The greatest interest of the week, however, centered naturally upon the historic
						pageant, which was presented nightly when the weather conditions permitted. The stage
						for the great outdoor play had been placed on the island in the artificial lake in
						Reservoir Park, and an amphitheatre seating 14,000 persons rose before it to form an
						ideal place of entertainment for a vast audience. One night was devoted to the free
						entertainment of the children of the city, and the array of 14,000 delighted boys and
						girls was a sight without equal in the story of Fort Wayne. Perfect lighting effects and
						acoustic properties were combined elements in the success of the pageant.
					
					The story was that of the spot on which the city of Fort Wayne stands, unfolded in six
						magnificent scenes. Wallace Rice, of Chicago, the author of the Book of the Pageant to
						which he gave the title "The Glorious Gateway of the West," planned the work in a
						masterly style. Donald Robertson, the pageant master, trained one thousand persons to
						interpret well Mr. Rice's conception of the 
							THE FORT WAYNE CENTENNIAL HYMN.
							A committee of musicians selected the composition of D. Parsons Goodrich, of Fort
								Wayne, as the best among many submitted in 1916 as the official Fort Wayne
								Centennial Hymn. The words are by Wallace Rice, of Chicago, author of the Book of
								the 1916 Pageant. The engraving is from the original manuscript by Mr. Goodrich.
						
						 story in word and action. The first scene introduced the
						early French period of occupation of the lands at the head of the Manmee. The second
						presented the most thrilling incidents of the British rule in 1763. The third had for
						its them General Wayne's victory over the savages in 1794 and the building of Fort
						Wayne. The fourth told the story of the siege of the fort by the Indians in 1812. The
						fifth gave the picture of the evacuation by the United States troops in 1819. The final
						scene depicted the enlistment of volunteers for the Civil War in 1861.
					The music for the pageant was provided by a band composed chiefly of the Elks'
						organization under the direction of John L. Verweire, who, with Edwin Dicey, contributed
						largely to the musical success of the pageant. Among the honors which passed to citizens
						because of intelligent effort in connection with the celebration was that awarded to D.
						Parsons Goodrich, composer of the music for the Centennial Hymn, for which Wallace Rice
						wrote the lines; C. E. Wittenbrook, who won the prize as the designer of the Centennial
						poster, and Guy Drewett, who designed the official Fort Wayne flag.
					
						TROOPS TO THE MEXICAN BORDER.
						The military spirit grasped the youth of Fort Wayne during the spring of 1916, when
							conditions along the Mexican border suggested the early need of United States soldiers
							to deal with the bandit hordes under Villa. Early in June, the need came with pressing
							force, and by the middle of the month, in response to official notifications from
							Adjutant General Franklin L. Bridges, Company E, Indiana National Guard, began
							immediate preparations for active service. On the 19th of June, Captain John E. Miller
							received the formal order to recruit the company to war strength. It is of record that
							more new men were recruited for this company than for any other in the state of
							Indiana. Amidst the playing of patriotic music by the bands, the company responded, on
							the 24th of June, to the call to Camp Benjamin Harrison, at Indianapolis. The parade
							to the Lake Erie and Western railroad station was led by veterans. Arriving at the
							station, the troops and the great crowd of spectators listened to an address by
							Colonel David N. Foster. Arriving at Indianapolis, the troops remained in camp until
							July 11, when they entrained for Camp Llano Grande, Texas. The officers of Company E
							at the time of departure were: John E. Miller, captain; Ray McAdams, first lieutenant,
							and Earl Howard, second lieutenant. The rejection by the army surgeons of Captain
							Miller at Fort Benjamin Harrison for physical disability, caused Lieutenant McAdams to
							be commissioned as captain, and Second Lieutenant Howard as first lieutenant, while
							the vacancy in the officers' personnel was filled by the promotion of Sergeant William
							Howard Miller to second lieutenant.
						Arriving at the border, Company E First infantry became a unit in the Indiana brigade
							under Gen. EdWard M. Lewis, formerly commandant at Fort Benjamin Harrison and colonel
							of the Twenty-third United States infantry. The work of Fort Wayne's crack infantry
							company during its nearly nine months of arduous service among the mesquite and sand
							dunes of the Texas plains and along the Rio Grande, protecting the border from Mexican
							attacks, won 
							
								MAYORS OF FORT WAYNE FROM 1885 TO 1917.
								1. Charles F. Muhler. 2. Daniel L. Harding. 3. Henry P. Scherer. 4. Chauncey B.
									Oakley. 5. Henry C. Berghoff. 6. Jesse Grice. 7. William J. Hosey
							
							
								RESERVOIR PARK, SCENE OF THE GREAT FORT WAYNE HISTORICAL PAGEANT
									IN JUNE, 1916.
								An ideal spot for the presentation of the historic pageant of Fort Wayne,
									entitled "The Glorious Gateway of the West,"' was found in Reservoir park, where a
									cast of more than one thousand Fort Wayne citizens enacted six scenes depicting
									the thrilling, inspiring story of Fort Wayne. The temporary amphitheatre
									accommodated fourteen thousand persons. On the closing night of the pageant every
									child of Fort Wayne of school age was admitted free of charge. The event was
									considered the most artistic success in the history of pageantry in America.
							
							
								FORT WAYNE FLAG (BLUE AND WHITE).
								The flag of Fort Wayne, adopted and displayed during the centennial celebration
									of 1916, was designed by Guy Drewett of Fort Wayne. The white stripes suggest the
									three rivers, and the stars dnote Fort Wayne's importance as "Indiana's Second
									City."
							
							
								PERRY A. RANDALL.
								The erection of a monument to the memory of Perry A. Randall to express the
									appreciation of a community for a life of service, is a striking proof of his
									worth to Fort Wayne during a long and active life.
							
							 the highest praise of its superiors. The first death to
							occur in the ranks was that of Private Floyd Wolff, drowned while in bathing, July 16,
							and Private Robert E. Sullivan, who died from the effects of a gunshot wound
							accidentally inflicted by the discharge of a weapon in camp at Llano Grande, October
							12. The bodies of both soldiers were shipped to Fort Wayne and interred with military
							honors, in which detachments of Battery D, Indiana field artillery, the Spanish War
							veterans and the G. A. R. participated.
						Immediately after the departure of Company E, efforts were entered upon for the
							formation of a scond company, Battery D, Indiana Field Artillery. This organization
							was ready to answer the call to proceed to Indianapolis early in August. The departure
							for the Mexican border was made without delay. The officers were Captain, John C.
							Scheffer; senior first lieutenant, Henry C. Moriarity; junior first lieutenant, Luther
							Mertz; senior second lieutenant, Bert G. Lewis; junior second lieutenant, Lee Hensley,
							of the Sixth U. S. artillery. Four of the five officers were veterans of the
							Spanish-American war. Arriving at Camp Llano Grande, the command was given the
							equipment of Battery C, recalled from border service and assigned to the Indiana field
							artillery contingent under Colonel Robert H. Tyndall. Battery D also gave an excellent
							account of itself. With Company E, it was recalled home from border service in March,
							1917, and both military organizations were given a splendid reception on their arrival
							in Fort Wayne, a public demonstration being carried out on the evening of March 21,
							consisting of a banquet for the soldiers, a parade in which thousands participated,
							and public ceremonies in conclusion.
					
					
						THE ANTHONY WAYNE MONUMENT.
						After several years of preparation, the final plans for the erection of a bronze
							equestrian statue to the memory of General Anthony Wayne were decided upon in 1916.
							The commission, after viewing the models submitted by several of America's well-known
							sculptors, awarded the work to Charles E. Mulligan, of Chicago, but the sudden death
							of the sculptor revised the plans, and George E. Ganiere, of Chicago, was selected.
							The sum of $15,000 for the statue, in bronze, in addition to $900 for two separate
							tablets, was set aside. The monument commission was composed of J. Ross McCulloch,
							William F. Ranke, Mrs. Frances Haberly-Robertson and Colonel D. N. Foster. The site
							chosen for the monument is the northwest corner of Hayden Park, facing the Lincoln
							Highway (Maumee avenue).
						The agitation for the erection of a monument to General Wayne was begun previous to
							1889, in which year the annual report of the chief engineer of the United States
							recommended that congress appropriate the sum of $5,000 for a statue to be placed on
							the site of old Fort Wayne. Congress failed to act. Then, in 1894, the board of county
							commissioners authorized a levy of one-fourth of one cent per year on each $100 of
							assessed property valuation for the creation of a fund to erect a monument to Wayne's
							memory. The money thus secured was used in payment for the present monument.
					
					
					
						THE MUNICIPAL COLISEUM.
						Following a spirited campaign in a successful effort to create public sentiment in
							favor of the creation of a fund to build a municipal coliseum, the citizens in
							November decided by a vote of 10,227 to 947 to issue municipal bonds in the sum of
							$225,000 for the erection of the building. The plan had its beginning in 1911, when
							the Commercial Club, under the leadership of William M. Griffin as the chairman of a
							special committee, undertook to interest the citizens to the extent of bringing before
							the city council the evidence that a coliseum was one of the city's greatest needs.
							Eight thousand citizens signed a petition and the council was thereby given authority
							to proceed with the undertaking. That body, however, demanded a more decisive
							expression from the people, and, to that end, the Indiana Legislature was petitioned
							to allow the city of Fort Wayne to issue bonds to the amount of $225,000, subject to
							the decision of the voters at a special or regular election. The vote of nearly eleven
							to one shows the decided support given to the project. Charles R. Weatherhogg was
							selected as the architect of the building. The site chosen was the Allen Hamilton
							property at the southeast corner of Lewis and Clinton streets, but in June, 1917, the
							city council upon the suggestion of Mayor Hosey voted to defer the building of the
							Coliseum and use $185,000 of the fund for the purchase of "Liberty" bonds to aid the
							national government in the war crisis. The site of the Coliseum was converted into a
							temporary city park.
					
					
						THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION.
						The city of Fort Wayne attracted wide attention in May, 1916, when an immensely
							successful campaign to secure funds to erect a magnificent Young Men's Christian
							Association building broke the world's record for a ten-day canvass in cities of the
							Fort Wayne class. The campaign was directed by E. L. Mogge, of Indianapolis, Indiana.
							The organization worked under the leadership of two "generals"—S. B. Bechtel and
							Arthur F. Hall. Arthur H. Perfect served as chairman of the executive committee. The
							stipulated quota of $300,000 was exceeded by $41,000. The largest contribution was
							that of William E. Mossman, who gave $50,000 to the building fund. The site at the
							corner of Barr street and Washington boulevard east was purchased for the sum of
							$42,500. Charles E. Weatherhogg, of Fort Wayne, with Shattuck and Hussey, Chicago, as
							consulting architects, was selected to design the building. Edwin W. Peirce, of
							Boston, Massachusetts, was engaged to serve as its general secretary, and he entered
							upon his work in the winter of 1916-1917. The officers of the association, in the
							spring of 1917, were: President, E. E. Greist; vice-president, B. Paul Mossman;
							recording secretary, R. H. Mauk; treasurer, Theodore Wentz.
						The effort to establish and maintain a Young Men's Christian Association in Fort
							Wayne during the earlier years was not without its beneficial results as well as its
							disappointments. The original effort was made in 1853, when the following officers
							were elected: President, Isaac Jenkinson; vice-president, Henry J. Rudisill;
							corresponding secretary, C. J. Dietrich; recording secretary, Marshall S. Wines;
							treasurer, George W. Humphrey; librarian, Henry Tons. 
							The association opened headquarters at the northwest corner of Main and Calhoun
							streets. The enlistment of many of its members in the war of the rebellion
							disorganized the association, but with the restoration of peace a reorganization took
							place in 1867, with Anson Waring as president, and Dr. P. G. Kelsey, Homer C. Hartman,
							H. E. Smith, James E. Graham and D. C. Fisher in other official positions. In 1873
							Edward P. Williams was elected president, M. V. B. Spencer secretary and H. Vordermark
							treasurer. W. H. Cottingham served as general secretary. This association was
							disbanded in 1875, and for ten years the town was without an organization. In March,
							1885, upon the formation of a new association, Edward A. K. Hackett was elected
							president, R. S. Philley, Spencer R. Smith, W. T. Ferguson and August J. Detzer
							vice-presidents, J. A. Tyler treasurer and C. H. Newton secretary. Among the
							succeeding secretaries were W. F. McCaughey and A. M. Wright. This organization
							succeeded in erecting an imposing home on the site of the present People's Trust
							building, on the east side of Calhoun street, between Wayne and Washington streets,
							but financial difficulties lost the property to the association and, in 1895, it
							passed into the hands of those who converted it into a commercial building. For a
							period of several years the Daily News occupied it. The organization was maintained,
							however, and for a period B. Paul Mossman served as president. This organization lent
							material aid to the railroad department of the association which was formed in 1884,
							with D. F. Moore as secretary. This organization laid careful plans for the successful
							campaign of 1916.
					
					
						WORLD'S RECORD BROKEN IN RED CROSS STAMP SALES.
						Fort Wayne's superior interest in the nation-wide crusade against tuberculosis
							brought to the city for three successive years (1914, 1915 and 1916) the record of
							having exceeded all other cities in Indiana and second in America in the percentage of
							Red Cross stamps sold during the holiday seasons to create a fund to carry on the
							campaign. The number sold in 1914 was 286,164, in 1915 360,103 and in 1916 455,066.
							The stamp sale department of the Fort Wayne Anti-Tuberculosis League was in charge of
							a committee of which Mrs. J. R. Meriwether was the chairman.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE ANTI-TUBERCULOSIS LEAGUE.
						The Fort Wayne Anti-Tuberculosis League was organized in 1910 with the following
							officers: Dr. Eric A: Crull, president; Dr. E. M. VanBuskirk, Mrs. W. E. Davis and A.
							J. Moynihan, vice-presidents; Italia E. Evans, secretary, and Mrs. Elizabeth J.
							Dawson, treasurer. The immediate effect of its efforts is shown by the decrease of the
							number of deaths in Allen county due to tubercular diseases since that time. In 1909
							there were 122 deaths; in 1910 126; in 1911, 120; in 1912, 116; in 1913, 90; in 1914,
							86; in 1915, 111, and in 1916, 92. Aside from the persons already named, deep interest
							in the work has been shown by P. A. Randall, Prof. Louis Dorn and many others.
						The league at the first engaged Miss Shively to serve as a visiting nurse, succeeded
							by Miss Irene Byron. Through the co-operation of the board of county commissioners and
							the county council  an anti-tuberculosis settlement on a
							portion of the county farm northwest of Fort Wayne, known as "Fort Recovery," was
							established in 1915. The undertaking has proven to be a splendid success.
						In November, 1916, with the help of the school board and permission from the Plymouth
							Congregational Church, a fresh-air public school for nervous and anemic children (not
							tubercular) was established at the southwest corner of West Berry street and Fairfield
							avenue. The school was named the Perry Randall Fresh-Air School, in the honor of the
							late Perry A. Randall, president of the Fort Wayne Anti-Tuberculosis League at the
							time of his death. The school, which was established through the initiatory efforts of
							Miss Byron, was the second to be established in the state of Indiana, the first being
							placed in Indianapolis. The original funds were secured through the sale of old
							newspapers and private subscriptions. Miss Mildred Rohyans was placed in charge of the
							school, which was opened with the attendance of twelve pupils selected by the teachers
							of the school—the present attendance being twenty-five pupils.
					
					
						ERIE-MICHIGAN BARGE CANAL.
						Although similar projects had received the attention of the people at an earlier
							date, no great united movement to connect Lake Michigan with Lake Erie by the
							construction of a great barge canal was made until a group of enterprising Fort Wayne
							men, headed by Perry A. Randall, aroused the enthusiasm of the middle west and brought
							the project to the attention of official Washington. To Mr. Randall, Charles S. Bash,
							Thomas J. Logan, Thomas E. Ellison and Henry W. Lepper, of Fort Wayne, and C. B.
							Williams, J. W. Caswell and F. E. Wickenhiser, of Huntington, Indiana, is given the
							credit for the promotion of the undertaking, beginning with the year 1907, when the
							first meeting to discuss a waterway from Toledo to Chicago, by way of Fort Wayne, was
							held, on the 16th of November. Mr. Randall presided at this meeting, and he outlined
							his plan to enlist aid of the United States government to "fill the gap" between the
							two Great Lakes by means of a barge canal. Sentiment in favor of such a project grew,
							the people in all of the cities along the route of the proposed waterway became
							interested, and, later, the Erie-Michigan Deep Waterway Association was organized,
							with Mr. Randall president.
						Some time later a demand was made upon the government through Congressman Cyrus
							Cline, of the Fort Wayne district, to appropriate $50,000 for a survey of two
							routes—the Harris route, from Fort Wayne northwest to South Bend and on to
							Chicago, and the Frank B. Taylor route, from Fort Wayne south through Huntington and
							on through to the Calumet river to Chicago. Two government surveyors, Percival M.
							Churchill and Malcolm R. Sutherland, were sent to Fort Wayne to begin this work, which
							was later continued by Capt. L. H. Watkins, who completed the surveys and filed a
							report with the army engineers, which board is composed of Col. John Millis, Maj. P.
							S. Bond and Col. W. V. Judson. This board determined that the project will cost
							approximately $148,000,000, that as an engineering project it is feasible and
							practicable, but the members have disagreed as to the amount of business to be  derived each year from the canal. Colonel Millis, head of
							the board, recommends in a minority report that the waterway be constructed, while the
							other two members recommend that action be postponed indefinitely. The army board's
							report was filed with the Rivers and Harbors Board, and to this report northern
							Indiana canal enthusiasts objected. An appeal was taken, and December 10, 1916, was
							set as the date for hearing in Washington. At this hearing appeared Thomas E. Ellison,
							S. F. Bowser, Avery M. Groves, Frank B. Taylor and C. B. Williams. Arguments were
							presented and placed on file, but no final decision has yet been rendered. S. F.
							Bowser was chosen, in 1917, as the president of the deep waterways association, and
							Mr. Groves became its secretary. Others who have been actively working in the interest
							of the barge canal are W. W. Hawley and B. J. Bartlett, of Huntington; Edward Wasmuth,
							of Roanoke, Indiana; Maurice C. Niezer, Judge Robert S. Taylor and Charles R. Lane, of
							Fort Wayne. Mr. P. A. Randall, at the time of his death, completed a service of
							several years as a member of the National Rivers and Harbors Congress. Avery M. Groves
							was chosen as his successor.
						The project to connect Lake Erie and Lake Michigan by the construction of a canal
							first received attention during the late '30s, when, with the completion of the Wabash
							and Erie canal between Toledo and Fort Wayne, a vast sum was also expended upon a
							canal to connect Fort Wayne with Lake Michigan (see map, page 342). The abandoned
							enterprise was revived in 1859. "This plan," says the Fort Wayne Gazette of December
							22, 1865, referring to the earlier attempt, "proposed to slack-water the Maumee to
							Fort Wayne, and the St. Joseph [which empties into Lake Michigan at St. Joseph] from
							its mouth to Elkhart, connecting these points [Fort Wayne and Elkhart] with a canal
							sixty miles in length. There would be difficulties in making this canal connecting the
							two rivers, and in getting a sufficiency of water to supply it," adds the Gazette,
							"and yet the summit it crosses is very much lower than by the Southern Michigan
							route." This latter proposed route was confined to the state of Michigan, and was
							receiving, in 1865, the earnest support of the Toledo commercial interests. The
							Gazette adds the information that the original route, by way of Fort Wayne, Elkhart
							and South Bend, had been completely surveyed, probably as early as 1859, and that an
							elaborate report thereon had been made "by one of our most distinguished engineers."
							It is believed that Jesse L. Williams was interested in this project, for it was to
							him that A. N. Hart, a large landowner in the Calumet river region, appealed in 1882
							for assistance in the projection of a similar canal to connect with his
							properties.
					
					
						MONUMENT TO PERRY A. RANDALL.
						A lifetime of devotion to the public good brought forth from the people of Fort Wayne
							an expression of appreciation of the greatness of the work of Perry A. Randall. Upon
							the day of his sudden death, February 2, 1916, attention turned instinctively to the
							creation of a fund to erect a suitable and lasting monument to his memory. This
							resulted in securing, without personal solicitation, the sum of $3,500, all in small
							amounts and from persons in  all walks of life who thus
							gave expression to the universal feeling of a personal loss in the death of Mr.
							Randall. Frederick C. Hibbard, a Chicago sculptor, was engaged to design a bronze
							portrait bust, and this, with its pedestal, was placed in Swinney Park in the fall of
							1916. A bronze tablet bears these words: "Erected by the citizens of Fort Wayne as a
							memorial to Perry A. Randall in recognition of the high example of civic patriotism
							his life afforded. From early manhood he was continuously a resident of this city. In
							initiative and executive ability he possessed rare gifts for the performance of public
							service. Every project for the benefit, welfare or advancement of Fort Wayne found in
							him a devoted, unselfish and efficient supporter. 1847-1916."
					
					
						TABLET TO "JOHNNIE APPLESEED."
						On the 5th of May, 1916, a bronze tablet in commemoration of the life work of John
							Chapman ("Johnnie Appleseed") was unveiled in Swinney Park by the Indiana
							Horticultural Society. The tablet reads: "'Johnnie Appleseed' (John Chapman), born in
							Massachusetts, 1776; died near Fort Wayne, 1843; buried in David Archer cemetery;
							pioneer apple grower of Indiana and Ohio. The Indiana Horticultural Society and all
							those who are endeavoring to carry on the work he nobly commenced join in dedicating
							this monument to the memory of his deeds." William Walton, of LaPorte, Indiana,
							president of the Indiana Horticultural Society, delivered the principal address,
							followed by Mayor William J. Hosey, and Dr. Alfred Vivian, dean of the Ohio
							Agricultural College. Songs by the school children included a composition by Miss Ruth
							Caldwell entitled "Johnnie Appleseed"; Edward R. Smith, president of the Indiana Apple
							Show Commission, and Prof. C. G. Woodbury also participated in the ceremony of
							dedication. (See Chapter XXIX.)
					
					
						THE VOCATIONAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
						During the incumbency of Thomas R. Marshall as governor of Indiana a special
							commission appointed to investigate the educational situation of the state recommended
							that free agricultural, trade and homemaking courses be made a part of the public
							school work, this to be for the special benefit of those who do not complete a high
							school course and enter upon professional training. It was discovered that only eleven
							per cent. of all pupils of the schools enroll in the high schools. Fort Wayne grasped
							the new idea with enthusiasm and, in 1913, was established, even before an
							appropriation for the work was available, the first vocational school. Beginning with
							clases in the Washington school, the needs soon required the use of larger and more
							appropriate quarters for the widening demands. The year 1916 found the schools in a
							flourishing condition, located as follows, under the guidance of Walter E. Gordon, M.
							A., and a corps of assistants:
						In the old high school: Men's vocational courses, including mathematics for
							machinists, architectural drafting, mechanics for machinists, drafting for machinists,
							automobile construction and repair, and English for foreigners.
						In the former plant of the Kerr Murray Manufacturing Company: Bookkeeping,
							stenography and typewriting, applied  electricity,
							automobile construction, airbrake construction, printing for apprentices, English for
							foreigners, carpentry for apprentices and machine shop practice.
						In the Washington school: Home cooking, home millinery, plain sewing and dressmaking;
							girls' gymnasium.
						As an instance of the general co-operation of the people, the Fort Wayne
							Typographical Union and the Carpenters' Union require apprentices to attend the night
							vocational classes.
						An all-day trade school for boys and girls who have passed the 5A grade and are
							between the ages of fourteen and twenty-five is provided. An evening school is open to
							men who are at least seventeen years of age and who are employed during the day. Night
							courses in household arts and commercial courses are also open to all women seventeen
							years of age. Part-time classes provide training for boys and girls in the day school
							who are between fourteen and seventeen.
						In the beginning day classes in the Washington school under the instruction of one
							man teacher as principal and four lady assistants showed an enrollment of eighty-five,
							forty-five boys and forty girls. The third year the boys' school was moved to the
							basement of the Harmar school, and this department, in turn, was removed to the Kerr
							Murray plant.
						The United States government's appropriation of $45,000,000 for vocational work shows
							the nation's faith in this department of education, and Fort Wayne. "This kind of
							education," says Director Gordon, "is provided free for the eighty per cent. or more
							who will never get into professional vocations but who have just as much right to be
							trained for life work as their more wealthy cousins."
					
					
						THE INFANTILE PARALYSIS EPIDEMIC.
						During the summer of 1916 an outbreak of infantile paralysis which cost the lives of
							hundreds of children in the eastern portion of the United States, and which spread to
							the west with devastating effect, caused the observance of drastic rules governing the
							conduct of the people of Fort Wayne. The authorities issued an order forbidding the
							congregation of persons of sixteen years of age and under and placed a ban upon their
							attendance at school, Sunday school, theatres and all other ordinary places of
							assemblage. Newsboys were forbidden to sell papers on the streets, and all young
							persons were required to remain at home. The original order deferring the date of the
							opening of the schools at October 1 was later changed to September 11, when the
							disease appeared to have passed the threatening stage. Several cases of the malady
							were developed in Fort Wayne. On September 8, three days before the opening of school,
							a circus audience contained no children.
					
					
						THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1916.
						Following a warm presidential campaign Allen county, in November, 1916, cast 9,134
							votes for Woodrow Wilson (democrat) and 10,082 for Charles E. Hughes (republican).1 Judge Hughes had visited the
							city and made an address at the Palace Theatre. President Wilson made a brief address
							to the people who gathered about his train as it passed through the city en route to
							the west.
					
					
					
						STRIKE OF STREET RAILWAY MEN.
						A strike of the conductors and motormen, as well as others employed by the Fort Wayne
							and Northern Indiana Traction Company on its city street railway lines, beginning in
							October, 1915, was continued until May 12, 1916. During this period many persons
							declined to use the street cars, although there was but a small amount of violence
							shown on the part of the sympathizers of the men, and the "jitney" grew in popularity.
							The traction company reported a deficit of $32,000 for the year, due largely to the
							prolongation of the strike.
					
					
						THE BOY SCOUTS.
						Fort Wayne, in 1916, adopted the Boy Scout idea with permanent enthusiasm. Although a
							partially successful effort was made, in 1913, to effect an organization, it remained
							for L. O. Wetzel, of Fort Wayne, state field scout commissioner of Indiana, to begin,
							in January, 1916, the work which has attained to such large proportions. The first
							organization to endorse the movement was the Ministerial Association. During the first
							year of effort, fourteen Boy Scout troops, with a total enrollment of about four
							hundred and twenty-five members, were formed in Fort Wayne. In the spring of 1917 a
							council composed of representative business and professional men was formed to promote
							the work along moral, business and financial lines.
					
					
						CIVIC HEALTH PARADE.
						On the 22d of June, 1916, 3,500 school children of Fort Wayne participated in a
							notable "civic health parade." The children were taken in automobiles over a route
							which exhibited to them all portions of the city in which the results of gardening and
							beautification of home properties would suggest to them means of adapting modern
							principles to their own home surroundings. Two hours were consumed in the trip, after
							which the children were taken to the Majestic Theatre, where a series of moving
							pictures in colors exhibited the results of beautification of the city of Dayton,
							Ohio.
					
					
						THE NEWS-ROTARY SWIMMING POOL.
						Through the combined efforts of the Fort Wayne Daily News and the Fort Wayne Rotary
							Club funds for the establishment of a municipal swimming pool were collected during
							the summer of 1916. Lawton Park was selected as the site of the pool.
					
					
						ST. JOE RIVER DAM AND PARK.
						As the result of a popular subscription campaign in February, 1917, the people of
							Fort Wayne gave the sum of $26,000 for the purpose of placing a dam across the St.
							Joseph river just south of the State street bridge, in order to bring the water to a
							sufficient depth to provide facilities for boating, fishing and bathing and the
							creation of a park about four miles in extent along the river banks, this park to be
							under the care of the board of park commissioners. Owners of the property fronting the
							river contributed the land for park purposes. The improvement will prove of
							incalculable benefit to coming generations in creating recreation facilities and the
							advantages provided only by the lake resorts. William Breuer, a member of the park
							board, led the movement.
					
					
					
						FORT WAYNE'S POPULATION IN 1917.
						The Fort Wayne City Directory of 1917 contains 44,250 names, "which, multiplied by
							two (the lowest multiple used in any directory in the United States) gives Fort Wayne
							a population of 88,500, an increase of 1,140 over 1916," says the introduction to the
							volume. In July the war department in its estimate of population of Indiana cities,
							adopted as a basis of apportionment for military conscription, gave the population of
							Fort Wayne as 83,637. Evansville's population was placed at 76,427.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1916.
						Edward G. Hoffman was chosen a member of the national democratic central committee. .
							. . William Breuer succeeded Prof. Louis W. Dorn (resigned) as a member of the board
							of park commissioners. . . . The Tabernacle Baptist church, in Bloomingdale, was
							organized, with Rev. E. E. Howe pastor. . . . City Engineer Frank M. Randall reported,
							at the close of the year, that Fort Wayne had 96.3 miles of paved streets, of which
							59.4 were asphalt, 31.6 brick, 1.7 tarvia, 1.5 concrete, 1.2 bituminous macadam, 0.5
							wood block and 0.4 macadam. . . . The board of school trustees purchased eight lots in
							Harrison Hill (south side) and other property in preparation for the needs of the
							city's rapid growth. . . . In January No. 1 fire station was ordered completely
							motorized. The plan has been extended gradually toward a complete use of motor-driven
							apparatus. . . . The University Club was organized with the following officers:
							President, Edward G. Hoffman; vice-president, Dr. Albert E. Bulson, Jr.; secretary,
							Harry W. Muller; treasurer, J. Ewing Bond. The Leopold Freiburger residence, 327 West
							Berry street, was leased for a period of years as the club home. The organization has
							been a power for good in the community. . . . The Quest Club, composed of business men
							interested in salesmanship, advertising and modern commercial methods, experienced the
							most profitable year of its history. The club was organized in 1913 with the following
							officers: President, Charles B. Fitch; vice-president, Arthur F. Hall;
							secretary-treasurer, Charles R. Lane. . . . The One Hundred Per Cent Club, composed of
							young business men, was organized in 1916 with the following officers: President,
							Gordon L. Eby; vice-president, E. P. Ruf; secretary, George W. Fishering; treasurer,
							Willard M. Thomas.
					
					
						ACTIVITIES OF 1917.
						As the result of the co-operative efforts of the school authorities, the Commercial
							Club and the University of Indiana, in June, 1917, a branch of the extension
							department of the university was established in Fort Wayne. The old high school
							building on East Wayne street forms the center of the new educational work in Fort
							Wayne. . . . The report of Supt. D. O. McComb, of the county schools; in June, showed
							a total enrollment of persons of school age in Allen county to be 28,186, of which
							number 19,393 were in Fort Wayne. . . . Nicholas Klug, in January, gave three acres of
							ground to the city to be known as Klug Park. . . . Edward C. Miller was elected
							president of the Commercial Club. . . . The Kiwanis Club was organized with the
							following officers: President,  Howard Benninghoff;
							vice-president, H. P. Fletcher; secretary, Henry C. H. Hoffman; treasurer, Charles H.
							Buesching; sergeant-at-arms, Charles E. Pask. . . . Judge Samuel M. Hench was elected
							department commander of the Indiana Grand Army of the Republic at the annual
							encampment in Indianapolis. . . . The Allen County Civic Forum, organized for purposes
							of education of the people in the needs of the state of Indiana to be met by the
							proper construction of a new state constitution, held many public meetings which were
							addressed by prominent students of the subject. . . . The Senate Club, composed of
							young business men, was organized with the following officers: President, A. S.
							Bowser; vice-presidents, Glenn Mather and Dr. D. G. Mertz; secretary, Howard
							Benninghoff; financial secretary, Lester Frank; treasurer, Dr. M. B. Catlett;
							sergeant-at-arms, William Harber. . . . The following candidates were nominated by the
							voters of Fort Wayne at the primary election held March 6, 1917:
							Democrats—Mayor, Maurice C. Niezer; city clerk, Otto W. Koenig; city judge, John
							C. Hoffman; councilmen, Jacob Hartman, E. J. Ehrman, Dr. A. H. Macbeth, Willard M.
							Thomas, Charles H. Young, J. E. Wolf, Frank H. Schlebecker, C. O. Lepper, Peter M.
							Certia, Henry A. Miller, Henry G. Jacobs, M. J. Reilly, Frank A. Schramm, Peter A.
							Deitschel, Herman Korte. Republicans—Mayor, W. Sherman Cutshall; city clerk,
							William T. Jefferies; city judge, J. Frank Mungovan; councilmen, Jacob Bill, B. F.
							Bennett, Fred D. Wehrenberg, F. W. King, Samuel Henline, Charles King, H. U. Dehm,
							Albert O. Pape, Tom Snook, Harry H. McMillen, F. M. Price, John W. Reynolds, Ralph R.
							Wilkening, James A. Liggett, Charles A. Fissell. . . . Adolph Jaenicke, of Colorado
							Springs, Colorado, succeeded Carl J. Getz as city forester and superintendent of
							parks.
						NOTE ON CHAPTER XLIX.
						(1) County officers elected in 1916
							were: Joint senator, Allen and DeKalb counties, Glenn VanAuken; representatives,
							Francis E. Moore, Dick M. Vesey, Melville N. Clapp; treasurer, William F. Ranke;
							recorder, Elias H. Bookwalter; sheriff, Dr. George W. Gillie; coroner, Dr. Charles J.
							Rothschild; surveyor, Asa W. Grosvenor; commissioner (First district), Adolph W.
							Lepper. Upon the death of Recorder Bookwalter Christian G. Vonderau was appointed to
							complete the term.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER L—1917. Fort Wayne's Answer to the Call to War with
						Germany.
					Patriotic response to the President's call to service—Fort Wayne military
						district leads the nation in number of men who enlist for the war—The Lexington
						Day demonstration—Resolutions of loyalty—Enlistments for the Regular
						Army—The departure of Battery D—Battery B, the second unit—Company E,
						First Infantry—Company B, Signal Corps—Recruits for the navy—The Navy
						League branch—The Motor Reserve Corps—The Officers' Reserve
						Corps—Council of Patriotic Service—Allen County Council of
						Defense—Splendid response to Red Cross Appeal—Central Red Cross supply
						depot—Fort Wayne Red Cross chapter—The Red Cross hospital
						unit—Selective constription registration—The "Liberty"
						parade—Registration of "Alien Enemies"—The "Liberty" bond sale—Y. M.
						C. A. fund over-subscribed—Catholic War Fund—The "War" gardens—The
						adoption of "Eastern" time—War activities—Conclusion.
					WAR, the most stupendous, the most bloody, of all history, rages on
						the continent of Europe. Already, thousands of American boys, answering heroically the
						appeal of the President to entwine the Stars and Stripes with the standards of Great
						Britain and France and fight the hordes of the German kaiser, have responded to the call
						to foreign battlefields to do their share to "make the world safe for democracy." Other
						thousands await the call and the awful, glorious task goes forward.
					In common with the cities of all other portions of America, where sorrowing hearts beat
						within hopeful breasts—where tear-dimmed eyes gaze ever toward the light—the
						people of Fort Wayne place before the national government their lives, their energy,
						their intelligence, their talents, their wealth, for service in the world's greatest
						struggle for humanity.
					To meet the necessity of closing the written history of Fort Wayne in the midst of a
						time when the setting sun of each succeeding day spreads its benediction over the new
						and ever more marvelous sacrifices of its thousands of tireless patriotic men and women
						is the first painful task in the preparation of this story. But the supreme glory of the
						narrative—incomplete as it must remain—tempers the feeling of regret, for
						Fort Wayne and Allen county have given to all America an example of intelligent loyalty
						at the time of the nation's greatest peril, unsurpassed by any other community in the
						land.
					An indescribable feeling of patriotic emotion gripped the hearts of the people when, on
						the 6th of April, 1917, Congress declared the existence of a state of war between the
						United States and the imperial German government, following a period of ruthless and
						unrestricted submarine warfare. One impulse, that of personal service to his country,
						immediately claimed every individual, and the confusion of the earlier days, as each
						citizen endeavored to find his place in the scheme of the new order gave way promptly to
						an orderly, systematic plan of action. With bewildering rapidity, the  people grasped every possible means to declare their
						loyalty, and while much of the permanent work was performed with quietness, the visible
						evidences of patriotism took the form of flag raisings, parades and public gatherings in
						which thousands participated. Old Glory floated over the homes of the people and their
						public and commercial buildings.
					As early as the 17th of May the many avenues of activity were so fully occupied as to
						merit this observation of one of the newspapers: "There never
								has been a time when this section of the state failed to respond to the call of the
								colors, and never a time when she has responded more spontaneously and
								enthusiastically than now. In every field of patriotic activity she has taken a
								foremost position. Her percentage of enlistments in the regular army is greater than
								that of any other section. She is splendidly and abundantly represented in the
								Officers' Reserve Corps at Fort Benjamin Harrison. Her citizens have taken more
								seriously to the suggestion of the government that every available foot of ground be
								turned to production, and her organization to encourage this expression of loyalty
								is more active and efficient than in any other city in the state. Her women have
								responded to the call of the Red Cross, and an impressive number of her best
								physicians and surgeons are preparing now to sacrifice their personal interests by
								going to the hospitals of France. If every city in the country could present a
								record of response as admirable as that of Fort Wayne, there would be no occasion to
								doubt the spirit of the republic." (Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette).
					From the same publication, two weeks later, the following is quoted: "The nation turns to Fort Wayne today and salutes. The government
								at Washington has given national publicity to the fact that in the matter of
								enlistments between the Boston Harbor and the Golden Gate, and from the Great Lakes
								to the Gulf, the Fort Wayne district leads the procession! Not another district in
								the entire country has approached our record close enough to be looked upon as a
								rival. By the end of April this district had a remarkable lead, with 75 per cent. of
								her quota filled, and since then the work has been completed. Our nearest competitor
								for the honor is Portland, Oregon, with 70 per cent. Then a notable fall to the
								third district, Salt Lake City, with 49 per cent. Wichita, Kansas, follows, with 39
								per cent. Then comes Indianapolis, the fifth district in the country, with less than
								37 per cent., as against our more than 75 per cent.! Then follow San Francisco,
								Chicago, Terre Haute, Harrisburg and Detroit."
					
						LEXINGTON DAY.
						Thirty thousand loyal citizens united, on the 19th of April, the one hundred and
							forty-second anniversary of the battle of Lexington, in the greatest street pageant
							ever staged in Fort Wayne. A crowd of monster proportions witnessed the parade and the
							attendant ceremonies. The celebration was opened at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, when
							Frank A. Martin, impersonating Paul Revere, rode a horse at high speed southward on
							Calhoun street, through the business district, and gave the signal for the movement of
							the  parade. For a period of one hour and twenty minutes
							the procession—great sections of which were composed of persons marching sixteen
							abreast—passed the reviewing stand at the courthouse, which was occupied by
							members of the Grand Army of the Republic, the Daughters of the American Revolution
							and other patriotic orders. In addition to the military features of the parade,
							provided by Concordia College cadets in full uniform, Company E, Battery B, Battery D
							and Company B, Signal Corps, prominent features of the event were the representations
							from the public and parochial schools, many lodges and fraternal societies, labor and
							church organizations, Boy Scouts, "Uncle Sam" girls, Red Cross girls, high school
							cadets, Spanish-American War veterans, University Club, Rotary Club, One Hundred Per
							Cent. Club, Mizpah Patrol, Western Union messenger boys, Rotary newsboys, Turner
							athletes, the Fort Wayne Rifle and Revolver Club, and others. The multiplicity of
							flags, many of them of immense size, was a remarkable feature of the parade. Many
							bands and drum corps were in line.
						One by one, the units of the parade disbanded at the corner of West Main and Webster
							streets, where, on the grounds of the Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction
							Company, the day's flag-raising ceremony ensued. Prof. William Miles led in the
							singing of patriotic songs, accompanied by the Elks' band. City Attorney Guy Colerick,
							chairman of the day, presented Attorney Stephen A. Callahan, who read the following
							resolutions which bore the signatures of Mayor William J. Hosey, Charles L.
							Biederwolf, Dr. A. G. Emrick, Edward C. Miller, Frank E. Stouder, Edward G. Hoffman,
							Prof. J. N. Study, Capt. George L. Byroade, Harry W. Muller, B. J. Griswold, Robert E.
							Kelly, Capt. E. H. Kilbourne and William H. Scheiman, composing the committee of
							arrangements of the Lexington Day celebration: "Fort Wayne,
									Indiana, April 19, 1917.
								"Whereas, the United States of America is now in a state of war with the imperial
									government of Germany and Central Powers, and, whereas, it is the desire and
									purpose of fifty thousand citizens in mass meeting assembled in Fort Wayne,
									Indiana, on the anniversary of the battle of Lexington to give expression to the
									loyalty of the people of this city; be it
								"Resolved, by the entire citizen body of Fort Wayne, Indiana, and of this county
									of Allen, and of this Twelfth congressional district of the state of Indiana, That
									we loyally and sincerely approve, sanction and indorse the action taken by the
									President and Congress in declaring the existence of a state of war, and in the
									avowed purpose of prosecuting this war to a successful conclusion, to the end that
									the honor of our country shall be upheld and the rights of its citizens and of
									humanity be protected and secured; be it further
								"Resolved, That the plan of selective universal military training and service, as
									proposed by the Honorable Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States, be
									enacted into law by Congress without delay; and be it further
								"Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be transmitted to the President and
									to each senator and member of Congress from the state of Indiana."
						
						Prolonged cheers followed the unanimous adoption of the resolutions. Addresses were
							made by Mayor W. J. Hosey and Dr. James E. Jayne, of Wabash, Indiana, and, at the
							close, while the buglers of the Concordia College cadets sounded "to the colors,"
							Capt. George L. Byroade, U. S. A., raised a large flag to the top of a ninety-foot
							flagstaff. Then the vast crowd, with heads bared, united in singing "The Star-Spangled
							Banner."
						Among the speakers who addressed evening meetings were Rev. Arthur J. Folsom, pastor
							of Plymouth Congregational church; Rev. John F. Noll, of Huntington, Indiana; Harry H.
							Hilgeman, Charles M. Niezer, E. V. Emrick and Judge John W. Eggeman.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE LEADS THE NATION IN REGULAR ARMY ENLISTMENTS.
						From the beginning, the Fort Wayne recruiting district of the United States army, in
							charge of Capt. Thomas F. Ryan, U. S. A., claimed the attention of the military
							authorities throughout the country because of its leadership in the matter of the
							number of men enrolled for war service. From April 6, the day of the formal
							declaration of war, up to May 23, when Indiana's original quota of 5,500 men was
							secured, 3,000 of these—or 55 per cent. of the whole—were sent from the
							Fort Wayne station to Fort Thomas, Kentucky. During April, alone, one full regiment
							was recruited at Fort Wayne and sent to Fort Thomas by special train. During one day,
							May 1, a total of 223 men was enlisted, while the greatest number of men accepted for
							the United States army in a later day was 278. From the 1st of April to the first week
							in June, a grand total of 4,000 men was sent from Fort Wayne to the United States army
							camps. The recruiting station was located at No. 115 East Main street.
						The Fort Wayne district includes a large part of northern Indiana, and large
							delegations have enlisted from the cities of Mishawaka, Hammond, Indiana Harbor, Gary,
							Huntington, South Bend, Elkhart, Kokomo and Marion.
						Under the provisions of a law passed by Congress, the government pays private
							soldiers $30 per month instead of $15, as formerly; corporals receive $36, sergeants
							$42, quartermaster sergeants $44, first sergeants and members of non-commissioned
							staff $51. The revision of the scale does not affect the continuous service pay, which
							is much higher and wins for the soldier an increase with every re-enlistment with the
							colors.
					
					
						THE DEPARTURE OF BATTERY D.
						Although thousands of men already had been recruited for the regular army from the
							Fort Wayne district and sent to Fort Thomas, Kentucky, previous to the departure of
							any of the local military units, keen interest centered upon the entrainment of
							Battery D, First regiment, Indiana National Guard, on the morning of July 2. Battery
							D, with recruiting headquarters at the courthouse, was the first unit organized in
							Fort Wayne following the declaration of war with Germany. On the day of its departure
							one hundred and ninety men, escorted by a parade composed of a platoon of police, the
							Elks' band, Civil War veterans, Spanish War veterans, the Fort Wayne Council of
							Patriotic Service, Battery B, Company B, Signal Corps, Boy Scouts and relatives of the
							department soldiers,  were taken by a special train over
							the Lake Erie and Western railroad to Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indianapolis. Thousands
							of citizens thronged the streets and the vicinity of the railway station, where
							addresses were made by Rev. John R. Quinlan, rector of the Cathedral of the Immaculate
							Conception, and Rev. Arthur J. Folsom, pastor of Plymouth Congregational church. The
							officers of Battery D at the time of its departure from Fort Wayne were: Captain, Mark
							A. Dawson; senior first lieutenant, Luther A. Mertz; junior first lieutenant, C. A.
							Brintzenhofe.
					
					
						BATTERY B SUMMONED
						Fort Wayne's second military unit, Battery B, First Regiment, Field artillery,
							Indiana National Guard, was mustered into the service of the United States and
							departed for Camp Benjamin Harrison over the Lake Erie and Western Railway on the
							morning of Sunday, March 5. A great parade, following an address delivered by Judge
							Samuel M. Hench, department commander of the G. A. R., from the balcony of the Anthony
							hotel, preceded the entrainment. The battery officers, at the time of departure were:
							Captain, Sydney S. Miller; first lieutenants, Leonard F. Wood and Lee Hensley; second
							lieutenants, Ferdinand H. Scheffer and Henry C. Moriarity.
					
					
						COMPANY E, FIRST INFANTRY.
						Company E, First infantry Indiana National Guard, a large proportion of whose members
							saw service on the Mexican border in 1916, found but little difficulty in recruiting
							to war strength for the conflict with Germany. Ray McAdams served as captain of the
							company, which made prompt preparation to answer the call to the colors. The
							recruiting headquarters were located in the courthouse. The company was ordered into
							the federal service August 5.
					
					
						COMPANY B, INDIANA SIGNAL CORPS.
						Company B, of the Indiana Signal Corps, recruited in Fort Wayne, was officered as
							follows: Lynn O. Knowlton, captain; F. W. Kuhns, senior first lieutenant; Bert S.
							Hawkins, junior first lieutenant. The recruiting headquarters of the corps was located
							in the Old National Bank building. The drill quarters were located in Library Hall,
							Calhoun and Lewis streets. The officers of the Fort Wayne Signal Corps Association,
							with headquarters in the Old National Bank building, were: F. W. Kuhns, president; W.
							A. Monahan, vice-president; C. L. Strodel, secretary, and S. F. DeWald, treasurer.
							Company B was summoned for federal service August 5.
					
					
						RECRUITS FOR THE NAVY.
						In May the increase in the personnel of the navy from 87,000 to 150,000 created a
							broad demand for men in this attractive branch of the service. Under the direction of
							Quartermaster R. Wort a live campaign in Fort Wayne resulted in the enlistment of
							scores of men from all portions of northern Indiana at the government building
							headquarters. Special interest was aroused by the display in the Allen county
							courthouse of a large "Whitehead" torpedo of the type used by the United States
							navy.
					
					
						NAVY LEAGUE BRANCH.
						At a meeting held May 14, the Fort Wayne branch of the Navy League was organized with
							the following officers: President, Daniel B. Ninde; vice-president, James M. Barrett;
							secretary, J. M.  Kuhns; treasurer, F. E. Hoffman. The
							purpose of the league is to "keep alive popular interest in the navy and to drive home
							the fact that what has been accomplished is but a beginning."
					
					
						ALLEN COUNTY HOME GUARD.
						Within the ranks of the Allen County Home Guard were included none but men of
							previous military experience and who were unable to respond to the call to the defense
							of the colors. The organization was formed under the sanction of the war department,
							with the following officers: Captain, John E. Miller; adjutant, John H. Johnson;
							district captains, Daniel W. Kintz, Peter A. Thompson and John C. Jackson. By the
							middle of July, one hundred and seventy-five men were enrolled, the members including
							those who had seen service in all wars and campaigns since the beginning of the civil
							war. Many veterans of the rebellion were included in the ranks. The object of the home
							guard was to deal with such riots and disturbances as might claim attention, following
							the departure of the troops.
					
					
						THE MOTOR RESERVE CORPS.
						With the appointment of a committee composed of Dan N. Beers (chairman), William M.
							Griffin and Austin W. Stults, acting in conjunction with a Commercial Club committee
							consisting of J. M. Kuhns (chairman), George Waldschmidt, J. E. Elliott, Oscar Brokaw
							and Heeley Link, a number of motor car, motor truck and motorcycle units were
							organized for emergency service within the state of Indiana.
					
					
						THE OFFICERS' RESERVE CORPS.
						Beginning on the 26th of April, scores of Fort Wayne men between the ages of 21 and
							44 passed the preliminary examination held at the Commercial Club entitling them to
							enlistment in the Officers' Reserve Corps of the United States Army. In making
							possible the opportunity for untrained men to enter the military service of the United
							States and attain to rank without first completing a course at West Point, many
							citizens fully equipped mentally and physically to meet the responsibility after a
							three-month training were secured. These were ordered to Fort Benjamin Harrison,
							Indianapolis, where were assembled men from three states in one great officers'
							training camp.
						Capt. George L. Byroade, U. S. A., supervised the work of the Board of Commissioners
							of the Officers' Reserve Corps, of which Capt. E. H. Kilbourne was the chairman,
							assisted by the following named executive committee: Edward A. Wagner, Stephen A.
							Callahan, Harry W. Muller, Harry G. Hogan, Martin H. Luecke, Byron H. Somers, Frank G.
							Hamilton, Edward R. Lewis, Arthur K. Remmel, Joseph C. Hutzell, Dr. H. O. Bruggeman
							and Edward C. Miller. An advisory committee was composed of the following citizens:
							William C. Schwier, William M. Griffin, S. F. Bowser, Theodore F. Thieme, Dr. G. M.
							Leslie, A. A. Serva, E. E. Greist, S. K. Blair, Robert M. Feustel, H. C. Rockhill,
							John Wilding, S. E. Mulholland, G. A. Jacobs, J. B. Franke, W. H. Bensman, Henry C.
							Berghoff, P. F. Griffin, A. S. Bond and E. C. Miller. Applicants were judged upon
							points of general appearance, address, education, sobriety and 
							
								VIEWS OF THE PAGEANT GROUNDS, RESERVOIR PARK, JUNE, 1916.
								The stage on the island, where the action of the pageant took place.
								A portion of the amphitheatre; capacity, 14,000.
								The audience on Sunday afternoon, preceding the pageant. The photographs are
									reproduced through the courtesy of Forbes M. Morrison.
							
							
								ALLEN COUNTY'S FIFTH COURTHOUSE.
								This magnificent structure, costing $817,600, was dedicated September 23, 1902.
									The dimensions of the building are 134 by 270 feet. The distance from the street
									level to of Liberty is 225 the top of the statue feet. The clock dials are
									thirteen feet in diameter.
							
							
								STIRRING SCENES OF 1917.
								1. The entertainment of Battery D. 2 and 4. Glimpses of the great Lexington Day
									parade. 3. "Whitehead" torpedo at Navy enlistment headquarters, court house. 5.
									Red Cross girls "decorating" young men on conscription registration day. 6.
									Artillery equipment of Battery D on flat cars for shipment to Fort Benjamin
									Harrison, Indianapolis. 7. Ceremony attending the departure of Concordia College
									students for the Officers' Reserve Camp, Fort Benjamin Harrison. 8. A group of Red
									Cross workers. Photos by Leonard Brandt, Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette.
							
							 the ability of the individual to command respect and
							obedience. For the first time in the nation's history age restrictions were revised so
							that the age limit, placed at forty-four years, permitted the enlistment of many men
							of mature years.
						With a splendid spirit of patriotic co-operation, many mercantile and other
							establishments granted vacations to employes who entered upon the officers' training
							course, which opened at Indianapolis May 14. One of the notable features of the
							enrollment was that of a group of students of Concordia College, the prominent German
							Lutheran educational institution of Fort Wayne. The faculty announced, on the 5th of
							May, that one hundred per cent. of the eligibles in the school had applied for
							admission to the training corps. Eleven students were accepted.
						Late in June a second military training camp was ordered and the office was again
							opened and a like body of men for the officers' corps was enrolled for the camp which
							opened August 27.
						Dr. Budd Van Sweringen was appointed a captain in the medical corps of the officers'
							reserve corps.
					
					
						COUNCIL OF PATRIOTIC SERVICE.
						One of the first steps in the general organization for war work was the formation of
							the Fort Wayne Council of Patriotic Service, which sprang into being in April, when it
							became apparent that many local forces, all seeking to give effective support to the
							government, were in danger of conflict of purpose. The council had its inception at a
							banquet at the Anthony Hotel on the evening of April 13, when the representatives of
							various organizations were the guests of the Quest Club. The object of the council was
							"to centralize and co-ordinate the efforts of Fort Wayne organizations along all lines
							of patriotic service." It welcomed to its membership one delegate from "any and all
							clubs, associations, societies, federations, religious and civic bodies, labor unions,
							educational and fraternal organizations and other groups of individuals, without
							regard to age, sex, color, nativity, religion or previous affiliation, so long as such
							members are citizens of the United States, of unswerving loyalty to the government of
							the United States."
						On the 31st of April, at the Commercial Club, William H. Scheiman was elected
							president of the council, Frank E. Bohn vice-president, Charles R. Lane secretary and
							J. Ross McCulloch treasurer. Scores of organizations united in this central body or
							"clearing house" of ideas and systematic work.
					
					
						ALLEN COUNTY COUNCIL OF DEFENSE.
						On the 27th of June, acting upon the request of James E. Goodrich, governor of
							Indiana, Judge John W. Eggeman appointed the above-named officers of the Fort Wayne
							Council of Patriotic Service, together with Fred S. Hunting, Rev. A. J. Folsom and
							Mrs. George Evans, to serve as the officers and members of the Allen County Council of
							Defense, which later performed valuable service in connection with the war movements
							of the community. This local council was a part of the Indiana Council of Defense,
							which was subordinate to the national organization. Mrs. Clark Fairbank was named by
							Governor Goodrich as a member of the Indiana Council of Defense.
					
					
					
						SPLENDID RESPONSE TO THE RED CROSS APPEAL.
						Fort Wayne found itself captured in the great wave of patriotic fervor which swept
							over the country during the week of June 18, when the national government asked the
							people to contribute $100,000,000 to carry to the battlefields of Europe the hospital
							requirements of the American army. It was the appeal to loyalty to the American Red
							Cross. Within the prescribed time Fort Wayne and Allen county citizens subscribed a
							total of more than $112,000, or $32,000 in excess of the county's quota. Of the total
							amount secured, $92,250 was subscribed in Fort Wayne, and $19,850 in Allen county
							outside the city. The week's campaign closed with a great demonstration at the Elks'
							Temple on the evening of June 25. Said one of the newspapers in describing the scene:
								"Flags waved, voices trembled with emotion, men and women
									stood and shouted hurrahs for Old Glory and the Red Cross flag, as the greatest
									campaign ever waged in Fort Wayne and Allen county came to a close. Allen county's
									patriotism and generosity had been written with letters of fire upon the nation's
									roll of honor by a Red Cross subscription of more than $112,000, and the
									jollification was a fitting climax to a week of sacrifice and patriotic endeavor
									on the part of the workers and the people. With the walls and ceiling draped in
									the national colors, Miss Columbia and Uncle Sam, attired in the Stars and
									Stripes, as dominating figures, and an arch of victory erected in the center of
									the hall, a most appropriate setting was provided for the culminating feature of
									the campaign which moved the citizenship of Allen county as it has never been
									moved before."
						Among the effective slogans used during the campaign was that which proclaimed that
							"If you don't come across, Germany will!"
						The organization which managed the campaign was officered as follows: B. Paul
							Mossman, general chairman; Judge John W. Eggeman, Abe Ackerman, F. S. Hunting, Henry
							C. Paul and Samuel M. Foster, members of the executive committee; Harry G. Hogan,
							general captain of the city teams; William C. Schwier, general captain of the county
							teams. The captains of the city teams were Albert E. Thomas, J. Wade Bailey, E. A.
							Wagner, Stephen A. Callahan, H. A. Perfect, A. A. Serva, Guy Scott, Henry Beadell,
							Charles M. Niezer, Martin H. Luecke and A. S. Bond. The captains of the county teams
							were David O. McComb, Will Johnson, William A. Tonkel, Dr. George W. Gillie, Edward G.
							Hoffman, William Johnston, Samuel S. Kelker, Christian Vonderau, Henry A. Wetzel,
							William F. Ranke, A. W. Grosvenor, Allen Hamilton, William Eggeman, A. J. Hutchins,
							Byron E. Hayes, August Reiling, Edwin W. Miller, Adolph W. Lepper, David C. Stout and
							Dr. J. E. McArdle.
						The work of the solicitors was opened at a banquet at the Anthony Hotel on the
							evening of June 18, when, in the midst of an exhibition of patriotism and enthusiasm
							probably unsurpassed in the city's history, the first $10,000 was subscribed by ten
							citizens, each giving $1,000 as a beginning, with the promise of a duplication of the
							amount in case the solicitors failed to secure a total of the required $80,000.
							Addresses were made by B. Paul Mossman, Judge John W. Eggeman, Charles M. Niezer,
							Prof. Louis W. Dorn  and S. M. Foster, of Fort Wayne,
							and Prof. B. J. Nelson, of the University of Chicago.
						A parade on the afternoon of the closing day added to the patriotic spirit of the Red
							Cross week.
					
					
						CENTRAL RED CROSS SUPPLY DEPOT.
						In July, Fort Wayne was selected as a central shipping point for Red Cross supplies
							for all chapters of the state of Indiana north of Indianapolis. At the beginning, this
							included one hundred and twenty chapters all of which, with those organized since
							July, send their hospital supplies to the central depot for distribution as required.
							Mrs. A. E. Fauve, appointed by A. F. Bentley, state director, was named as the
							inspector-in-charge. Headquarters was opened at Nos. 626-628 Calhoun street (the
							Foellinger block).
					
					
						THE FORT WAYNE RED CROSS CHAPTER.
						Previous to the period of the solicitation of contributions for the nation's Red
							Cross war fund—indeed, before the declaration of war—an important and
							active chapter of the organization had been organized with a membership numbering
							thousands of the patriotic men and women of the city. B. Paul Mossman was the chairman
							of the chapter, with Mrs. A. J. Detzer vice-chairman, Dr. Jessie Calvin secretary and
							Frank H. Cutshall treasurer. Opening with a meeting at the Majestic Theatre, addressed
							by Ernest P. Bicknell, director general of the civilian branch of the Red Cross, who
							had recently returned from a tour of the European battle fronts, a membership campaign
							under the direction of Edward C. Miller and Mrs. A. E. Fauve resulted in the rapid
							growth of the chapter. Headquarters was opened at No. 126 East Berry street. Mrs.
							Charles E. Bond was chosen, in June, to serve as general chairman, with Miss Winifred
							Rowan (Mrs. Harry Boyle) secretary, succeeded by Miss LaVon Sperry. Others who were
							especially active in the work of the chapter during the earlier weeks were Rev. Henry
							B. Master, Mrs. F. I. Brown, Mrs. A. L. Johns, Mrs. Allen Hamilton, Mrs. William H.
							Rohan, Mrs. Julia Fay Randall, Mrs. P. J. McDonald, Miss Alice Knight, Mrs. G. H.
							Heine, Mrs. Ellis Branson, Mrs. Ralph Clark, Mrs. John Evans, Mrs. Herman Mackwitz,
							Mrs. George W. Beers, Mrs. Harry L. Askew, Mrs. William McKinnie, Mrs. Arthur K.
							Remmel, Mrs. C. J. Schoo and Mrs. Joseph Lohman.
						The jurisdiction of the Fort Wayne chapter was expanded to include the entire county
							of Allen, and, later, the counties of Adams, Noble and LaGrange. As rapidly as the
							workers could be trained in the methods of the organization, many classes of men and
							women were organized for the study of "first aid," and these came under the
							instruction of a group of volunteers among the leading physicians and surgeons of the
							city, with Dr. Miles F. Porter as chairman. Many women's classes in the home care of
							the sick were placed under the instruction of Miss Frances Ott, of Morocco, and other
							experienced Red Cross workers. Other classes made a study of the making of clothing
							and supplies for hospital and field service, and vast quantities of supplies were
							prepared in accordance with specific instructions from the national society and with
							strict  consideration of economy of materials and
							energy. Much of the sewing was done in the homes of the class members and in the
							various churches and rooms of the societies represented. Miss Mary Johnson, a Chicago
							Red Cross nurse, served as the first instructor of the class in the making of hospital
							supplies.
						In June Charles R. Lane was appointed chairman of the committee on civilian relief,
							with the duty of attending to the wants of families of soldiers and to organize his
							committee for counsel and advice in financial and other matters in this special branch
							of the Red Cross service.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE'S RED CROSS HOSPITAL UNIT.
						Early in May twelve of the leading physicians of Fort Wayne, together with twenty-one
							graduate Red Cross nurses in charge of Miss Elizabeth E. Springer, composing a group
							known as Hospital Unit M, fully equipped for service in France, placed themselves at
							the nation's call. This unit, backed by the Fort Wayne chapter of the Red Cross was
							financed by a fund of $6,250, as required by the government, given by twenty-five
							individuals and business firms. The physicians included in the original unit are Dr.
							Miles F. Porter, major and director; Dr. Allen Hamilton, captain and assistant
							director; Dr. Henry O. Bruggeman, captain and chief of surgical staff; Dr. Kent K.
							Wheelock, surgeon-captain; Dr. John H. Gilpin, first lieutenant and
							surgeon-anesthetist; Dr. B. W. Rhamy, first lieutenant and surgeon-pathologist; Dr.
							Dean Metcalf, first lieutenant-surgeon; Dr. Charles G. Beall, chief of medical staff
							and captain; Dr. Charles R. Dancer, physician-captain; Dr. Garrett VanSweringen,
							physician-first lieutenant; Dr. Miles F. Porter, Jr., physician-first lieutenant, and
							Dr. B. M. Edlavitch, bacteriologist, physician-first lieutenant. In July, Dr. Harvey
							H. Martin, of LaPorte, Indiana, and Dr. Herbert Senseny, of Fort Wayne, were added to
							the list, when Drs. Miles F. Porter and K. K. Wheelock, were compelled by a ruling of
							the government on the question of age limit, to withdraw. Dr. Hamilton succeeded Dr.
							Porter as major and director.
					
					
						SELECTIVE CONSCRIPTION REGISTRATION.
						Following a magnificent patriotic demonstration on the evening of June 5, the young
							men of Fort Wayne to the number of 7,785, who had not yet entered some branch of the
							service assembled at the places of registration in each city ward, in response to the
							President's proclamation, and entered their names upon the selective conscription
							enrollment. The day passed with a faultless spirit of co-operation and with no
							suggestion of revolt against the President's demand that all men between the ages of
							21 and 31, inclusive, should provide the government with full information covering
							many points of the personal history of the applicant.
						Governor Goodrich, late in April, had appointed Mayor W. J. Hosey, L. H. Moore,
							Sheriff George W. Gillie, County Clerk David C. Stout and Dr. H. A. Duemling to serve
							as Allen county's representatives on the conscription board. Mayor Hosey, acting under
							instructions from Adjutant-General Smith to name a district board for each 30,000 of
							population in the city of Fort Wayne to act upon the legality of exemptions from
							military service, made the following appointments: William Geake, Gustav W. Boerger,
							Dr. L. P. Drayer,  Adam A. Rinehart, Henry W. Lepper,
							Dr. Charles G. Beall, Walter A. Barrett, Albert T. Miller, Dr. J. E. McArdle, Dr. W.
							O. McBride, Dr. J. C. Wallace, Dr. A. L. Schneider, Dr. Dean Metcalf, Dr. H. M.
							Senseny, Dr. Lyman K. Gould, Dr. W. D. Calvin and Dr. Maurice Lohman. Mr. Geake and
							Mr. Boeger (resigned) were succeeded by Frank E. Stouder and H. G. Keegan. Dr. Miles
							F. Porter, Sr., was a member of the federal exemption board, appointed by President
							Wilson.
						Upon the opening of the places of registration on the morning of June 5, the young
							ladies of the Red Cross, directed by Mrs. John H. Gilpin, congratulated each young man
							as he completed his registration and attached to the left sleeve of his coat a khaki
							arm band. Of the total 7,785 who registered, 4,556 claimed exemption on account of
							"holding legislative, judicial or executive offices, total disability, the dependence
							of relatives or the following of occupations which would exempt them from military
							service." Among the remainder, 554 were listed as aliens and 61 as "alien
							enemies."
						On the evening of Monday, June 4, the day before the conscription registration, a
							"Liberty" parade of veterans of former wars, Boy Scouts, military organizations, Red
							Cross workers and fraternal societies, together with hundreds of young men who
							registered the following day, forming a total of nearly six thousand persons, was
							halted at the courthouse square, where addresses were delivered by Attorney Albert E.
							Thomas and Prof. Louis W. Dorn, of Concordia College.
					
					
						FORT WAYNE AND THE MILITARY "DRAFT."
						Then came the momentous day of the military conscription lottery—commonly
							termed the "draft"—July 20, when scenes intense and solemnly impressive,
							recalled to the older residents the scenes of the civil war days. On the 13th of July,
							the war department had announced that the President's call for men for the "new
							national army" would require of Allen county 490 in the first "draft," of which Fort
							Wayne would provide 383. The numbers of those who were called from Fort Wayne and
							Allen county were announced during Friday and Saturday, July 20 and 21, and great
							crowds gathered about the bulletin boards and the newspapers were eagerly scanned not
							only by the young men who had registered on conscription day but by anxious friends
							and relatives who realized that this was the final call from the war department. The
							three Fort Wayne registration districts selected headquarters in the Harmar and
							Hoagland public schools and the Elks' Temple. To these headquarters were summoned the
							hundreds of representatives of those called in the first contingent for examination.
							Here, also, all claims of exemption were presented. The first to pass the examination
							and who were proven to be otherwise eligible for service were enrolled with the new
							army, which immediately prepared for training and sevice.
						On Saturday, July 21, the day following the "lottery," Captain Thomas F. Ryan, U. S.
							A., in charge of the regular army recruiting office in Fort Wayne, issued a plea to
							all drafted men to enlist before the official notice of the call was received by those
							whose numbers had been drawn. "Now is the young man's last opportunity to  volunteer his services for the regular army," said he.
							"The numbers for the draft have been drawn, and you now know whether or not you will
							go with the first 687,000 or with the second. * * * I desire to warn all those young
							men whose numbers have been drawn and who will be drafted for the force to be
							mobilized September 1, that this is their last opportunity."
						Many, thereupon, enlisted with the regular army and with the ranks of Battery B,
							Company E and Company B of the Signal Corps.
						Governor Goodrich appointed Judge Sol A. Wood a member of the government's board of
							appeals in conscription cases.
					
					
						THE REGISTRATION OF "ALIEN ENEMIES."
						The stupendous task of registering the so-called "alien enemies" of the United States
							was made doubly heavy in Fort Wayne, owing to a combination of peculiar conditions.
							The President's proclamation of April 6 defined all German residents over fourteen
							years of age who were unnaturalized as "alien enemies." The laws of Indiana allow the
							right of ballot to all immigrants who have made their declaration to become American
							citizens and who have received their first naturalization papers, but who may not have
							received their full citizenship rights. As a consequence, hundreds of substantial
							citizens, many of them prominent in the commercial and professional life of the city,
							were found to be "alien enemies," although at heart true and loyal citizens. Many of
							these who had not completed the process of naturalization, but who had exercised their
							votnig privilege for many years, were slow to present themselves at the office of
							Special Deputy United States Marshal Harry W. Muller, who received his appointment
							from Governor Goodrich with the task of registering all "alien enemies" in Fort Wayne.
							An extension of time from June 9 to June 18 was found necessary, and at the end of
							that time a total of 850 men was recorded. With the registration of each
							man—except in a few instances—the deputy marshal issued a permit allowing
							the latter "to continue to reside within, to come within or pass through, be employed
							within, or conduct business within, the areas (or zones) within one-half mile radius"
							of the manufacturing plants of the General Electric Company, S. F. Bowser and Company
							and the Bass Foundry and Machine Company, and the Pennsylvania railroad shops and east
							car shops, each of which institutions was engaged in government work. Each permit bore
							the photograph of the holder, and duplicate permits and photographs were held on file.
							To aid in the wearisome work of the registration, scores of volunteers assisted Mr.
							Muller and his advisory committee and assistant special deputy marshals, the two
							latter bodies being composed as follows:
						Advisory committee: Fred S. Hunting, S. B. Bechtel, Dr. G. M. Leslie, E. G. Hoffman,
							E. H. Kilbourne, T. J. Logan, Charles L. Biederwolf, W. H. Scheiman, E. C. Miller,
							Judge John W. Eggeman, William M. Griffin, Rev. A. J. Folsom, William J. Hosey, Dr. L.
							P. Drayer, William Geake, Henry Beadell, L. G. Ellingham, Harry M. Williams, Herman
							Mackwitz, C. F. Bicknell and E. E. Greist. Assistant special deputy United States
							marshals: Anselm Fuelber, Charles J. Steiss, William C. Schwier, Adam A. Reinhart, R.
							E. Gerberding,  John Rissing, Fred D. C. Wehrenberg,
							George Eisenhut, Capt. William F. Ranke, Sheriff George W. Gillie, John C. Capron,
							Harry G. Hogan, John Booth, Charles L. Biederwolf, A. I. Betz, Albert C. Pape, Heeley
							Link and A. L. Ward.
						Among those exempted from the provisions of the "alien enemy" regulation were
							"ministers of the gospel, city firemen and churchgoers in the actual going to and from
							their regular church services."
					
					
						FORT WAYNE AND LIBERTY BONDS.
						Previous to the date of the opening of the headquarters for the sale of "Liberty"
							bonds in the former rooms of the Hamilton National Bank, on the 4th of June in charge
							of E. H. McDonald, the people of Fort Wayne had not awakened to the significance of
							the appeal of Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo, but with the realization that in, its
							plea for the purchase of bonds to the amount of $2,000,000,000, the government
							revealed its real needs the ready response was reflected at the end of the ten-day
							sale by the total purchase in Fort Wayne of the city's quota of $2,800,000.
						Charles H. Worden, president of the First and Hamilton National Bank, was named as
							the chairman of the Allen county organization for the sale of the government bonds and
							a campaign of education was promptly launched. A body of business men, headed by
							Arthur F. Hall, conducted a one-day special campaign of solicitation, following the
							successful efforts of the large manufacturing plants and other institutions in
							formulating easy-payment plans for the sale of bonds to their employes. Many fraternal
							orders and other organizations were liberal purchasers.
					
					
						Y. M. C. A. WAR FUND OVER-SUBSCRIBED.
						The people of Fort Wayne responded patriotically to the nation's call to subscribe
							their share of the allotted $3,000,000 Young Men's Christian Association fund to care
							for the physical, mental and moral needs of the men in the state camps of
							mobilization. Of Indiana's apportionment of $150,000, the Fort Wayne district,
							including Allen, Whitley, Adams, Wells, Steuben, Huntington and DeKalb counties,
							subscribed a total of $14,232, or $2,632 more than the district was asked to raise. B.
							Paul Mossman served as the district chairman of the campaign, Edwin W. Peirce district
							secretary and Arthur F. Hall chairman of the Allen county committee.
					
					
						THE CATHOLIC WAR FUND
						Maurice C. Niezer served as the general chairman of the Knights of Columbus campaign
							to meet Allen county's quota of the nation's million dollar Catholic war fund raised
							during the closing days of July, for use in administering the welfare of the men in
							camp. Every parish of the county was districted for the systematic canvass. Alexander
							A. Kartholl served as the secretary and Othmar N. Heiny treasurer of the general
							committee. Captains of the city parish committees were: Cathedral, James B. Cahill;
							St. Patrick's, A. A. Serva; St. Mary's, Alexander A. Kartholl; St. Peter's, Julian F.
							Franke; St. Paul's, Edmund C. Nichter; Church of the Precious Blood, Robert E. Kelly;
							St. Hyacinth's, Rev. Michael Swaitkowski; St. Joseph's Harry F. Kennerk. County
							captains were. St. Rose (Monroeville), Dr. D. E. Kauffman; St. Louis (Besancon), Rev.
								 George Moorman; St. John's (New Haven), Thomas
							Dowling; St. Patrick's (Arcola), Dennis F. Gorman; St. Vincent's (Academie), Michael
							L. Till; St. Aloysius (Sheldon), Rev. John B. Steger; St. Joseph's (Hesse Cassel) John
							B. Wyss. The total amount of the county subscription, over $9,000, placed the county
							next to Marion county (Indianapolis) in the size of the subscription.
					
					
						THE "WAR" GARDENS.
						The appeal from President Wilson and Gov. James E. Goodrich, early in April, calling
							upon all citizens to co-operate in the cultivation of the soil in order to avert a
							food shortage and prohibitive prices, met with a ready response from the people of
							Fort Wayne. Mayor W. J. Hosey appointed the following members of the Fort Wayne branch
							of the National Food Relief Committee: Frank H. Hilgeman (chairman), Abe Ackerman, W.
							F. Graeter, Frank J. Schlebecker, Carl J. Getz, Flora Wilber, Norma Erf and Maude
							Gaskins. Headquarters was opened at No. 810 Clinton street. Referring to conditions at
							the beginning of the campaign of education, Chairman Hilgeman said: "The present high prices are facts that cannot be disputed.
									Note, for instance, cabbages at $350 per ton that ought to sell for $10, and
									potatoes selling for $4 per bushed that ought to sell for 50 cents. Beans that any
									farmer can raise profitably at $2 per bushel are selling for $10 per bushel, and
									flour, which is normally sold for $4 per barrel, is $16. Reflect upon these
									tremendous prices for a few moments and you will have a nucleus for a mighty
									forceful argument to encourage the planting of more food. The planting season is
									upon us, and it behooves everybody to 'get busy.' Remember that the situation is
									worse than you can make it appear."
						At once, three hundred citizens gave freely of the use of their vacant lots for the
							cultivation of vegetables. The committee furnished seed potatoes and beans at cost.
							Lots were plowed and harrowed for one dollar. The products were the sole property of
							the persons cultivating them. Michael Costello and Councilman Frank J. Schlebecker
							assumed charge of the work of securing teams for the work. Soon the demand outstripped
							the equipment, which included a number of teams from the various city departments. To
							stimulate interest in the plan, many citizens addressed large crowds of workingmen at
							the railway shops and manufacturing plants. Early in the campaign fifteen hundred
							school children were enlisted in the garden movement. Secretary Richards, of the
							Indiana Horticultural Society, addressed various civic and commercial bodies in a
							successful effort to systematize the early plans of the local committees. In May, B.
							P. Stonecifer, of Purdue University, was appointed to supervise the entire work of
							vegetable gardening in the city, assisted by City Forester Carl J. Getz and County
							Agent A. J. Hutchins. Fred W. Gray, of Terre Haute, Indiana, became the successor of
							Mr. Stonecifer in June. Mr. Gray divided the city into thirty districts, each under
							the personal supervision of a superintendent. Hundreds of books on the subject of home
							gardening prepared by the national government were distributed, and the newspapers
							conducted a campaign of education along this line.
						A systematic house-to-house canvass, by members of the Fort  Wayne Boy Scout organization, secured the information that as early as the
							fore part of May 3,734 vegetable gardens had been decided upon. Of this number, 2,790
							were in back yards. In 834 instances, large tracts were under cultivation. Less than
							27 per cent. of the homes visited reported that no gardens would be cultivated. The
							boys who made the canvass left at each home a pamphlet from which the following
							extract is made: "Every man, woman and child who can wield a hoe and make the earth
							produce food owes it to himself and to all of us and the government besides to do what
							can be done to increase the crop of food. Remember, we shall pay dearly in the winter
							for indifference now. America has never known what it is to suffer for food, but
							America will know to her sorrow unless she plants and sows. Be a patriot—not a
							'slacker.'"
						The municipal greenhouses in Lawton Park were brought into the plan when 35,000
							cabbage plants were provided to all who desired them.
						In July, Chairman Hilgeman, in an official report, stated that his committee had
							plowed 671 city lots and forty acres of ground, accommodating 460 families and 80
							boys. The committee leased to 275 gardeners 486 lots and 112 acres of ground, the
							plowing of which was handled by the gardeners. A total of 1,157 lots and 152 acres
							were under cultivation. About 1,200 bushels of seed potatoes and 30 bushels of beans
							were disposed of by the committee at a saving to the public of 75 cents a bushel on
							potatoes and 5 cents a pound on beans. A quantity of potatoes and beans was provided
							free to families in poor circumstances.
						Demonstrations of the most approved processes of canning fruits and vegetables,
							arranged under the direction of Mrs. J. G. Schwarz, chairman of the home economics
							department of the Woman's Club League, and Miss Alma Garvin, of Purdue University,
							were opened June 25 in several of the public schools. Beginning July 23,
							demonstrations in the "cold pack" process were given by Miss Garvin at the Scottish
							Rite Cathedral.
					
					
						ADOPTION OF "EASTERN" TIME.
						For several months previous to the outbreak of the war, the suggestion that the city
							of Fort Wayne "set the hands of the clock one hour ahead" met with ready approval from
							many quarters. The recognition of the advantage of an extra hour of daylight in the
							afternoon to those who had planted "war" gardens hastened the official action of the
							city council, which, on the evening of May 1, 1917, by a vote of 14 to 1, adopted the
							so-called "daylight saving" plan, which became effective Saturday May 12.
					
					
						WOMEN TAKE MEN'S PLACES IN SHOPS.
						On account of the scarcity of men needed in the various industrial institutions of
							Fort Wayne, due to the call of many to military service, large numbers of women
							accepted employment in the places of men. In response to an appeal for one hundred
							women workers issued early in August by E. E. Greist, master mechanic of the
							Pennsylvania railroad, many were first engaged in the main shops, the east shops and
							the roundhouses of the company in Fort Wayne. Women's wages were made equal to those
							of men similarly employed. Suitable rest-rooms and other accommodations  were provided. Here, as in the plant of the General
							Electric Company and elsewhere, women and girls adopted the use of the "jumper," a
							loose, one-piece suit of clothing, well fitted to their new field of usefulness.
					
					
						BOYS' WORKING RESERVE.
						The Boys' Working Reserve, a national non-military organization composed of youths
							between sixteen and twenty years, inclusive, whose members were needed to take the
							places of enlisted men, was organized through compulsory enrollment at the Harmar,
							Hanna, Hoagland and Jefferson school buildings in Fort Wayne and at various township
							centers, beginning August 13. L. O. Wetzel, director for Fort Wayne, and D. O. McComb,
							director for the township, headed the departments. Doctors C. J. Rothschild and E. A.
							Crull served as examining surgeons.
						Hundreds of citizens contributed liberally to the fund for the purchase of a fully
							equipped Red Cross motor ambulance which was presented to the government. Mrs. John M.
							Gilpin led in the campaign for funds.
						In addition to the recognition in this brief review of the war preparations up to
							midsummer of 1917, much in true praise could be said of the splendid work of hundreds
							of individuals who have given of their services in the various departments of the
							government's work, including the aviation corps, the medical departments and
							others—in truth, Fort Wayne and Allen county are strongly identified with every
							phase of the war which is designed to wipe tyranny from the face of the earth. "For
							these men will fight to make men free," observed the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette on the
							morning following the proclamation of the "draft" numbers—"fight to make
							democracy safe and autocracy and tyranny a hateful memory of a bygone age—fight
							for a peace that shall persist—fight for a land that Washington wrought for,
							Lincoln died for, Wilson strives for!" And through it all, come what may, there will
							ever stand forth the noble work of the women whose first thought has been for the
							comfort of the boys who have gone forth to fight the world's battles that peace shall
							forever reign.
					
					
						CONCLUSION.
						In one of the earlier chapters of this work, written at a time when the horrors of a
							world war had not yet shaken the earth, these words appear: "And the close of this book is but the beginning, for the greater actors, we
									doubt not, are to come in a day which is not ours."
						Truly, these are days in which a new order of man is made; when individuals are lost
							in a union of purpose in a common service; when love of country is broadened to a love
							of true men everywhere; when a widened vision brings a deeper sense of loyalty and
							devotion to those things which are nearest and dearest to us all. In the day that is
							just beyond—the most glorious in the history of mankind—the people of Fort
							Wayne, in common with those of every other portion of our beloved America, will emerge
							from the envelopment of a common sorrow, mellowed and purified, and with a mind fit to
							receive the new order of things and to welcome, with a new joy, the tasks of the
							coming years.
						
						(NOTE: The final words of this Pictorial History of Fort Wayne were written August
							15, 1917.)
					
				
				
				
					The Story of the Townships of Allen County
					
					By Mrs. Samuel R. Taylor
					
						INTRODUCTION
						The following pages tell of the life and activities of the twenty townships of
							Indiana's largest county. Beginning with the arrival of the first settlers who came by
							canoe or pirogue down to the luxurious automobile of today the narrative is a
							fascinating tale of a people's progress. Also it is a story of privation and hardship
							in those early days when each township won its way to comfort through incredible toil
							and sacrifices.
						From the time the courageous pioneer "made a deadening" to the well-fenced,
							thoroughly cultivated farm of today the time is not long. But the results prove it was
							no "dim and common population" that took up the struggle with nature in Allen
							County.
						These "first families" were close enough to the Indian massacres to appreciate a safe
							cabin with no danger of an arrow whizzing from the forest. They had ever with them the
							dread of hunger and of malaria and all the inconveniences and privations a far-distant
							market might bring. The housewife realized it was a great advance in luxury when at
							sheep shearing she was given the fleece, which with her own hands she could dye, card,
							spin, weave, and then cut into clothes for the family. The "fireside industries" have
							left many souvenirs in living-rooms as well as in attics. There are old candlemolds
							which served many a year at the fall candle-dipping, and the brass candlesticks and
							Betty lamps and lanterns which helped with "the light of other days." In more than one
							township were the old samplers which had served as "copy" to mark the household linen,
							and there were spinning wheels, and drop-leaf tables, and quaint mirrors to delight
							any collector.
						Many old gardens with stanch hedges and old quince bushes have a corner that has
							supplied herbs for kitchen and for medicine chest since the arrival of
							great-grandfather from France. For most of the thrifty settlers brought seeds with
							them from home gardens in Ireland, Scotland, France or Germany.
						And while Nature had thrown up many hindrances to be overcome by the settlers she had
							also provided more than one free gift. The glacial drift and boulder clay as well as
							the alluvial soils have made agriculture the safe basis of the county's, as it is of
							the state's,  prosperity. A good hunter could keep his
							family supplied with meat or game, since elk, deer and even bear were easily found.
							There were large flocks of wild turkeys, ducks and geese, and everywhere were ruffled
							grouse. Passenger pigeons bred and roosted and their flight in incalculable hosts is
							one of the "grandfather tales" told at many a later fireside. Those who lived near the
							rivers could have fish for the taking. The venison supplied not only food, but the
							hide was used for the "buckskin breeches" of firm wearing qualities. A tree of wild
							honey was a happy "find" in the forest and the luxury of maple sugar was one of the
							gifts of the timberland. Neighborliness, which is one of the great virtues of a
							countryside, soon found expression in co-operative activities which "lend a hand."
							Tales are still told of the old-time country frolics, the husking with its fateful red
							ear, apple parings where great kettles of apple butter were "started," quiltings where
							the "Rose of Sharon," "Sugar Bowl" and other beautiful patched quilts were finished in
							intricate designs. With no self-sealing jars, or rubber bands, dried fruits were
							common, as were stone jars filled with rich preserves and marmalades. Old recipes are
							handed down in yellow notebooks for "syllabub" and "floating island," "cherry bounce,"
							or "peach cobbler" which prove that, at least on festal occasions, good cooks could
							show their skill.
						And of this, descendants may read with real pride and all may read with pleasure.
						
						These stories of the townships have been written by Mrs. Samuel R. Taylor after much
							reading and many interviews with the few people left who can still see with memory's
							eye our country's early growth. Mrs. Taylor's trips to the different townships and her
							talks with "old settlers" were a labor of love, as anyone will realize who reads this
							record. It has taken vision and sympathy to select from the annals of each region
							those matters of interest which touch either the old life now past, or those facts
							vital to the generation of today. But just as you read of the Revolutionary or
							Mayflower ancestry or of the "crack marksman" of those earlier days you will also find
							a modern village's prowess in basket-ball given due prominence.
						L. G. D.
					
					
						Wayne Township
						At first view, the history of Wayne township seems inseparable from that of the
							village, town and city of Fort Wayne. Upon reflection, however, the annalist is
							reminded that settlement far outside of even Fort Wayne's present limits was begun
							before the village was incorporated, so that it would be impossible to maintain that
							the rural settlement was wholly subsequent to, or dependent upon, the village at the
							fort. Sparse indeed was the rural population, and composed of squatters rather than
							regular settlers, for the lands were not opened to sale until October 22, 1823. The
							pioneers of Fort Wayne were indeed felt very strongly in the settlement of the
							township of Wayne, many of them being the first large purchasers of lands in the close
							vicinity of the village. But purchasing and holding were not the same as settling, and
							besides the  full meed of honor has been paid to these
							pioneers in the earlier parts of this work. It is the purpose of these annals to tell
							the story of the few who faced the real and almost incredible hardships of wilderness
							life in what is now the prosperous township of Wayne. For some there were who
							attacked, the soil of Wayne with no assistance from the garrison at the fort.
						Somewhere on Shane's prairie, in 1814, a family of nine children were struggling up
							to manhood and womanhood handicapped by the privations of the settlers' life. The
							elder boys of this family sometimes came as far as the low lands west of the fort in
							their quest of hay, which they cut standing ankle deep in water, and carried out in
							armfuls to higher ground to dry out. When in 1824 the father, Peter Edsall, fell in
							that unequal battle with circumstance, the family left the prairie and found a home in
							a cabin on the St. Mary's river, near the trail followed by the Indians on their way
							to trade at the fort. The Richardville reservation had been established before that
							time, the large tract, still remembered by many, lying on both sides of the St. Mary's
							from the extremity of Broadway south to the township limits. There was human life, but
							no white man near. Of what mettle these junior Edsalls were is told not only in the
							brief glimpse we have of their early fight for existence, but in their subsequent
							career, which is not by any means confined to the city of Fort Wayne. The eldest,
							Samuel, later known as Major Edsall, and a much younger son, William S. Edsall, were
							destined to do great things for county and township, and even to serve the state. The
							first we learn of William Edsall is of his work on the corps of U. S. topographical
							engineers which was detailed to survey the canal route in 1826. Surviving malaria when
							others succumbed, venturing where others dared not, wresting education from the hard
							university of experience, there is scarcely a large public enterprise on record during
							the first thirty-five or forty years of Wayne township history in which these brothers
							took no prominent part. The Bluffton plank road, a highway of great importance, then
							and still, was originated and surveyed by the Edsalls; they constructed, by contract,
							the road bed of the Wabash railroad from the state line west forty-seven miles; they
							were instrumental in securing the second railroad connection also. The Edsall name was
							spread on many a page of the county books, and those of the state as well. We have no
							data to reproduce the progress of the other members of the family, but that Fort Wayne
							was the better for their presence is certain, and it is pleasing to have it recorded
							that the mother of these men did not remain in the lonely cabin on the St. Mary's, but
							shared her sons' prosperity in a home in the heart of Fort Wayne.
						And there were others in Wayne township outside the charmed circle of the fort
							village. George Ayres, though an Ohio pioneer, deserves a vicarious place in Wayne's
							Hall of Fame as having been a landmark, or more correctly a sort of human guide post
							to the fort, occupying what was for many years the only white man's habitation between
							Shane's Prairie and the fort. Ayres' house stood near Twenty-four Mile creek, and the
							Edsall cabin on the St. Mary's was the next to boast white occupants, and Wayne
							township held it. Up to 1819 the fort was almost equally isolated in every  direction. The Richardville Reservation, one of the most
							picturesque regions of Allen county, and also the largest single reservation in the
							county, was ceded to the Miami chief, Jean Baptiste Richardville, in 1818 by the
							treaty made at Marysville, Ohio. Had the Indians but known the first rudiments of
							sociology, or could they have realized the advantages of genuine labor such as every
							white settler engaged in, the reservation was enough to have made several generations
							wealthy. The story of Edward Rockhill throws sidelights on the downfall of the
							reservation Indians. Mr. Rockhill, an early pioneer of Wayne, whose surname is
							familiar to everyone in Allen county through numerous descendants and family
							connections, ought to be remembered for his own merits. His native state was New
							Jersey, from which he came in 1826, settled in the woods near the fort village, and
							began with despatch to clear away the timber and open his farm to cultivation. His
							double-log cabin was chiefly of his own construction and was quite individual and
							ingenious in some of its features. Its roof was held secure by the contrivance of
							weight poles instead of nails or spikes, which perhaps were difficult to obtain at the
							time he needed them. The Indians were still camping in the woods at this date, few
							among them seeing the advantage of adopting any other mode of life, and subsisting
							precariously upon the products of the forest. Yet they liked the taste of white man's
							food, and frequently visited the Rockhill cabin in quest of meal and potatoes. The
							pioneer treated the Indians with much benevolence, though it was of a quiet sort. His
							habit was to ask them if they had money to pay for food; if they replied that they
							had, he would direct them to the house of some neighbor, saying that he himself had
							nothing to spare; but if they proved to be penniless, the meal and potatoes were at
							once forthcoming. Naturally, this treatment created the most amicable understanding
							between him and his Indian acquaintances. The whiskey obtainable at the village was a
							lure which drew the Indians constantly toward Fort Wayne, where they squandered what
							money their fitful efforts won, only starting for their encampments when it was
							exhausted. They often fell intoxicated by the way, where many might have frozen to
							death in severe weather had it not been for the Good Samaritanship of their white
							friend, who used to carry them into his comfortable cabin and shelter them until the
							effects of their sprees had worn off. Mr. Rockhill died at his cabin in 1848, leaving
							a family of eight. Two of his sons moved to Lake township subsequently. All of the
							early settlers were not missionaries of kindness, however, or a different story might
							be written of the Miamis in Wayne.
						Richardville's three daughters constituted his family, therefore his name died with
							him. He built a home where they lived on the reservation in 1827, though from 1836 he
							maintained another establishment at the Wabash Forks, where he kept a trading store,
							his housekeeper there being Margaret La Folia, a Frenchwoman. Richardville was held in
							high esteem by his people, who obeyed him implicitly, as they trusted him. His death
							occurred in 1841 at his family residence, and he was buried with much honor by his
							daughters in the old cemetery which occupied the southern portion of "Cathedral
							Square" in Fort Wayne. At a later date a marble shaft was erected to his memory by his
							daughters, LaBlonde, Susan  and Catharine. Catharine
							married Francis La Fontaine, who was the immediate successor of Richardville as chief
							of the Miamis, his home being established at the Forks of the Wabash in the property
							belonging to Catharine, who inherited it from her father. The name of La Blonde's
							husband cannot be ascertained at this time; but her daughter, Montosoqua, born about
							1835, and reared at the reservation homestead, became the wife, in 1845, of James R.
							Godfrey, son of Chief Godfroy (or Godefroi), the successor of Little Turtle. James R.
							Godfrey was popularly called "Chief Godfrey" and the reservation became the home and
							property of the Godfreys and their heirs. The Miamis had been transported to the far
							west by this date.
						In 1835, about the time Chief Richardville established his Wabash Forks headquarters,
							he sold the entire portion of the reservation lying on the east side of the St. Mary's
							river, presumably to obtain the funds for the purchase of the new place. So it was to
							a vastly decreased estate that Godfrey became master and head of the family, after the
							death of La Fontaine. To the Godfreys were born twelve children, six of whom died in
							infancy or early childhood. The eldest son at the age of fifteen enlisted in the army,
							in 1861, but died of disease contracted in camp, being barely able to reach his home
							after being discharged. Godfrey, like his father, was a man of giant physique, and
							muscular force that was matched only by his good temper, which became proverbial. He
							was fond of visiting the town and frequented the Court House to greet the lawyers,
							with whom he was on friendliest terms. He never met one of them without shaking hands,
							an ordeal which soon came to be dreaded by the lawyers, as it practically disabled the
							member for some minutes after being shaken. At last they adopted the practice of
							giving but one finger to the crushing cordiality of that grip. Godfrey was quite
							unconscious of his strength. It is said that on one occasion the chief most
							unintentionally killed a man with whom he was playfully wrestling by the sheer power
							of his clutch about the body. In many ways, Godfrey was a good citizen. He educated
							his family as far as they wished. His daughters were all graduated from St.
							Augustine's Academy, in Fort Wayne. The family were brought up in the Catholic church,
							and were confirmed by Father Benoit. (One son, George Lewis Godfrey, afterward became
							a member of the Methodist church.) Montosoqua died in 1885, but her husband lived for
							some years longer, retaining his faculties with wonderful keenness. Always a famous
							shot, it was his good-natured custom, in his later years, when aroused from his dozing
							in the afternoon sunshine by visiting lads, to reach lazily for his rifle (always
							standing handy in the porch corner), sight without rising from his chair the mark the
							boys had set up on some distant post, send the shot unerringly home, and immediately
							settle back to his interrupted nap. Strange that in this remarkable man's descendants
							there was not more vigor and tenacity of life. Only four of Montosoqua's children
							survived her, and of the descendants but one representative of the name now lives in
							this vicinity. He is a member of the police force in Fort Wayne. The failure to
							maintain possession of the reservation property is less difficult to understand.
							Notwithstanding the mixture of French blood, the Indian was strong  enough in the whole race to account for the lack of
							financial ability with which to manage the affairs of such an estate, not one acre of
							which has belonged to a Godfrey for many a year. The Indian was unable to comprehend
							the law of labor and product. Idleness begot indolence, and indolence with its
							attendant evils may be said to be the chief cause of the decay of the family and its
							consequences. George L. Godfrey, the son who was longest on the place, is said, in an
							old chronicle, to have followed farming "as an avocation." This seems probable, in
							view of the fact that his real vocation must have been that of joining. He joined no
							less than seven Masonic lodges, and had attained the highest degree of any Indian in
							the State, if not the world. He joined the Knights of Pythias; he joined the United
							Foresters; he joined the Patriarchal Circle; he joined the church; if the Improved
							Order of Red Men arose before he left the Reservation for the Happy Hunting Grounds of
							his fathers, undoubtedly he joined that. Verily, he had little time left for his
							avocation, farming. Small marvel that the reservation acres lay fallow while the
							family, which at the death of James R. Godfrey numbered nearly seventy persons,
							scattered to the ends of the earth and are untraceable.
						That feature in the traffic avenues of old times, the junction of the feeder canal
							with the waters of the Wabash and Erie, was effected in Wayne township, near the
							aqueduct now replaced by the New York Central bridge across the St. Mary's. From that
							point the canal extended southwest across the township, and through Aboite. The
							Illinois and Huntington roads lead out from Fort Wayne in the same locality, parting
							at the old road house known as the "Bootjack." The first grist mill built in the
							township was erected on the west bank of the St. Mary's, near the crossing of the
							Bluffton road, by James Barnett and Samuel Hanna, in 1827. It became successively, the
							property of Louis Davis, Capt. Asa Fairfield and Samuel Freeman, A. C. Beaver, and
							George Esmond, under whose ownership it was burned in 1878, rebuilt with Oscar Simons
							as one of the company, but again destroyed by fire in 1888, after which it was not
							rebuilt. The Stellhorns, who first came to the township in 1844, built in 1861 a
							sawmill on the St. Mary's about three and a half miles from the town of Fort Wayne. In
							1885, the mill was enlarged to accommodate grist-milling. The Stellhorn bridge is
							built at the point. The only village ever platted in the township is Lewisburg, in
							section 38, done in 1837, the development of which was never visible to the eye. The
							rapid spread of Fort Wayne to the south would naturally discourage the growth of a
							village in that part. But in a manner unheralded in print, the township has been
							developed into splendid farms, the fame of which has traveled far. Many of these farms
							of the earlier days have already been swallowed up by the city, sometimes the farmer
							himself being swallowed with his farm, thus despoiling the township annals of what
							should belong to their pages. The first Fairfield farms went thus, though Capt. Asa
							Fairfield held tenaciously to his as long as possible. A group of much significance to
							the township were the Fairfields of Kennebunkport, Maine. The father, Capt. William
							Fairfield, was not as stated in a previous chronicle, a sea captain, but a staff
							officer under Washington, who spent three years  with
							him, was with him at Valley Forge, and in the Battle of Monmouth, through which he
							fought in boots worn entirely to nothing as far as feet were concerned, his vicinity
							being tracked by the marks of his bleeding feet. All three of his sons, however, did
							follow the sea, the oldest, Asa, being promoted to the captaincy of the ship upon
							which he was first mate, when its captain died in a foreign port. Beginning a
							penniless sailor lad, he retired from the sea after many years the possessor of the
							comfortable fortune of thirty thousand dollars, which he brought to Allen county and
							invested. The Fairfield brothers, Asa and Oliver—who never became a sea captain,
							though he rose to good position—were both engaged in the war of 1812 and both
							were captured at sea by British men-o'-war. Capt. Asa was a prisoner at Dartmoor
							prison, England, for six months, and Oliver was held at Halifax, N. S., for sixteen
							months. Charles Fairfield, born in 1809, went to sea when less than fifteen, and
							followed the mast until 1835, when the three brothers and their father came to Allen
							county, Indiana, to begin an inland life. The first regular canal boat (barring that
							one that was built for pleasure in 1834, and used in the celebration) was built for
							old Capt. William Fairfield, who named it "Indiana," and put his son Oliver in charge
							of it. From this circumstance Oliver, also, gained the title of "Captain." Asa
							Fairfield and his wife, Olive (Stone) Fairfield, brought with them their four
							children, William Augustus, James Monroe, Olive, and Cyrus King, then an infant of six
							months. The latter, now in his eighty-third year (1917), is the only surviver of this
							family. Of Oliver Fairfield's family none have been living for many years. One
							daughter married A. S. Evans; another, Mary, married Jenkins, and died within a very
							few years ago at the ave of ninety-three; and his son Oliver was lost in a storm on
							Lake Erie. Asa went to farming at once, purchasing a large tract south of the city,
							which extended from Hoagland Avenue west as far as Broadway, and from Taylor street
							south to beyond the Packard factory. All of the beautiful old homes which so long were
							the pride of Fort Wayne's suburb, South Wayne, were fractions of Asa Fairfield's farm.
							But he didn't stop being a farmer as long as there was room enough left to farm or
							garden, and his youngest son followed farming and gardening until it was too crowded.
							The Fairfield children went to school in the original old log cabin school house of
							Wayne township, built at the point where Cottage avenue now comes out on Broadway, and
							at that date taught by an old time advocate of the hickory stick. This doughty old
							pedagogue was wont to visit the woods daily to lay in supplies of rods wherewith to
							enforce discipline. If the offense were very heinous indeed, the rod was baked in the
							fire and rolled with the boot sole to make it very tough. Yet even Cyrus Fairfield,
							who with his brother James hid a pig in the school room one day to surprise the
							teacher, admits at this late day that he and James got about what they deserved. The
							name of this jolly old pedagogue is forgotten, but his works do still rise up and
							follow after him. The old Asa Fairfield home, a double-log house, was built on the
							hill top where Cyrus Fairfield afterward built the residence which he sold to D.
							Nestel, the father of Charles and Eliza Nestel. The street, Creighton avenue, Mr.
							Fairfield graded Himself, using the earth to fill up the swamp land through which  Fox avenue was cut some time later. Capt. Fairfield for
							some years conducted, without leaving his farm, a soap and candle factory, facing on
							Broadway. The three Fairfield brothers were contemporary with the group which included
							O. W. Jefferds, George Little and Hugh McCulloch, all of whom came from the Kennebunk
							and Kennebunkport vicinity in Maine, Hugh McCulloch and Mrs. Asa Fairfield being first
							cousins. Captain Fairfield never held an elective office though a man of great force
							and influence, but was, for a time, supervisor of certain roads. His will, dated in
							1859, was the very first will and one of the first legal instruments ever drawn by
							Judge Robert S. Taylor, then a very young lawyer. Capt. Fairfield died in 1868. Like
							his father, a most exemplary man, he never touched cards, never drank liquor of any
							variety, used no tea nor coffee, nor tobacco in any form, nor any other drug, never
							took medicine, never had a headache, never was ill until his final break came. Cyrus
							Fairfield decided when a young man that his father's example was good enough to
							follow, and has all his life adhered to that decision, with a record of unbroken
							health for eighty-two years to show for it. He was married in early life to Miss Anna
							Fields, who died young, leaving one daughter, Ida, who grew to a beautiful and
							talented young woman, but, like her mother, went home early. Mr. Fairfield married,
							second, a daughter of Capt. William Bryant. James Monroe Fairfield left a large
							family, all of whom have removed to distant points with the exception of two
							daughters, Mrs. Charles Hayes and Mrs. Zimmer. The youngest of the Fairfield brothers,
							Charles, also clung to the soil and seemed as well content to plow furrows in the soil
							as he once had been to plow less stable furrows in the high seas. His first farm was
							in Wayne, where he built his first frame house, on what is now Broadway, just south of
							the Wabash railroad. He married, in 1837, Miss Sarah Browning, the daughter of
							Barzilai Browning, a settler of 1832. It was but a short time until the Broadway farm,
							supposed to be safely in the country, was disturbed by the rustle of the future city's
							outskirts, and to St. Joseph Charles Fairfield fled for another place. But Wayne
							township claimed him again, and he bought and lived upon a four hundred acre farm on
							the Bluffton road, until 1863. Then the county commissioners, on the lookout for a
							more central location for a county poor farm, bargained for the Bluffton road farm,
							and Mr. Fairfield took over the tract in section 29, which the commissioners had first
							bought, adding much more to his holdings from time to time. The Poor Farm, including
							not only the Fairfield four hundred acres, but the farm of Robert Fleming, adjacent,
							has been in continual operation ever since, but has lately been sold and the county
							farm will soon be located in another township. Of his family, Charles Fairfield
							junior, now retired and living on Pontiac street, Fort Wayne, remained a farmer for
							many years. Many of his descendants are farming in other townships, and he counts not
							only grandchildren but great-grandchildren, when there is a gathering of the clan.
						Many of the famous farms in the vicinity of Fort Wayne have been converted, recently,
							into beautiful residence plats, and country and suburban homes of great elegance are
							multiplying all over the township. Home building of the highest order characterizes
							all  these developments. The Winchester road, South
							Fairfield avenue and South Calhoun street (the old "Piqua" route) on which the Decatur
							interurban line runs to the south, are all scenes of wonderful suburban development.
							Summit farm, the famous dairy farm of C. H. Philley, is almost at the point of passing
							into the Moloch jaws of Fort Wayne, in the wake of those already devoured. To the west
							of the city the Country club with its growing neighborhood of country places, is
							another indication of the passing of the township. Already the well-known country
							roads are given the title "avenue" or "street." Between the homes of Theodore F.
							Thieme and the late Perry A. Randall, and Lindenwood Cemetery, a new "Wildwood" suburb
							has been platted, and lots are being sold. And the end is not yet.
						In the matter of schools, Wayne township has no written history. Nevertheless, it has
							and always has had, since it needed them, country or township schools; and at the
							present time they are in the same healthy condition noticeable elsewhere in Allen
							county, as a glance at the late statistics will show. Fort Wayne occupying so lionlike
							a share of the field, the school enumeration appears low for the capital township.
							Seven hundred and fifty-two children of school age reside in the rural districts of
							Wayne township. Of this number 478 are enrolled in the schools, of which there are
							nine, aggregating a total estimated value of $60,000, with thirteen teachers in
							charge. The school year is one hundred and eighty days, and the average daily
							attendance for the year 1915-16 was three hundred and sixty. Eighteen pupils finished
							the grade schools in June, 1916. The total of salaries paid for teaching that year was
							$8,840.15, and the "upkeep" expense was $1,412.95, making a per capita cost of $21.45.
							The schools have access to a library of two thousand and five volumes.
					
					
						Adams Township
						The first settlement of import within the territory subsequently known as Adams
							township was effected in 1823, three years before the earliest sub-division of Wayne
							township, which at first included all of Allen county. An eloquent story of the steady
							tide of emigration which set westward toward the newly opened wilderness is told in
							the frequent subdivisions that followed, resulting, in little more than twenty years,
							in as many independent townships, each with its nucleus of population.
						Among the group of pioneers who cleared homes for themselves and their families in
							the thick forests which covered the land to the east of Fort Wayne was Jesse Adams, of
							Rochester, New York. It seems a noteworthy fact that so large a proportion of the very
							early settlers of Allen county migrated from New York or the extreme east, stamping,
							as they must have done, the wilderness life with the more refined standards of the
							life they had left behind them at the call of Fortune. Whatever may be said on this
							point it is not to be questioned that the New Yorkers of that epoch left an indelible
							impress on the public character of Fort Wayne and its vicinity. Easily a leader,
							owing, possibly, to superior training added to native ability, Mr. Adams was elected
							'Squire of the new township at the election following its establishment in 1826. In
								 the year following he performed the first marriage
							ceremony celebrated in the township, the principals being Ruth, the daughter of Samuel
							Brown, lately settled from Ohio, and John McIntosh, who had taken up land in the
							district in 1823. On Mr. Adams' farm, located near New Haven, was the site of the
							first burying ground for the settlement, the pioneer's own daughter being the first to
							be interred there, in 1825. It would require a separate biography to do justice to the
							first 'Squire of Adams, but, pervasive as his personality must have been in pioneer
							society, it bespeaks his fine character that though he christened it, the township was
							not named for himself, for he declared the name to be in memory and honor only of the
							great John Quincy Adams. Jefferson township was the scene of the later years of Mr.
							Adams' life.
						The first township election, at which 'Squire Adams was elected, was held the second
							Monday of March, 1826, at the home of Eliphalet Edmunds, who with William Caswell,
							Israel Taylor, Philip Fall, the three Weekses—Charles, sr., Charles, jr., and
							Martin—and Capt. Hurst complete the original group of Adams township settlers.
							Closely following them in 1823 were others of equal mettle, and the year was not old
							when the name of John McIntosh—previously referred to—was added to the
							list, which in 1824 was further increased by the arrival of Henry Cooper and Judge
							Wolcott, and in December, 1825, by that of John and Jabez Rogers, who took up land in
							the forest. John Rogers was from Ohio and brought with him a large family whose
							descendants are still counted among the county's best citizens. A son christened John
							S. was born to Mr. and Mrs. Rogers the same year, who is to be remembered
							notwithstanding the briefness of his life (which ended in Fort Wayne only twenty years
							later), as the first white child born within the township limits. The hewn-log house
							erected by Mr. Rogers during the year 1826 was the first of its style to be built in
							Adams township and was deemed a triumph of pioneer architecture. After an active
							career of twenty-five years in the township Mr. Rogers removed to Fort Wayne, where he
							resided until his death in 1877.
						Henry Cooper, destined to become famous as a pioneer lawyer, shirked none of the
							hardships of pioneer life. His legal studies were pursued by the light of log fires in
							his own clearing, after the day's work was done. Young Cooper sowed the first wheat in
							the township, and the old story about the venture is that though the season (November
							15th) was very late, his wheat crop was a success. This was in 1827, a year that was
							marked, among other notable features, by the survey of the first road leading east
							from Fort Wayne to the further boundary of the present site of New Haven. The road,
							which was later extended to Defiance, Ohio, and is still a well known and much
							traveled thoroughfare, called variously the "river road," the "Maumee road," or the
							"Fort Wayne road," was the stage and post route of the early days. The daily stage
							that now traverses the Lincoln Highway between New Haven and Fort Wayne is a survival
							of the pioneer stage traffic.
						Following the advent of Samuel Brown and Henry Tilbury, both of whom came to Adams in
							1826, the ensuing year witnessed the arrival of a goodly number of sturdy and capable
							men in the settlement, some, at least, bringing families. Judge Nathan  Coleman, John Troutner, Thomas Daniels, John Blakely,
							John Senseny, Joseph Townsend and Abraham and David W. Miller are all recorded to the
							credit of this year. David Miller and Rachel Townsend were the high contracting
							parties at the township's second wedding, two years later. Jeremiah Bateman seems to
							have been the only arrival in 1828, but early in the next year the four Smith
							brothers, William, John, Thomas and Joseph, began the clearing of their farms. The
							name of Thatcher had also appeared on the township records. Just when Absalom Holcomb
							settled in Adams is uncertain, but that he was established on a farm there in 1828 is
							certain, for he set up the first tannery on his farm that year. The first mill in
							Adams township was built in 1828 by Joseph Townsend, on his own land on "Six Mile"
							creek, from which stream the mill-power was obtained. The mill was primarily intended
							to be a sawmill, but Mr. Townsend added a contrivance most useful to the settlers,
							known as a "corn cracker," the popularity of which practically superseded log-sawing.
							John Gerard's lime-kiln, started the same year, was a failure. Adams township's first
							blacksmithy was not started until 1837. The rural 'smith was John Brown, and his forge
							was located on land which became known in later years as "Willow Tree Farm."
						In 1829 the rapid increase of population made the keeping of accurate records almost
							impossible. The pioneers in Adams were no longer lonely. The tides of traffic and
							travel swept past the river road farms, landing many new neighbors, while seeking
							wealth and happiness in the fertile valley of the Maumee.
						Because the Grim Harvester is not idle in any land nor any season, David Miller, in
							1830, donated a plot of ground for an established cemetery, which by that time had
							become a necessity.
						But happiness is always the stronger factor, and the rough log-cabin homes as well as
							the more pretentious structures housed happy families in which peaceful industry was
							rewarded with prosperity. The first religious service was held in the John Rogers
							home, by Reuben Nickerson, and the same roof sheltered occasional meetings for the
							next four years, these being conducted by successive circuit riders of the Methodist
							faith. The first church organization was not effected until 1853, and then it was a
							Lutheran body.
						School history in Adams township is a story oft-repeated in the early days of the
							middle western states. It is not for the twentieth century to carp at the "haphazard
							methods" of the pioneers. To those who struggled with the primeval forest the three
							rudiments of education might easily have seemed of secondary importance to the three
							necessities, food, shelter and clothing. They trusted to Providence in the matter of
							teachers, it is said of them. Thus, imposters, in search of adventure or the easy
							money of a new country, often found their way into the teacher's position, and time
							was lost to the settlers' children. Still Providence did not always sleep. The first
							school house was built in 1829 on Absalom Holcomb's farm. Like the homes of the
							township, it was made of logs, with floor of hewn slabs, and windows "glazed" with
							paper, well greased. Fortunately, the first teacher was a man of real education and
							fine character, who set a standard for the settlement, and though he could not be
							secured for a second term, the name of Jared Bobo was 
							long remembered. Orrin D. Rogers, himself afterward a teacher, began his education
							under the influence of the "good school" of the first teacher. Uncertain as was the
							administration and support of these early schools, and burdensome as they must have
							been financially, yet it seems that the settlers were long inclined to endure those
							evils rather than to fly to the free school system "which they knew not of." Strenuous
							opposition met the first efforts of the township trustees to establish the modern
							regime in Adams. The proposition, being put to vote, was defeated. The trustees took
							counsel together, made a personal canvass of the township and again submitted the
							question to the settlers—this time winning a victory for public education. This
							was not until 1854, but the first free school building was at once put up on "Elm
							Park" farm, while the building already in use at New Haven became a free school at the
							same time. Two more buildings were erected in Adams in the fall of that year. In 1858
							a new building was provided for the New Haven district, boasting two rooms, to
							accommodate what was still "the district school." The incorporation of New Haven as a
							town took place in 1866, following the election of June 7th, held to decide the
							question. The new corporation became a voting precinct a year and a half later, in
							response to the petition of Allan H. Dougall. When the incorporation had been effected
							the school house was enlarged by the addition of two rooms and the new town school
							board engaged Dr. James Anderson as its first principal, with authority to install a
							graded school system. This first school board was composed of L. M. Rogers, C. E.
							Bryant and John Begue. Under the administration of O. D. Rogers, trustee in 1885, the
							old building was torn down and replaced by a more modern structure, two stories high,
							with four rooms and an office. This has in turn been changed with the times. New
							Haven, realizing the greater advantage of the county system, as it has developed, has
							relinquished its "school city" rights, and the schools there are now administered
							under the township method, which has reduced all schools, city and rural, to a
							standard grade.
						The high school at New Haven is a model institution of which the township as well as
							the town itself is proud. But that is the story of a later day.
						A welcoming hand was always outstretched to greet the westward traveler, and whether
							he stopped to stay, or only to rest, the hospitality of the river road settlers did
							not fail. In 1832 John Rogers opened an inn on his farm which was available to both
							road and river travel, and speedily became so popular that it was known as the
							"Hoosier Nest" by the guests who enjoyed the friendly shelter and board. Almost at the
							same time, the "New York Inn" was established by Rufus McDonald. The postoffice found
							headquarters in this inn five years afterward, Mr. McDonald acting as post master for
							the next seven years. The mail at that time was carried on horseback by John Omans,
							who plied between Fort Wayne and Defiance, Ohio. The "river road," while it follows
							the trend of the Maumee, was cut for the greater part through decidedly dense woods,
							and soil richly covered with natural vegetation of much beauty, wild flowers abounding
							everywhere, and wild things not so agreeable adding piquancy to travel. The pioneer
								 mail carrier, and hundreds of others who passed that
							way were quite accustomed to the silent dropping of snakes—for the most part
							harmless—out of the over-hanging trees onto shoulders, hands or packsaddles, or
							to being gently struck on cheek or ear by the swaying body of a reptile lurking on a
							leafy twig. To our twentieth century sense of "conservation," the ruthless sacrifice
							of these forests seems appalling, even while we are reciting the hardy brayeries of
							the settlers who by this means gave to the broad acres of Allen county "a place in the
							sun." Conditions have undergone stupendous changes since the days when it was a
							praiseworthy thing to first "deaden" and then destroy those giant timbers which would
							now be priceless, but then were a useless incumbrance of the land.
						The site of New Haven, as it was platted first, occupied a section of woods known as
							"Gundy's Deadening," a man named Gundy having once undertaken the clearing of the
							tract by the method popularly employed by the settlers. Evidently Mr. Gundy settled
							elsewhere, for the land soon became the property of Samuel Hanna, who in turn sold it
							to Eben Burgess and his son Henry. The town plat, made by these men, is dated March
							16th, 1839. Great prosperity was expected for the new town owing to its location on
							the canal, and a hotel was erected by Elias Shafer, and, not far away, the first store
							was opened by Henry Shafer. These hopes were not to be realized through the canal
							traffic, however, though the building of the Wabash railroad, and later, the Nickel
							Plate route, kept them from actual failure. At the present date, the Wabash has a
							direct line to Detroit from New Haven, which with its other transportation facilities,
							makes the town an excellent shipping point. Its early development was nevertheless
							slow, though its boundaries were enlarged by three additions to the original plat, one
							by Reuben Powers in May, 1853, one by Joseph Edgerton in 1854, and one by Nicholas
							Shookman in 1863. The first industry listed seems to have been the cooper shop started
							by John Begue, in 1854, a business which had a stable existence and was enlarged to
							include stave manufacture, the Beugnot brothers entering the firm, which in the
							seventies was reorganized as Schnelker, Beugnot and Co., and became an establishment
							of decided importance. In 1854 a second industry venture of magnitude, the New Haven
							Flouring Mill, was undertaken by Volney, Amasa and John A. Powers, one or more of whom
							continued to hold greater or less interests in it until the late eighties, although
							others, notably Allen H. Dougall, of Fort Wayne, at times owned stock in it. The mill
							was destroyed by fire in 1884, being at the time the property of Volney Powers. The
							"Maumee Valley," another flouring mill, was founded in 1864 by L. M. Rogers with John
							Begue and Levi Hartzell, and later Amasa Rogers, as partners. It was an extensive
							establishment and flourished for several years under the management of Louis and
							Charles Lepper, but in 1871 the building was wrecked by the explosion of the boiler,
							which caused also the death of the proprietors and the engineer while the miller and
							two lads were seriously injured. A few years later the property was purchased by
							Joseph Brudi and Co., equipped with modern machinery, and from that time has been in
							continuous operation, and is still one of the best-known mills in this section of the
							state. In the prosperous days of the sixties, the Gothe 
							Planing Mill, erected by Gustav Gothe and the Brudi Brothers, became a solid business
							institution. A second stave factory was opened in 1864, which after twelve years of
							independent existence was consolidated with the first plant, under the ownership of H.
							Schnelker and Co., making a business of impressive magnitude for the place and period.
							It employed ninety-five workmen, and its engines consumed twelve thousand cords of
							wood, annually. Between this early prosperity and the present thriving condition of
							New Haven lies a period when the village slept or rested on its oars—but this is
							now a part of its past. Wood-working factories are still flourishing in New Haven, and
							with fresh impetus, modern methods having supplanted the old in the renaissance of the
							pretty town. Two large handle factories conduct thriving business, one of these,
							Schnitker and Son, dating from about thirty years ago; and the other, the Sperry
							Manufacturing Co., having incorporated in 1892, and enlarged its original plant since
							then. The New Haven Lumber and Supply Company is an extensive depot of all varieties
							of fine lumber, for construction and inside work, and also manufactures doors, sash
							and other parts for building. The "Elastic Plaster" Company not only manufactures that
							commodity for builders, but other items of similar nature, including cement blocks,
							etc. The Cream of Rice Co. has an extensive plant in New Haven, the stock being held
							largely by Adams township farmers and New Haven residents. Two grain elevators afford
							market facilities to the township, one of which is operated by Fort Wayne capital and
							the other by a New Haven firm, Minsel and Son. The stockyards of Kauffman and Company
							have a shipping capacity larger than Fort Wayne can exhibit, from which stock of all
							kinds is sent to market in large quantity. The retail business of New Haven flourishes
							correspondingly, extending from the crossing of the two principal streets in four
							directions, and affords excellent shopping facilities for the residents. New Haven has
							also its own Home telephone exchange, Mr. William Bowers, manager, from which its own
							rural lines are operated. The Ohio Electric interurban line has one of its prettiest
							depots there. The presence of two banks in the town indicates the high state of local
							prosperity. The oldest of these institutions is the "New Haven State Bank," and the
							other the "People's State Bank," and both enjoy the confidence of town and township.
							The "People's" has recently built new quarters. Under the rural free delivery system,
							the New Haven postoffice is a center from which five rural routes are served to the
							surrounding country. New Haven is well lighted with electricity, the current coming
							from the Traction Company at Fort Wayne. Its water supply is from wells which are "one
							hundred per cent good" by state test. It is distributed by an electric pumping plant,
							deriving its power from the same source as the lights.
						The retail business of the town is prosperous and adequate. The stores are all
							"general" or department stores, including John C. Smith, successor to the old pioneer
							store of Frank Bueter; R. J. Blackwell, which was originally the old Rogers store;
							Blaising and Lucas; Bolyard and Bolyard; and J. A. Bailey, which succeeded to the old
							Peltier stand. H. E. Purvis keeps the drug store, and J. A. Hellwarth sells hardware.
							The old store of B. Dowling survives under the original name. There is a fine garage,
							good livery barns,  two blacksmith shops, restaurants
							and bakery. The New Haven Bus line now runs three auto buses on the Lincoln Highway.
							There are four churches, the Methodist Episcopal occupying, still, its original edific
							built in 1866; but it is modernized, and very attractive. The Protestant Methodists
							have a new church built about twelve years ago, and the old building is now used as a
							garage. St. Emanuel's Lutheran church has a very handsome modern school building
							conducted in connection with the parish. Some years ago, New Haven was deeply in debt,
							in which it had floundered for a long period. A change of town administration
							undertook the reduction of the debt and while bringing it down from $17,000 to less
							than five thousand dollars, have at the same time accomplished the building of a
							handsome and substantial city hall, and several other municipal improvements. Streets
							and sidwalks are excellent, and there is much building of the better sort both in the
							business and the residence districts. A new industry not yet mentioned is the New
							Haven Floral company, built five years ago, and under the management of Herman Leitz,
							formerly of Vesey's, Fort Wayne. The green houses at New Haven cover more than an acre
							of ground and have over fifty-five thousand square feet of glass in them. About a half
							million plants are potted every year. Carnations are one of the specialties, about a
							thousand daily being cut at this season. In the rose house are seen all the rarest
							varieties now cultivated, Sunburst, Aaron Ward, Killarney, Ophelia, and "My Lady," the
							latter a red rose of which the Floral Company are exclusive growers in this section.
							About eight hundred roses are cut daily, and are prepared for shipment in the cooling
							cellar, sales being principally wholesale, to the trade. A feature of the rose house
							is the presence of a number of robins which are harbored for their usefulness in
							ridding the house of insect pests.
						The old Maumee hotel is no longer open to the public, as the public of New Haven does
							not appear to need it. Its principal restaurant is conducted by the daughter of a
							pioneer workman on the canal, Adolphus Wolf, who came from Germany in 1838.
						New Haven has a flourishing Commercial Club, organized in 1916 with a membership of
							one hundred and twenty-five, to which the town may look for substantial benefits.
						Adams township received its first settlers from New England and eastern states
							chiefly, but the fact that these settlers were willing to go a long way to church,
							accounts for the fact that the first church organized in the township was a German
							Lutheran congregation, in 1853, followed five years later by a second of that
							denomination, and in the same year, 1858, by the Catholic church at New Haven, known
							as "St. John the Baptist." Beginning in Nicholas Schueckman's basement, this latter
							congregation has graduated with the years through several stages to its present pretty
							Gothic structure, beside which a flourishing parochial school, taught by the Sisters
							of St. Agnes, is maintained.
						The old pioneer burying grounds were supplanted by the Odd Fellows' cemetery
							established in 1875, occupying part of the Miller farm, and near where the old Miller
							cemetery was situated. Many of the graves from these old plots were removed to the new
							grounds at the time, including those of David and Rachel Miller,  John Dougall, Levi Hartzell, Joseph Townsend and Richard Barrow, the last
							from the Adams plot.
						The professional history of Adams township is, of course, begun with its physicians,
							which have been more prominent and numerous than in other parts of Allen county. Not
							to be forgotten among the many fields of pioneer life in which Jesse Adams worked is
							the practice of the kindly art of healing the township sick. While he was not a
							graduate physician, natural talent and a general and doubtless cultivated intelligence
							made him equal to the emergencies of the period, and he is fairly entitled to rank as
							the first Adams township doctor. Dr. Barnwell, an "herb doctor," came later, and Dr.
							Opp, a more trained and skilled physician, followed. In 1840 Dr. Philip H. Clark
							entered the field and practiced for six years. Then Dr. W. W. Martin, who afterward
							served as surgeon of the Forty-fourth Indiana Volunteers, practiced in New Haven for a
							considerable period, and subsequently Drs. Mitten, Ross, Diggins, Bilderback, Morris
							and Lycurgus S. Null. Dr. Null died on the 9th of July, 1917. Dr. Clark, a
							well-established physician of New Haven, also died recently. The legal fraternity of
							Allen County includes several prominent Adams township names.
						The Adams township school east of Fort Wayne which was assumed by the school city of
							the county seat several years ago, under the name of the Adams School, made New Haven
							the center of the school system for Adams township. At present it accommodates the
							high and grade schools, and a full commissioned high school course is administered, in
							spite of the close quarters. The curriculum includes domestic science, and offers an
							agricultural course as soon as any pupils elect it. The attendance in all grades is
							increasing, the children being brought from all over the township by automobiles,
							traction railroad, and other means. Many come from very near the Fort Wayne district.
							A modern high school building embodying the most advanced ideas in every regard is
							soon to be erected, from plans made by Architect Henry Meyers, of Fort Wayne. The
							latest school enumeration in Adams township is 884, with public school enrollment 261,
							and parochial school enrollment 288. Fifty-four students attend the high school, nine
							of whom graduated in June, 1916. Grade school graduates at the same date numbered ten
							pupils. Adams has a total of eight school buildings, with twelve teachers employed.
							The school year is the full one hundred and eighty days, for both grades and high
							school, the average daily attendance for high school being fifty-two out of two
							hundred and sixty-one, a very remarkable percentage. Per capita expense in Adams is
							$72.61 for high school, and $23.62 for grades. The library is new, numbering not quite
							one thousand volumes.
						New Haven has had a varied history in newspapers, several of which have in the past
							sprung up only to wither in a day; yet their editors have gone out into larger fields
							to larger successes. The old "New Haven Palladium" under Thomas Foster was a training
							school for several men who worked on it in different capacities. The New Haven Tribune
							was established October 13th, 1893, by W. D. Gorrell, who published it for ten years,
							when he sold it to William E. and H. H. Bowers, William E. purchasing his brother's
							interest in July, 1905, since when he has published it 
							regularly until January, 1917. Mr. Bowers is now so fully occupied with other
							interests, mainly the New Haven Telephone Exchange which has developed its present
							efficiency almost entirely under his management, that the Tribune establishment has
							been leased to the C. F. Moon Publishing company, who will hereafter edit, and print
							it, as well as the Grabill and Woodburn papers, at the New Haven plant. William and H.
							H. Bowers are Jefferson township men, their grandfather, John Bowers, having settled
							in that township in 1837. His son, David B. Bowers, married Eliza, daughter of Alanson
							and Elmira Whitney, in 1864. His death, by accident, occurred very recently in Fort
							Wayne.
						The city of Fort Wayne has from its nearness overshadowed New Haven, and made futile
							any ancient hopes of metropolitanism indulged for the lesser town. But the building of
							many suburban homes along the Lincoln Highway and the interurban line is, in fact,
							bringing the two corporations yearly nearer and nearer, until it seems no longer all a
							dream to imagine New Haven at no distant day an integral part of a "Greater Fort
							Wayne."
					
					
						Washington Township
						Chronologically, Washington township came fourth in order of setting apart as an
							organized corporation, but in the matter of actual settlement it should hold third
							place, since its first settler, a Pennsylvania German, Reinhard Cripe by name, took up
							land on Spy Run immediately after the sale of lands was opened in 1823, his family
							being with him. Reinhard, however, appears to have been more attracted by the fine
							hunting afforded by the forests than by the agricultural or lumbering prospects. At
							least, he moved on, a few years later, to Elkhart county, leaving but slight trace of
							his sojourn in the Spy Run district beyond a popular reputation for being a good
							fellow, as well as a good hunter. So, the real credit for pioneering the occupation
							and settlement of Washington township belongs to the Archer family and its
							connections. The Archer group sprang variously from Virginia, Kentucky, New Jersey and
							Canada, Ohio being the common ground from which they migrated to Indiana. Mr. and Mrs.
							Benjamin Archer (already past middle life at the time) with several members of their
							family, David, John S., Benjamin jr., Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Ballard, Mr. and Mrs.
							Edward Campbell, Andrew J. Moore and Adam Pettit (the latter two unmarried) are on
							record as arriving in 1824, although it is also stated that some of these came the
							following year, in company with Thomas Hatfield, who did not first visit the township
							until the spring of 1825. Though the names of the Archer grandchildren are not listed
							in the group, the subsequent record of events shows that there were several of them,
							making in all a goodly party to land in a small pioneer village at one time. One can
							imagine that their advent may have caused quite a flutter of excitement in little old
							Fort Wayne. Mrs. Ballard and Mrs. Campbell were respectively Susan and Sarah Archer,
							daughters of Benjamin Archer, sr. (Judge Archer), Andrew Moore was then in the employ
							of Mr. Archer, and Adam Pettit was later married to the daughter of David Archer. In
							the spring of 1825 Thomas Hatfield, whose  wife was
							Elizabeth, another daughter of the senior Archers, visited the township, and seeing in
							it a land of promise, purchased a tract on the Little St. Joseph river and returned to
							Montgomery county, Ohio, for his family. Probably the crops already planted on the
							Ohio farm required his attention for the summer season, for it was not until November
							25th that the little wagon train carrying the family and household goods set out for
							Indiana by way of Wayne Trace. One old account says that the David Archers came with
							the Hatfields, instead of the previous year, and it is possible that David Archer
							waited until 1825 before bringing his family on; but however that may have been, the
							whole party was practically one assemblage of pioneer units—and a very healthy
							and hardy party it was, too. That stalwart group of men who followed Wayne Trace to
							the west, through forests infested with wolves and wildcats, was never daunted by the
							severities of pioneer life. The alchemy which transmuted a thousand acres of green
							forest into the gold of grain land in Washington township was the labor of their
							hands.
						Judge Benjamin Archer himself resided in Fort Wayne, but being a well-to-do man for
							the times, purchased separate tracts of land for each of his sons, which they
							afterward improved, though special industries engaged most of them at the outset. The
							farm of David Archer was situated on the St. Joseph river a two and one-half miles
							from the fort; John S. Archer received a quarter section near what is now the site of
							the Catholic Orphanage; while Benjamin, jr., went three miles to the northwest. Mrs.
							Ballard also was given a portion of land lying on the east of the Wells "Pre-emption."
							Benjamin Archer, sr., during the first year after his arrival, established a brick
							kiln not far from which were the acres allotted to the Edward Campbells and in this
							industry all of his sons were employed more or less, notably John S., who eventually
							took the entire management of it. The advent, in 1830, of eastern investors with
							modern machinery crowded the hand-made article out of the field, but the Archer bricks
							had up to that time supplied the early builders of Fort Wayne with most of the brick
							they used.
						The Ballards and John S. Archer then took up residence on their lands, and cleared
							farms. Adam Pettit purchased and cleared a farm, and married, in 1828, Miss Sarah,
							daughter of the David Archers. Andrew Moore assisted in clearing the farms of
							Benjamin, sr., and David Archer, and then purchased a holding for himself and settled
							on it. His heirs still retain this property.
						Thomas Hatfield, who deserves much more than passing notice, with his wife, Elizabeth
							Archer, began at once the development of their farm on the Little St. Joseph, and
							resided there until 1833, when they sold it, purchasing another on which the heirs
							still live. Born in New Jersey, he came, with his parents to begin a pioneer life on
							the Ohio frontier at the age of twelve. In still early manhood he became a soldier in
							the War of 1812, enlisting as a musician, and after giving three or four years to the
							service of his country, he came back with his home-made pewter fife to his Ohio home
							to begin life with no capital but his indomitably cheerful temperament and a certain
							far-seeing courage which won a slow but sure way to competence. Perhaps his frontier
							life as a young lad had schooled him for the later struggles.
						
						In 1826 Isaac Klinger "entered land" near the Bloomingdale district, but did not take
							possession until the following year. Also arriving in 1827 were Jonathan Cook and his
							family accompanied by Mrs. Cook's brother Philip. The following year Philip married
							Miss Isabel Archer and went into the business of blacksmithing in Fort
							Wayne—though he had bought land to which he returned later in life and resided
							permanently. Late in 1827 Lovell Yates and Richard Shaw, both of Virginia, came to the
							township, not, however, purchasing but renting and tilling a small field. Like
							Reinhard Cripe the two Virginians were more interested in hunting than in soil
							tillage, and as the hunting became less plentiful they left for forests further west,
							and the places that knew them knew them no more. More permanent was James Sanders, who
							settled on the St. Joseph the same fall, and as he had formerly been a Methodist
							minister was able to conduct an occasional service for the settlers. A Mr. Hudson who
							settled with his family in 1828, and Joseph Goins, who came in 1830, practically
							complete the roster of very early settlers, but between 1830-1840 are recorded the
							names of Joshua and George Butler, Gavin Peyton and Babel (?!) Wainwright, Elias
							Walters, John M. Smead, a tanner, who married a daughter of Thomas Hatfield, John B.
							Grosjean, Charles Schwab, Benjamin Sunderland and Thomas Hinton, the latter an
							Englishman who some time later kept the "Bull's Head Tavern" at the point where the
							Goshen road crossed the feeder canal. Subsequent to 1840 the increase of population
							was very rapid.
						The industrial features and social events which indicate the progress of the township
							toward settlement, begin of course with the establishment of that first brick kiln by
							Father Archer, which dates from 1824-5 and the product of which still exists in parts
							of the oldest structures in Fort Wayne. The exact date of the first death in the
							township is not given, but that of the first white birth may be happily stated as New
							Year's Day, 1827, when David, jr., son of Mr. and Mrs. David Archer, opened his eyes
							on the wintry landscape of Washington township which was to be his home for life,
							where he should grow up, marry, rear a family, and finally die at a green old age in
							the high respect of his acquaintance.
						The first marriage occurred in 1828 when Franklin Sunderland and Miss Rebecca Archer
							were made one. Weddings were popular in Washington township and the Archer family in
							1828, apparently, for not only the first but the second and third weddings in local
							history occurred the same year, and all the brides were Archer daughters.
						Jonathan (or John) Chapman, or as he is familiarly called, "Johnny Appleseed," made
							his appearance about this time, and setting up a nursery is said to have sold fruit
							trees. A descendant of Jonathan's sister is authority for the statement that her Uncle
							Jonathan never bartered anything, it being contrary to his religious scruples to do
							so, and that the money he sometimes received or the entertainment and shelter he was
							accorded was voluntarily bestowed, and not necessarily in direct return for value
							given. He himself gave to all alike, asking nothing. Jonathan died in 1843, and is
							beyond the reach of curious questioning, but the kindly old itinerant who planted the
							wilderness with apple trees was eccentric  enough, from
							all accounts, to make this theory of conduct quite believable. Jonathan's nursery did
							not prevent David Archer's going back to Ohio in 1829, however, for the express
							purpose of bringing young fruit trees hence to plant the "first orchard in the
							township" on his farm. Benjamin Archer and Jonathan Cook also planted orchards on
							their respective farms from the same lot of trees.
						The first religious service held in the township was conducted in 1829, by Rev. Mr.
							Chute, of the Presbyterian church in Fort Wayne, at the home of Thomas Hatfield. Later
							in the year a service was held at David Archer's home. Thomas Hatfield was the donor
							of the first burying ground, known as the "Township Cemetery" and still in actual
							service. The plot, one acre in extent, was set apart from Mr. Hatfield's first farm in
							1830, and first burial in it was that of "Mary, wife of Joseph Gill." This little
							burial acre is to be seen on the farm now known as Jacob Rudisill's. "Johnny
							Appleseed's" grave is here, also.
						Two roads were surveyed through Washington township in 1830 by Col. John Spencer, one
							becoming the Goshen road, while the other, afterward made a plank road, led to Lima,
							Indiana. The Lima road became an especially popular route, and on it was opened the
							first tavern, a log building, but large and commodious, its good-natured host, Mr.
							Poirson, soon making the house a favorite stopping place for travelers. The Leesburg
							and Yellow River roads were laid out in 1831, these four thoroughfares giving special
							advantages to settlers of this district.
						The year 1830 was one of great strides, but of all that was accomplished nothing
							quite equaled the building of the first grist mill by Henry Rudisill. Dependent
							hitherto upon distant mills in Ohio which were to be reached only by roads which were
							often impassable, the pioneer families were often reduced to a diet of corn bread
							because it was impossible to get their wheat ground. No sooner was Mr. Rudisill's
							intention known than a general impulse to assist him was evinced. The site, still well
							known and pointed out to interested visitors, was on the right bank of the St. Joseph
							river at a point which afforded special facilities for building the dam. The residents
							of the district, whose labor was freely and enthusiastically given, undertook the
							construction of the dam, but a practical millwright had charge of the frame work of
							the mill, as befitted a really serious and permanent undertaking. That the whole plant
							was done on honor is evident from its long and useful existence. For more than fifty
							years the wheels of the Rudisill Mill continued to grind with water that passed the
							old dam in the St. Joseph. For seventy years the old mill was a landmark to the
							country round, and not a little of the county's history was made by, in and around its
							quaintly ugly architecture.
						A log cabin on the farm of John S. Archer housed the first school taught in what was
							not yet a township. Its first teacher was a man of winning personality, but small
							educational qualifications, and his school was characterized chiefly by a genial
							atmosphere and little learning. It was supported by subscription according to the
							custom of the times. Pupils who lived near enough took advantage of the schools at
							Fort Wayne, which even there were not numerous. After the State Free School fund was
							created by the  legislature in 1851, Washington township
							began the development of the new system at once. The first Free School building was
							finished in 1853, and was located at Scarlett's Corners, but it only antedated by a
							few months four others, public money being used for the construction of the buildings,
							and the deficit thus made in the teaching fund supplied as before by subscription. By
							this was accomplished the building of school houses within the reach of all the
							children in the township without delay. All of these first buildings were eventually
							replaced by brick structures, and from time to time have been modernized to keep pace
							with the times.
						Washington township has a school enumeration of 641, with 376 enrolled in the public
							schools, according to statistics of 1915-6. In that year, eleven school houses,
							employing eleven teachers, were in operation for 180 days, with an average attendance
							of 275.
						Twenty-five students were graduated from the Eighth Grade in June, 1916. The per
							capita expense in this township is $30.47. The Library began the year with 1,863
							volumes, to which were added 145 volumes during the school year. The old Rudisill
							school building on Elizabeth Street in Fort Wayne, was erected as a Washington
							township school, but was absorbed by the school city, and recently rebuilt on Spy Run
							Avenue.
						By 1832 the settlement of the district had advanced so far as to warrant its
							separation as a new township, and upon application of Mr. Ballard, John Archer and
							others, the organization was effected in March, under the present caption, and the
							first election, held in the house of Thomas Hatfield, resulted in the choice of John
							S. Archer as Justice of the Peace, and Andrew J. Moore and Adam Pettit as constables.
							In 1834 the "feeder" canal which connected the waters of the St. Joseph with the
							Wabash and Erie canal, west of Fort Wayne, the junction of the waters being effected
							by the old aqueduct (near Lindenwood Cementery), giving the best early avenue of trade
							to the residents of Washington township, and contributing in untold measure to the
							development of all the northern part of the county.
						Charles Schwab, who arrived in 1834, holds the creditable title of "first
							blacksmith," setting up his forge in the wilderness of Washington. Here he repaired
							the settlers' plows and other farming implements, and what time he was not busy at his
							anvil he spent in useful labor at the sawmill on the Archer farm. A reputation for
							sobriety and industry survives him still. This sawmill was erected in the year 1835.
							It was the first steam mill operated in the whole district. Benjamin Sunderland, its
							builder, sent to Dayton, Ohio, for the boiler and machinery, entrusting this errand to
							David Archer and his son John, who employed for the transportation of the boiler alone
							a wagon drawn by six yoke of oxen. The balance of the machinery was drawn by horses.
							It is told that when the expedition reached Shane's Prairie on the return trip, they
							found it impossible to proceed further without more power, on account of the heavy
							roads and the great weight of the boiler. Young John Archer, a lad of barely fourteen
							years, was sent forward alone to Fort Wayne, in this emergency, for two more yoke of
							oxen, which he secured and with reinforcement the journey was successfully completed.
							The mill was operated for three years by Mr. Sunderland, who then sold it to  David Archer (on whose land it stood) and Francis
							Comparet. It was destroyed by fire some years later, and not rebuilt, the machinery
							being sold. The first church organized in the township was the Methodist Episcopal
							denomination, in 1840. A small log chapel was built about 1845 to accommodate this
							class, the ground for both church and cemetery being donated by George Ashley, a
							charter member. The first minister was the Rev. J. W. Winans. After the village of
							Wallen was founded and a new building erected there, the old chapel was converted into
							a home for the sexton of the cemetery.
						The Grand Rapids and Indiana railroad, completed in 1868, and the Fort Wayne, Jackson
							and Saginaw (now the L. S. & M. S.) finished in 1869, gave Washington direct trade
							connection with the world, and its prosperity thus assured has continued steadily to
							increase. The village of Wallen was platted in 1870 by J. K. Edgerton upon lands owned
							by him adjacent to the G. R. and I. tracks, and is the only village in the township.
							It was named in honor of the railroad superintendent of that day. James P. Ross, who
							was the first postmaster of the village, made additions to the town at later dates.
							Quite important industries have flourished within the little town in the past. Those
							most prominent were the Grosjean Brothers' saw mill established in 1872, and their
							tile works begun ten years later. These industries have waned, however, or been
							removed to other headquarters. The population of the village now is but one hundred,
							and business is represented by two grocery stores and one Farmers' Exchange. One of
							the township schools is situated in the town, which has also one church, the Methodist
							Episcopal. The Grand Rapids and Indiana railroad passes through Wallen, which is also
							connected with the world by the Fort Wayne & Northern Interurban line, while
							Wallen road makes it easily accessible to road travel from other highways. The
							Farmers' and Home telephones give communication in all directions. The postoffice,
							established in 1871, is one of those still undisplaced by the rural free delivery
							system. It is impossible to conjecture, from Wallen's present, just what Wallen's
							future may be.
						Academie, which was platted in 1874 by Samuel Carey Evans, is merely a station on the
							Lake Shore and Michigan Southern railroad (once the Fort Wayne, Jackson and Saginaw.)
							It failed to develop to any perceptible degree. The farmers who hold the land once
							laid off in town lots seem content to plant it to crops each year, in spite of the
							railroad shipping opportunity. A large Catholic Church (St. Vincent de Paul) built to
							the east of the station, in the direction of the Sacred Heart Academy from which the
							name of the proposed town was taken, is the center of a rural congregation, and
							supports a parochial school with 58 pupils enrolled in 1915-6.
						The Lincoln Highway leads toward the west through Washington township from Fort
							Wayne, following the Goshen road route.
						On this highway, in old days, stood the first free school building erected in
							Washington township, in the close vicinity of Scarlett's Corners, where for a long
							term of years the scene was disfigured with the notorious old Hiser road house. The
							Corners underwent a purification by fire some years ago, after which the road house
								 no longer offended the eye. Two or three years ago,
							the old brick school house that succeeded the original log structure vanished in the
							same manner, though there was a measure of regret at its going. However, here was an
							opportunity for improveilent that was not wasted. Instead, the occasion was seized to
							inaugurate a new epoch, in Allen county admistration of township schools, embodying
							the modern idea of consolidation, whereby every child in the township may be given
							equal educational advantages, no matter how remotely he may be situated, and these
							advantages may be made equal to those provided for children residing in the larger
							towns and cities. That such advantages cannot be given to the children in the isolated
							one-room schools of the townships, except at prohibitive cost, is self-evident. That
							there should be no discrimination between the educational advantages provided for the
							urban child and the farmer's child, is equally apparent. Up-to-date educational
							methods are the best and most effectual means of keeping the boys and girls on the
							home farm. There is also a healthful community spirit engendered by this school
							center, which promotes the social welfare of the whole township.
						Nevertheless, there was great opposition to the proposed new step, when it was
							announced by the township trustee, Mr. Leonard Stolte. A loud remonstrance was filed,
							and a warfare of considerable bitterness was waged over the question of whether Allen
							county should be allowed to settle back in the educational harness, or whether
							Washington township should fling its strength against the collar and pull it out of
							the rut. A stormy trial lasting three days was heard in the office of the county
							superintendent of schools, Mr. David O. McComb, at the end of which, having weighed
							the merits of the two sides of the controversy with utmost care and deliberation, Mr.
							McComb decided in favor of the trustee against the remonstrance. The Advisory board,
							constituted by William Miner, Christ Kammeier and John Bleke, stood solidly by the
							trustee in the question, and their steadfast support was a heavy factor in the victory
							won for better township schools by Mr. Stolte.
						And so the new Lincoln School was built, to be the first exponent of the new
							sociological practice in rural education installed in Allen county. It was finished in
							1915, and stands on the same lot as the old log cabin of pioneers days, its
							architecture and administration both in striking contrast with those of 1830. It is
							one story in height, of dark red art brick, and is approached by a broad cement walk
							from the highway edge. Four acres have been added to the grounds for playgrounds and
							gardening purposes, giving the building surety of an appropriate setting. The entry,
							broad and accessible, leads up a low flight of steps into a wide central hall arranged
							for an auditorium, or, by removing the portable seating, for drills, or any of the
							many purposes for which the school or the community may need it. A small stage faces
							the auditorium, and a white screen stretched above it calls attention to a moving
							picture machine with which many lessons are photographed on the minds of the young
							students. The piano is in this room, and here the classes receive instructions in
							sight-reading of vocal music from a teacher who comes at stated intervals from Fort
							Wayne. Provision has been made also for young students who cannot go, into the city
							for private music lessons, to  take them at the school
							building. From the right and left of the auditorium four rooms, each accommodating two
							grades, open. On either side of the stage, short wide stairways lead down to the
							basement, where the manual training department is installed. This is being equipped
							with all the tools and simple machinery necessary for teaching and acquiring the
							principles of wood-working craft. At present (spring, 1917) the boys are at work on
							one of the large domestic science tables for another school. Another table has been
							ordered from them for the Elks' Temple in Fort Wayne. A very solid and symmetrical oak
							pedestal, ready for polishing, was noted on the big work bench, also the parts for a
							cedar chest, fresh cut and fragrant, were reposing on a rack to "season." On the south
							side of the building, opening from the manual training room, is the germinating room,
							operated as part of the agricultural training which is one of the courses
							offered—and eagerly seized upon by the students. This room, maintained at the
							same temperature as all other apartments in the building, has roof sides of glass,
							exposed to the best light of day from dawn till dark. The germinating boxes are
							arranged in tiers, against the two ends and the inner side of the room, so that all
							are continually in the light. The date of planting and the kind of seed sown is
							written upon a card and tacked on each box, and the germination is eagerly watched for
							study of its different stages. Transplanting takes place in due time, as part of the
							instruction. The grounds were first put in order in the spring of the year 1917 by a
							landscape gardener, and the students profit by this demonstration. Interested parents
							will be given the privilege of taking a hand in the gardening. From the auditorium,
							turning toward the entrance, a smaller room opens on either side, that on the left
							hand being the rest room, occupied by the school library, and that on the opposite
							hand, designated as the principal's room, now occupied by two or more incubators, in
							an egg-hatching demonstration conducted by the principal, Mr. Ernest Warner, for the
							benefit of the boys who are taking agriculture. The eggs are brought by the young
							students, who mark them for experiment's sake, and the demonstration includes the
							instruction of every young experimenter in the arts of inspecting, culling out,
							candling and testing the eggs at successive stages, and the care of the young chickens
							when they are hatched, as well as the management of the incubator itself.
						Though a one story building, the Lincoln school has one upper room, directly over the
							entrance stairway, and the two rooms just described. This is the domestic science
							kitchen, a model in its equipment, with electric hot plates and baker, and all the
							sanitary utensils and conveniences for learning the science of cooking. In the school
							rooms attractive work of a high order is to be seen on every wall, and no room is
							without its patriotic decorations. The lighting of the building is ideal both by
							windows and electricity whenever that is needed. The most improved method of heating
							and ventilating is in use, and all motive power used is supplied by electricity, this
							being economically managed by the use of automatic devices for the thermostat and
							water pressure tank. Once inside the building, the visitor will not realize that the
							open country lies about it, so entirely like a city school of the sort is the aspect
								 of the Lincoln school. As far as consolidation goes,
							it means very much more than the mere bunching of many pupils in one building for
							economy's sake. It represents the get "together" idea, in its most beneficial aspect.
							The most tense interest obtains in every department, and a spirit of emulation
							animates every student. The difficulty in the transportation of the children from the
							farther quarters of the district was one problem which most obsessed the minds of
							those who opposed the school, but this is solved by the maintenance of six omnibuses,
							especially fitted, which gather all the children every morning, and bring them to
							school on time. There are no tardy marks to be given at Lincoln school. Dismissal is
							an interesting process involving a complete change from former routines. At the close
							of study, the pupils file into the cloak rooms, which adjoin each class-room, and are
							ready in a trice. Outside, the omnibuses wait, drawn up to the walk, three on each
							side. "One bell" strikes, and at the signal every pupil, in whatever room, who goes in
							'bus number one rises and marches out in double file; the moment they are under way,
							"two bells" is sounded, and the regular passengers for the 'bus number two follow; and
							so on until the whole procession has been poured into the waiting vehicles, which one
							by one roll away, amid much merriment. The whole dismissal occupies but three or four
							minutes, and is most entertaining to witness. There is no doubt that other townships
							will follow the example of Washington, as fast as rebuilding becomes imminent.
							Opposition could only have been founded upon failure to understand the advantages
							which are now conceded to be undeniable, from every standpoint. Four of the most
							remote township schools in Washington are still maintained, funds not permitting the
							Lincoln school to be made large enough to accommodate all, at the present time.
					
					
						St. Joseph Township
						At first separated from Adams township in 1828, and organized as a township in 1834,
							the present limits of St. Joseph township were not defined until 1840. Its history,
							however, should begin at a much earlier date, since, while it was still a part of
							Adams, it received a number of the early arrivals in the wilderness. Jeremiah Hudson
							is admittedly the first white man to have settled in the territory now called St.
							Joseph, coming from Delaware in the fall of 1828. The site he chose for his clearing
							was on land which became known later as the "Ogle half-section." Tradition credits Mr.
							Hudson with having been a man of great energy and enterprise, beyond which little is
							said, in the sparse records of the time.
						Early in 1829 Charles H. DeRome, born in Canada, but who had married a Miami maiden
							at Vincennes, came to the township in which his wife had been granted a reserve lying
							on the east side of the St. Joseph river. Mr. DeRome was a man of considerable
							education, and on account of his ability to speak French and the Miami tongue, in
							addition to English, was more occupied, personally, in clerical capacities in the
							village at the fort than in the improvement of the reserve. That the reserve was only
							vicariously his, was a circumstance leading to some confusion, and no little
							injustice. Descendants of the DeRomes are still living, it is said, in  Allen county. The year 1829 brought to the township
							several men of unusual caliber. Jesse Klinger, from Pennsylvania and Ohio, was one of
							these. He purchased a tract of land on the Richardville reserve and at once began,
							with the energy which appears to have been characteristic, to clear and improve it. In
							the heyday of life, he seemed destined to a long career in the newly opened country.
							Generous of his strength, he lent a helping hand to every neighbor who had a log cabin
							to erect or waste timber to reduce. Pioneer days had much need of such neighborly
							souls, and many might be counted, but in his day, Jesse Klinger was apparently the
							Great-Heart of St. Joseph. In 1834, Mr. Klinger had given a small tract of land on the
							St. Joseph river, to be used as a cemetery, burials having been made as far away as
							the Maumee settlement previous to that date. A year later, when his efforts toward
							competency were nearing deserved success, his health broke, and he himself was one of
							the first to be buried in the little "Acre." His wife returned to her Ohio home, with
							her five-year-old son, Samuel, the first white child born in St. Joseph, only to lose
							him, also, a few years later.
						Another Klinger, John, came late in 1829, purchased land on the DeRome reservation,
							and set industriously about clearing and improving it. Thomas Griffis, arriving about
							the same time, did likewise, starting a small tannery on his tract. Both these men
							knew that the lot of the pioneer is hard toil, and they spared it not, sweetened as it
							was with the hope of future compensation. Wives shared their toil. Mrs. Griffis became
							an early prey to the hardships of the settlers' life, and her husband, after having
							spent his toil upon the DeRome land, was forced to relinquish it without compensation,
							because the President refused to sanction the sale of any of the DeRome land, since it
							had been conveyed to the minor children. John Klinger received the same treatment.
							Both money and labor was lost. Thomas Griffis, ruined and broken in heart, left the
							township for Kosciusko county, and was lost sight of. Mr. Klinger finally took up and
							improved a farm on the west side of the river. These experiences were so notorious
							that they effectually prevented any further recurrences of the DeRome "graft." Moses
							Sivotts, also a native of Pennsylvania, was a settler of 1829, his land lying on the
							river opposite the DeRome reservation. A liberally educated and genial gentleman, he
							made many friends but did not remain many years, perferring to settle permanently in
							what became Cedar Creek township.
						William Sturms, of Shelby, Ohio, is another of the 1829 group. Mr. Sturms was both
							farmer and huntsman, following each pursuit with enthusiasm. Not a servant of two
							masters, but a master of two trades, he met with success in each, while neglecting no
							duty of progressive citizenship. The figure of Martin Weeks, flashed on the Adams
							township horizon in 1823, only to fade at once from the picture, reappears very
							vividly against the background of St. Joseph in 1829. Martin settled in the southeast
							portion of the township, where the Hicksville or "Ridge" road was afterward surveyed.
							Had circumstances located him on the DeRome reservation, the story of lost labor might
							have had a different ending. It is said that Mr. Weeks was not prodigal of labor. An
							easy-going and indifferent farmer, he was devoted to the hunting which was  then abundant, though his prodigious strength would have
							made a mighty woodsman of him. If John Barleycorn was a settler in that district, it
							is not recorded; but this much is certain it takes two to make a quarrel—and
							quarrels were frequent in Martin Weeks' neighborhood—so frequent, in fact, that
							a wide berth began to be maintained about him. Perhaps Mr. Weeks was not all to blame,
							only proud of his physical strength and his ability to use it effectually in
							hand-to-hand contests. But, at all hazards, he acquired the reputation of being a
							dangerous, quarrelsome fellow, the neighborhood "bad man," who later experienced "a
							change of heart," became a Baptist minister, and was the best of men and neighbors for
							the rest of his life. From the far perspective of another century, the historian sees
							a possibility that some of the neighbors experienced a change of heart in the same
							religious upheaval. Also it seems probable that Martin Weeks was not a merely
							quarrelsome man, but just "a born fighter," a soldier, if you will, enlisted in the
							wrong army. When from somewhere a "light shined 'round about him," he saw his mistake,
							he went over to the other recruiting office—and undoubtedly was a fighter to the
							very last.
						The virtues of the average settler were of a different character, a sturdy variety,
							but quiet rather than striking. Energy and perseverance might broadly be said to cover
							them all. What, then, must have been the dynamic force and ambition of two men who
							came to settle in St. Joseph township in 1830 that made them a marvel to neighbors
							whose whole stock in trade was made up of those two qualities? The strenuous labors of
							these two men, Abraham Dingman and William Butt, surpassed that of any pair of
							settlers known to the district, and is still a tradition which the historian is glad
							to point to with the fact that their labor was crowned with the success it deserved.
							Hardly less dynamic than Dingman and Butt was John Tilbury, who in 1832 settled on a
							farm on the Ridge road about three miles east of Fort Wayne, which his decendants
							still own.
						Immigration became more and more rapid during the thirties, but among those entitled
							to the name "pioneer" are many whose names cannot lightly be passed over. James A.
							Royce, of New York, stands out prominently in the list credited to 1833. A man of
							thorough training and full experience, he spent his rich endowments and mature
							energies in the service of the township—as a teacher for many years, and always
							as a useful and honored citizen. James Porter stayed five years in St. Joseph, then,
							crossing the line into Washington township he became a resident there.
						Christian Parker, whose grandfather had been a revolutionary soldier and his father a
							soldier under Wayne, cleared a quarter section, was elected first Justice, then County
							Commissioner, and, afterward, member of the State Legislature for four terms. In his
							house was performed the first marriage ceremony occurring in the township, that of
							Isaac Bush and Sarah Madden. The hospitality of his roof, up to 1838-39, had been the
							chief recourse of travelers on the Ridge road,—but not as a tavern, for he never
							accepted aught but goodwill from his guests. (The first hotel was opened by Mr.
							Rossington, it being a small wayside tavern—which became well known, however).
							The first religious service was held  at Mr. Parker's
							house by Rev. Mr. Rankin, a Presbyterian minister from Fort Wayne. Mr. Parker was the
							petitioner who secured the survey and construction of the familiar "St. Joe" road, at
							first as a county road, and then, at the instance of the same petitioner made a State
							road and extended to the northern limit of the county, following practically the
							course of the river. From the rapidly swelling list of St. Joseph pioneers, all more
							or less picturesque personalties, may be culled a number somewhat more influential
							among their fellows—though all were "good men and true." There was Job Lee,
							soldier of 1812 and well past the prime of life when he undertook—and succeeded
							in—the clearing of his wilderness farm; True Pattee, an early minister of the
							Methodist church, who held the second religious service in the township—and many
							afterward; then, James Mayhew, John Harver, Silas, Charles and John LaVanway, and the
							Goodale brothers; Uriah J. Rock, Jeremiah Whitesides, Jedediah Halliday, William
							Matthews, Benjamin Coleman, Peter Parker and a host of others who left their mark on
							the township's records, and whose names are still familiar in the families of their
							descendants. Perhaps the quaintest figure of them all was that of "Jerry" Whitesides,
							the one-armed hunter. Jerry was seldom or never separate from his rifle, tradition
							says, his right arm, amputated at the elbow, being no deterrent, but serving as a
							rifle "rest." Tall and slim his striking figure was familiar throughout the upper
							Maumee valley.
						The first St. Joseph pioneer to die was William Matthews, in 1830, before the
							establishment of a local burial place, he being laid in the Maumee settlement plot.
							The first cemetery, donated as has been said, by Jesse Klinger, 1834, was in use for
							twelve years, and was never disturbed; but a larger plot was given by Peter Parker in
							1846 which then became the township cemetery. Peter Parker's house sheltered in 1839,
							the term of school taught by Ebenezer Ayres, of New York. In the matter of pioneer
							schools St. Joseph was more fortunate than some neighboring townships though the same
							"subscription" method of support was in vogue there, and the same trusting to
							providence, or luck, for teachers prevailed. Luck may more often have favored them,
							and during the twenty years previous to the establishment of the free school system,
							there were not a few worthy teachers who left an abiding impression upon the minds of
							the youthful pioneers, firing them with ambition for higher education, and giving the
							least of them glimpses of science more inviting than the rule of three.
						Of churches, the Presbyterian held the first service, but never organized, the
							residents of that persuasion attending services in Fort Wayne. The Methodists came
							next, organizing at first in the school house, but not building until 1865. To the
							Lutherans, therefore, belongs the honor of the earliest church edifice built in the
							township. St. Michael's Catholic church, built on the farm of John Pierre in 1870,
							came third. This mission met the needs of a certain period, but with the trend of
							Catholic settlement in other directions, the building of St. Leo's at Leo, and of St.
							Vincent's near Academie, the church building has been abandoned and now stands empty
							and deserted by all but the graves of its early members, which still populate the
							little cemetery.
						
						Pioneer industries occupy a large place in the development of new communities, and
							St. Joseph had its share of successful instances, although the extreme fertility of
							the region predestined the activities of its residents to follow an agricultural bent.
							To this and to the township's splendid equipment in the item of roads, leading to
							profitable marketing points, is due the fact that no village has ever been platted
							within its borders. It is splendidly drained and well watered, and to be "a
							land-holder in St. Joe" has long been an equivalent to "prosperity." However, in 1835
							the inevitable "first saw mill" was built by Klinger and Comparet, on Becket's Run,
							from which stream the power was derived. Six years afterwards, in 1841, Henry Rudisill
							built the first steam saw mill on the St. Joseph river, and after that, indefatigable
							mill-builder that he was, added a second story to the building and conducted a carding
							mill there. At the death of Mr. Rudisill the property passed to his son-in-law, N. B.
							Freeman, who continued the business until 1866, when with two partners he built a dam
							and erected a paper mill about four miles up the river, and devoted his energies to
							the newer enterprise. The paper mill was completely destroyed by fire in 1871, but in
							spite of very heavy loss, it was immediately rebuilt on a larger scale and continued
							its successful career.
						In all these ventures, the settlers bore a part, for they were laborers in the
							building and operation of these mills, and without their participation in many
							occupations other than clearing and farming, many fine things had gone undone. Henry
							Tilbury, who came on from Adams and settled on the Bourie reservation, became a very
							active citizen of St. Joseph, farming well, carrying mail occasionally, or standing
							guard when the Indians were being "paid off" in the early days. He died in 1858, but
							his widow remained on the farm, completing, at the time of her death, a sixty-year
							residence on the site. That she did not live alone there is made sure without the help
							of chronicles, for she was the mother of fifteen children. No one may deny that she
							too did her share toward settling St. Joseph township. The Jacob Notestine family, of
							distant German origin on the Notestine side, and of Virginian stock on the mother's
							side, were early pioneers of Allen county, coming in 1830 with their fifteen children
							to Fort Wayne and taking their temporary residence in the Spy Run district. Their
							tendency, as one might say, was in the direction of St. Joseph township, or the north
							and east, and their stop in Fort Wayne was merely a prelude to their real pioneering.
							The annalist can find no more suitable place to introduce them than in the spots which
							bear their names as well as their impress. The elder Notestine took the contract for
							digging the mill-race for the Rudisill mill, his son Uriah being one of the laborers.
							Uriah and his brother also assisted at the building of the dam, and together "scored"
							the timber for the building. One term of school in the old log school house which once
							graced the spot now long disgraced by the Allen County Jail, was their final fling at
							scholastic education, for the family removed, in 1834, to a remote district on the
							banks of the St. Joseph river, in Cedar Creek township. One of the sons married
							Rachel, daughter of Thomas Hatfield, and St. Joseph eventually claimed several of the
							family. Uriah was the first, becoming a  notable figure
							in all the adventurous enterprises of the times. He made trips on horseback to Darke
							county, Ohio, a distance of one hundred and twenty miles, to obtain the deed for the
							purchase of the Cedar Creek land. He also carried the first mail that was sent from
							Fort Wayne to White Pigeon, Michigan, a trip occupying four days. This was in 1835,
							after the family had removed to Cedar Creek. At the same time, he found opportunity to
							prosper as a farmer in St. Joseph, and to serve the township four terms as constable.
							Mr. Peter Bobay, whose death occurred recently, was the son of pioneer parents, who
							brought him from his birthplace in France, in 1843 when he was only six years old, to
							find a new home in the forests of St. Joseph township. There they built a one room log
							cabin, in which they lived through many years of toil and hardship, their only route
							to the trading point at Fort Wayne being seven miles through woods so wild that it was
							necessary to mark the trees with an ax when making trips, to "blaze a trail" for their
							safe return. The eldest of nine children and left fatherless at the age of eleven, Mr.
							Bobay may contest the title of "pioneer" with any man of his day. For several years
							Mr. and Mrs. Bobay have resided in Fort Wayne, where four years previous to his demise
							they had celebrated the golden anniversary of a little wedding which occurred in St.
							Vincent's church in 1863.
						St. Joseph abounds in landmarks which testify to the useful lives led by her
							pioneers, Waltke, Bullerman, Bruick, Blumm, Ashley, Chausse, Alfred Taylor (first
							postmaster of the township), Fletter, Lapp, Vollmer, Vining and Antrup, and a host of
							others—all of whom have left their mark enduringly upon the township history and
							legends. Many a later pioneer may properly claim credit for the wonderful development
							of "St. Joe," for even as late as the sixties, the township had a vast wild acreage to
							subdue, and the bravery of patience with which this work was done not only here but in
							other townships by the late comers who took "what was left," and made it to blossom
							like the rose, has a worth that cannot be over-estimated. The excitements of the
							settlers' life were past, and the annalist cannot make their page to glitter with
							romantic adventure. But perhaps the picturesqueness could not wholly depart, and for
							proof that romance is ubiquitous, whether peril lurks in the branches of the trysting
							tree or no, search the marriage records.
						St. Joseph is the fourth and last of the group of townships which by reason of their
							position are more or less inextricable from the city of Fort Wayne, their inner
							corners being welded together by the corporation. In reciting the history of these
							townships, however, all that relates to Fort Wayne as a corporation has been kept out
							of the rural annals, these having both in pioneer and latter days a character quite
							their own which it is desirable to preserve. So of Lakeside, which once was the site
							of Ke-ki-on-ga village, and then was wild land subdued by pioneer hands, we will say
							no more than that it is extending year by year. with rapid strides, taking in once
							famous farms and effacing ancient landmarks to make room for the swelling population
							of Fort Wayne. Verily the old order changeth. The Indiana School for Feeble-Minded
							Youth was located in this township in 1887, and occupies a portion of section 20, on
							what was once the farm of Christian Parker. In addition 
							to this the school has in the neighborhood of five hundred acres of splendid farm land
							variously situated in the township, in portions of sections 19, 20, 30, and 36. About
							fifty-six acres surrounds the group of buildings on State Street (already a city
							street and paved), this being the original purchase, the others following in 1895 and
							1907.
						The Swift Farm, so long famous as a rural picnic resort in the old feeder canal days,
							was purchased in 1893 by the Fort Wayne Electric Street Railway Company, who built a
							line out to it by way of Spy Run avenue, and the old feeder towpath, which they
							purchased from the State, making a lovely scenic route about seven miles in length,
							between the banks of the St. Joe on one hand, and the old canal bed with its highlands
							on the other. The farm was renamed "Robison Park" and is a popular and profitable
							resort in the summer months. To the west of the Park is Sacred Heart Academy, built
							about 1866, which is one of the largest institutions of its kind in the State. Sacred
							Heart Academy is now a fully accredited high school. The Goeglein group of farm homes
							on the Maysville route is almost a village, but the postoffice, now abolished, since
							the introduction of rural free delivery, was located at Thurman, which is not a
							village either.
						The school enumeration of St. Joseph township, which seems low for so populous and
							old a district, is explained by the encroachment of Lakeside on the territory. The
							latest census on record gives 456 as the total. The public schools have enrolled 263
							of these and parochial schools 49. There are ten public schools taught by ten teachers
							for a school year of 160 days, the average attendance per day being 211. Seventeen
							pupils were graduated from the eighth grade in June, 1916. The per capita expense of
							the public schools for its 263 pupils is $26.86. The library is quite large, numbering
							2,414 volumes. The largest of the St. Joseph township schools is the "Riverside," a
							two room building set near the river, to the rear of the State School group.
					
					
						Marion Township
						A certain tentative discretion which characterized the first attempts at settling the
							territory comprised in Marion township, reminding one of the kitten that first tries
							the puddle with its paw before it trusts itself to wade it, requires explanation in
							view of the comparative ease with which this district could be reached, from the
							earliest years of emigration. Wayne Trace lay through its bounds, and also the upper
							St. Mary's river, and all who came "from Willshire down" traversed the region in so
							doing. It is probable that every successive homeseeker at the first pressed on as near
							to the parent settlement at the fort as it was convenient to get, not realizing that
							as good or better opportunity was being passed by. Land had been entered, in fact,
							much earlier than it was occupied. Hugh Barnett of Fort Wayne owned a farm site there,
							which in 1825 he rented to a Mr. Douglas. After a trial of one year Mr. Douglas went
							elsewhere, and a young man who had been reared in Mr. Barnett's family occupied the
							tract until 1830. The title of "settler" is begrudged to this young man, Elisha
							Harris, because he did not own the land nor remain upon it  permanently. The present-day historian sees no justice in this view. Mr.
							Harris was a shrewd fore-sighted young man (sub-titled "Yankee" by his acquaintance)
							who must have possessed good pioneer fibre to live alone in a township for four years,
							to plant the first orchard in its soil, and to "hold the fort" until a neighbor should
							be encouraged to cast in his lot in the same district. That neighbor was Mr. Philo
							Whitcomb, who with his wife and child had started in search of a new home in 1827, had
							tried successively Dearborn and Adams counties, and being still unsatisfied, tried
							once again and found a permanent location in Marion township in 1830. Mrs. Mezena
							Merriam, whose husband had died at the Adams county settlement, came also to Marion
							township in 1830 with her young family. Brave woman that she was, with the help of her
							boys, she made as good a pioneer as the best. Her farm on the old Piqua road was her
							home until her death. Mr. Whitcomb, because of essential qualities, became at once a
							leader in township affairs. The first postoffice was established at "Root," and Mr.
							Whitcomb was appointed postmaster by Andrew Jackson. This office he filled until 1835,
							when the township was organized by the county commissioners and he was called upon to
							act as Justice of the Peace. This and other local offices he filled during the rest of
							his life—a period not over long, for he died in 1842. He planted the second
							orchard, in 1833, built the first frame house in 1839, and for the twelve years of his
							life in the township left a record worthy of imitation.
						This Piqua state road was the first road to be surveyed through the region, the only
							other thoroughfare being Wayne Trace, the route followed by General Wayne's army in
							its departure from the fort in 1794, and which was improved and widened into a public
							highway as the years passed. The Piqua road was located by Benjamin Lytle with the
							assistance of the Bays brothers and Peter Dalman. It traversed a marshy region where a
							road was at any season apt to be heavy. Added to this natural difficulty, the trees
							felled in course of surveying the road were not removed, thus forming dams which held
							the water from rains, and made travel impossible over much of the route. Heavy teams
							were obliged to seek pathways through the woods, and the road line was disregarded. In
							1850, a stock company undertook the management of the road, graded and planked it from
							Fort Wayne to Willshire, installed a line of daily stages and erected toll houses from
							which a goodly revenue was collected. Prosperity flowed along the road for years until
							in the course of time it changed ownership and was neglected so seriously that the
							travelers rebelled against the toll, burned the toll house and carried off the planks.
							Officially the road ceased to exist,—but in spite of that fact, it remains a
							much traveled and popular thoroughfare. Like all roads in the county it has been
							improved in high degree. The Decatur Interurban Electric line now follows that route.
							In the meantime, the Whitcombs and the Merriam family did not wait long for neighbors
							on the Piqua road nor elsewhere in the township. Hiram Moorey was even bold enough to
							open a store in a log house south of where Hesse Cassel now stands, as early as 1832.
							The sparse trade, however, brought discretion to valor's aid two years after, and the
							stock was removed to a better traffic point. "Hunting Henry"  Snyder hunted well, not only game, but a farm site, and having found one
							made a fine farm of it, where he lived many years in the successful pursuit of
							happiness and prosperity. That was in 1833, a year which brought many settlers to this
							township, Michael Spitler, Samuel and Moses Beckner, George Hopple, Aden Brunson and
							others who were not recorded.
						Joseph Small, a "man from Maine," came in 1838. Mr. Small did not bring his youth
							with him, that having been spent on the high seas as a sailor; nor all of his prime,
							for that had been spent in farming and brickmaking in Ohio; but he brought a good
							name, an unbroken courage, health and a splendid family of sons and daughters, and
							with these to help he carved a farm out of the fine oak, beech and walnut woods of
							Marion, amassed a comfortable fortune, and lived to the age of eighty-eight to enjoy
							it. Jesse Heaton, sr., located here in 1833, purchasing land in the vicinity of
							sections twenty-seven and eight, near the site of Middletown. He became one of the
							township's most prominent citizens, bearing a full share in its development. Before
							his death he was known as the oldest survivor of the pioneer citizens. From 1836 to
							1840 the immigration was very rapid, but many who came remained only a year or two.
							Still, many stayed, and these were of the best. Prominent names among them are Thomas
							Thompson, Christopher Lipes, Jared Morton, Henry Drage, Joseph C. Wells, Isaac Harrod,
							Joseph Hall, William Ward, Daniel Whitaker and Judge Nelson McLain,—who was
							repeatedly called upon to serve the township in an official capacity. He succeeded Mr.
							Whitcomb as postmaster in 1838, and the office was removed to his house at the same
							time. Mail was carried at this period by a Mr. Stoker, on horseback, until the advent
							of the stage coaches in 1851. The postoffice was again removed, at the end of Judge
							McLain's incumbency, this time to Middletown. Dr. Hiram Barber was appointed
							postmaster at this date. It is not on record, but Dr. Barber was probably the first
							resident physician of the township.
						The first wedding ceremony performed in Marion was that of William Cain and Miss
							Elizabeth, daughter of Philo Whitcomb. Samuel Rugg, Esq., officiated. In 1837 Absalom
							Roberts and Miss Elizabeth Everman were married, and the year following, Cyrenus
							Merriam, son of Mrs. Merriam, married Miss Jane Thompson.
						The first tavern was opened, 1837, in a log house on the Piqua road, with John Karn
							as its host. It was purchased two years later by Miller and King, a firm who put in a
							stock of merchandise and conducted it as a store as well as tavern. The place changed
							hands several times, and on the establishment of the Piqua road stage line was torn
							down and rebuilt as "The Nine Mile House," by John Holmes. This latter place has been
							a landmark to tourists over the Piqua road for nearly seventy years.
						Philo Whitcomb's frame house was an example quickly followed by others, several new
							homes replacing the older ones during 1839.
						The first death of a white person known to have occurred on Marion township soil was
							that of William McCannaughey, who after quitting work in Fort Wayne started on foot
							for his home in Ohio. He was not alone, it seems, one John Barleycorn traveling the
							same road—which afterward became the "Piqua." Either  fatigue or this companion persuaded Mr. McCannaughey to tarry a while by
							the roadside. It was deep winter, 1827, and very cold. His frozen body was found by a
							party of Indians the next day, and buried by people from the fort settlement on land
							included later in the Small farm. This death, however, should hardly be on record as
							the first death in the township, for Marion was not then begun. The Thompson family,
							1833, was the first to be visited by the grim reaper in that settlement, the elderly
							father of Thomas Thompson being laid low shortly after their arrival. Several weeks
							later Miss Martha Thompson, his daughter, followed him, and after a very brief
							interval Miss Jane Merriam, a young girl friend who visited at the Thompsons, was cut
							down in the flower of youth. It is apparent that even as late as 1833 it still took
							courage to face the perils of the settler's life.
						The first school in the township was taught by Mrs. Parker, in 1837. It was housed in
							a log cabin on a spot where John Small afterward engaged in brick making. Mrs. Parker
							had been given thorough training during her youth in New York, and her school was one
							of genuine excellence. By special subscription she was engaged to teach an additional
							term in summer, and thus rounded a practical year of teaching in the district. The
							winter of 1840 Nelson MeLain opened the front room of his house for a school, himself
							the teacher. The only schools were those supported by subscription, and when the
							interest failed, as it sometimes did, there were no subscriptions taken. It was to
							provide a school in one of these times when interest failed that Judge McLain made
							this educational venture, and the dozen of students who took advantage of it brought
							the volunteer school master little income but much loyal effort and the satisfaction
							of having given opportunity to some who needed it. The following year the stimulus of
							this school was felt to the extent that the first school house was built, and Nelson
							Parker was retained as teacher for four winters thereafter. A hewn log school house
							was erected on Judge McLain's farm in 1842, this being the initial step in the
							establishment of free schools. It was partly provided for from Congressional funds
							belonging to the township, the balance being made up by private subscription. The
							teacher was William Wilson Smith, son of pioneer Thomas Smith, of 1837. He received
							$25 for his three months' service, and we are not informed if he was "boarded
							a-round." The log cabin taught in was located on the Piqua road opposite the old Wells
							house. When the State school law went into effect, the first district school house was
							built in 1853, and Marion township "caught step" with the forward march of
							education.
						Religious services were first held in 1835, at the house of Jesse Heaton, by Rev.
							James Harrison, Methodist, and Rev. Robert Tisdale, Baptist. The next year the
							Methodists organized with a membership of eight, and continued to hold their meetings
							at Mr. Heaton's house for ten years, when the membership was so increased that the
							services were transferred to the school house at Middletown. In 1852 a church edifice
							was built in the village, and a union Sunday school was organized by Jared Wharton
							under the church's auspices. In 1842 a second Methodist church was organized, the
							meetings heing held for some years at the house  of John
							Snyder, and later at the school house, until a church was built at Williamsport, where
							the Bethel Baptist church organized in 1838 by Rev. Robert Tisdale, also had its
							building, after holding services for eleven years at the home of Christopher
							Lipes.
						Hesse Cassel is the location of St. Joseph's Catholic church, organized in 1841 with
							a membership of twenty-nine families, and first ministered to by Rev. Joseph Hamion
							and Rev. Julian Benoit, who did missionary service among the pioneer citizenry of
							their faith all over this part of Indiana. A large church and parochial school are
							maintained.
						St. Paul's Evangelical Lutheran church was organized in 1845, and a log chapel
							erected on Wayne Trace, which was replaced in after years by a larger edifice on the
							same thoroughfare. The English Lutherans organized and built their place of worship in
							Middletown, in 1855, afterward rebuilding to suit more modern needs.
						Villages in Marion township have had a various history. Middletown, platted in 1851,
							after the planking of the Piqua road was begun, seemed for some years to be realizing
							the great expectations indulged in by its founders. Trades and industries located in
							the new town and flourished as the population increased, and rapidly rising real
							estate values inflated the hopes of the citizens. Seven years only did the little
							town's brief glory last. Then came the news of the new railroad to be built from Fort
							Wayne down to Richmond and Cincinnati. Traffic was to be diverted to another route
							than that on which Middletown's aircastle was built. The railroad was not coming their
							way. Middletown's bubble came tumbling to the dust. Merchants left in a panic, taking
							their goods to a more promising market; the stage travel fell off; in a few years only
							that dreariest of all sights, a deserted village, was left, to degenerate, as time
							passed, into a straggling ruin, past which the Decatur Interurban line runs.
							Williamsport, a pretty town platted in 1874, near "Muldoon's Mills," has an attractive
							location for a rural community, and in 1900 had attained a population of one hundred,
							with a number of local industries. It derived its name from William Essig, who owned
							the land upon which it lies. This name being already on the map of Indiana, the
							postoffice established there was given the title of "Poe." This is the latest
							postoffice to be abandoned in Allen county, rural free delivery now taking its place.
							Hesse Cassel, the prosperous neighborhood nestling in the shadow of St. Joseph's
							Catholic church and school, is also platted as a little village, though the plat is
							not very conspicuous in the arrangement of the houses, which is more cozy than formal.
							It is the outgrowth of a settlement of German families of rather earlier date than
							that of most of the German groups. Hesse Cassel was the end of the first R. F. D.
							route served from Fort Wayne. Soest is a locality similar to that at Hesse Cassel, or
							Goeglein, but the settlers here were Lutherans, as the large Lutheran church of St.
							Paul with its accompanying parochial school gives evidence. Gorham is merely a flag
							station on the Grand Rapids and Indiana railroad, and completes the tale of town
							building in Marion.
						The pioneers of Marion township who deserve mention beyond the mere mention of a name
							are numerous, but out of them all the  annalist may only
							enlarge upon a few whose experiences tend to show the difficulties the settlers had to
							overcome, and their steadfast courage in meeting them. Amongst the German families
							were John Herber and his wife Margaret, from Hesse, who came in August, 1834, with
							their companions, John Hake and the four Sorg brothers, to make their home in Marion
							township. John Felger settled in this neighborhood also. John Hake worked two years
							on, the canal at Fort Wayne, before purchasing his land in Marion. In 1837 Mr. Hake
							married Miss Gertrude Neireiter, and together they began their housekeeping in a log
							cabin of rude description, with no water nearer than the farm of Joseph Small, three
							miles away, from whence Mrs. Hake had often to carry it through woods so dense that
							she had lost way if the path had not been "blazed." Like circumstances were common in
							the setlement. Mrs. Hake's neighbors shared this hardship with her. Henry and
							Wilhelmina Berning were a young German couple who came early to try fortune winning in
							the new lands of Indiana. The fortune they brought with them may be estimated from the
							manner of their trip up the Maumee river from Toledo. They were with a party, whose
							whole possessions in a worldly way were loaded, with the women of the group, into one
							pirogue, leaving room for the owners of the craft, who poled it up the stream while
							the men of the party walked along the shore. Arrived at Fort Wayne, they settled first
							at the Feeder dam on the St. Joseph, but were driven by the malaria to seek a new
							foothold in Marion township. Their voyage across the Atlantic had been long and
							perilous, and their pilgrimage across the states had been long and laborious, but
							still there was courage in their hearts to wrestle with the forest for the possession
							of the rich soil which finally yielded them the competency they sought.
						Isaac Harrod, who came to Marion in 1838, was a pioneer by inheritance, each of three
							preceding generations of Harrods having pioneered when pioneering was a more
							precarious method of wooing fortune, than it was in the late thirties in Indiana.
							Associates of Daniel Boone, James Harrod, an ancestor, built the first log house in
							Kentucky, and while plowing their fields, his brother Thomas was killed by Indians.
							James himself is supposed to have met death the same way as he never returned from a
							hunting expedition, nor was heard from again. Samuel Harrod, a brother of these
							Kentuckians, was with General Wayne when the expedition against the Indians at
							Ke-ki-on-ga was undertaken. It is related that he shot an Indian—against
							orders—while on scout duty, thus revenging his brothers' deaths. He escaped
							discipline for his deed by the recital of his grievances to the doughty General. Levi
							Harrod, a fourth brother, was the ancestor of the Harrods of Marion, although his son
							William was the first and only one of his immediate family to visit the wilds of
							Indiana. William's oldest son, Isaac Harrod, came to Marion in 1838 and took up his
							residence in the forest. His decendants are still numerous, although, the family
							consisting of eight daughters, the Harrod name has disappeared in that branch. Eli
							Harrod, a brother of Isaac, came in 1844, and buying forty acres on the Piqua road,
							laid it out in town lots, thus becoming the founder of the short-lived village of
							Middletown. However, he gave also to the new country a large and fine family  of sons and daughters not at all short-lived, among whom
							are numbered teachers, physicians, college professors, ministers, good business men
							and office holders, good home-keepers and citizens.
						The Small family, too, grows in interest with study. The mother, Margaret Duncan, was
							a "State of Maine girl," but daughter of Scotch parents, while the first American
							Small arrived on board the Mayflower. Their family of eleven adult sons and daughters,
							with whom they settled in Marion township, aided their parents in the struggles and
							shared in the prosperity which came as a reward. The first of the series of brickyards
							where the first bricks used in the township were made was established by Mr. Small and
							his sons on the original tract, now the property of Timothy Kennark; and two later
							ones were set up on the Whitcomb farm after the marriage of Miss Almira Whitney to
							Robert Small, and that of her sister, Lucinda, to John Small.
						The daughters of the Small household married and for the greater part removed to more
							or less remote points, as did the second generation in their brothers' families. Mrs.
							Marion Small, Emma, the only daughter of John L. Robinson, of Madison township, still
							lives in Hoagland with her only surviving brother James. Daniel Small, son of Robert
							and Almira Small, who left Indiana twenty or more years ago, has recently returned to
							Allen county and contemplates a permanent residence in Fort Wayne. The Smalls of
							Marion township are the lineal decendants of Joseph Small, one of five brothers who
							landed at Plymouth in 1620. Joseph Small, jr., their immediate ancestor, was the first
							child born in Old Borden, Maine, 1778.
						Philo Whitcomb, Marion's first citizen, was a cousin of Gov. Whitcomb, the family
							coming from New York state. Mrs. Whitcomb and Jesse Heaton, sr., natives of
							Connecticut, were brother and sister. Mr. Heaton arrived with his wife and son, Jesse,
							jr., in 1833, when the latter was about four years old.
						The Heatons, father and son, were averse to office holding, yet active in every
							movement for the good of the township, and no name of early Marion settlers is more
							widely known than theirs at this date. Mrs. Jesse Heaton, jr., born in New York
							(Samantha Caroline Larcome), is still living in the enjoyment of excellent health.
							Their son, Judge Owen N. Heaton, long an incumbent of the Superior court bench, was
							born on the farm but has spent all his adult life as a citizen of Fort Wayne.
						William Essig, who founded Williamsport, or Poe, died in 1881 and his son, J. J.
							Essig, who resided in the little village until 1916, now has his residence in Fort
							Wayne, where his son and grandson at present manage the Majestic theatre. John Lipes,
							son of David Lipes, the oldest living resident of Marion, makes his home in Poe, but
							the younger generations all have removed to the city. The population has dwindled to a
							maximum of seventy persons, but the little trade center still supports two stores, one
							of which is the old Metcalf store; a blacksmith shop operated by "Doctor" Mercer; and
							the Chapman undertaking house. The Methodist Episcopal church there and a two room
							township school is the center of young life for a large district.
						The Merriam family were from Massachusetts. Mrs. Merriam's son Amza married Miss
							Miller, the Millers being also  very early settlers of
							Marion—though the date is not recorded,—who came from New York. Two
							children of Mr. and Mrs. Amza Merriam have made Fort Wayne their home within the past
							five years, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Merriam (nee Harrod) and Mrs. William Essig. The
							pioneer mother herself married some time after coming to Marion township, a Mr.
							McEwen. Many a worthy name, however, must be left unmentioned, for want of space in a
							record like this, whose owners, less conspicuous, were none the less valuable and
							essential to the development of the community. It is to the large families which many
							settlers brought with them, or which were born to them in the wilderness homes, and
							grew up to help them in the tasks of settlement life, that the rapid enpopulation of
							the county is due. In those days every man meant a wife, and often meant several
							brothers and sisters, not full grown, perhaps, but who grew up with the settlement and
							ought to be recorded as pioneers, while many more meant a family of children while
							only a name was registered. And every young emigrant couple, with all their worldly
							goods tied up in one bundle, promised a full quota of pioneer babies in the near
							future. Thus was the wilderness peopled.
						The public school system so valiantly inaugurated in Marion township has not grown as
							fast as those of other townships on account of the large immigration of German
							Lutherans and German Catholics into this territory. These churches both maintain large
							parochial schools, and necessarily drain the attendance at the public schools. They
							are, however, excellent schools, that at Hesse Cassel, under the patronage of St.
							Joseph's church, being now an entirely free school, and accommodating the children
							from nearly seventy-five families. The Lutheran church at Soest is nearly as large.
							Marion's school enumeration is three hundred and sixty-one, of which only eighty-six
							were enrolled in the township schools in the year 1915-1916. An average attendance of
							sixty-one daily, for the one hundred and sixty days taught, is a fair record. The
							township owns nine school buildings, including the two-room building at Poe, which are
							estimated at a value of $14,000.00 but only six teachers are now employed. Three
							pupils completed the eighth grade in the public schools in June, 1916. Teachers'
							salaries for that year amounted to $3,040.00, and the upkeep expense to $1,231.00
							which, against the small enrollment, makes the per capita cost, $49.66, seem high. The
							library is proportionately small but growing, and now has close to four hundred and
							seventy-five volumes.
					
					
						Madison Township
						Not until the year 1836 was the solitude of the region subsequently named "Madison"
							disturbed by a woodman's axe. Richly covered with timber chiefly oak, ash and poplar,
							it might well have invited the investment of the mere lumberman as well as the
							huntsman or the genuine settler. Fortunately for the county, however, it was the
							latter sort of men who came, and Madison township became almost pre-eminently a home
							community, in which fraternal spirit was a living fact rather than an Utopian theory.
							The forest did, indeed, experience a brief occupation early in 1836, by Barzilai
							Browning, who entered a claim near the site of Hoagland,  flung together a rough log cabin shelter, and devoted himself to hunting. But his
							sojourn was very brief, as he had vacated his dwelling before the arrival of the other
							1836 settlers, and it lay idle until the fifties.
						In the wake of the temporary Mr. Browning came the three first settlers of Madison,
							John Edwards, Andrew Meek and George Eagy, all of whom entered land and returned to
							their homes to prepare for migration. These men were all from Carroll county, Ohio,
							though George Eagy had already migrated to Adams county, near Monmouth, where his wife
							and babies were settled upon a small clearing which had been brought under
							cultivation. Mr. Meek engaged George Eagy to clear his land for him, and this work was
							begun early in the spring of 1837. Mr. Edwards and his family arrived the same season,
							and the Meeks came on in the fall of the year. George Eagy went back to Adams county
							for the winter, returning to Madison township in 1838 to settle, with his little
							family, on the forty acre tract he had entered two years before. Until the fall of
							1839, these three families were the only inhabitants of the township, their homes
							being located in the southeastern part, near the site of Massillon. The late autumn of
							that year brought another Carroll county delegation, consisting of the families of
							Charles Peckham, John Myers, Jesse Todd and Adam Robinson, all of whom settled in the
							southeast quarter of the township, while further to the north tracts were taken up by
							David Patrick, William Hill, Milton Holmes and William Reynolds. The names of Dawson,
							Tate and Clear also appear at this date, although there is no local trace of them now.
							Immigration Madisonward was so continuous at this period, it would almost seem as if
							one settler "did tread upon another's heels, so fast they followed." This is the more
							remarkable when it is remembered that there was no road in the township until 1841,
							and that previous to the location of that amateur highway, the route to mill or market
							was a most circuitous one through the forests. Elias Hobbs, whose seven sons all were
							voters, was of this period, also Jacob Marquardt and family. Jabez Shafer and family,
							Martin Kemp, John P. Neff, Charles Jones, John Gault,—two of whose sons are
							still living near the eastern edge of the township,—and Samuel Stopher.
						The colony, for such, in effect, the Madison settlers constituted, held its first
							election on the first Monday of April, 1840, at the house of David Patrick. Andrew
							Meek, Milton Holmes and Jesse Myers, son of John Myers, were chosen as trustees;
							Martin W. Kemp became the township clerk, John Myers the treasurer, Elias Hobbs the
							constable, and Adam Robinson the first Justice of the Peace. The seven sons of Elias
							Hobbs were a factor to be reckoned with at elections. A rude and hardy set of men,
							they were numerous enough to swing the balance at any of the early elections if they
							so chose, and no candidate could rest secure until "the Hobbs boys" had cast their
							votes. Customarily these men went barefoot, and if the November snow fell before
							election day, their reaching the voting place was not always a certainty until closing
							time, the opposing political camps brooding darkly on the possibilities of defeat, in
							the interim. Apparently this once formidable family group has scattered to other
							parts, leaving no remnant to bear the name.
						
						The school house was built soon after the election, a hewn log structure, the best
							the settlers could afford. The school term only lasted during the winter when the
							older boys and girls could be spared from farm and house work, and was, as in other
							new settlements, at the mercy of chance in regard to teachers, who were their own
							credentials—sometimes valid, and sometimes quite otherwise. George Eagy was the
							first in the settlement to build a hewn log house (his family having been housed over
							the first winter in a hastily made shelter of round logs from the clearing) one year
							before the building of the school house. The walls of the new home were plastered with
							mud inside, and in comparison with the first cabin it was a veritable palace.
						Little Dan Cupid had settled in Madison, and was very active from the start. Justice
							Robinson was twice called to the same home within his first year and a half of office.
							The first summons was to officiate at the wedding of Miss Polly, daughter of Trustee
							Andrew Meek, to Jesse Myers, also a trustee; and the second, the occasion of Miss
							Martha, second daughter of the house, being wedded to Martin W. Kemp, the township
							clerk. After recording these instances, it is a simple matter to recognize the
							familyhood of the Madison township colony, and to understand the community spirit
							which filled it. From statements made long since by Justice Robinson, the atmosphere
							of the settlement is made clear. They worked hard, but the good health of the
							settlement was scarcely equaled, and the social life was as free and cordial as
							between brothers and sisters. Little money circulated in Madison, but little was
							needed, as the forests furnished the meat, and the other necessities were forthcoming
							from the clearings. Mink, 'coon and deer skins were, practically, currency, as they
							could command money at every trading point. The wedding cake of those first days was
							apt to appear in the guise of corn bread, and for roast fowl, venison was a frequent
							substitute; but the divorce lawyer was as unknown as he was unneeded after those
							weddings, and there was no lack of wedding gaiety. Temperance, however, marked all the
							pioneer gatherings of the colony. The Madison settlers proscribed the use of liquors
							even at the house-raisings and the log rollings, which, nevertheless, were jolly
							occasions. All of the neighbors from five to six miles around were wont to gather to
							assist in these operations, and would divide themselves into teams under two
							"captains," the ensuing contest being characterized by a rivalry that was certainly
							friendly, since the Justice then stated that only twice during his thirteen years'
							incumbency was the offense of assault and battery brought before him for trial, and
							one of these cases emanated from another township.
						The method of constructing then in vogue is typical, and in consequence, interesting.
							Neither sawed lumber, shingles nor nails were used. The shells of the dwellings were
							made of round, or sometimes hewn logs; the floors were of puncheons, and the roofs of
							split slabs. Clapboards were also split, and wooden pins served in place of nails for
							securing them. Doors and shutters were fastened together by the same means, and hinges
							and inside latches were contrived of wood and manipulated by thongs of buckskin.
							Window "glass" was merely stout paper made semi-transparent by plentiful application
							of melted tallow or lard. Roofs  and walls were weighted
							down with heavy poles by means of ropes, chains or buckskin strips. Even the
							fireplaces were wooden cribs, set into the wall and lined thoroughly with clay mud,
							which baked like brick. The chimneys were of the same construction, only lighter
							built. Few indeed were the houses of that day which boasted more than one apartment.
							To one who travels the exceptionally good roads of Madison township in this Year of
							Grace, 1917, immediately after a long look at this old memory picture, it seems as if
							some fairy's magic had transformed the landscape. But it was only the magic of hopeful
							labor.
						The first road was built by consent of the county commissioners in 1841. Every man
							being his own surveyor in locating the road past his own acres, this amateur
							engineering resulted in a rather devious road line, but five years later, in 1846, A.
							B. Todd was elected township road supervisor, and through his agency the highway line
							was corrected by a new survey, conducted by County Surveyor Black. This road is known
							as the "Van Wert," leading to the continuation of that one hewn through in a fortnight
							by the sturdy pioneers of Jefferson township, which is also a "Van Wert" road. The
							road was the beginning, in Madison township, of a system of roads which for condition
							and completeness is now scarcely equaled anywhere in the county, including Wayne and
							Adams townships.
						The first mill in Madison was built in 1849, by Samuel Davis, prominent in the
							establishment of Massillon village. The township afforded no water power, its one
							small stream, Flat Rock creek, being inadequate both in fall and volume, with a
							tendency to run dry in midsummer. So, the mill was operated by steam, and although
							originally a sawmill, a "run of burs" for grinding both corn and wheat was added for
							the greater convenience of the farmers. The first postoffice was established in the
							same year, at the house of John Shaffer, son of Jabez Shaffer. He was succeeded by
							Joseph Snyder and then by A. B. Todd, who held the office until its removal to Monroe
							township in 1856. During this seven years, the mail used to be carried first from Van
							Wert, Ohio, to Root postoffice (Middletown), and from there back to Massillon, a trip
							somewhat resembling that around Robin Hood's barn.
						Whether Adam Robinson platted Massillon or Samuel Davis was "proprietor" of the town,
							is immaterial, since the day of the little village was short, and only marked a
							transition epoch in the township history. The villages of Centerville and Monroeville
							were platted at about the same time, at points on the Pennsylvania railroad, and while
							of these two only Monroeville really developed, it drew the trade of the surrounding
							territory and the hopes of Massillon drooped accordingly. Wilson and Brown had opened
							a store, the first in the township, at Massillon in 1851, when the outlook for the
							little village was bright, but the stock was soon sold out to a purchaser who removed
							it to Monroe township. Dr. A. Engle, who came the same year, was a fixture for life,
							however. He made a home close to Massillon, and for more than twenty years was able
							single-handed to care for all the sick of this happy, healthy township, which took him
							to its heart as one of its own family.
						In the year 1851 Adam Emenhiser came to Madison township, locating on a tract,
							purchased from Joseph K. Edgerton, in the  southwestern
							part. He was followed in 1852 and 1853 by his sons Joseph and Stephen, who purchased
							contiguous tracts from Humphrey Middleton and Joseph McIntosh, respectively. Ten years
							later, in 1862, Joseph Emenhiser added to his land, by purchase from Allen Hamilton of
							Fort Wayne, the land upon which Mr. Browning had spent his brief experience in
							Madison. In the year 1872, Stephen Emenhiser platted the village of Hoagland upon land
							belonging to himself, adjacent to the right of way of the Grand Rapids and Indiana
							railroad. Joseph Harrod, at the same time gave to the railroad a plot of ground for
							the depot, stipulating that the new town should be called "Harrodsburg." The gift was
							accepted, but the agreement was not carried out, the name of Hoagland being
							substituted, in honor of Pliny Hoagland, of Fort Wayne, who was a director of the
							railroad. An addition on the north side of the original plat was made in 1877 by Allen
							DeVilbiss. Two streets extend east and west, Main, which is a well paved and shaded
							residence street, and English named in honor of the first postmaster, James English.
							The north and south streets are numbered, beginning at the railroad grounds, on the
							west of the depot.
						The first merchant of the new village was Samuel Steadman, and the building he
							occupied was the first one built for mercantile purposes. It stands on First street
							facing the depot, and is still a solid structure, in use as a bakery and restaurant by
							Silas Miller, who has with him as assistant, James Robinson, son of John L. Robinson
							and grandson of 'Squire Adam Robinson. On English street is a general store once owned
							by John L. Robinson, which is now known as "Smitley's" and carries every variety of
							merchandise known in Indiana. "Merriam and Son" of thirty years ago, are replaced by
							M. Luttman, who dispenses a neat stock of dry goods and groceries, while another
							general store is conducted by A. C. Crawford and Company, on First street. Frank
							Ottenwiler is the village blacksmith, succeeding H. McWherter, who was the first in
							Hoagland. The little church which the Baptists used amiably to loan to the other
							denominational groups while homeless, is now in the hands of an English Lutheran
							congregation, while the Methodists have a very pretty modern church edifice on Main
							street—these two being the only churches now in the village. Instead of the
							Houser brothers' sawmill, the sawmill of today is operated by the Hoagland Lumber
							Company. The brick and tile industry established by D. L. Small is now in the hands of
							Hartzell and Company. Deering and McCormick have agencies in Hoagland, near the bank
							and the postoffice. A tidy barber shop faces the depot, also, while a neatly conducted
							meat market owned by G. E. Morton is managed by Mr. Brown, a descendant of the first
							storekeeper at Massillon. The Hoagland State Bank is a well established institution
							with a capital stock of $25,000, its president, John S. Youse, having succeeded Dr. J.
							L. Smith, who was its first president. Hoagland has its own local telephone exchange
							with rural lines running out. The postoffice serves one R. F. D. route, and the
							two-room township school house Number Nine is located at the west end of the
							village.
						The remainder—which is by no means a remnant—of the business of Hoagland
							is controlled under various heads, by Koeneman and Company, who operate a storage and
							sales garage, an extensive  commission house, a depot of
							farm machinery, a large elevator, and the only hall that Hoagland has for hire.
						The population of Hoagland in 1890 was scarcely one hundred persons; in 1900 it had
							attained about one hundred and fifty; now, in 1917, it may safely claim three hundred
							inhabitants, among whom are many representatives of the old settlers of the township.
							John Chapman, who married a daughter of Isaac Harrod of Marion township, is still
							living, at an advanced age, with his daughter on the pretty Main street. Dr. J. L.
							Smith, who, originally from New Jersey, came to Hoagland in 1875 from Ohio, married
							the daughter of Joseph Emenhiser, and has been for over forty years the leading
							physician of the township, and as widely acquainted as any earlier pioneer in it.
							However, the whole of Allen county knows Dr. Smith, and not alone professionally, for
							he was County Auditor from 1903 to 1907. Both of his sons are physicians, the younger
							about to enter the medical service in the army, and the elder already thoroughly
							established in association with his father in local and country practice. The Drs.
							Smith, with Dr. C. M. Buck, and Dr. Cordell, V. S., constitute the professional roster
							of Hoagland.
						Descendants of early settlers are evident factors in Madison township still, though
							some families have become only memories there. George Eagy's son, John Eagy, died only
							a few years ago and one daughter, who married John Patrick, the son of David, died
							some years previous to her brother. Lucinda Eagy, who became Mrs. John Edwards, jr.,
							and Rebecca Eagy, who married the son of Charles Peckham, have both resided in
							Monroeville for many years. The last of Andrew Meek's family of three daughters,
							Hetty, who married first, Sprague and afterward Houck, died about 1902. The Jabez
							Shaffer family, still represented in the township, have material for pride in their
							ancestry in this country, for while their first American progenitor, an emigrant
							before the Revolution, was so strongly convinced of the divine right of kings to rule,
							that he disowned his own son Andrew because the latter cast in his lot with the
							colonists and fought for American freedom under command of our own General Wayne. This
							patriotic son of the Revolution was the father of Jabez Shaffer, of Madison
							township—a most honorable inheritance for his posterity.
						A large influx of German Lutheran families within the last forty years has changed
							the social atmosphere of the township considerably, one effect being seen in the
							township schools, which have a smaller enrollment now than was noted thirty years ago,
							on account of the establishment of the parochial school in section 17, which
							practically all the juvenile Lutheran population attend. The public school report for
							the year 1915-1916 shows a total enumeration of four hundred and eight children, of
							whom fewer than half are enrolled in the public schools. The condition of the schools
							otherwise is good, however, under the present administration. In June, 1916, there
							were twelve pupils graduated from the eighth grades. The school year of one hundred
							and sixty days maintained an attendance of one hundred and fifty-four daily. With nine
							teachers employed, the total of salaries paid for that year was $4,372.80; and the
							other expenses, exclusive of the cost of transfers, was $1,194.00, the per capita cost
							amounting to $27.91. Madison township school buildings are estimated at $20,000 in  value, with libraries aggregating 2,363 volumes. A high
							school was formerly maintained at Hoagland, but the institution of "commissioned" high
							schools made its continuance inadvisable.
					
					
						Monroe Township
						Monroe township, occupying the extreme southeast part of Allen county, shares with
							the contiguous territory in Madison and the lower half of Jackson, the general
							characteristics of soil and original forest conditions. Like Madison, its first
							settlers were Carroll county (Ohio) families, who came in the fall of 1839 and
							established themselves on section thirty-two, near the site of East Liberty. Three
							men, William and James Black and Joseph Rabbit, were joined in the same year by
							Lawrence Umbaugh and his son-in-law, Jacob Drake, on the same section. Peter
							Schlemmer, from Germany, settled on section twenty-one about the same time, and Noah
							Clem, a native of Virginia, but temporary resident of Champaign county, Ohio,
							purchased land in the southeastern quarter of section thirty-three, where, with the
							assistance of his neighbors, he built a cabin ready for the reception of his family in
							the spring of 1840. The year 1840 brought Moses Ratledge and his two sons, William and
							Moses, Elijah Reddinghouse and John Friedline. Elijah Reddinghouse removed to the far
							west after improving his land. Hugh Anderson and Samuel Clem came in January and
							February of 1841, and the same season John Stephenson settled in section four, while
							James Savage and Peter Barnhart located near the site of Monroeville. Mr. Savage went
							to Fort Wayne, after a few years.
						Within a very few years the settlement had more than doubled its original settlers of
							the first three years, and the names of Asa Dillon, Eli Bauserman, Thomas Jones,
							Thomas Meek, brother of Andrew, and numerous others belong to this period. The first
							township election, held in April, 1841, at the house of William Ratledge, registered
							thirteen voters. Peter Schlemmer was one of the number, and his vote was challenged on
							account of doubt as to his naturalization. He made proof, however, which was
							fortunate, since the election was a tie, and Mr. Schlemmer's vote decided the contest
							between Noah Clem and William Black, the two candidates for Justice, Mr. Clem being
							elected. Justice Clem performed his first wedding ceremony the following year when the
							daughter of Asa Dillon was married to Eli Bauserman. Mrs. Schlemmer's death, in 1843,
							was the first in the settlement, and her burial place on the home farm became the last
							resting place of other early settlers of Monroe.
						The settlers in Monroe were obliged to go as far as the Rudisill mill on the St.
							Joseph, or to Wines' mill on the Maumee, for the grinding of their corn—when
							they had any to grind. During the first years, the abundantly fertile soil was often
							covered deep with a wild vine of great tenacity, which made plowing almost impossible,
							and corn had sometimes to be planted by hand, pushing the vines aside for each
							hill—a slow and very laborious process, but yielding good returns. Before even
							this means of producing grain was at hand, the rifle of the huntsman was responsible
							for the major part of the settlers' living. Is it possible for the nineteenth century
							to  realize that "shorts" or "middlings" made into cakes
							was once a holiday delicacy in wealthy Allen county? Yet it was so, and an expensive
							one at that. Money was so scarce that it was almost unknown in the forests of the
							southern townships. It was necessary to find some variety of produce to carry to Fort
							Wayne to exchange for the grain foods that were imperatively needed. The forests
							themselves were so dense at that time that transporting timber was impossible, even if
							timber had possessed any market value when the market was so glutted with it. The next
							best thing was to reduce the timber to ashes, extract the salts, by means of water,
							into lye, boil the lye down to "black salts" and carry it to Fort Wayne, where a
							barrel of it was exchanged for a small load of "middlings" or corn meal.
							Notwithstanding the lightness of the load, the trails were so nearly impassable that
							it took a double team of horses to make the trip, which frequently occupied a full
							week.
						Hugh Anderson and John Friedline were neighbors, in the southwestern part of the
							township, and usually made this trip together, uniting their teams to secure motive
							power enough to overcome the difficulties of travel. "Uncle Hughie" Anderson, as he
							came to be called by his familiars, was a man of giant stature and strength, and his
							four or five sons were cast in the same mold as their father. These men, strong as
							engines, and capable in like degree, were wont to offer their services, when not
							engaged in their own work, at the moderate wage of twenty-five cents a day, "and
							dinner." Yet even when their help was sorely needed, money was so scarce that the
							offer frequently went begging. Once in a while money for postage was lacking, and that
							was tragic! In 1844, Hugh Anderson and his sons put up a horse-power mill for grinding
							corn or other grain. Its capacity was not great, but its convenience to the settlers
							in Monroe was incalculable at the time, and it was cordially welcomed and patronized
							for a number of years, until Charles Muldoon built his mill on the St. Mary's. John
							Friedline's sons, John D. and Emanuel, have grown up from infancy in Monroe township,
							and both remember their childish experiences as the children of pioneers. Mrs. John D.
							Friedline, daughter of John Lare, though born in Ohio, came with her parents in 1846,
							when she was but one year old, and her very earliest recollections are of picking up
							chips in the clearings, a task which even toddlers were trained to do, as chips
							interfered very seriously with the cultivation of the land. She says, too, that
							picking up chips was the bane of pioneer children's existence, and even the bonfires
							they were permitted to have with the chip piles, grew too commonplace to be an
							amusement. Her father brought his family to Monroe before there was a roof to shelter
							them, and indeed, the woods were so dense that they scarcely needed shelter, until a
							spot was cleared large enough to build a cabin on. He literally had to dig himself out
							to the open. The Friedline boys both went to the first log cabin school house, built
							on section thirty-two, and taught by Elizabeth Bradley the first year. Emanuel
							Friedline, the elder of the brothers, is still a stalwart, well-kept man, in spite of
							the fact that he has lived in Monroe township longer than any person now living, his
							record being seventy-seven years' residence within a circle of a mile and a half, the
							home farm at one side of the circle, and Monroeville, his present home, on the
							opposite. Mrs.  Emanuel Friedline was Mary Crabill, the
							daughter of David Crabill, sr. The Crabill and Clem families were both from Virginia
							and are connected. Noah Clem was one of the strong characters of the settlement, and
							the family stamp is still clear in his descendants. Mrs. Mary (Ridenour) Clem was also
							a native of Shenandoah county, Virginia. John D. Stephenson came to Monroe in the fall
							of 1840, built his cabin and sowed four acres of wheat, after which he went back for
							the winter, returning in 1841 with his bride, Mary Dornan, by wagon. They were eight
							miles from a neighbor on the west and one mile on the east. Sandusky Indians still
							swarmed the woods, hunting by night, but they were friendly and did not trouble the
							settlers. The Stephensons' house was on the "Sugar" Ridge road which was the only road
							in the township then approaching Fort Wayne from that direction, and it became a
							favorite stopping place for travelers before the railroad was built, so that the
							tavern business predominated with them for a period. They kept a hotel, and the place
							was a station on the stage line. As many as a hundred wagons have camped there at once
							in the old days when colonies were moving westward to newly opened lands. Mr.
							Stephenson left an estate of nearly nine hundred acres of land.
						Samuel Wass and Samuel Grahame were other early settlers in Monroe. The Wass family
							was closely related with the George Eagy family of Madison township, and the daughters
							of both families used to visit each other in the face of many difficulties and some
							danger, to which pioneer maidens became inured. The Wass cabin was a very primitive
							affair, windowless in summer, as all the air possible was needed at night for
							ventilation. On one occasion one of the Eagy girls carried a pet lamb with her, and
							spending the day with her cousin, lingered so late that she was afraid to take the
							lamb home with her, lest she should be followed by wolves. The lamb had to be kept in
							the Wass cabin that night, and the fear of wolves was well founded, for the beasts
							howled around them all night, making it necessary to keep the wooden shutters closed
							and barred. Yet the wolves were cowardly, after all. Mrs. Peckham (Rebecca Eagy), who
							now lives in Monroeville, a still beautiful woman at eighty years, relates that in her
							father's absence, in the pioneer days in the forest, her mother used to blow a long
							blast on her husband's brass trumpet,—a musical instrument upon which he really
							could play,—and the threatening wolves would flee in terror at the sound. The
							Wass sisters are both residents of Monroeville, one being Mrs. Mundorff and the other
							the wife of John D. Alleger. Mrs. Edwards (Lucinda Eagy) also lives in Monroeville
							with her son.
						Samuel Grahame is remembered quite vividly by those who knew him, which was almost
							everybody. He was the embodiment of jollity and good nature, with the ability to
							extract fun from every aspect of life, and the faculty of making everybody his friend.
							His first log house in the woods was built so far "over the line" that it was
							discovered after a while to be on somebody's else ground entirely. Nothing daunted,
							Mr. Grahame saw the humor of the situation and built another and much better one,
							going deep into his land to make sure of its staying at home, trudging through the
							forest to Fort Wayne to read his land title clear before he did so, however. The new
							house, where his family of six grew up, was  a hewn-log
							structure of black walnut and oak timbers. It was his home for fifty-five years, at
							the end of which he built himself a new mansion, and gave the old one away. It was
							taken apart and removed to Jackson township, where it was again set up, clapboarded
							and plastered, roofed and all, and is as solid a homestead as ever.
						The first religious service in Monroe township was conducted at the house of John
							Friedline, by Rev. Mr. Exline, of the Lutheran church (English) in 1845. A church was
							built very soon after in the same clearing as the little school house, and both on the
							land of Joseph Rabbit. The church, though of logs, was a large one for the time and
							stood near the school.
						The village of East Liberty was laid out in 1848 by John Burger on his own land on
							section twenty-nine. It was the first village of the township and promised well.
							Martin Kemp started a store, so called, though the chief article in stock was liquor.
							"Stores" of this undesirable nature were attempted in every new village, but like this
							one, they were not always permanent. The Kemp grog shop soon departed, and Judge
							Reynolds and James Patterson opened a general store that gave general satisfaction
							both in their hands and those of their successors, David Studebaker and Peter Whipky.
							A postoffice was secured for the village in 1851, but the following year, anticipating
							the railroad, the village of Monroeville had been platted, and as it had the further
							advantage of a more central location, East Liberty ceased to grow. The postoffice was
							removed to the home of John Friedline, where it remained during his life. Nothing
							remains of the village, but the United Brethren church and township schoolhouse No. 3
							stand close to the site. This denomination held its first organization meeting in
							Samuel Clem's barn, with seven members. The first log church mentioned was erected by
							the Methodists and United Brethren in partnership, and used by both congregations
							until 1873, when the latter body built their new "Bethlehem" church. About 1880, the
							Methodists increased in numbers so that they were able to build a new church also,
							about a half mile north of East Liberty. It is known as "Shiloh" M. E. church.
						Monroeville was platted in 1851 by Jacob and John Barnhart, sons of Peter Barnhart.
							Merely a mail station on the Pittsburgh railroad for ten years, the trade and
							manufacturing activity aroused by the civil war brought Monroeville to its feet, and
							since then there has been a steady and substantial growth in the town. McGovern and
							Pool made additions to the original plat in 1865, and in 1866 a third was made by
							Alpheus Swift. The famous industry of the day was the manufacture of barrel staves and
							headings for the oil refineries, then in their most spectacular stage in the
							Pennsylvania oil fields. The first stave factory at Monroeville was opened in 1864, by
							John Rout, with George Webster and James Weiler. Another was built in 1865 by Hemphill
							and Ashworth, succeeded in 1866 by M. E. Argo. Rallya and Robertson established a
							third stave factory in 1865, which continued until 1874. A large flouring mill built
							in 1865, by C. H. Schick, became the property successively of Alpheus Swift, Dague
							Brothers and Shank, and at last was burned down in 1889 while owned by D. S.
							Redelsheimer. The Empire Stave company, P. S. O'Rourke, president, Alexander  Williamson, secretary and treasurer, and Jacob Sweany,
							superintendent, built, 1867, a very complete and extensive stave factory, which ran
							successfully for eight years, when it too, was burned, while owned by Heller and
							Dague. Nearly all of these factories had branches at Decatur, Indiana, Benton, Ohio,
							and at Dixon, on the state line. Stave manufacture continued for many years a chief
							industry, a factory being built as late as 1875 by A. F. Beugnot, and Daniel Monahan,
							which afterward passed to J. B. Worden and then to Redelsheimer and Company, who
							operated it as long as the woods furnished the necessary material. A pump works was
							built by T. A. Long, and carriage and wagon making was begun by Sears and Scherer, in
							the later seventies, but both of these ventures suspended.
						In the main, Monroeville has been from the start a township town. Very few "fowls of
							the air" have lodged in the village branches, and the outsiders who have located there
							have been fine additions to the native and pioneer element of society. The business
							and professional directory still numbers a large proportion of the charter names of
							the town, which was incorporated in 1866, as a glance over it will show.
						The medical profession is represented by Drs. S. E. Mentzer, D. E. Kauffman, H. E.
							Steinman and W. A. Connolly, the latter now retired, and living with his sister, Miss
							Margaret Connolly, in a charming modern home, after their long and arduous lives
							spent, since 1868, in the service of Monroeville. Miss Margaret was a public school
							teacher there for several years, and Dr. Connolly was secretary of the board of school
							trustees for a long term. There is also one veterinary surgeon, C. L. Meyer, and one
							dentist, M. A. Smith. The legal fraternity consists of two attorneys, H. C. Crabill
							and John DeLong. There are three general stores, kept by Edwards Brothers, sons of
							Mrs. Lucinda Eagy Edwards, Krick and Sons and Fry and Gailey; two drug stores, the
							People's and W. O. Sweaney, the latter gentleman being now a member of the school
							board; two hardware establishments, the Monroeville Hardware company, and the Clem
							Hardware company. A large department store is conducted by Heinefeldt and Neimeyer
							brothers. Groceries and meats exclusively are dispensed by Crane and Savico, and F. E.
							Kline. Roofing and furnaces are built by Shifferly brothers. There are two shoemakers
							and dealers, C. J. Breman and Daniel Miller; three livery and feed stables, R. F.
							David, R. E. Elliott and M. Mentzer; one furniture and funeral-directing firm, Painter
							brothers; one harness shop, D. Murfield; one ice cream and ice company, A. S. Robinson
							and Sons; one milliner, Mrs. Metsker; three garages, Leuenberger's, Conrad's and
							McMillen and Son; two blacksmiths, D. W. Mercer and C. A. Brown; one broom factory, H.
							H. Burchnell; one photo studio, G. M. Burchnell; one ball bat and heading factory, D.
							C. Purman; one lumber yard, the Monroeville Lumber and Supply company; one Granite and
							Marble works, H. Seymour Jones, the son of Thomas Jones, and a member of the board of
							school trustees; two cigar factories, three barber shops, two restaurants and
							bakeries, one picture theatre, and the original Central Hotel, kept now by Frank
							Maxheimer. J. Rossworm runs a cement works; and H. White is a hay and grain buyer.
							There is hardly a public convenience missing. Monroeville has its local  telephone exchange, and its own municipal electric
							lighting plant. The Ohio Electric line takes one either towards Springfield or Fort
							Wayne. The Citizens' State Bank is a solid institution, old enough now to be no longer
							the sensation of the hour. The cashier is C. P. Mitchell. The sidewalks are excellent;
							the streets are kept smooth and oiled and one is being macadamized. The six churches,
							the Methodist, United Brethren, Christian, German Lutheran, English Lutheran and St.
							Rose Catholic church with its large parochial school, are all fine edifices, and kept
							up to date in every respect. Its two elevators are of imposing capacity, and include
							coal and general produce, and milling industry. Diebolt and Niswonger is the newer of
							the two, that of J. B. Niezer having been for so many years the standby of Monroeville
							which has floated it over its disastrous fires in days gone by, that the bystander is
							tempted to call it "Fortress Monroe."
						The real pride of Monroeville is its commissioned high school, John DeLong,
							superintendent, which takes rank with the best in the state in its administration. The
							building is modern and handsome, provided with running water by independent pumping
							system, from pure deep wells, has a fine gymnasium and auditorium combined, and the
							special departments are at present housed in the old building which stands in the same
							grounds. There is a four-acre plot ready for the agricultural course some day not so
							far off. The domestic science course does excellent work under a fine teacher, and has
							a most enthusiastic class. In the manual training department the visitor meets a
							vigorous personality rejoicing in the name of Benjamin F. Clem, grandson of Noah Clem,
							under whose direction is being done work that is pronounced by the state inspectors to
							be unsurpassed in any school in Indiana. Wood from old desks, old benches, old
							buildings, and old furniture is being worked over into modern articles of the very
							best models. Library tables that it were a joy to own; piano benches that are gracious
							to the touch of hands; and other articles, too numerous to mention, are being made by
							the boys from grades seven to twelve. New cedar chests, brass bound by hand, and
							grateful to eye and nostril, are also made, and nearly all the product is sold before
							it is finished.
						The local printing industry has its home at the office of the Monroeville Weekly
							Breeze, the editor and proprietor of which is John D. Alleger, who came from
							Pennsylvania with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. David Alleger, in 1854, and made Fort
							Wayne his starting point. The editor's training advanced through several remarkable
							stages, not always included in an editor's education, beginning as Fort Wayne's first
							boot black, and being successively promoted to carriage boy, newsboy, printer's devil,
							and finally, to all-around newspaper man, in which capacity he published the New Haven
							Palladium, under Thomas Foster, and while there gave to Alexander Lipes, now manager
							of the Fort Wayne branch of the Western Newspaper Union, his first training in type
							work. In January, 1884, Mr. Alleger went to Monroeville and purchased the "Democrat"
							from F. P. Hardesty, changed its name and published it as an independent newspaper.
							Only once for a few years has Mr. Alleger divided his attention to the Breeze with
							another object,—when he was foreman of the Fort Wayne Gazette for a while. He
							married in Monroeville and his father and mother make their home  with him there. If, as someone has said, and very aptly, the lungs of a
							town are situated in its newspaper, then John D. Alleger is the pulmotor which has
							kept the breath of life in the town of Monroeville. Monroeville must appreciate him,
							for it has kept him as Justice of the Peace for thirty-one years, which is
							considerable honor to lay upon the shoulders of the little newsboy who used to deem it
							luxury to sleep under the benches in the waiting room of the old Pennsylvania depot,
							in the kind but thoughtless city of Fort Wayne. The Alleger family, careless
							themselves in the spelling of the name, have had it so variously mis-spelled that
							little short of surgery was necessary to eliminate the contributed letters. There may
							be some who remember seeing it spelled "Alligear." When in 1890 Mr. Alleger visited
							his grandmother, then aged ninety-eight, she straightened that orthographical puzzle
							with one brief sentence. Without waiting to greet her grandson, who had not crossed
							her threshold in thirty years, she said, sternly, "John, I want to tell you one thing
							right now. When you go back home, you spell your name right." Mr. Alleger has
							obeyed.
						Conservative business men of Monroeville place the population of the town at the
							modest figure of nine hundred and fifty, but if that is all, it is not going to stop
							there. Monroe township's school enumeration is five hundred and thirty-one, and
							seventy-six of that number were enrolled in the high school alone for the year
							1915-1916.
					
					
						Milan Township
						Lying between St. Joseph on the west and Maumee on the east, Milan township was first
							organized in 1838, but its boundary lines were indefinite and irregular at that time.
							Though duly christened and set apart, it was not until 1840 that the present limits
							were fixed. Topographically, Milan is very similar to Maumee, the same circumstances
							having conspired to render the southeastern portion swampy by the time settlement
							began. This part was unattractive, at first, but artificial drainage has long since
							reclaimed it and it is now the scene of good farms. Early settlement, however, was
							made chiefly along the route of the Ridge road, which was surveyed through this part
							in 1839. Two creeks known as "Ten" and "Twelve Mile" wound through the middle part of
							the township, and joined the Maumee river. These were afterward made to form part of
							the extensive ditch system which characterizes this part of the Maumee valley at the
							present time. Milan as a township lacks any distinguishing historical features, but
							shares with all the territory through which the Maumee river winds the traditions of
							early traffic on that stream, also on the canal, and the building not only of that but
							of the railroad which displaced it.
						As nearly as can be ascertained, John Nuttle of New York was the earliest settler to
							fix upon a home site in Milan. He came with his wife, who was a native of Scotland,
							about 1833. Mr. Nuttle's mother was a first cousin of Hon. John Jay, a distinction
							which her son cherished with proper pride. The Nuttles chose a site in section
							thirty-one, the extreme southwest of the territory, while Nathan Lake, of Vermont, who
							came with his family in 1835, and Charles Shriner, who brought his wife and children
							in 1836, settled in sections three and four, some five or six miles to the  northeast. John Heath and Wilkes Gillett came in 1836 or
							1837, and both settled in section eighteen, about half way between the two first
							settlers. Stephen Heath came soon after, and settled on the Ridge road. Alvin Hall
							came out the same summer, and selected a site in the same vicinity, and then returned
							to Ohio for his family, bringing them out to the new home in 1840. The Halls were not,
							however, an Ohio family, but of old New England stock. Mr. Hall was born in New
							London, Connecticut, in defense of which town his father was killed during the War of
							1812. Alvin was then but two years old. Leaving home when a lad of fifteen or sixteen,
							he spent the next several years in New York where he learned the trade of carpentry,
							which afterward made him so useful a citizen of the new country.
						In 1837 a town called Fairport was platted at a point convenient to both river and
							canal by a company of capitalists from the east. George Foxtater and John Irvin both
							built houses designed to accommodate travelers by river, road, and canal route and for
							several years they had some custom. An effort was made to found a town. A postoffice
							was secured for the point, and when at last in 1842, the first election was ordered,
							it was held at the tavern house of George Foxtater. Stephen Heath had named the
							township Milan in honor of his native town in Ohio, and at this election Andrew
							Wakefield was chosen Justice, and John Nuttle constable. Salaries did not pertain to
							these offices, the honors of which were rather empty ones for some years, so it
							required a degree of public spirit to carry them. John Irwin received the
							postmastership of the new office at Fairport, the year following the election. In the
							decade between 1840 and 1850, settlement was much more rapid, and among the names of
							this period are William Fitzgerald, sr., Edward Nugent, the Lynes family, Daniel B.
							Strong, Joseph Donner, William Tilbury, William R. Herrick, Richard Beebe and Samuel
							Archer. Joseph Mosier, Lorenzo D. George, Miller, Brooks, Spindler, Benninghoff and
							Doty are still more recent names. The first frame house in the township was built by
							Charles Shriner, in 1838. It was attached to the original log cabin, and with it was
							permitted to decay in after years. When Alvin Hall arrived, about Christmas, 1840, he
							built a log house for his first residence, but the second frame house in Milan was his
							home, and it was a good one, attesting well the builder's carpentry. The first store
							kept in Milan was the small general merchandise stock put in by Stephen Heath at his
							own house, which was a great convenience to his neighbors, saving them many a long and
							tedious trip to Fort Wayne or eastern points for necessities. Nathan Lake was born in
							Connecticut, as was his wife, Jerusha, but their early married life was spent in
							Vermont, and there were born their eight children of whom the late Curtis Lake was
							one. The Lake family had started west in 1835 from Vermont, but the trip was
							disastrous, and lasted longer than expected, as all their goods were lost by accidents
							which befell and it was well towards 1837 when at last they reached Allen county. Mr.
							Lake at once took possession of the land which was the family home for so many years,
							but while getting a start, took his family to a rented farm near Fort Wayne, where
							they could maintain themselves while they recovered from their losses, and a home
							could be cleared and built. The grain they produced was stored at the  Rudisill mill, where they could secure a "grist" as
							necessity demanded. Curtis Lake was his father's helper in cutting a six-mile road
							through the forest, by which to reach the land chosen for their home. And they made it
							their home, though at the cost of unremitting toil, rewarded in the end by seeing
							their whole family in comfort; but the father did not live to advanced age. In the
							fall of 1844, the first log school house was built near the Alvin Hall farm, on the
							Ridge road. Tradition hints that the work was done by the united efforts of the
							settlers young and old, who then supported it by the "subscription" method, as was the
							custom. The first term of school was taught that, winter by Miss Catharine Shields.
							The first religious services were held in the log school house the same year, by Rev.
							True Pattee, the well-known Methodist pioneer preacher. No church was organized for
							some time, and no church edifice was erected previous to 1880. Curtis Lake, by that
							time arrived at the age of twenty-four, helped to build that log school house, and
							afterward made up for lost time by attending school there, eventually wedding the
							pretty school ma'am who taught the second term. Subsequently his own children started
							up the hill of learning at those old log steps. The Lakes, father and son, were Whigs,
							and voted for William Henry Harrison and for every succeeding Whig and Republican
							candidate for president, through life. The homes of Alvin Hall and Wilkes Gillett were
							favorite stopping places for travelers along the Ridge road for many years. Fairport,
							however, did not develop, and the patronage at the tavern of George Foxtater fell away
							as the traffic on the canal was transferred to the railroad gradually; and a new
							postoffice being established at a more populous point, upon the petition of Alvin
							Hall, in 1856, that at Fairport was abolished. The land reverted to the government,
							and was re-sold in farms. The new postoffice at "Chamberlain," was carried on by
							Lorenzo D. George for the first four years, he being succeeded by Enoch Baker, and
							later by Solomon Benninghoff, until in 1870, it was transferred to St. Joseph
							township. One more town was attempted, in 1854, by Joseph Mosier, on his own land, in
							section thirty-five. "Mosier" did not materialize, though the only town in the
							township now is very near the place, being in section thirty-four, about one mile to
							the west. This is Gar Creek, where an independent postoffice is still maintained, and
							where there is the nucleus of a village, partly rural, partly railroad, which has
							grown up at the Wabash station. The Ridge road, completed in 1840 after the survey by
							Horace Taylor, assisted by Martin Weeks, Platt Squire and Henry Tilbury was made
							(familiar names, those four, in the annals of old Allen!), is still the most populous
							district of the township. The first free school, built in 1857, by Alvin Hall,
							occupied a position on the same lot as the original log structure. It was in use to a
							date so recent as to cause remark if it were not remembered that Alvin Hall built it,
							and that the woods of Allen county at that day furnished the sort of lumber which does
							not warp or decay in a decade. The estimated cost of the ten school buildings in Milan
							at present is $32,500.00. Only eight teachers are employed at this time, there being
							197 pupils enrolled in the public schools, with an average attendance of 156 for the
							160 days taught in 1915-6. The total school enumeration is 419, of which number
							sixty-one are enrolled  in parochial schools. The total
							of salaries paid to teachers in the same year was $3,583.00, and the upkeep expense,
							$2,243.00, making the per capita cost $29.57. The library began the year with 645
							volumes, to which were added sixty-three new volumes. Six pupils were graduated from
							the common schools in June, 1916.
						Good roads, good schools, the introduction of the automobile, the extension of
							telephone lines into the remotest farming districts and the establishment of rural
							free delivery of mails has done away to a large degree with the ambition of rural
							communities to build towns which result in failure, and at the same time is building
							up the rural population. Like Maumee township, Milan has acquired a large number of
							Mennonite and Amish families, who are applying themselves to the cultivation of the
							soil with characteristic energy and persistence.
					
					
						Jefferson Township
						Jefferson township lies directly east of Adams, and south of Milan townships. The
							Maumee river flows for the length of barely a mile through the extreme northwest
							corner of the six miles square of territory. By the same token, the Wabash and Erie
							canal also was cut across the same corner, but deeper into the square; also the river
							road; and through this same region lay the trail by which Gen. Wayne led his men from
							Fort Defiance to Ke-ki-on-ga. Through this township passes the watershed dividing the
							valleys of the Maumee and the St. Mary's rivers, a somewhat winding irregular
							elevation which must have been practically undiscoverable except to the engineers who
							surveyed along this low height of land the "Sugar Ridge" road (or Van Wert) in the
							earliest days of the township's history. The numerous creeks by which Mother Nature
							formerly tried to drain the district have been dredged into the usual "ditches,"
							replacing the poetry they filched from the landscape with prosperity—which is
							far more sustaining. The Wabash railroad, built across the township at some distance
							south of the canal bed, and the P., Ft. W. & C. (the "Pennsylvania") railroad
							crossing the southwest quarter, were almost simultaneously added to the traffic routes
							of the township in 1855, and later on the N. Y., C. & St. L. railroad, the
							"Findlay" route (steam) and the Ohio Electric Interurban line (from Fort Wayne to
							Lima, O.,) have successively augmented its transportation facilities, until today, no
							township in the county except Wayne and Adams, can boast of more direct lines than
							Jefferson.
						Tradition has set up two rival claimants to the title of "first settler" of
							Jefferson. The honor is generally ascribed to Jared Whitney, of New York, who arrived
							with his family in May, 1833, and after spending the summer in a temporary location on
							the Maumee river, took up permanent residence on a tract in section seven. Yet it is
							also chronicled that Joseph Gronauer came to Jefferson township from Virginia, in
							1832, bringing his entire earthly possessions with him in a one horse wagon. Mr.
							Gronauer, as dates will show, brought no family with him, but his personal priority as
							a settler may hardly be denied, since it is clear that he came before the land was
							opened for sale, or the government survey completed. The land he took up was situated
							between the  Maumee river and the canal, in section six,
							and his squatter's rights were respected when the sales were opened, he receiving an
							allowance of three hundred dollars on his purchase price in return for the
							improvements he had already made. Mr. Gronauer was married in 1848 to a wife who, like
							himself, originally came from Germany, though at a later date. Wolves were still a
							dread of winter time, and Indians still a familiar sight when Mrs. Gronauer came to
							Indiana with her parents, and she was witness to the departure of the last Indians
							from Logansport. Mr. Gronauer died in 1872. The Gronauers had one son, George, born
							April 28, 1851, who married, in October, 1875, Miss Caroline Muhlfeith, the daughter
							of parents who came from Germany about 1840; the young people remained on the farm
							which Joseph Gronauer had won from the wilds, and where his wife spent the long
							afternoon of her life. Remains of the old road and bridges built by General Wayne in
							his expedition against the Indians were still to be seen on the Gronauer farm as late
							as 1890, and are possibly still preserved. Many other relics of the expedition have
							also been found on the ground, which may have been used as a camp.
						With justice thus fully done to the young German immigrant who "made him a home ere
							he got him a wife," it may safely be said that the Jared Whitneys were the "first
							pioneer family" to locate in Jefferson township. In the same year, Wilhelm and Henry
							Tuschknagen settled near the neighborhood with their families. The brothers were
							sober, industrious men, and both families were soon held in high esteem by the
							settlers,—who kept coming more rapidly as time sped on. Before the end of 1833
							Christian Wolf, Mr. Blackmore, William Henderson and Simon Rogers had settled and
							begun the work of clearing. Simon Rogers sold his clearing to Eben Burgess the
							following year, 1834. The first frame house of the settlement had been built in the
							meantime upon this farm, by a man named Blakely, but when Mr. Burgess came to occupy
							the place himself, he built, in 1837, the first brick known to the township, and
							converted the frame house into a barn. The year 1834 is to be remembered in the
							acquisition of Aretas Powers of New York, who brought his wife, Sarah Stilson Powers,
							and a thriving family of children; also of the transitory residence of James Post;
							and, signally, as the year of the first orchard, planted by Jared Whitney; and the
							first corn crop, harvested by Mr. Blackmore. Neither Mr. Blackmore nor James Post was
							a permanent settler. The first death in the settlement was that of a little child of
							the Blackmores, which was buried on their place, on a little knoll opposite the house.
							James Post's residence was more transient than that of the Blackmores. The Posts took
							a station on Seven Mile Creek, but the year following, 1835, they pulled up their
							stakes and left, after suffering a tragic bereavement in the death of their little
							son, who strayed away from the cabin and was lost in the woods. After several days the
							searching party found the little lad drowned in Seven Mile Creek. No cemetery was yet
							established, and the body was taken to Fort Wayne for burial. Jared Whitney, in 1838,
							donated land for a township cemetery.
						The first wedding in the settlement occurred in 1835, when William Henderson and Miss
							Elizabeth Rogers were married. Shortly after this, Mr. Henderson sold his clearing to
							Elias Shaffer,  who in turn sold it to Morgan Bentley, a
							permanent settler. William Harper was another permanent acquisition of 1835. Late in
							this year Henry Castleman (whose daughter married John Tillman in 1841) settled near
							the center of the township, where he lived for twelve years before removing to Monroe.
							Aretas Powers and Henry Castleman were both famous sportsmen, and often hunted
							together. Castleman was reported to have brought down more deer than any one settler
							in the county. In 1837, about the same time as Eben Burgess' brick, Jeremiah Lusey, an
							arrival of 1836, built the first hewn-log house of the settlement. This year, 1837,
							was the date of the second wedding in Jefferson, that of Reuben, son of Aretas Powers,
							and Miss Evaline, daughter of Jared Whitney, the ceremony being performed by William
							Brown, Esquire.
						The "Sugar Ridge" road had already been surveyed through the township, but up to this
							time had been only a footpath, and never cut through for traffic. The settlers needed
							the road sorely, and took counsel among themselves. They did not, like the citizens
							often quoted, "put their heads together and make a block pavement," but they did
							gather, on the last night of the year, 1837, and, thoroughly accoutred with axes and
							camping necessities, sallied forth to the edge of the township, near New Haven, where
							they set to work to hew the highway along the ridge. Great execution was done by the
							devoted band, who within a fortnight had cut an open road which soon became a famous
							public thoroughfare. Scarcely any pioneer incident need have been more picturesque in
							the doing than this midwinter expedition, inspired by co-operation and public spirit.
							Dificult indeed it is to credit this worthy group of liberal-minded pioneers with the
							behavior ascribed to them in an old tale of the time,—a clouded page in
							Jefferson township's fair history. It seems that a son of one of the Tuschknagen
							families purloined a piece of cloth from a Fort Wayne store, was apprehended, and
							placed under arrest. A neighbor kindly secured his release by going bail for him, and
							the young man went home, but disappeared, never to return, before his case came to
							trial. Why the son of a prosperous family should have stooped to commit a petty theft
							of such sort, is so incomprehensible that it might easily argue an erratic mental
							slant, perhaps inherited. His family was crushed by a sense of disgrace, which, it is
							said, was so deepened by the overt suspicions (and covert accusations) of criminal
							complicity, and their social ostracism by the neighbors, that they became mentally
							unbalanced and secluded themselves, becoming more and more peculiar, and failing in
							physical health as well. A religious fanaticism is reported to have taken possession
							of their minds, and the last survivor of them all was a pitiable wreck familiarly
							called "the Prophet." If this were indeed the result of cruel prejudice on the part of
							their once friendly neighbors, then it is not matched nor approached in the annals of
							any other township in Allen county. But it fits in so ill with the generous kindliness
							that characterized our early settlers here and elsewhere, that it seems probable that
							the theory of neighborly cruelty may have been advanced by some later observer, and
							afterward accepted as the fact and incorporated in the story. Certainly this dreary
							page seems foreign to our text. Let us turn the leaf.
						
						The first school house in Jefferson was built in 1838 on a small corner lot given by
							Christian Wolf from his farm, for the purpose. He, with Jared Whitney, Aretas Powers,
							William Harper, and others all of whom had children to be educated, united in
							establishing the school, which was of course, sustained by subscriptions. The building
							was a log cabin, and housed, beside the school, the first religious services held in
							the township, which were conducted by Rev. David Pattee, 1838.
						The organization of the township took place in 1840, upon the petition of Jared and
							Alanson Whitney, Aretas and Reuben Powers, Henry Castleman, Joseph Gronauer, and
							William Harper. Henry Castleman was appointed to be Inspector of Elections, and the
							first election took place at his home, on the first Monday of April. Aretas Powers was
							chosen Justice of the Peace, and Alanson Whitney became the first constable. By this
							time there were among the resident pioneers of Jefferson, Jesse Adams (formerly
							prominent in Adams township), Thomas MacDougall, John Monahan, John Broderick, Dennis
							Keefe, Jeremiah Harrington, John McCarthy, John Tillman, George Snyder and Mr. Berry.
							The first tavern was built by Henry Castleman, on the Ridge road, as soon as that
							throughfare was opened for travel. The Castleman inn offered as good entertainment for
							the traveler as any tavern of the new country, and though Mine Host Castleman is said
							to have charged his guests accordingly, his house was always well patronized, and his
							business profitable. During this period Henry Castleman and Aretas Powers are related
							to have brought to the market at Fort Wayne a single home-made sled loaded with forty
							saddles of venison. At Mr. Castleman's door are laid the untimely deaths of 1,678
							deer; while of bears, his killings only stopped at twenty-three! Some idea of the ease
							with which a good marksman could bring down his game in those days, may be gained from
							a published statement of Mr. Castleman's, who said he had counted as many as
							forty-five deer in one drove, on Little prairie. Another easy method of hunting deer
							was to float in pirogues silently down the Maumee river, in which many of the animals
							took refuge from the tormenting mosquitos, their protruding heads forming just so many
							targets for the crafty huntsman's rifle.
						John Tillman, the son of a Scottish father and a German mother, came to section
							twenty-six Jefferson township in 1840, from Pennsylvania. He bought a tract of dense
							forest land from the government, and settled there, his steady industry winning
							substantial reward. A year after his arrival he married Miss Sarah, daughter of Henry
							and Rachel Castleman, and reared a family of four, two daughters and two sons, one of
							whom, John L., left the farm to become a business man of Monroeville. In January,
							1842, Alanson Whitney married Miss Elmira Cool, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Cool,
							settlers of Adams county from New York. There were, at the time of this marriage, but
							three houses on the road between the Whitney home and New Haven. In 1850 Alanson
							Whitney opened the first store in the township, his initial stock-in-trade being (we
							hate to record this, but perhaps Alanson was only "giving the public what it wanted!")
							a barrel of whiskey and a keg of tobacco. However, the story hastens to tell the
							reader that this stock was soon expanded to include a large invoice of general  merchandise. The Harpers, of Jefferson township, seem to
							be of old hickory stock, noted for their longevity. John Harper, the father of William
							Harper, who was a settler of 1836, died at the age of eighty-four; John Hunter, Edward
							Harper's maternal grandfather, and Rebecca McMullin Hunter, the grandmother, withstood
							the assaults of time until they were eighty-two and ninety-two, respectively. William
							himself was born in Tyrone county, Ireland, in 1810, and came to America in 1831,
							settling down in Jefferson township, 1836. While in Pennsylvania he married Miss Mary
							Hunter, and they added to the population of their new home four daughters and eight
							sons. Four of the latter entered the army, leaving the fifth, Edward, to bear the
							responsibilities of next eldest son of the house. Edward Harper made a successful
							farmer himself, but with a natural aptitude for construction, he became also a
							well-known and equally successful amateur builder. He married, in 1883, Miss Martha A.
							Shull. Though a Republican in a strongly Democratic township, he has been held in such
							high esteem as to be twice elected to the position of trustee, and his executive
							ability in that office has left a fine record of public service.
						Oehmig Bird had become a land owner of Jefferson township at some date previous to
							1854, for we find that in that year the first free school house was built on a piece
							of his farm. This was the beginning of a systematic building of district schools each
							year until there were ten schools in the township. In 1880 the school enrollment is
							set down as 523, which is unusual, for it exceeds the 1915 school enumeration of the
							township. There may also have been unusual conditions to account for what seems almost
							a discrepancy, for we find at the same time, and as late as the eighties, a remarkably
							low per cent of attendance, one of Edward Harper's achievements as trustee being
							recited as raising the average attendance from 31 to 38 per cent. Whatever may be the
							explanation of these figures, the statement of the present condition in Jefferson
							educational affairs can be of more value at this point than later. The figures are:
							School enumeration, 1915, 447; public school enrollment, 214; parochial school
							enrollment, 127; public school houses, 9; teachers employed, 9; days taught, 160;
							average attendance, 170; estimated value of school buildings (public), $30,000;
							teachers' salaries, $4,112.00; "upkeep expense," $1,037.77; per capita expense of
							education, $24.06; graduated from eighth grade, June, 1916, 17; Library, 1,504
							volumes.
						About 1840, a colony of French immigrants began to gather in Jefferson township, near
							the center, forming a settlement known as "New France" or the "French Settlement." The
							land they took was largely swamp, but they have made it equal to the best in Allen
							county. Roussey, Reuille, Pepe, Grosjean, Girardot, and Dupeyron are prominent names
							among this group and their residence in the township dates as far back as when there
							were no roads in their part of Jefferson, and the winter wolves howled around their
							doors at night. The neat tiny village of Besancon has grown up about the Catholic
							church founded in 1851, by Father Bessonies, who first held service in the house of
							Joseph Dodane, and afterward upon the donation of four acres of land to Bishop de St.
							Palais, by Gideon Dickerson, erected a neat church, naming it "St. Louis." Father
							Julian Benoit followed Father Bessonies, until 1864, and was  held in great esteem by the people of the settlement upon whose walls his
							picture is still seen. About 1870, under the pastoral care of Father Adam, a French
							refugee, the name of Besancon was applied to the settlement, in remembrance of the
							city in France from which a majority of the colony emigrated to America. The new
							church, built before 1875, was paid for in a unique way. Each family was asked to
							donate a calf, and to raise it to the age of three years; the proceeds from the public
							sale of the young animals thus provided, netted the sum of three thousand dollars. A
							school was built in 1900, and under the title St. Joseph's, and taught by Sisters of
							St. Agnes, accommodates Catholic children from all over the township and beyond.
						Lumbering industries were the foundation, in the early fifties, of the now quiet
							little village of Maples. Mr. Lewis S. Maples came to the place in 1852, to take
							charge of a sawmill engine. The Pennsylvania road furnished convenient transportation,
							and the mill flourished, while other lumber working factories sprang up. In August,
							1853, Oehmig Bird and J. Bowser platted a village and considerable business was
							engaged in. The various phases of manufacture received the attention and capital of
							many men from elsewhere in the county, the Fitch brothers, Williams, Olds, Roberts,
							Bohyer and Cary, all had a hand in them and during that time the village of Maples was
							not so quiet a place, after all. Frequent conflagrations and rebuildings must have
							varied the monotony to quite a degree, threatening the extinction of the town on each
							occasion. Lewis S. Maples at last came to own once more all the lumber industry in the
							town, and with its gradual wane, and his retirement to a farm, a Sabbath stillness
							hovers over the village which bears his name, except in the vicinity of the railroad,
							which now employs all of the labor of the town. The town now has two hundred
							inhabitants, supports one Protestant Methodist church, and is the site of one public
							school. It has one resident physician, one grain elevator, one well-drilling firm, one
							blacksmith shop, two general stores, and will soon be well rid of its one saloon.
							Telephones are supplied from the Monroeville and New Haven exchanges. Good macadamized
							roads lead in and out of Maples, and the railroad employs about thirty men who live in
							the town. One of the largest farms in the county is adjacent to the village, owned by
							J. W. Nail and employing several persons. Maples still has an independent postoffice.
							The first postoffice in the township was established, in 1850, at the house of
							Socrates Bacon, but it was so much more to the inclination of the settlers to go to
							New Haven, that the office was soon abandoned. R. F. D. routes from New Haven and
							Monroeville now reach every part of the township except the Maples vicinity.
						"Nail's," "Tillman's," "Zulu" and "Oakton" are travel points on the various roads
							running through the township.
						The Catholic Cemetery is situated in the northwestern part of Jefferson township, and
							there is also a German Lutheran church edifice in that vicinity. Among the French
							descendants resident in the township the Girardot family has multiplied remarkably,
							and the Gladieux name is about equally numerous. Amiel Gladieux, of late Sheriff of
							Allen county, is a member of the Gladieux of Jefferson.
					
					
					
						Eel River Township
						
							
								"Once this soft turf, this rivulet's sands
								Were trampled by a hurrying crowd,
								And fiery hearts and armed hands
								Encountered in a battle cloud."
							
							—Bryant.
						
						What quaint conceit was responsible for the name bestowed upon the little river that
							winds through the extreme northwest of the county may only be conjectured, but the
							name is appropriately applied to Eel River township since the stream finds its source
							there. Blue Grass Creek also begins in the northwestern part, and flowing south joins
							Eel river to the southwest of Heller's Corners; but modern drainage has reconstructed
							this stream and its pretty name is lost in a series of ditches bearing their
							petitioners' names. Willow Creek, which drains the northeastern portion, then meanders
							eastward, eventually emptying into Cedar Creek, has likewise been assisted, but not so
							ruinously as Blue Grass—for it retains its name, in places. However, the hand of
							the white settler does really "improve," and often serves to develop hidden natural
							beauties. This is true of Eel River township, in which red man nor white man could
							have foreseen certain features of the present landscape through the dense timber which
							clothed it a hundred years ago. Allen County holds no prettier sight, today, than the
							meeting of the ways at "Old" Heller's Corners—nor is the new Heller's Corners
							far behind it in attraction.
						The first white settlers to enter the Eel River territory after the departure of the
							Indians were William Kellison and his brother, and Joseph Crowe, from Darke County,
							Ohio. The Kellison brothers, coming in 1828, had erected cabins and set to work
							clearing land on what long afterward became widely known as the Gieseking farm. Lonely
							and isolated, and at that period probably obliged to hunt and trap for most of their
							food, they did not make rapid progress at their clearing, and were quite ready, when
							Adam Hull and family arrived in 1830, to sell out their "deadenings" to him, and
							betake themselves farther west. Adam Hull was of true pioneer material—not the
							merely adventurous spirit, but the hardy giant who delights to pit his strength
							against opposing circumstance and subdue it to his will,—the type of man who
							invariably becomes a leader in his world. That he became well known throughout the
							county was a matter of course. The rough sports which characterized those days when
							the pioneers met in the market town witnessed many a good-natured wrestling bout in
							which Adam Hull proved unconquerable. One of Mr. Hull's first moves after settling was
							to build a much needed bridge across Eel river, the first bridge to span that stream.
							He exacted a reasonable toll from those who crossed it, to which quite unreasonable
							objection was sometimes made by travelers who wished to enjoy its convenience. Perhaps
							Mr. Hull's prowess at personal encounter was an invisible safeguard, for, in spite of
							this grumbling, "Horatio held the bridge!" At the same time, his cabin (mayhap
							enlarged) became a shelter to many homeseekers westward bound, so, the student of
							early history may be assured, it was no lack of generosity or human kindliness which
							demanded a trifling toll for the useful bridge which carried so many  "safe across." The Hulls gave shelter when it was at the
							risk of their own family that they gave it. The first death which occurred in the
							township was that of a wayfarer who slept in the cabin, was seized with illness in the
							night, and died as morning came. Nameless he came to their door, and nameless they
							buried him, in the old burying ground on the south side of Eel river.
						Shortly after this pitiful event, a west-bound family stopped at the Hull cabin for
							shelter, their children having developed scarlet fever. The extremely contagious
							nature of the disease was not fully realized at that date, nevertheless, it is an
							evidence of the Good Samaritan spirit of the first settler's family that room was made
							in that crowded log cabin home for the suffering children, two of whom died there, and
							were buried with the wayfaring stranger in that strange new land.
						When the final land survey was made a few years after settling it was determined that
							the Hull cabin was "over the line," a situation which Mr. Hull promptly remedied by
							buying the next forty acres, thus saving his home.
						Peter Heller, recorded in 1833, was the first sharer of the neighborhood with the
							Hulls. During the year following quite a colony had gathered to the south of the
							Goshen road, and in 1834, with these neighbors to help, Mr. Hull cut a road through
							from Heller's Corners east to the township line,—the first highway in Eel River.
							This road, not being regularly surveyed, was subjected to many changes as time passed,
							so that but few traces of it are embodied in the re-located highway of today—but
							it served its purpose then, none the less. At the Christmas season, in 1833, 'Squire
							DuBois had been called from Fort Wayne to the Hulls' home, to officiate at the
							marriage of Miss Barbara Hull to Isaac Tibbits, there being no local "squire" as yet,
							in Eel River. This was the first wedding in the settlement.
						The year 1834 brought more sturdy pioneer stock to the settlement. Joseph and John R.
							Johnston and John Valentine, settling respectively on sections 21, 28 and 33, had
							arrived by mid-June of that year. 1836 witnessed another inrush of settlers, this time
							in the eastern portion, in the Lima road vicinity, John P. Shoaff, who in later years
							became successively Justice, Trustee, and State Representative, being one of this
							group. Up to 1840 at least, as far as known, Eel River township recruited its pioneer
							population from Ohio entirely, those who came with Mr. Shoaff being F. C. Freeman,
							Samuel Hillegass, Samuel Shryock, Benjamin Mason, Joseph Jones, Henry Bossler and
							Samuel Kniss. Others had drifted in singly, and by April of 1834 the population
							justified the setting apart of the township. The first election was held duly, with
							Mr. Hull and Mr. Bond in the field as candidates for the office of Justice. The votes
							were counted, and a tie was announced. To avoid the expense of a second election, both
							candidates consented to have the ballots placed in a hat, and well shaken, the
							election judge then to draw at random the lucky name. This was done, and Mr. Hull won,
							duly qualifying as first Justice of Eel River. Previous to this, Mr. Hull had been
							appointed postmaster, a position he continued to hold until his death in 1837. After
							the election of 1836, Abram Taylor, father of John M. Taylor, came to the Hull
							neighborhood, while William Anderson settled in the southeast. William F. Mooney  and Uriah Chase took up residence in 1837 and between
							1837 and 1840 were added with their families, R. D. Baird, the three Bennetts,
							Solomon, Caleb and John, John Hathaway, Mr. Schilling, John R. Mayo and William
							Madden.
						On Mr. Mayo's land, in 1837 was built the cabin known as the "Hickory
							schoolhouse"—it being constructed chiefly of hickory logs—in which the
							first term of school was taught. The name of that first teacher is forgotten, but John
							M. Taylor, once Treasurer of Allen county, was a pupil there.
						Peter Heller, who succeeded Adam Hull in the postoffice, removed that institution to
							his own home, and from the soubriquet the office thus gained the locality, the rural
							metropolis of Eel River took its name "Heller's Corners." A village designed to be
							called "Kraco" or Cracon was platted in 1835 by Asa Miller, on land which lay on both
							sides of the Lake township boundary. Its main street was to be not 32 feet narrow,
							like some city streets, but 132 feet broad. In the center of the plot Mr. Miller
							reserved a circular park to bear his name. What a pity so amiable a conception should
							have failed to materialize!
						Henry Bossler was a skillful blacksmith, and his forge, the first in Eel River, was
							set up soon after he arrived in 1836. Joseph Jones, who occupied the farm which
							afterward became the property of Charles Hanna, brought the first stock of general
							merchandise to the township, and opened trade in his own house. About 1852, a sawmill
							was built on the Eel river, by Smith and Diffenderfer, which supplied lumber for the
							frame houses that began to supplant the log cabins. Its business was of a local
							character, however, and local needs once supplied, custom fell off gradually, and the
							mill was allowed to decay in idleness. Peter Heller built a steam grist mill near the
							same site, in 1855, and for several years operated it successfully, but it was at last
							destroyed by fire, and not rebuilt. Except for the railroad which cuts across the
							northwestern corner of the township, the quiet of Eel River township is not broken by
							any sound of steam save that of harvest engines, but its painted landscape is
							everywhere astir with rural life, and its ribbon-like roads are beloved of the
							automobile whether visiting or resident there.
						Adam Hull, jr., was a pioneer figure worthy of preservation. A young man nearing
							twenty years of age when he came to the township with his father, he worked shoulder
							to shoulder with him, earning his own way to independence. Like his father, he was a
							born pioneer, and the long struggle by which his original capital of "a five franc
							piece, a fiddle and a gun" was converted into solid prosperity was thoroughly enjoyed
							by him. He was married in 1836, to Miss Elizabeth Crowe, but whether before or after
							the election of April that year, when Mr. Hull, sr., was made Justice and the younger
							Adam elected Constable over what are now three counties, we do not know. But he bought
							a government tract, cleared it, and built a log cabin on it before he took his young
							wife to live upon it. Elizabeth Hull died early, but left a son, the third "Adam." Her
							husband was married again, in 1845, to Miss Hester Ann Strean, and seven sons and
							daughters survived him. At the time of his death he had for some time been the oldest
							township settler living.
						
						Much might be said of the quality of the "Ohio" colony which peopled Eel River
							township. Certainly there could not have been found a more evenly sterling set of
							citizens than the personnel of this group of pioneers. Not one of them is there of
							whom some fine thing cannot be said. They did not come armed with wealth to fight
							their battles. The only capital any of them brought with them was a few slow-saved
							hundreds, and most of them came with only the riches of clean health and stout hearts,
							fortunate if to these they could add a yoke of oxen, a table and a half dozen wooden
							chairs, and the necessary implements of their trades. Quaint, amusing and pathetic are
							the mementoes of the log cabin days that descendants still treasure, and around which
							the great-grandchildren might build again the romances of their fore-bears,—Adam
							Hull's old Virginia rifle, Adam's, Jr., tax receipts (the unbroken accumulation of
							more than sixty years), the old clock of Grandfather Hyndman, and a host of things
							rude and homely, perhaps, but priceless to those who appreciate to what scenes they
							must have been mute witnesses. Little is told of the early schools except indirectly.
							Yet they must have been fully up to the pioneer mark, for we find in following the
							life story of different pioneer families, the names of such early teachers as Elijah
							Robinson, Mary T. Smith, George W. Doane, G. W. Hutchell, and Miss Nancy Griswold who
							were thorough enough to turn out good teachers of their own training, as in the case
							of David, son of John R. Johnston. The intermediate history of school development need
							not be told. At the present date, Eel River is abreast of the times, with nine school
							houses, aggregating $16,000 in value, and a school year of 150 days taught. Recent
							school enumeration gives the township three hundred and fifty-one, while the school
							enrollment is two hundred and fifteen, with an average daily attendance of one hundred
							and seventy-seven pupils. Twenty-one pupils were graduated from the Eighth grade in
							1916. The township and school library began the year with 884 volumes, to which were
							added 113 volumes during the year. Without going into detailed financial statement,
							three items may be included here, the year 1915-16 being taken as a basis: For
							teachers' salaries, $3,774.00; for general "upkeep" expenses, $809.94; cost of
							education per capita, $21.32. There are no high schools in the township, nor parochial
							schools.
						Eel River settlers were characterized by a general and genuine observance of religion
							chiefly as expressed in the denominations represented in the church edifices which
							have dotted the district for many years. The Methodist Episcopal, the Wesleyan
							Methodist, the Baptist and the German Baptist, also the Church of God, have all had
							strong following, locally, the Wesleyan Chapel congregation growing out of a group
							formerly affiliated with the United Brethren, who have also arrived at the strength of
							an independent congregation. The Methodist Episcopal is the oldest organization in the
							township, dating from 1834.
					
					
						Perry Township
						Monarchs of all they surveyed were Charles Weeks and William Caswell for the first
							three years of their pioneership in the township of Perry. Belonging to that early
							group of settlers who invaded  the forests of Adams
							township in 1823, their experience had made them bold enough to go farther still and
							to brave the lack of human society for the pursuit of the furred and feathered
							denizens of Perry. Both men were famous hunters, yet industrious axemen, and their
							farms were well cleared. Mr. Caswell, a Canadian, was perhaps the hardier and more
							aggressive of the two, but the team work of these friends was excellent. They were
							joined in 1833 by Thomas and Ephraim H. Dunten, and the latter's son, Horace F., with
							their families. The Duntens did not allow the underbrush to lie long in their path to
							pioneer prosperity. Horace built the first hewn log house the summer following his
							arrival, aind Ephraim H. Dunten, Jr., who came in the fall, was but a few months later
							in building the first store room of the settlement, on a spot which is now a town lot
							in Huntertown. To this frame building he brought goods from Toledo, by way of canal as
							far as Fort Wayne, and thence to the woodland market place by wagon, thus establishing
							a business which endured far beyond real pioneer days, being carried on by his sons
							after him. The Lima road was opened about the same time, and as it immediately became
							a popular route for travel and pioneer traffic, this same Mr. Dunten set up a
							temporary tavern beside it, near the future village. Guests poured in, and the genial
							host found it necessary, within a few years, to build a more commodious hostelry. A
							brick kiln, set up about this time, seems to have been the only unsuccessful venture
							this man ever made. He fell a victim to the cholera epidemic in 1854. Thomas Dunten,
							the uncle, left a beautiful farm home in New York, and undertook the hardships of
							pioneer life in Indiana, in the hope of providing equally good fortunes for each of
							his children. He was a generous and self-sacrificing father and neighbor, bearing his
							share and more of the difficulties of the first few winters. At a time when the corn
							supply was so short that it became necessary to make a seven days' trip by ox-team to
							bring grain from settlements farther north, Mr. Dunten was the first to go, though it
							involved sleeping at night in the forest, as there was no other shelter by the way.
							His children were given the best education obtainable under the circumstances, and
							were capable of making the most of what they received. His daughter Lucinda afterward
							became a successful teacher in the county schools. She was a pupil in a school taught
							by Ebenezer Ayres, claimed to be the first term taught in Perry township. Mr. Dunten
							and wife were both born in Vermont. Horace F. Dunten, only twenty years of age when he
							entered his first forty acres, proceeded at once to enlarge his holdings by the labor
							of his hands, earning sixteen dollars per month at canal work, and ten dollars per
							month when canal work closed for the winters. A quiet, steadfast and industrious
							citizen, his services to the community may be estimated to some extent by the
							circumstance that of his ten children, eight became teachers. Thomas Dunten and Horace
							together selected the site of the cemetery near Huntertown. Toward the end of Horace
							Dunten's life he was known as the oldest living settler of the township, having
							survived all his generation. Dunten is still a very prominent name in Perry
							township.
						Albert Wood was a settler of 1833, who married Miss Nancy Dunten, the daughter of
							Ephraim Dunten, sr., the year of his arrival,  this
							being the first wedding in this group of colonists. Their daughter, Mary Jane, was the
							first white child born in the settlement. Nathaniel Fitch, who came first to Allen
							county in 1832, entered Perry in 1836. His marriage to Miss Sarah DeLong was the first
							celebrated after the organization of the township, and within the township borders.
							Mr. Fitch was a self-made blacksmith, and a man of all-around ability, whose forge was
							the first to be set up in Perry, the date being 1837. At very nearly the same time
							James Vandergrift engaged in the manufacture of plow points and steel traps, both
							useful implements in a pioneer community. Benjamin and Amaziah Parker followed the
							Duntens from Jefferson County, New York, in 1834, and soon became prominent in the
							affairs of the settlement. Mr. and Mrs. Jason Hatch, from Pennsylvania, came with
							their son, Newman Hatch, in 1834. Newman Hatch was married in 1839 to Miss Abigail,
							daughter of the Benjamin Parkers. Philemon Rundels, who came the same year, George
							Simon, and James Vandolah and family, credited to 1836, were valuable additions to the
							colony. A notable year was 1837, during which arrived William Hunter, who purchased a
							large tract of land, including that part which subsequently was platted as Huntertown.
							Mr. Hunter at once became an active citizen. The years immediately following this
							witnessed a sudden increase in immigration, and names can scarcely be mentioned in
							detail. Most of them are still familiar, however, to Allen county citizens, the
							Bowsers, the Tuckers, the Gloyds, James Thompson, Isaac Benward, Rapin Andrews, Jacob
							Hillegass, Vachel Metcalf, Dr. E. G. Wheelock, August Martin and Samuel Shryock are
							among them. Dr. Wheelock was, of course, the first physician of the colony.
						The first election was held in 1835, in pursuance of the order of the commissioners,
							at William Caswell's house, and Mr. Caswell was appointed Inspector by the board. Mr.
							Caswell and Jason Hatch were elected Justices of the Peace. The first postoffice,
							established 1836, was located in the home of Charles Weeks, where it remained until
							1840 when it was removed to the residence of William Hunter, who at that time became
							postmaster. The first school taught, in 1835, though housed in a log cabin like many
							other pioneer schools, was far superior to the common run of such schools. It is said
							that the first term was taught by Ebenezer Ayres, but this is probably incorrect, and
							the honor should be given to Miss Eliza Parker, the daughter of Benjamin.
						The first mill, that prime necessity of new settlements, was built for Perry township
							by "Blair and Hines"—probably outside capital, and was merely a sawmill at
							first. A "corn-cracker" was added afterward, which made a product too coarse to be
							called meal, and while a little better than nothing, was felt to be a dubious
							blessing, even at that early day. Samuel Shryock bought the mill in 1836, and sent to
							Dayton for a "run of burs," which he put in, making it a merchant mill and
							establishing a profitable custom. Fifteen or sixteen years later the mill was sold to
							John Stoner and thereafter was known as "Stoner's Mills."
						In 1834 and 1835 respectively, Thomas and his nephew, Horace F. Dunten, set out
							orchards, the first to be planted in the township, which after fifty years had passed,
							were still in fine fruit-bearing condition. The first road to be surveyed through the
							township  extended from Fort Wayne to the Union Mill. It
							was opened in 1835, and in 1849 was planked, and became a source of large profit to
							its projectors, as it was traversed by a line of stage coaches, and the extensive
							timber industry of the district reached a market by its means. Its importance as a
							thoroughfare of this latter sort waned, however, after the advent of the railroads,
							and the planks being allowed to decay, the road was gradually abandoned for better
							routes. In later years, of course, these once neglected roads are being renewed, for
							the more legitimate rural traffic, and the Lima road is once more a factor in the
							highway system, the county having assumed its improvement.
						Mr. Nickerson, a Methodist exhorter, was the first to hold religious services in
							Perry township, the place of worship being the house of Horace Dunten, in the year
							1834. Several weeks later another service was held in a log cabin near the site of
							Huntertown, conducted by Rev. Mr. Rankin, the Presbyterian minister from Fort Wayne.
							Everybody went to these meetings, regardless of their denominational leanings. The
							Methodists were the first to organize, in 1836, and also the first to build a church,
							in 1846, at Huntertown. Robinson Chapel was a second building of the same
							denomination, in 1851, the land for the chapel and also for a cemetery, being donated
							by Andrew Byers. The same year a Universalist church was organized and built, and
							shortly after a Sunday-school was opened, which being non-sectarian, accommodated all
							the children of the district. Several years later the Methodists opened a large
							Sunday-school of their own, but also non-sectarian, so that the children of Perry
							township who were not instructed in the way wherein they ought to walk, must have been
							a rarity. Secular education received early and careful attention. The second school to
							be opened was taught (1837) in a log cabin on section 8, by Matthew Montgomery, a man
							of fine talent and training, who gave great impetus to education in general in the
							district, and was a person of inspiration to his pupils. He won early prominence in
							the community, and in 1846 was a candidate on the Whig ticket for State
							Representative, but was defeated by Peter Kiser, on purely partisan grounds. Mr.
							Montgomery's work for Perry township terminated by his death while yet in early
							prime.
						James Vandolah first visited Perry township vicinity in 1832, while searching for a
							desirable mill-site with convenient water power. He located one on Cedar creek, and
							having secured the land he returned to Ohio for three years, coming back in 1835 to
							dig the race for his mill. He then returned for his family, and in 1836 they settled
							on the farms where his sons afterward spent most of their lives. Mr. Vandolah's land
							holdings were extensive, including not only the 520 acres in Perry, but 400 acres in
							Eel River township, and a quarter section in DeKalb county. He was an expert
							mill-wright, and spent a great part of his time at his trade, having worked at many
							mills in the middle west. The Shryock mill, at Leo; the Dawson Mill at Spencerville;
							the grist mill near Clarksville; his own mill and a number of others were built by
							him. Mr. Vandolah was township trustee several terms. The Vandolahs reared a family of
							eight children, five of whom survived the parents, and achieved honor and prosperity
							in their own right,  as well as worthily inheriting that
							of their parents. Benjamin Vandolah, who was but three years of age when brought to
							Indiana, has spent his whole after life upon the same farm, one of the best in the
							township. The family preserve some curious Indian relics which have been unearthed on
							its soil. Thomas Vandolah, the second son, was also prominent as a farmer and in the
							social life about him, but has always avoided office holding.
						Solomon Simon, who came to Perry township when only twelve, there to live and die,
							was a pioneer by heredity. Three generations of pioneering must so have imbued his
							blood with the pioneer spirit that one thinks this pioneer lad must have come to the
							new country alone, had his parents not brought him. His grandfather was a pioneer of
							Washington county, Pennsylvania, to which place he carried his infant son George,
							across the mountains in a pack-saddle, a journey which the baby survived, growing to
							vigorous manhood on the new soil. But he, too, would go a-pioneering, and Columbiana
							County, Ohio, was his next home, settling there in 1809, and from there enlisting in
							the war of 1812. After a service of six months he returned and farmed for more than
							twenty years, during which time, in 1825, his son Solomon was born. The year 1836 saw
							the family settled in Perry township. George Simon died in 1872. Solomon married, in
							1852, Mary A. Rhoads, the daughter of DeKalb county settlers. The charm which held the
							Simons for life in Perry township, was, perhaps, the elusive thing Prosperity, at last
							captured and domesticated here, the beginning of fortune being a trade in 'coon skins
							and other furs, of which the forests were full. Mr. and Mrs. Simon were members of the
							old Lutheran church, in which Mr. Simon was an elder. Seven sons and daughters honor
							their memory.
						The story of John Surfus should receive more detailed narration than can be accorded
							here, but however briefly, it must be given, for in counting over the old pioneers it
							might be easy to overlook some who did not come with a flourish of—axes, let us
							say, or at least with a fair assortment of worldly implements,—education, money,
							and similar plenishings, with which to subdue the wilds and make themselves fairly
							comfortable while they did this. John Surfus did not come with any of these. Hard
							circumstances landed him in Perry township, unlettered, penniless, with the care of
							what was left of his family upon his hands, at the age of twenty-one. The sum of the
							Surfus' worldly goods when they arrived at the wilderness home, may be briefly stated:
							A yoke of cattle, a table, chest, set of wooden chairs, and an oven. Their first bed
							was made by boring holes in the log walls of the cabin, and setting hewn poles, which
							were then wrapped with elm bark for mattress. Yet energy and perseverance will work
							wonders even if the tools be few and crude. After nine years of struggle, Mr. Surfus
							was married to Ellen DeLong, a brave and faithful woman, who assisted her husband
							without flagging, and added twelve children, ten of whom survived them, to the
							population of Perry. To the careless ear the recital of these struggles may sound dull
							and sordid, but to the man who began life with such empty hands, what romance there
							must be in the review of sixty years of toil, as he sits at ease and comfort by his
							prosperous hearthstone, basking in the warmth of achievement! What a picture he must
							see, as he looks back,  across a thousand smiling acres
							of farmlands, to the rude little cabin with its bed of hickory poles while in the
							foreground the smoke of his children's hearthfires feathers the landscape like
							incense! Let posterity doff its hat to the John Surfuses of pioneer history.
						Nathaniel Fitch was another who came empty-handed to the wilderness. Shrewd and
							intelligent, he had learned for himself numerous trades, being blacksmith, gunsmith,
							locksmith, with which he speedily made himself indispensable. Starting from
							Pennsylvania with but fifteen cents in his pocket he was obliged to walk, and earn his
							board en route. His life had already been full of adventure. Before he came to Indiana
							he had been shot in the leg during a wolf hunt; and again, while crossing Lake Erie on
							a side-wheel steamer, their ship was caught in a gale, and one shaft disabled. In this
							predicament, in which ruin seemed inevitable, they were saved by the stratagem of
							breaking the other shaft. Not only the wild beast inhabited the forests at the time
							when Nathaniel set up his forge, but Indians were still very numerous, and though
							subdued were by no means fully civilized. On one occasion he was obliged to ask an
							Indian, who had a gun to mend, to wait, whereat the Indian became enraged and sprang
							at him with knife drawn. Mr. Fitch was sharpening a shovel at the moment, and an old
							story quaintly states that the Indian would probably have been hurt with the shovel
							had not the chief, Chopine, intervened. Among other notable things recorded to Mr.
							Fitch's credit is his work for the canal, for which he made all the iron used in the
							locks from Fort Wayne to the Wabash river. He was married, 1840, to Sarah, the
							daughter of George and Elizabeth DeLong. Fifteen children came to them, thirteen of
							whom outlived their parents, who reared them in comfort while amassing a large
							property. Twenty-three hundred acres, all told, belonged to the Fitches by the time
							they reached the evening of life. Perry Fitch, the eldest son, married Sarah E.,
							daughter of George and Magdalena Gloyd, and reared to maturity eight of their twelve
							children. Mr. Fitch was twelve years a justice of the peace. Matthias Fitch,
							Nathaniel's second son, married Frances, daughter of James and Rebecca Vandolah. They
							also have been very prominent, and their six children who survived to adult age have
							proved worthy sons and daughters. Another son of Nathaniel Fitch, Amos, married the
							daughter of William T. and Jane Hunter, Miss Nancy E., their family consisting of one
							son and one daughter, while David, the youngest of the sons, married Miss Emma B.
							Stirlen and lived on the homestead farm with his aged mother.
						George B. Gloyd became a conspicuous figure very soon after his arrival in 1832,
							being a man of much executive ability and consequently in demand in the construction
							of the public works of his time. His first engagement was as superintendent of part of
							the construction work on the Wabash and Erie canal. He was married in 1835 to Miss
							Madeline Mittler, of Ohio. Subsequently he undertook various contracts in railroad
							building, and at the time of his death was engaged in this work on the Saginaw
							railroad (now the L. S. & M. S.). Mr. Gloyd was successful from every viewpoint,
							and his family of eight are now worthy representatives of the name in their native
							township. Jerome D. Gloyd, married in 1875 to Fidelia, daughter of Nathaniel and Sarah
							Fitch, has four  children, and after serving the
							township for years as trustee, was elected County Commissioner in 1882, re-elected in
							1884, and served six years in all. William S. Gloyd, the third son, married Miss Mary
							Gunder. Edwin G. Gloyd by natural adaptation became an expert miller, and the
							proprietor of the Gloyd water mill. Schuyler Wheeler was born in Massachusetts but
							reared in Oswego County, New York, where at the age of nine years he was apprenticed
							to the tanner's trade, and at the age of twenty-one formed a partnership with his
							father and Luther Briggs, in a combination tannery and boot and shoe store. Mr.
							Wheeler was a strong character, which commended him to the respect of his new
							neighbors in Allen county, when he brought his family there in 1836. He succeeded
							financially, and left a large property. In public life he served as representative of
							Allen county in the State legislature of 1859. Mrs. Lydia Smith Wheeler was also a
							native of Massachusetts.
						David M. Shoaff, who came to Allen county in 1839, with his brave young wife, Mary
							Mendenhall, and their two little babes, had their share of hardships, and triumphed
							also. Young, moneyless and with very little else than pluck, they made their way, Mr.
							Shoaff working in the winters for better situated neighbors at the princely stipend of
							fifty cents a day, and spending the summer at his own clearing, in which work Mary
							helped him, gathering and burning brush while her babies played at safe distance on
							the ground. Safe distance, do we say? As if any distance were safe in a country which
							harbored wild animals and teemed with snakes not all of which were harmless. Who can
							tell what fears assailed the young pioneer mother's heart at the slightest call of
							distress from her little ones while she worked to help make them a home? Among other
							incidents attending the pioneer life of David Shoaff is related a memorable trip he
							made to Maumee City, Ohio. Salt, it seems, was selling in Fort Wayne for nine dollars
							per barrel in the spring of 1840. This was deemed too high a price to pay with wages
							at fifty cents per day. Still, salt was a necessity. A brother, James P. Shoaff,
							furnished the money, and David Shoaff and F. C. Freeman undertook the trip. It was
							early in March and the snow was so deep and heavy that it took twelve days to reach
							Maumee City. The return trip was made by way of the still frozen Maumee river, a route
							quite common in winter, but fraught with some danger in March. They had some narrow
							escapes from drowning, though they reached home safely at last—but it was a
							rather expensive barrel of salt after all, even reckoning their wages at fifty cents a
							day. The arrow that flieth by day had been driven from the woods, but arrows were not
							all the risks that beset the settler's path to fortune. When in the fall of 1843,
							David Shoaff helped to build the houses of his brother, J. P. Shoaff, and 'Squire
							Jones, they were the first houses between his own home and Heller's Corners, on that
							road which Adam Hull and his neighbors helped to cut. David Shoaff and Rapin Andrews,
							though coming to Perry at nearly the same date, but in quite different circumstances,
							were both there in time to be two of the eleven voters in the township to cast a vote
							at the first presidential election held there. David was a Whig. Rapin Andrews, who
							came with his wife, Mary Brimmer, and their two sons, from New York, had already
							attained worldly success before they became pioneers in Perry township. Mr.  Andrews brought ripe experience to the affairs of the new
							district, and was from the outset a valuable and appreciated citizen. He died in 1849
							at the age of sixty-seven. Theron M. Andrews, the oldest son, born in New York state
							March, 1822, was married in 1849 to Helen L., daughter of Oliver and Clarissa Potter,
							born October, 1830. Theron Andrews during a long life in Perry was one of its foremost
							men, having served successively as township assessor, township trustee, member of the
							board of County Commissioners, County Board of Drainage Commissioners, and a member of
							the Board of Equalization. His family occupy a social position of high regard. Dexter
							B. Andrews, the second son of Rapin and Mary Andrews, married in 1849 Miss Celeste A.
							Sauers, born at Watertown, New York, October, 1832. The year before he had entered the
							shops at Fort Wayne, never completing this course, but gifted with unusual cleverness
							in many directions of a mechanical nature, he was successful in whatever he undertook.
							For several years Mr. Andrews devoted a part of his energies to daguerreotyping, in
							which, although entirely self taught, he made an enviable local reputation. During his
							various experiences and changes of occupation, he saw a great deal of the United
							States, a broadening process which made him always one of the township's most valued
							citizens. He left three daughters, Amelia (Mrs. J. N. Bassett), Cora M. (Mrs. L. C.
							Hunter), and Clara G.
						Phanuel Jackson, who came to Perry township with his sister and her husband, Eleazer
							Cummings, from Maine, to a farm which afterward became his, had an unusual career, if
							being a successful farmer, and a practical one, and for more than twenty years a
							successful (self-taught) practitioner as an oculist, becoming also a licensed
							physician of Allen county may be called unusual. Mr. Jackson was elected Justice of
							the Peace in 1886. Three daughters, Mercy M., Margaret D., and Melia N., survived him,
							a fourth, Cordelia M., dying some years before. After the Cummings, in 1842, came
							Joseph Warner, who earned his first forty acres by clearing another twenty acres
							during his first winter in Perry,—a good bargain well fulfilled; and his son
							Samuel, "a born carpenter," who never lacked a job, because of the good quality of his
							work. He married Julia A. Spencer, and they reared seven children to be a credit to
							their training. Samuel Warner was a member of the "Regulators,"—an organization
							formed to rid the country of outlaws,—as were also David and Mathias Fitch, and
							Jacob Kell, whose sister was the wife of Phanuel Jackson. The Kells were of
							Franco-German descent. Jacob Kell came to Perry in 1843, and entered, in all, one
							hundred and twenty acres of land. He earned the money with which to furnish his own
							house by splitting rails at seventy-five cents per hundred, furnishing the timber and
							boarding himself while doing the work. Jacob Kell was a "Regulator," and served as
							township trustee for four years. Industry, not speculation, was ever the method of Mr.
							Kell, who amassed thereby a thousand acres of Allen county's best farming land, eight
							hundred of which was incorporated in his homestead farm. Solomon Kell, his son,
							received a good education at the Perry Centre Seminary, after which he taught for five
							years, a part of that time as a resident of Iowa, where he was honored with public
							office, returning to his native township in Indiana, and took a position similar to
							that of his  father in the estimation of the community.
							He was a constable, and a "Regulator," in both of which capacities he did his full
							duty.
						The family of Jacob Hillegass has been one of extreme prominence since its first
							arrival in 1843, and is so well known all over the county that it seems odd that its
							personal history was nearly all made in Perry township. As a boy, Jacob Hillegass was
							a pioneer's son in Montgomery county, Ohio, receiving only the meagre advantages
							afforded by the log school houses in the woods. Married in 1841 to Miss Lucy A.
							Powell, like himself of Pennsylvania origin, the young people came to Perry in 1843,
							and took up the half section where they passed the remainder of their lives. It is
							impossible to go into detail, but Mr. Hillegass's career was characterized by every
							quality of good citizenship, and he was in constant requirement as an official of the
							township, and also of the county. Mr. and Mrs. Hillegass were both Presbyterians, and
							reared their fine family of girls and boys in that creed. Mr. Hillegass was always a
							supporter of churches in general, also of schools and all worthy enterprises.
							Determined that his children should not, like himself, lack opportunity, he encouraged
							each one in his bent, and gave them the most liberal advantages. Three of his sons
							graduated from Michigan University, Josiah and Isaiah becoming lawyers, while Jeremiah
							(or "Jerry") was called from his post-graduate course at college to become County
							Superintendent of Schools. Hezekiah chose a farmer's life and the daughters, Sarah,
							Mary and Lucy, received their education in the Fort Wayne high school. Miss Sarah
							became the wife of her brother's law partner, John Stahl (who died in 1878), and Miss
							Mary married the late Silas B. MacManus, the well-famed dialect poet, whose quaint and
							sincere verses touch many a Hoosier heart.
						Perry Centre Seminary, already referred to, was an institution founded in 1856 by
							Nathaniel Fitch, Jacob Kell and George B. Gloyd, and, notwithstanding its short
							existence, bore strong witness to the quality of Perry township people. It was a
							flourishing institution for five years, during which time it gave a start to men and
							women who have since made a name for themselves and the township. Among the names of
							its pupils are the Hillegass boys; Dr. S. C. Metcalf; Dr. E. G. Wheelock, jr.; the
							three Gloyds, Jerome, William and Albert; the McQuistons; Dr. Dills, of Fort Wayne;
							Hiram Myers, and Miss Jennie Fitch, afterward professor of Greek and Latin at
							Logansport. At the breaking out of the Civil War, the seminary faculty and all of its
							adult students enlisted, which was praiseworthy and has happened to other schools with
							like result, namely, it was deserted, and at the close of the war its scattered pupils
							were grown up or had found other openings. It was too late to resuscitate the once
							promising educational centre. The building went to decay, and is only remembered by
							what it has done.
						William T. Hunter, whose name is perpetuated in the one village of Perry township,
							was a native of Cumberland, England, who first came to America in 1828, and in 1837
							settled in Perry, on the Lima road. He began clearing a farm at the same time but
							conducted a tavern at his home. The site of Huntertown was a natural gathering place
							for settlers' homes, as it was the only spot not covered with forest. "The opening,"
							as it was called, was not  made by the settlers, nor for
							them. However, they gladly availed themselves of it, setting up their temporary cabins
							and camps there, while they cleared more permanent sites for home building. Mrs. Mary
							Jane Beardsley, nee Wood, the first white child born in Perry, still resides in
							Huntertown, her faculties, at the age of eighty-three, unimpaired, and active in mind
							and body—"the youngest old lady in town." The "opening" at Huntertown site is
							thus explained by Mrs. Beardsley, who learned it from the Indians, in her childhood.
							Lying north and south of the slight eminence of Huntertown, which once was forest,
							also, were two muck prairies both of which took fire in some very dry season, and
							burned until they reached the edges of the forest, destroying the timber before it
							burned itself out. The opening, as has been stated was included in the land purchased
							by Mr. Hunter, whether in a mood of prophecy or no, we cannot tell. When the town was
							finally platted, in 1869, a village already existed, in effect, so close was the
							settlement in that spot. Many of the homes in Huntertown are preserved from settlement
							days, remodeled or rebuilt upon the same site as those of their forefathers. The
							building of the Grand Rapids and Indiana railroad was the opportunity which
							crystallized the rural community into an organized town. Forty-five town lots were
							sold in a day, after the plat was opened, an auspicious beginning for the new shipping
							point.
						Mrs. Beardsley was born while her parents were still partially sheltered in the
							"prairie schooner" which had brought them and their furnishings to the settlement,
							many of these vehicles being the nearest approach to civilized luxury attainable in
							those days. She relates several particulars which are enlightening in the study of the
							development of the locality. The Indians, generally friendly, were familiar visitors
							at the white cabins, asking not only for food but fire water. If the settler's family
							had what was asked for, they gave it. Indeed, the Indian never accepted a refusal. If
							the cabin, as commonly happened, in Perry, at least, contained no fire water, the only
							way to maintain peace was to invite the Indian in, and allow him to search the
							premises for himself. If he found what he wanted, he took it; if not, he kept his good
							temper. Mrs. Beardsley has watched the prairie schooner drawn by oxen, and the
							saddlebags method of transportation give way in succession to the spring wagon with
							its span of horses, the old-fashioned "high buggy," the stage coach (acme of elegance
							in its day), the railroad, with its only passenger accommodation, the "caboose," then
							the modern passenger trains, and now the electric cars, and the
							automobile—latest cry of progress—and she quaintly gauges the advance of
							Perry township by these epoch making changes.
						Of the two churches, the Methodist and the Universalist, which flourished at
							Huntertown, the Methodist still thrives, but the Universalist following has dwindled
							until the chapel has now been closed for a long time. A two room township school is
							located in the village. The chief street of Huntertown is the Lima road, along which
							the electric interurban line extends, and which within the village goes by the name of
							Plank street. At intervals along the street, the business of the town is strung, the
							lines of trade represented including: The livery and garage headquarters of J. L.
							McComb, and Charles S. Kruse; two general stores kept by  McComb and Sloffer, and J. C. Runyan; two meat markets kept by R. J. Hillegass, and
							V. E. McComb; a restaurant and grocery managed by W B. Cole; a drug store, C. O. Bush,
							proprietor; the plumbing, cemetery fixtures and lightning-rod establishment of W. J.
							Snyder; two dealers in agricultural implements, A. J. Baker and Samuel Hieber; two
							blacksmith shops, run by W. F. Snyder, and W. A. Grimme and Sons; the wagon 'smithy of
							N. C. Glazier; R. G. Dunlap's dry-cleaning house and two tonsorial parlors. Huntertown
							is both temperate and peaceful, supporting neither saloons nor lawyers. The ailments
							of the town are healed by Dr. Frank Greenwell, long-established and known the country
							'round, and Dr. Harry Erwin, "the young doctor." Mrs. Greenwell is the daughter of W.
							T. Hunter, and with her daughter, Mrs. H. C. Nelson, is as well known as the doctor
							himself. The Huntertown State Bank, Charles Hartung, president, has very smart
							headquarters, above which are the Masonic lodge rooms. Visible are the little
							interurban depot, the Hatch hotel, and the postoffice. The latter serves three rural
							routes, is in charge of Mrs. Myra Warcup, a daughter of early citizens. Mrs. Warcup's
							father and mother, Stephen Thornton and Angeline Cummings, were married sixty years
							ago in a little cottage which still stands at the north end of the village street, and
							during their earlier married life lived at the hotel, which was at that time the
							Wamsley house, kept for a long period by Christopher Wamsley, who traveled for the
							Updegraff firm in Fort Wayne. The hotel is fully seventy years old, the original house
							from which it was enlarged being still older than that. It is well preserved and still
							conducted by Mrs. Mary Hatch into whose hands it passed after the proprietorship of
							the Wamsleys. The place is well known to the tourists who stop there for the good
							country dinners which are served.
						Telephones are supplied to Huntertown by the Farmers' Mutual exchange, and connected
							with Fort Wayne by the Bell Company's lines. A little paper called the "Huntertown
							Echo" is published fortnightly by the Methodist minister. Huntertown has no fire
							department, but is organizing a volunteer company, and arrangements are being made to
							raise money for the apparatus, as fires have been frequent, though fortunately, not
							very disastrous. The community is very proud of its new agricultural society, the only
							one in the county, and strengthening rapidly. Its second cattle show will be held this
							year (1917), and real premiums are being offered, where only ribbons could be awarded
							in 1916. Fancy stock sales are conducted by the society also. Dr. Frank Greenwell is
							president. But the automobile that flies along Plank street without stopping, flinging
							the dust of Lima road all over the village porches, cannot realize the really big
							industry of Huntertown, which is the mammoth elevator plant of the "Huntertown Grain
							Elevator Company." The elevator—or, rather, several which preceded it and
							perished by fire,—has been in existence since the early railroad days. At first
							it was used only for grains, but since it was taken over, in 1910, by the new company,
							it has been repeatedly enlarged and broadened to include the storing of lumber,
							cement, and all sorts of building material, as well as other agricultural products,
							such as potatoes—from as far away as Minnesota—and is constantly crowded
							to capacity, which, for grain, is ten thousand  bushels,
							but like the omnibus will always hold a little more. In 1916 the capital stock was
							increased from eight to thirty thousand dollars, all of which is sold, and which pays
							from twenty to forty per cent. A milling room has been added, which grinds only for
							customers, and not for the trade. Dr. Greenwell is president of the company.
						Huntertown has an actual population of about two hundred and fifty wide-awake
							individuals, and has all the materials of growth, in spite of which the census shows
							but slight increase from time to time. Perhaps the new "community spirit" has not yet
							been breathed into its nostrils.
						Between the Huntertown neighborhood and the Eel River line is located the fresh air
							camp of the Anti-tuberculosis League of Fort Wayne, known as "Fort Recovery," while
							well to the south of this, in portions of sections thirty and thirty-one of Perry, and
							section thirty-six of Eel River township, lies the new tract purchased by the county
							for a county infirmary to which, before long, the county dependents will be
							removed.
						For picturesqueness and unique topographical features no part of Allen county equals
							Perry township. "Dutch Ridge," the highest point in Allen county, is a part of the
							Wabash-Aboite moraine, which, near the bend of Cedar creek in the vicinity of Gloyd's
							mill, lies more than one hundred feet above the creek which runs through a deep gorge
							cut through the moraine near its highest altitude. The sides and the gorge, steep and
							precipitous, are of great beauty, clothed with trees and vegetation of wild variety. A
							wagon road in very good condition leads through the gorge, which abounds in attraction
							to the artist or the tourist, and should be better known and more visited than it ever
							has been. The whole vicinity is picturesque in the extreme, Gloyd's mill the
							successor, on the same site, of the Vandolah mill, itself being worth a trip in that
							direction. There are cold springs of mineral water in the neighborhood, which offer
							considerable advantage as a place of summer sojourn.
					
					
						Cedar Creek Township
						Something of mystery pertains to the region set apart in 1837 as Cedar Creek
							township. Watered by a confluence of small streams which find outlet in the St. Joseph
							river, it embraces, topographically, a basin the position of which evidently made it
							more attractive to earlier visitors than those who finally made it their home. Long
							before the methods and habits of the ancient mound builders became popular knowledge,
							the earliest adventurers were impressed with the idea of former human occupation of
							this locality, and settlers were rewarded for their open-mindedness on this score by
							the discovery, from time to time, of traces of French missionaries—and other
							things not French. There is very good evidence of the region having been, at some
							remote period, the home of mound builders also, a distinction in which Cedar Creek
							township is unique in the county; a few fragments of the skeleton of a supposed
							mastodon, found on the farm of Peter Notestine, including a three inch tooth or so, a
							cross of beech wood and an inscription in French upon a beech tree, both bearing the
							date 1772, unite with other evidence to attract the interest and excite the
							imagination. Wonder as to  what all these widely
							different relics of the past may mean gives free rein to fancy. Romances weave
							themselves, from the gossamer threads of conjecture, jeweled here and there with
							prehistoric fragments. The inscription and the beechen cross both proclaim the nature
							of the French invasion, which the bits of log chain, the cinders and other buried
							evidences of a primitive forge do not disprove. But what drove the peaceful invaders
							away? What hopes of return did the burial of those relics indicate? If we who walk
							through treeless avenues of trade, floored with asphalt, and lighted by the flare of
							electricity, feel the blood stir with the mystery of these things, what must William
							Muller and John Pring have felt, who took them from the cool damp earth of the forest
							primeval? Or, in 1850, when an April windstorm had thrown an ancient linn tree, and
							honest John Pring found imbedded in its wood a sword, while neighbor Muller turned up
							a cannon ball with his plowshare the same week, what a contradiction of all previous
							impressions those sinister relics must have seemed. Did cross or sword prevail in that
							region? We will never know, but the fancy does not picture them approaching the
							aborigines hand in hand.
						Glacial markings are quite apparent in the Cedar Creek locality, being easily
							recognizable by the educated eye. The St. Joseph river flows from northeast to
							southwest, joined a little to the southwest of Cedarville by Cedar creek (the titular
							stream), through the central portion of the township, and furnished transportation
							facilities to the early settlers as well as drainage and the less marketable, but none
							the less valuable, asset of beauty. Once opened to settlement, Cedar Creek, with its
							varied but productive soil, rapidly attracted a pioneer population, but its remoteness
							had kept it isolated until 1833, when a solitary settler named Wood (the tradition
							does not accuse him of taking a wife to that lonely spot) spent the winter in a cabin
							on the St. Joseph, patiently longing for the spring. The Jacob Notestine family, who
							had made their start in Fort Wayne, where their ability and quality as settlers gave
							them open sesame had they preferred that path to fortune, chose rather the rural life,
							with the peaceful victories of the woodman's axe, and the tang of new-felled timber,
							and the subsequent subjugation of the soil to civilizing vegetation. Accordingly, in
							the spring so fervently wished for by the homesick Mr, Wood, the Notestines secured a
							flat boat whereon they loaded their household goods, and the family, root and branch,
							and were poled up the St. Joseph river to the mouth of Cedar creek. Then was the
							winter of the lonely Mr. Wood's discontent made glorious summer, indeed. Without
							waiting to cast one lingering look behind, he embarked with his few possessions, and
							the flat boat bore him back whence he came, leaving the Notestines in undisputed
							possession of the virgin territory of Cedar Creek.
						However, it was but a few weeks until John Manning, with his family, including two
							sons, William and Amos, made good neighbors for them, and life began to move through
							the forests other than that of its furred, feathered and scaly denizens, though these
							were uncomfortably numerous. In 1836 William Muller, a native of Germany, trained to
							the baker's trade and a novice at farming of any character, deserted the kneading
							trough and the oven, shouldered an axe and the few goods most necessary and, having
							located  a spot for a home in Cedar Creek, proceeded to
							hew his way to it from Beckett's Branch, through the tangled thickets of the forest.
							His eighty acres were at once attacked with zeal, and the erstwhile baker of loaves
							soon became an expert splitter of fence rails. The clearing grew apace, and a log
							cabin went up, eleven by twelve feet in dimensions. William kept bachelor's hall that
							winter but did not neglect to make friends of his neighbors when time permitted,
							though wolves were so numerous that evening visits were risky unless one went armed
							with a pitchfork, while even an occasional bear urged a closer acquaintance upon the
							indiscreet woodsman. But from all these perils he escaped unharmed, and when he went
							back to Cincinnati the next April to bring "home" his bride, Miss Mary Ann Kansen, it
							was not to utter loneliness that she came. True, there were the privations of a
							settler's life, but there was hope to combat them with; and the "baker's dozen" of
							little ones who came one by one to share the little cabin with them in the years that
							followed must have banished loneliness even if they brought in care and anxiety. One
							can fancy the father's axe hewing more logs to build a wing to the cabin before many
							seasons rolled around, and picture how great a day that was for them all when they
							moved "out of the old house, into the new," as prosperity rewarded their
							struggles.
						Jacob Notestine kept up that reputation for sterling worth which he with his sons had
							gained in their four years at Fort Wayne. Of all who gathered in the township, no
							family did better service to the community than he and his stalwart sons. Fairly
							schooled and a skillful blacksmith, he was eminently fit for the life to which he
							brought his vigorous middle age, and easily ranks as Cedar Creek's "grand old man."
							Many descendants still honor the Notestine name in township and county. John Manning's
							sons, after assisting their father to clear his farm in Cedar Creek, located farms for
							themselves in Eel River township. Soon after William Muller, in 1836, followed Charles
							C. Nettlehorst and his wife, Helena, with their three children—also from
							Germany. They reached Fort Wayne by means of a flat boat trip down the St. Joseph
							river, nearly a week taken up in a trip of only sixty miles, owing to the blockade of
							driftwood in the river. Houses were so infrequent along the way that the little family
							tented at night, lighting the darkness by a sputtering lamp contrived of a piece of
							salt pork and a split stick set into the ground. Arrived at last at their destination
							Mr. Nettlehorst courageously began work upon his eighty acres of woodland. Previously
							accustomed only to indoor work, the building of his cabin and the subsequent laborious
							clearing were too severe for his limited strength. He fell a victim to malaria, and
							died three years after their arrival, August 11th, 1839. Helena and the lad Louis, but
							thirteen years old, were left to do battle with the wilderness for the five younger
							children. It seemed an unequal contest, but Helena possessed considerable financial
							talent, and while bearing her part in the struggle was a great help to the boy in
							bearing his. In spite of the burden prematurely laid upon his young shoulders, they
							prospered, slowly. Louis married Miss Marian Ziegler and reared a family of six,
							filled township offices, and made his mother's declining years comfortable and happy.
							Treasured from boyhood, he always kept sacredly his father's memorandum  book and violin, the latter a long mute evidence of the
							refinements that came to the remotest outposts with their pioneer owners.
						Settlers came thick and fast from 1836 on. Peter Sullivan and John Rogers, both
							natives of Ireland but late of Pennsylvania, arrived arm in arm, in 1836. Congenial
							friends always, they proved to be as good citizens as they were comrades. John Baker
							and William Berry came about the same time. They did good work at their clearings, but
							eventually went farther west, Mr. Berry's farm passing to Christian Schlatter. Moses
							Sivotts, who began as a settler in St. Joseph township, came to Cedar Creek in 1838,
							cleared a new farm and resided thereon until his death, being buried in its soil. Mrs.
							Sebastian Schlatter later became owner of that farm. Between 1837 and 1840, among the
							settlers, permanent for the greater number, who made their appearance were Aaron Paff,
							who married, in 1838, Miss Mary A. Reater, who, the old chronicle states, was a
							Baptist, while her husband was a Presbyterian. Happily, these differences were
							abrogated in a becoming manner, both of the worthy pair uniting with the Methodist
							Episcopal church, in which communion they devoutly reared their eleven children. Other
							pioneers of this date were Joseph and William Shields, John Hackley, William Bowser,
							John Hagan, Henry Updyke, Abraham Fulkerson, Harmon Lydecker, Joseph Silvers and John
							B. Blue.
						The two latter men were elected Justices at the first township election, while Thomas
							Wilson was chosen for Constable. The total vote was twelve. The first road was
							surveyed through the township as far as Jacob Notestine's farm in 1834, and completed
							within a few years. This was the road secured by Christian Parker, of St. Joseph.
							James Vandolah, famous early mill builder, erected a sawmill in 1839, to which was
							added an arrangement for grist milling. Corn was first planted in Cedar Creek by Jacob
							Notestine and John Manning, and in the autumn of the same year (1834) each sowed
							wheat. Mary, daughter of Peter Notestine, was born in autumn 1834, but died before the
							snow fell,—the first white birth and also the first death in the settlement. The
							first orchard was set out by Jacob Notestine in 1836, Johnny Appleseed bringing the
							trees. This orchard was still in flourishing, productive condition after fifty years
							had passed. Miss Martha A. Notestine and Nelson Grubb were principals in the first
							township wedding. John Manning was appointed first postmaster, and his deputy was John
							B. Blue, the office being kept at Mr. Blue's store. It was a point on the mail route
							from Fort Wayne to northeastern Ohio and southern Michigan. The carriers were Jeremiah
							Bowen and his sons Mason and Marvin. At the site of Hamilton,—or Leo as it is
							now called,—Stout Price set up his blacksmith forge in 1840, finding himself a
							few years later "the village blacksmith." Samuel Cassaday became his partner, and
							afterward his successor in the 'smithy.
						Cedarville was the first town to be promulgated in the township, being platted in
							1838 by the Ewings of Fort Wayne and Cass county, and a firm of Connecticut
							prospectors. Situated in the forks of the St. Joseph river and Cedar creek, it seemed
							at that time to have a fair chance of growth, but after the platting of Hamilton, its
							attractions as a center waned, and in 1880 the census gave it credit for only 113
							inhabitants, a number which in 1900 had dwindled to fifty, against a population of
							five hundred at Leo.  The postoffice, established at Leo
							on account of its more central location, was probably the circumstance favoring the
							later town, which did not come into existence until 1849. John Dever, manager of the
							first regular boat line plying up and down the St. Joseph river, established a wagon
							shop at Leo in 1852, and soon after opened a store, and being a capable and successful
							man, aided the village in attracting population. He was one of its most striking and
							popular figures, and even captured the township vote, on one occasion, though he was a
							Republican while the township was strongly Democratic. The Leo Flouring Mill was the
							industry which received the attention of his latest years.
						The first school house built in the Cedar Creek district was the usual log structure,
							erected in 1837, and centrally located, but so near the swamp that no roads approached
							it, and few children lived near enough to attend it. The first election is said to
							have been held there, but it is probable that it was merely attempted, as half of the
							voters were reported to be unable to find the place. Both as voting place and school
							it was equally a failure, no school ever having been taught there, and the abandoned
							cabin finally went to decay. The elections are said to have been held at the house of
							John Manning for a time, but information as to where the first term of school was
							really taught is not at hand. School history in this township is so meagre that it
							might be suspected the early educational advantages were equally meagre, if it were
							not for what is told in personal biography. In 1857, however, it is certain that free
							schools were established on the same basis as elsewhere, and that since then the
							township has kept the educational pace without faltering.
						Cedar Creek township owns an unusually large number of religious denominations. The
							first religious meeting, held at Jacob Notestine's, was conducted by a Methodist
							Episcopal clergyman, both Methodist and United Brethren joining in it. These two
							denominations organized separately at about the same time, in 1845, and after moving
							about with the tide of settlement for a number of years are at this time settled, the
							Methodists maintaining churches at both Leo and Cedarville, and the United Brethren
							owning a fine church edifice at Cedarville. The Mennonites organized in 1852, and
							built a church near Leo. The German Baptists became numerous enough to organize many
							years ago, and to purchase a meeting house of their own. The Apostolic Christian
							church was organized with but two members, one of whom used to preach a sermon to the
							other. However, the "two or three" who thus "gathered together" multiplied long ago to
							a congregation large enough to build a church for themselves, near Leo. The Catholic
							Mission, at Leo, is one of the oldest outposts of that church in the county, a French
							exile, Father Adam, having first ministered to the Catholics in the district,
							according to traditions. The name first applied to the congregation was St.
							Bonifacius, but this has long been changed for "St. Leo's." The church edifice at Leo
							was built by Fathers Benoit and Faller, in 1856, and the pastoral residence by Father
							Zumbuelte in 1870. Cemetery grounds were donated in 1863 by Peter Sullivan. The church
							is maintained as a mission, the ministrations being made by the pastor of St.
							Vincent's. A parochial school was kept up for some years, but has recently been
							discontinued.
						
						The public school status is best told in the recent statistics. The latest school
							enumeration reported 411 entitled to school advantages in the township. The public
							school enrollment is 274; high schools, 43; total number of teachers, 13; days taught,
							high and grade schools, 160; average attendance in grade schools, 223; high school,
							37.9; number of schoolhouses, 9; estimated value, $50,000.00; commissioned high
							schools, 1; high school graduates, 1916, 8; grade school graduates, 21; library, 1,907
							volumes; total teachers' salaries, high and grades, $7,978.57; total "upkeep",
							$2,022.36; per capita expense of education, high school, $85.18; grade schools,
							$17.95. The school at Leo, both high and grade, is taught in the same building, the
							1917 high school enrollment being forty-five, a slight increase over that of 1916. It
							is a commissioned high school and is on the same basis as any other school in the
							county. Special courses in the Leo school are Agriculture and Domestic Science, in
							both of which a high grade of work is being done.
						Grabill, Indiana, the newest town in the county, lies on the township line, but
							belongs more properly to Cedar Creek than to Springfield, and its present status
							(since it has no pioneer history) belongs here. Grabill sprang into being when the
							Wabash railroad was built from New Haven to Detroit, and for the short period since it
							opened its eyes has made a remarkable growth. It has a population of four hundred, and
							its own system of schools, which include none but the public school of eight grades.
							Two churches are supported there, the Missionary church, and the Defenseless Mennonite
							congregation. The professions are represented by N. J. Shook, M. D., and M. H.
							Hostetter, M D., and O. K. Hilty, D. D. S. It has a flouring mill, a sawmill, the
							Witmer Grain Company, the B. E. Disler Lumber Company and the Grabill Lumber Company;
							also the Review Publishing Co., in the way of industries, a good hotel run on the
							American plan, a local telephone exchange, the "New Home," and a solid financial
							institution embodied in the Grabill State Bank, capital $25,000, deposits over
							$200,000. The business houses of the town are: The People's Store, general
							merchandise; "The Fair," a department store; the Wann and Smith and the Hursh garages;
							H. Souder and Sons, harness; A. Neuenschwander and Co., implements; V. W. Hartley and
							Co., hardware; the Grabill Drug Co., Mary Yoder, drugs and confectionery; Ira Fuhrman,
							barber; Phil Brown, meat market; C. Boger, livery and sales, and A. Conrad, livery. E.
							C. Martz is the postmaster.
						The schools at Grabill are not administered as county schools, the "school city" of
							Grabill being regularly incorporated and independent. While this is a situation that
							may soon change, since no other city except Fort Wayne now works under this plan in
							Allen county, it must go on record as a matter of history, that for the first ten
							years of its life as a town, its schools were incorporated under the city name. The
							report for the year 1915-6 is:—School enrollment, fifty-three; school houses,
							one; teachers, three; number of days taught, one hundred and fifty; average daily
							attendance, forty-seven; completed eighth grade, June, 1916, two. The library is small
							but new, containing a little over fifty volumes. The per capita expense of education
							is $19.28.
						Cedar Creek township has similar features to Perry, in its  northern part, where the crest of the moraine ends, and the creek winds
							tortuously in a never changing channel at the foot. The stream is the prettiest in
							this quarter of the state, as it is the only clear water creek near. Two tiny gem-like
							lakes, of the variety germane to morainic regions, lie in the northwestern part of the
							territory, one of them known as "Viberg's" and the other as "Hollopeter's." The
							highest point of elevation above sea is nearly a thousand feet.
					
					
						Springfield Township
						It was no longer a question of daring or risk to pioneer in Allen county in the year
							eighteen hundred and thirty-six. The reputation of previous settlement had by that
							time made success a certainty to any settler who could rely upon his health and
							ability to persevere to the end of a known task. The pioneer who came to Springfield
							township at that date or after no longer was called upon to "risk his all upon the
							hazard of a die." So surely could he rely upon substantial reward, he might safely
							have burned all his bridges behind him, for it is not recorded that any of them ever
							went back because of disappointment in the country. Some, indeed, went farther, but
							the majority were satisfied to become fixtures. It is even told of one young man that
							he worked as bond servant in Ohio for six years, to pay for a tract of land in
							Springfield township, a bargain entered into by "the evidence of things not seen."
						Springfield township, without possessing any topographical features peculiar to
							itself, has natural advantages as an agricultural locality which are not surpassed, if
							they can be equaled, in the whole of Allen county. The watershed between the St.
							Joseph and Maumee rivers traverses the territory from southwest to northeast, and the
							rich black soil, with sand underlying or mixed, is by its own character and the
							natural undulation of the surface, provided with drainage into the streams which water
							it. The St. Joseph river cuts across the northwestern corner, and other small rivulets
							flow mostly toward the Maumee river, the chief among them being Black creek and Twelve
							Mile and also "Mary Delorme" creek as the name appears on the maps. The true name of
							the latter stream given to it by early travelers, is Marais de
								Orme (French for Elm Swamp creek; Marais,
								swamp—de Orme, elm). Early map-makers, however, failing
							to understand the French words or accepting the distorted English pronunciation, have
							compelled the little stream to ripple down through the years bearing the suggestively
							Hibernian name of "Mary Delorme." The crest of the watershed is the ridge along which
							the Hicksville road was surveyed in 1839. No road had been located through Springfield
							township previous to this "Ridge" road, but it was only a year and a half later that
							the road to Spencerville was surveyed. Settlement had begun in 1836, so there need be
							no minimizing of the hardships and privations which the pioneers had to undergo in
							settling this territory, splendid as they found it to be. But the day of every
							township is recognized as having brought with it men who were sufficient thereto. The
							trio of men who broke into the forests of Springfield were eminently so. Ezra May,
							Isaac Hall and William Sweet—these were the pioneers who stamped the new
							township with a certain  character which the events of
							eighty years or more have not displaced. Jeremiah Whaley, of New York, visited
							Springfield in 1836, and selected a tract of land which he entered, preparatory to
							returning with his family the following year. The earliest additions to the colony in
							1837 were Richard Glaze, who came from Ohio with his wife and son Absalom in January;
							Henry Gruber and his brother Christian, who arrived in February; James King of New
							York, and Jeremiah Whaley and his family, who came during the spring; Estes Howe, from
							near Oswego, New York, who came, at first to take employment under Ezra May, bringing
							his wife and young child in July; and William Ringwalt, of Ohio. Ezra Worden came in
							1838, to choose and purchase a site, to which he returned and settled three years
							later. The year 1838 is also stated to have been the date of Nathan Lake's coming to
							Springfield, but it is probably more correct to say that Mr. Lake "entered" his
							Springfield tract that year, but tarried the settling of his Milan township land,
							which was then left in the hands of his eldest son, Curtis C. Lake. Mr. Lake's
							location in Springfield was on the site where Cuba was laid out in 1855. Richard
							Anderson was an arrival of 1839, and John D. Reichelderfer, of 1840. About this time
							immigration began to "come not single spies, but in battalions" judging from the
							personal annals of the period. Glimpses into the experience of individual settlers
							portray more truly the conditions and progress of Springfield township than a mere
							recital of events which of themselves are of only average interest.
						William Sweet, the first of the original group of 1836, brought his family with him,
							and set about providing maintenance for them with the determination of which the early
							days show so many fine instances. The Springfield tract was cleared, and improved, and
							after several years' residence on it, Mr. Sweet sold out and, having some interests
							there, removed to Manmee township where he lived near Bull Rapids for the rest of his
							life. Isaac Hall, second figure of the 1836 group, was born in western Pennsylvania,
							but had spent his life from infancy on what was the pioneer frontier in Ohio, a school
							of experience which made him exceptionally fit for the life which lay ahead of him,
							when in May, 1836, he started, with his family and goods aboard a prairie schooner,
							for the deep woods of Indiana. Encountering the new and little traveled roads in the
							Maumee valley, progress became very difficult and slow, so that in spite of their
							early start, the promised land was closed for the season, as far as the sales office
							was concerned, and they were obliged to halt in the Maumee settlement until September,
							when the purchase was at last made and the journey completed. Mrs. Hall (Margaret
							Bardue) never saw the new home. Death overtook her before the log cabin was finished,
							and the orphaned little ones were left to the devoted care of her sister, Jane Bardue,
							who afterward was married to Mr. Hall. Isaac Hall became one of the most prominent men
							of early days, filling the office of township trustee for several years, acting as
							Justice in Scipio township for eight years, and being elected county commissioner one
							term. His son, Nelson B. Hall, afterward resided in the quarter section southwest of
							the homestead place, and the Ridge road ran through both parts, in each of which a
							"Hall's Corners" may be noted. Mr. Hall gave to his children the best advantages the
							time and  locality afforded, and from 1853 to 1868 his
							son, Nelson Hall, was a teacher in Allen County. At Mr. Hall's house, in October,
							1837, was held the first election of the township, Ezra May being elected Justice of
							the Peace.
						In the spring of that year Richard Glaze, Ezra May and William Sweet had set out the
							first orchards of the settlement. The first wedding known to the township had also
							occurred, the parties being Washington Corpse, of Maumee township, and Miss Runnels.
							During months in 1837 and 1838, Ezra May built the first grist mill. A year or two
							later he built the first blacksmith shop, employing a man to do the 'smithing. Mr. May
							was the back-log which kept many fires burning in Springfield township, as
							the-incidents of succeeding years tell. Estes Howe, born in Saratoga county, New York,
							son of Benjamin and Sarah Stewart Howe, was married, in Oswego, to Susan Whaley, whose
							grandmother, Mercy Madison, was a near relative of President Madison. With their
							infant son, George B., this young couple came to Springfield in 1837, Mr. Howe to work
							at his trade of shoemaker in the shop established by Ezra May, where the village of
							Maysville now stands. After keeping the township well shod with boots and shoes for
							two years, Mr. Howe gave up this form of pioneering and began earning land for himself
							by taking contracts to clear timber land, receiving his reward in uncleared acres.
							During the succeeding years he cleared not only the hundred and forty acres on which
							he spent his middle life, but fully one hundred acres for others. In addition to that,
							at odd times he still made good shoes for others' wear, and always made his own shoes.
							One of his early experiences was the purchase of a bushel of corn, walking eight miles
							and splitting 400 fence rails for it. The first white child born in Springfield
							territory was Henry, son of Henry and Leah Gruber. This event occurred in November,
							1838. Several more children came to the Grubers, but after a number of years, during
							which young Christian Gruber, the brother, grew to independence and bought his own
							farm, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Gruber went to Hicksville, Ohio, to live. In later years,
							Fort Wayne became the home of the major part of the family, one of whom entered the
							ministry, while others took up railroading in some capacity. The first death occurring
							in the settlement was in the family of Ezra May, when his daughter, Mary E., was
							taken, September, 1838. She was laid away in a plot which her father had previously
							given for a township cemetery. In the same year at Mr. May's house, Rev. True Pattee
							conducted the first religious service ever held in the settlement, which he continued
							to visit once a month until the organization of the first Methodist class in 1843. The
							Ridge road went through the next year, opening the way for the rapid filling up of the
							township. Richard Anderson, who came from Washington county, Pennsylvania, in 1839,
							settled his forty acres and made a beautiful little farm, where he lived for
							twenty-eight years. A wanderlust seized him at this time, but a year's trial of
							farming in Tennessee freed him and brought him back to Springfield and the society of
							pioneer friends.
						Springfield township's first school, opened in 1840, was housed in a double-log
							dwelling on the property of Ezra May, on the site 
							afterward the home of the Odd Fellows in Harlan. The floor was puncheons, and there
							were no desks, the pupils being seated on benches of split slabs, whereon each pupil's
							"reservation" was marked in chalk by the teacher, Miss Sarah Bracey. Here the pioneer
							children who could attend acquired the rudiments of learning, which many of them
							afterward added to at larger institutions in Fort Wayne and elsewhere. A second school
							house was built by subscription in 1841, on the farm of William Sweet. The old
							schoolhouse was the place where the Methodist church was organized, also its Sunday
							school, and the meetings were held there until the building of the church in 1854. The
							old English Lutheran Sunday school was also organized there, in 1845, the
							superintendent's name being remembered as Samuel Hitchcock. The children of John D.
							Reichelderfer were among those who attended this Sunday school, and Jacob
							Reichelderfer, who was ten years old at the time, recalls how the girls as well as the
							boys went barefoot to Sunday school, the girls pausing when the sacred precincts were
							approached, to don their stockings and shoes before entering—and removing them
							again as they began the homeward journey, to save them. There are but two of the
							pupils of this Sunday school living (in 1917), Mandred Anderson and Jacob
							Reichelderfer. The latter was among the first class confirmed (September 13th, 1851),
							by the Rev. Alexander S. Bartholomew, the first pastor of the church known as "Walnut
							Ridge" congregation, from the location of the chapel, which may still be seen,
							although it has long been empty, the descendants of its congregation attending the
							Evangelical church in Harlan. Jacob Reichelderfer is the only one of this class still
							living.
						Mr. and Mrs. Richard Glaze had the great misfortune to lose their son, the second
							year of their residence, and this blow resulted in their return to Ohio. William
							Ringwalt, and his wife, Catharine, who located in Springfield in 1837, had emigrated
							from Pennsylvania to Ohio in 1835, where he cleared an eighty acre tract before coming
							to Indiana. Mr. Ringwalt was a well trained man, and a valuable addition to the
							settlement. He was one of the seven voters at the organization of the township, and
							afterwards served four years as Constable. Their son, William H. Ringwalt, aged
							seventeen at the date of the Civil War, enlisted in the 23rd Indiana Battery, and
							served until the end of the war, during which he was participant in eighteen battles.
							After returning to the homestead, he developed into as good a citizen as he had been a
							soldier, and as good a farmer as he was successful in the brick and tile business
							which he conducted on a part of the farm.
						A notable group of Springfield settlers numbered several who came before 1840, to
							secure land, after which they returned to their families, and worked to save the
							necessary means for the transference of their affairs to the new country. Cyrus
							Hollopeter, whose parents settled in Cedar Creek, earlier, "bought" his majority from
							his father when nineteen years old, by clearing seven acres of Cedar land. In 1838 he
							bought fifty-three acres in Springfield which he improved, and traded for forty better
							located ones, also in Springfield. He developed into one of the township's best men,
							was married to Lydia Conway, in Fort Wayne, by 'Squire DuBois, 1850, was a prominent
							Methodist, a Constable for twelve years, a school director twenty years, and a member
							of the "Regulators."  John Zeimmer and Frederick Omo
							purchased their land in 1836. William Letcher, Ira Johnson and John Alderman were all
							on the ground and in the tavern business along the Ridge road by 1840. Thomas Lucas,
							who came to Fort Wayne in 1837, must also have had his eyes fixed upon Springfield
							township as his ultimate goal before 1840. The wedding of Miss Matilda May to William
							Letcher in the spring of 1840 though the second ceremony to be performed in the
							township, was really the first among the actual settlers, that of Washington Corpse
							(of Maumee township) and Miss Runnels being, from best advices, performed en route. Jeremiah Whaley remained in Springfield township until
							1855, and then tried farming in Iowa. Later, he arranged to return, but died before
							the trip was completed. Of the three Reichelderfer brothers, John D., Lewis and
							Charles, the latter came in 1840, and settled near Harlan, adjacent to the land which
							his brother John had chosen for a home. Lewis made his purchase in 1840, then went
							back to Ohio until after his marriage in 1842, to Miss Julia Ann Ranek. Their long
							career in Springfield where all their large family grew up from babyhood, was crowned
							with material success as well as universal esteem. Among their sons are three names as
							familiar as household words in Allen county: Elihu, ex-representative of Allen county,
							William, ex-trustee of Springfield township, and Aaron, ex-sheriff of Allen county.
							John D. Reichelderfer purchased his first tract of land in 1835, and then returned to
							the care of his wife and children in Ohio. In 1837 he visited Springfield again and
							contracted with Henry Gruber to clear two acres for him, and afterward built a hewn
							log house in the clearing, to which he brought his wife, Hester Markel, whom he
							married in April, 1832, and their little family. The Reichelderfers worked day, and
							often night, too, at the clearing of the farm, Hester assisting in the burning of
							brush and waste timber after dark, and, in planting time, by putting out crops. She
							was proud to tell of their work together, and of her own exploit in planting ten acres
							of corn in one day, with the assistance of the old-fashioned "jumper," and a boy to
							ride the horse. To the end of his life Mr. Reichelderfer kept the old-fashioned anvil
							on which he was wont to hammer out the old Dutch scythe,—and the scythe and
							whetstone with it. Their son, Jacob Reichelderfer, who at the age of eighty-two is
							still bright and active, lives just east of Harlan with his faithful and devoted
							youngest daughter, Sarah Katharine. Full of years and honor is this fine old man of
							Springfield township. With gentlest reverence he exhibits the quaint heirlooms of the
							house, telling their story as far as it is known, with scrupulous exactness. There is
							the old musket, brought from Berks county in Pennsylvania in 1806, by his
							great-grandfather and grandfather, when they settled in the Ohio wilderness.
							Grandfather Reichelderfer carried the musket through the war of 1812, and after it
							came to Springfield township with his father, its half ounce home-made bullets ended
							the life of more than one bear, while as many as five deer fell before it in a single
							day. And there is a tiny "fat lamp" or lard lamp, of wrought iron, now over four
							hundred years old, which Hester Markel brought from her home amongst her housekeeping
							treasures, and which had been handed down to her through five generations on the
							mother's side. Besides these, there is a massive old German Bible of the version
							authorized by Martin Luther, brown with  age and the
							cover, hand-tooled in traditional designs, well mended, at some day a hundred years or
							more back, with thin metal sheets fastened on with blacksmith's nails. The German
							text, in spite of the date 1745, is clear and legible, although the capitals are
							somewhat different from the style of letter now used. Mr. Reichelderfer has never
							learned German, but his father was able to read the volume, which came to his hands by
							an incident which is purely pioneer in character, and is eloquent of different phases
							of pioneer life. In the very early forties, this book, then nearly a hundred years
							old, was brought by a man named Slough, living somewhere on the Maumee river, to the
							Springfield township settlement and traded to Jeremiah Whaley for a gallon of
							whiskey—then of very little value, as it could be bought for from twenty-five to
							fifty cents. The Bible seemed of little worth to Mr. Whaley, who could not read in
							German, and he readily sold it to John Reichelderfer, who hastened to offer him three
							dollars for it after hearing the story of the sacrilegious trade. So the rare old book
							was rescued, to last another hundred years in the Reichelderfer homestead.
						John Zeimmer could not come to his Springfield land until 1843, and then to many
							privations, through which, happily, they came out, successful. Mr. Zeimmer helped Mr.
							Reichelderfer to clear several miles of township roads of the underbrush which kept
							them useless, was for five years a township school director, and gave land to each of
							his children as they grew up and married. His oldest son, Martin, was a great help to
							his father, learning to plow when he was so short that he had to reach up to his
							handles, and had to invent a method of his own for releasing the plow when it
							encountered an obstacle.
						Another settler of 1840 was Frederick Omo, the son of a French soldier under
							Napoleon, who emigrated to America in time to do military service for the United
							States in the war of 1812, after which he married Mary Mercer, of Pennsylvania German
							origin, and Frederick was their fourth child. The boy was but seventeen when he
							purchased, through a brother of Elizabeth Shields, who afterward became his wife,
							sixty acres of wild land in Springfield township. From 1836 to 1840 he worked as a
							hired hand to earn the money with which to begin his independent career. It took three
							years more to make a home for Elizabeth to come to. Like the father, Simon Omo,
							Frederick and Elizabeth Omo were strong Methodists, in which church, Mr. Omo was a
							steward twenty years, and a class leader four years. He was also a member of the board
							of township trustees, and with Estes Howe and Linas Cutts assisted in the first
							appraisement of school lands in the township. A supporter of William Henry Harrison in
							1840, Mr. Omo remained a staunch republican to the end of his eminently successful
							life. Ezra Worden, who after a boyhood passed amid circumstances of bitter hardship,
							bought, in 1838, with money it had taken him ten years in service to save up, eighty
							acres of wild land in Springfield. He was still too poor to take it up at once, and
							went back to service for three years, at the end of which he married brave Elizabeth
							Walsworth, in New York, and together they began their struggle for independence and
							comfort in a log cabin in the Indiana woods. They won out, and reared a family of
							seven children besides. He was constable for two years. He served through the Civil
							War, in which he was twice wounded, and twice taken by the enemy, spending two or
							three months in Libby prison.  Henry Cummins, born in
							Vermont, learned his trade of carpenter in New York state, and spent his first pioneer
							days in Ohio, where he married. He came to Springfield in 1841, and cleared nearly one
							hundred and sixty acres of heavy timber land. He was a famous hunter and frequently
							followed his quarry through miles of forest trackless except for the hoof prints of
							the deer he sought, and careless of nightfall. His last kill of deer, numbering ten or
							eleven, was sold in Fort Wayne for about sixty dollars. His oldest son, Joseph, was
							his right hand in boyhood, and served the country in the Civil War, in the
							Eighty-eighth Indiana Volunteers under Capt. Scott Swan. He was in eleven of the
							celebrated battles and also with Sherman on the march through Georgia to the sea.
							Ephraim Markel or Markle, whose wife was Elizabeth Reichelderfer, began his long
							career in Springfield in 1842. Henry Boulton, born in England, came in 1843, and
							Daniel Knisely, who worked six years to earn the land he never saw until it was his,
							came in 1846. Isaac Dreisbach also came in 1846, and in the years following the names
							of Snyder, Herrick, Driver, Boston and others appear. These men all worked under more
							or less difficulty even from the pioneer standpoint, but found a straight road to fair
							prosperity, albeit they had to hew it for themselves. Gilbert Starr, whose mother,
							Abigail Barnum Starr, was a cousin of P. T. Barnum, came to Springfield in 1851 and
							settled in the woods north of the site of Harlan, the country being still so densely
							timbered and so sparsely settled that there were but three houses between his own and
							Spencerville. His son, Charles A., was nine years old at that time. Dr. Franklin K.
							Cosgrove came to Springfield township as a young physician in 1852, and spent his life
							in the profession with the exception of the service he gave as a soldier in the Civil
							War. His wife, Malinda Phelps, was a step-sister of Mrs. Laura Suttenfield and Horace
							Taylor. Their oldest son was for several years deputy sheriff of Allen county. Dr.
							Cosgrove was the first physician of the township, successful in practice, and
							universally esteemed. Price, Henderson, Oberholzer, Peters, Haifly, Harter, Greenawalt
							and Hoffman and a host of other names belong to this period in the history of
							Springfield, of which more than mention cannot be made here, yet whose owners are
							widely known outside of the township.
						The first postoffice of the township was located at Cuba in 1849, but before that
							little village was platted. In 1851 another office was awarded to the eastern border,
							and established in Isaac Hall's home with the title "Hall's Corners." Andrew Metzger
							platted Cuba in 1855, and the little town started off with something of a flourish.
							The Protestant Methodists organized there under Rev. David Pattee, and built a frame
							church of rather pretentious size for the times. But it was a little too late, for in
							December, 1853, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Reichelderfer had platted a town from part of their
							own land a mile or so northeast, which presently began to draw attention and settlers
							toward it, as a trade center. The new town was called Earlan. Cuba drooped, and when
							the postoffice was removed to Harlan it folded its hands and subsided into afternoon
							quiet, except on Sundays, when the worshipers flocked to the meeting house. The unique
							incident of Springfield township's metropolis came when, in 1859, Ezra May platted his
							land,  which immediately adjoined the Harlan plat, only
							divided from it by the section line, and called it Maysville. These apparently rival
							towns did each other no harm. As a matter of fact Mr. May's land accommodated so many
							of the ordinary industries of a pioneer town that it is some wonder that he did not
							plat a village sooner. At all events the towns grew together side by side, not even
							divided by a hyphen, nor needing one to unite them. The postoffice received the name
							of Harlan, but for a time Maysville was the more popular name. The tide has turned,
							however, and the title Harlan is growing more and more into public favor.
						The Maysville Flouring mill, erected in 1859 by John Hawkins, was an important factor
							in the development of the village. It passed through a maze of proprietorships
							representing a large proportion of the township names, but subsided by 1890 into the
							hands of Ober, Mahn and Anderson. The saw and shingle mill built in 1862 by Seymour
							Coomer and Jacob Bickhart was nearly as variously owned, besides being destroyed by
							fire in 1876, rebuilt by Jacob Hollopeter, and passing from him to Cummins and
							Reichelderfer during the eighties. Isaac Bickhart founded a planing mill in 1875 and
							built a sawmill in 1879. The Harlan lodge of F. and A. M. was chartered in May, 1864,
							and Prospect lodge of the Odd Fellows, in June, 1869. The Odd Fellows purchased the
							old graded school building for a lodge home, about 1889, and later tore it down and
							erected a new building on the same spot. The early newspapers of the twin village were
							failures. The first of these was the Harlan Independent, published by D. M. Allen,
							until he was obliged to discontinue it to take up his duties as County Surveyor. It
							was re-established for a time, by James Forsythe, from New York. The Maysville Breeze,
							started in 1887 by J. M. Shutt, blew quite steadily for two years, and only subsided
							because the office was destroyed by fire. Among the lines of business represented in
							Maysville and Harlan thirty years ago were general merchandise, hardware, furniture,
							drugs, blacksmithing, harness and undertaking, besides the livery stable and the
							hotel. The business roster of that date included the names of Eminger, Grubb, Minnich,
							Hays, Omo, Carrington, Webber, Page, Brown, Oberholzer and Umstead. Four of these
							names survive in the business directory of today, which should read: William A.
							Reichelderfer, general store; C. C. Diehl and Son, general merchandise; J. H.
							Zimmerman, Harlan Department Store; shoemaker and postmaster combined, Mr. Mack
							(Harlan postoffice has three mails in and two out daily); S. W. Dingman, general
							store; harness, Albert Umstead; C. E. Cummins, jeweler; blacksmithing, wood-working
							and gas welding, William Valieu; Philip Helfer, general 'smithing; William Page,
							blacksmith; E. C. Carrington, fine furniture and undertaking; garages, J. J. Goldsmith
							brothers; restaurants, George T. James and S. V. James; meat market, C. A.
							Hartzell.
						The mills of Harlan have become past history. The largest industry there at present
							is the W. H. Hood packing house, where Hood's famous country sausages are made, to the
							extent of one and one-half tons weekly, all winter. The plant includes slaughtering
							and general curing and packing of meats of high grade.
						The Odd Fellows have built a large addition to their lodge home, providing a hall
							with seating capacity of six hundred, for all public 
							uses. The Harlan Herald, edited by William E. James, is printed at its own plant. The
							Harlan State Bank, established June 15th, 1911, with capital stock of $25,000.00, has
							resources, according to latest statement, of $178,000.00. The president is Thomas
							Hood; vice-president, G. A. Reeder; cashier, L. V. Likins.
						The Masonic lodge has an Eastern Star chapter, and the Odd Fellows, not to be
							outdone, have a Rebekah lodge. The Harlan Culture Club and the Woman's Country Club
							show the activity of the feminine element in Springfield society.
						Dr. H. E. Adams, the oldest physician in Harlan, came in 1866, after being a Maumee
							township boy for eighteen years before beginning practice. He was contemporary with
							Doctor Cosgrove, and had practiced steadily until one year ago, when his health
							failed. He has seen the country from Harlan to Woodburn change from almost solid
							forest to its present aspect. For the first twenty-five years of his professional
							career the only practical method of reaching patients was by horseback, as a buggy was
							only available on main traveled roads. Dr. W. H. Thompson and Dr. C. F. Swift, son of
							Philetus Swift, a settler of 1854, are the present occupants of the field of medicine.
							The Starr Hotel, opened in 1874 by Charles A. Starr, was for many years a popular
							place of entertainment for Ridge road travelers, and pleasure parties as well. Its
							genial proprietor was an ideal host, and ably seconded by his wife, who was Miss Eliza
							Lillie. Mr. Starr was a republican, and received the appointment of postmaster at
							Harlan under President Harrison. His death occurred some years ago, and his widow
							married Ira Grubb, the son of Nelson and Martha Notestine Grubb, who had made
							Springfield township his home since 1852. Mrs. Grubb was again left a widow, and in
							1913 married a Mr. Meeks, of St. Joseph, who died about a year later. Mrs. Meeks's
							death followed soon after, and the old Starr Hotel is no longer a landmark. Mrs. G. A.
							Reeder has assumed the hospitable duty of looking after Harlan's transient guests in
							her commodious home on the opposite side of Water street from the old traditional
							stand.
						Harlan has four churches, all in trim repair: The Methodist Episcopal, the
							Evangelical Lutheran, the Disciples and the Protestant Methodists. The latter have a
							new church building, the old one which they moved to Harlan from Cuba being converted
							to other uses. The J. H. Omo drugstore, built by him after his return from the war,
							has been moved to the corner of Water street and the Ridge road, and is the property
							of Mr. Reeder. The old Cosgrove drugstore is also removed from the grounds of the
							homestead, which is now the summer home of Aaron Reichelderfer. The old Boulton
							homestead in Harlan has been bought in by Oscar Boulton, who will live in Harlan
							henceforth. The John D. Reichelderfer cottage at Harlan, prettily situated above the
							Ridge road in the center of the town, is now slightly remodeled and occupied by Mrs.
							Anna Hoffman, mother of Edward G. and John C. Hoffman, prominent lawyers of Fort
							Wayne.
						Harlan is most agreeably situated for a rural town, and the highways that traverse it
							are a lure to tourists. It is frequently the route over which hundreds of new
							automobiles are sent to the consignees when railroad shipping is unavailable.
						
						Harlan has two large schoolhouses, the grade school and the model Harlan High, which
							have a splendid attendance. Springfield has a school enumeration of 456, and a grade
							school enrollment of 287, while the "High" enrolled 63 students. Thirteen graduates
							from each department finished in June, 1916. All the figures given are from the
							reports of 1915-1916. There are fifteen teachers employed, and eleven schoolhouses are
							in use. The average attendance for one hundred and sixty days was two hundred and
							twenty-nine. Total salaries paid to teachers: Grades, $5,156.40; High, $2,840.00.
							Upkeep expenses: Grades, $1,876.06; High, $751.00. Per capita expense: Grades, $24.50;
							High, $57. The libraries total about a thousand volumes. Harlan's population, once
							stated to be seven hundred, is short of that now, and it was even then a harmless
							exaggeration, no doubt. Leading Harlan citizens are at present content to place the
							estimate at five hundred.
					
					
						Scipio Township
						There is an excuse, doubtless, but no discoverable reason, for the name applied to
							the extreme northeastern township of Allen county. The "short and simple annals" of
							Scipio, smallest of the townships, may be, like its territory, limited in volume, but
							the matter they seek to perpetuate shares the quality of the Springfield settlement,
							as both townships shared the principal stream, their natural agricultural advantages,
							the forest which once covered them and their first highway, the Ridge road. The
							division is purely arbitrary, and might impress the uninformed as an injustice to the
							lesser township to be so artificially cut off after the manner of a "mill-end." Yet no
							remnant need deem itself superfluous which is ample enough to include the life-size
							figures of Platte Squire and Jehial Parks, who settled here in 1836, before a
							separation from Springfield was contemplated.
						Platte Squire and his wife, Aurilla Goodspeed, were both natives of Vermont, always
							known, as a good state from which to emigrate—a reputation borne out in the keen
							executive activity of its sons in Indiana. The native state of their companion in arms
							is not remembered, but the name "Jehial Parks" smacks strongly of New England, while
							it suggests the long-armed man of might his brief biography shows him to have been. It
							sounds like the sweep of steel and the resounding cut of the axe into the tree trunk,
							and one can imagine the ringing echoes that followed his strokes.
						Lucius and Nathan Palmer arrived in 1837, accompanied by families. The Palmers were
							not permanent settlers in Scipio, but they bore their full share in pioneer activity
							during the years of their residence, and left well-cleared farms for others to till. A
							son of Lucius Palmer remained in possession of the tract cleared by his father. Nancy
							Palmer was the teacher of the first school taught in Scipio.
						The year 1838 is marked by the entrance of George and Robert Dorsey, and Philip
							Shell, who came in March. The Dorsey brothers were sons of Benjamin Dorsey, who
							emigrated to America in 1830 from Yorkshire, England, his wife and seven children
							following him over the next year. They settled first in Milan county, Ohio,  whence George and Robert came to Scipio. Their mother,
							Jane (Jefferson) Dorsey, died in Ohio, and the father came on to Scipio with the three
							younger members of the family, Mary Ann, John and Thomas. In this year George Dorsey
							was married to Miss Elizabeth Boulton, born in England, and, later, Mary Ann Dorsey
							became the wife of William Boulton. Robert Dorsey married Margaret R., the daughter of
							Priam and Lois Moore. The Dorseys were genuine home-makers and have been from the
							first an integral part of the social structure of their township. If by chance one
							happens upon an elevation of land in Scipio called "Opossum Knobs," let him recognize
							in it Robert Dorsey's "first forty acres." Dorsey has been, numerically, about the
							strongest name in the township. With the addition, in the latter part of the year
							1838, of William Bice and Samuel Wentworth, chips must have flown fast in Scipio
							colony. Mr. Wentworth's brothers John and Henry came on from the Maumee river
							settlement in 1840, and William Moore came about this time, with his father's family,
							for whose support he largely provided. Mr. and Mrs. Adam Burrier, both natives of
							Maryland, came in 1849, by which time Mr. Barrier was already fifty years of age. He
							was, however, equal to the task he set himself of clearing a tract of two hundred and
							forty acres of heavy timber land.
						The first white child born in Scipio was Lafayette Squire, in 1838. In contrast to
							this auspicious event was the tragic death of the little boy's sister Laura, in April,
							1840, caused by her clothing catching fire as she played too near a maple sirup
							caldron in the grove where her parents were condensing sap into one of the few pioneer
							luxuries. The burial was made on the homestead grounds, as no cemetery had yet been
							provided.
						The first religious service was held in 1840 at the house of Jehial Parks, by
							Benjamin Dorsey, who had become a local preacher of the Methodist Episcopal faith
							before coming from England. Mr. Parks gave the land for the township cemetery in 1842.
							Mrs. Carvin, of DeKalb county, was the first to be buried there. The cemetery, which
							lies near the Methodist Episcopal church, on the Ridge road, is still in use.
						The first school taught was opened in 1841, with Miss Nancy Palmer as teacher. It was
							supported by subscription, and the building was a log cabin.
						Dorliska Bracey became the wife of William Moore in 1842, and shared the struggles of
							his first decade or two in the wilderness with the fortitude shown by all pioneer
							women. In company with Henry Boulton, the first sawmill of the district was built, on
							the Springfield township line. It proved a failure, and Mr. Moore lost his entire
							small capital and found himself deeply in debt at the close of the venture. He had
							also operated the first thresher in the region, and though the sawmill failure was
							neither the first nor the last of his struggles, by continuous application to the
							threshing business he retrieved his fortunes, and became, in time, as prosperous as
							his sterling industry deserved. The Moores left a large family to perpetuate their
							memory.
						A blacksmith's forge was set up in 1849 on the site of William Letcher's abandoned
							potash factory, which had been a profitable industry of the days when ashes from the
							clearing were very  plentiful in that locality. The
							first election was held April 3d, 1843, at the schoolhouse on the Ridge road. Lucius
							Palmer was inspector by appointment, and Platte Squire was elected Justice. He held
							this office, with a few intermissions, for twenty years. For two years during the
							Civil War days a postoffice was maintained at the house of John Murphy, but after 1864
							Scipio's mail was received at the postoffice in Springfield township, until the
							establishment of rural free delivery.
						Scipio's school conditions are on a par with the rest of the county. From the report
							of 1915-1916 the following statistics are taken: Eighty-one of the one hundred and one
							children enumerated are enrolled in the three one-room schools of the township. The
							school year is one hundred and sixty days, with an average daily attendance of
							sixty-two pupils. Only one pupil finished the eighth grade in June, 1916. Teachers'
							salaries amount to $1,350.40, and upkeep expenses to $233.99, the per capita cost
							being $19.56. The estimated value of the school buildings is $8,000.00. Over five
							hundred volumes are now counted in the school libraries.
						Scipio is touched by no railroads, but its highways have relieved the early
							remoteness of the population, which was the only essential disadvantage of this
							region. The same merry cavalcade of automobiles noted in Harlan characterizes the
							Ridge road traffic, and the other roads make practical the transportation of
							agricultural products to market.
					
					
						Maumee Township
						Maumee township, the first to be set apart from the original St. Joseph territory,
							was so named, probably, because the Maumee river, flowing broadly through the northern
							half, was then its only very distinguishable feature, aside from its wonderful timber
							lands. Topographically, the township is rather flat, and at that time was decidedly
							swampy—in fact, remained so for very many years—and because of this the
							actual occupation of the district was delayed somewhat beyond that of nearly every
							other township. In 1836 settlement had scarcely commenced. Forest fires destroyed a
							vast area of the magnificent timber in the early '70s, but the land is so splendidly
							productive that it has been richly worth while to drain and improve it.
						Forty to forty-three years ago the land where Woodburn now stands was a vast expanse
							of wild vegetation, beautiful and otherwise, ablaze in springtime with wild flowers so
							gorgeous as to almost tempt the traveler to dare the boggy muck in which they grew,
							but which teemed with snakes of nearly every variety known to the United States. But
							it was not at this point that settlement of the township began. Back in that realm of
							local history which is only tradition, a hunter of the early days, arriving at a
							rapids in the river, made a landing, and there encountered a buffalo bull, which he
							was fortunate enough to slay. From this incident the name "Bull Rapids" fastened
							itself to the locality, the convenient landing afforded by the shallow waters helping
							to spread the story and the title.
						
						In 1833 one Gregory Jackson, espying an opportunity to profit, built a large log
							house at the spot, and kept a wayside tavern for accommodation of the travelers who
							came prospecting for homes or for investments. This Mr. Jackson is scarcely entitled
							to be called a pioneer, for he did little or nothing toward settling Maumee, or
							clearing the land he had taken. Still, something of credit is due him, since his
							tavern entertained many who were genuine settlers, or who had much to do with the
							development of the locality. The immediate effect of his tavern was the collection, at
							a near point on the east side of the river, of several rude cabins, the center of
							which was a low groggery to which flocked the roughest element of all the country
							around, and where lawless incidents multiplied until the name of Bull Rapids became a
							noisome reproach. The tavern keeper removed when his trade fell away, and the advent
							of large land buyers from the settlement at Defiance, Ohio, scattered the ill-favored
							colony. James Shirley became one of the extensive land owners at this point, and in
							1836 came to the scene and platted a town to which he gave the name of "Indiana City."
							The new name did not stick, and the proposed town never developed, but it is doubtful
							if a town of any name could have lived down the reputation of the locality. The
							shallows in the river are now spanned by a bridge, to which the designation "Bull
							Rapids" still clings.
						In the meantime settlement had begun at other points, a Mr. Barnes stopping near the
							state line, while Lloyd Lemart and William Johnson located near the center of the
							township. Late in the autumn of 1836 Ulrich Saylor, Sr., bought land on the tract
							known as Knagg's reserve, and settled there temporarily, but in the following June he
							moved to a tract which lay on the state line, part of it being in Ohio and part in
							Indiana, and whether by accident or by whimsical design built there a house which also
							bestrode the state line. But that he felt himself a citizen of Indiana is proved in
							the creditable history he at once began to make for the township. He planted the first
							orchard (on the Indiana side!), thereby setting a good example which his son and
							son-in-law, Ulrich, Jr., and Solomon Swisher, respectively, followed the same season.
							Solomon Swisher had set apart a plot of land to be used as a burial ground, and from
							the "Stateline house" the first funeral procession filed forth, bearing a son of the
							house, John D. Saylor, who was the first to die in Maumee. In this house also was
							celebrated the first wedding of the township, that of Mathias Saylor to Miss Ann
							Maneary, in 1836. Since it is accounted a Maumee township wedding, we may take it for
							granted that the ceremony took place in the west room, and though we have no
							description of the event we may almost imagine the jests that were cracked across that
							state line upon the occasion. In 1847 Miss Betsy Saylor was wedded to Charles Harding,
							but whether before or after her father's removal to his third home in the township is
							a particular not vouchsafed the annalist. It was in the same year, however, that Mr.
							Saylor, Sr., relocated at a point on the canal, building his house near a lock which
							thereafter was called "Saylor's Lock." Here, in 1853, Mr. Saylor opened the first
							store, putting in the old-fashioned "general" stock, and carrying on a thriving
							business. Here also the first postoffice was opened, known as "Saylor's postoffice,"
							but its receipts were so small that it was  soon
							abandoned. The swampy condition of a large part of Maumee township made it a not very
							desirable location to the small homeseeker, and not all of those who came to the wilds
							of Indiana were gifted with appreciation of the timber wealth in its forests, which
							were unsurpassed. General settlement of the district was somewhat delayed. Even the
							attention of investors had not yet been attracted to a great extent as early as 1836.
							But a list of very good names appears on the records, and settlers were numerous
							enough to secure a favorable response to a petition for the setting apart of the
							township. Ulrich Saylor headed the list of petitioners, and the division was effected
							in March, 1836. George Platter was appointed inspector of elections, and the first
							election was held in April at his home. Lloyd Lemart was chosen first Justice of the
							Peace, and Jabez Phillips first Constable. The principal settlers at this time, in
							addition to those who have been mentioned, were James Johnson, Washington Corpse, J.
							N. Sweet, Charles Harding, Benjamin Johnson, James Shirley, —— Flint,
							—— Crapeau, and John and George Ashley, father and son. The latter pair
							came from Catskill, New York, and planned to build a mill. They cleared a tract of
							land, and began the erection of the building, but the difficulty of constructing the
							necessary dam across the Maumee river loomed large and too discouraging, so they
							abandoned the project midway, the senior Ashley returning to his former home. The
							Shirleys, already a numerous and prominent pioneer family in Ohio, contributed several
							of their number to the peopling of the newer territory of Indiana, where the name has
							continued to multiply with succeeding generations. Enterprise was rife even in the
							earlier days of settlement history, several towns having been constructed before 1840,
							by draughtsmen, which perished with the paper on which they were constructed. "Geneva"
							was one of these, and another was "Bengal," the projectors of which were Joseph
							Sinclair and Thomas Tigar (Was that why he named it Bengal?). Geneva, a plat of forty
							ambitious blocks laid out by Andrew Dykes, clearly asked far too much of the future. A
							plat of a third town, more modest in its demands, was set forth in 1871 by E. D.
							Ashley at a point on the Maumee river, and for a time a postoffice was established
							here (Edwardsburg), but a village never developed.
						Woodburn, at first but a station on the Wabash railroad, was platted in 1865 by
							Joseph K. Edgerton and Joseph Smith. It is the only incorporated town in Maumee
							township. Circumstances adverse to the growth of any town were long militant against
							the development of Woodburn, but in the last twenty-five years it has come gradually
							into its own. The application of capital, private or organized, to the reduction of
							virgin territory from primal nature to a state of cultivation is admittedly less
							poetic in the telling than the hand-to-hand fight of the individual pioneer.
							Nevertheless, the story of such districts as that through which the Wabash railroad
							was cut in Maumee makes very neat prose, though it unquestionably owes its development
							to the far-seeing application of capital, of which the steel avenue of transportation
							was the first instance. The Wabash and Erie canal, so advantageous to the major
							portion of the Maumee valley, did not compare with the railroad in what it afforded
							the southern portion of Mumee township in Indiana. 
							"Railroad" might almost have been spelled "opportunity" in the great timber tracts
							flanking the Wabash for miles on either side. Only capital was bold enough to seize
							the opportunity, however, and to that boldness we must give the honor due. More than
							half of Maumee township was once held in the name of Joseph K. Edgerton. Over eight
							thousand acres of timber, unsurpassed in the United States for variety and condition,
							awaited his disposal in 1866. A woodland railway station, thus far called "Phelps" by
							the company, was the strategic point for attack, and the plan of campaign has been
							already broached in the plat of Woodburn, a name chosen because of its fitness, and
							because it was fresh and unhackneyed, but one other town in the country bearing that
							name, and that situated in a distant state. By consent of the railroad company "Phelps
							Station" was forgotten in the more distinguished title. At this time a famous feature
							of this forest was the wild pigeon roosts, the congregation of these birds being
							estimated around the million mark. When settling for the night, the sky would be
							darkened by the dense flocks, and the noise of their moving wings, mingled with their
							cries, resembled the approach of a cyclone. Mr. C. P. Edgerton, a lad at that date,
							relates seeing the roosting pigeons settling in so great a mass on a single limb as to
							break it, sometimes—if it were a dry branch—to snap it short, the calamity
							causing a tremendous commotion in the frightened flock. One marvels at the complete
							disappearance of birds once so prolific and numerous, but the tale of their ruthless
							slaughter by hunters and trappers for food purposes and for market is ample
							explanation, as it is of the disappearance of deer and other wild life. It used to be
							said of Woodburn station that the trains boarded more slain deer than live passengers
							there.
						Mr. Edgerton, immediately upon the establishment of the town site, erected two very
							large sawmills for the reduction of the timber on his estate, and in addition to this
							built an extensive stave factory, all of which did tremendous execution for two or
							three years, when a disastrous fire destroyed them. They were a total loss. Before it
							was possible to recover from this setback, and rebuild, the late summer of 1871 had
							come, and with it the forest fires which followed the drouth of the season. Mr.
							Edgerton's magnificent wooded estate was a prey to one of these fires, the larger part
							of it being laid waste in a conflagration which raged for weeks. It is small wonder
							that the village of Woodburn languished, and by 1874 had become a wilderness of weeds
							and wildflowers, with the reputation of being a snake farm beside. The land, described
							as swampy, was not naturally swamp, for its slope toward the river was well defined
							and quite sufficient for drainage until the building of the canal and railroad beds,
							with their high embankments, shut off the territory to the south from its natural
							access to the river. The land thus made soft allowed many trees to fall, adding to the
							difficulty, and the culverts of the railroad were insufficient for the escape of the
							water which was thus thrown back to stagnate and impede development. A little disaster
							looks great to a little estate. Here was a great estate and a disaster to match it.
							Years rolled away, but the little Wabash station survived, and the plat of Woodburn
							did not perish with the fire. Not like Phoenix from the ashes was  Woodburn's rise, indeed. That has been a long, slow upward climb. The
							subjugation of the land began, of necessity, with extensive ditching operations, under
							which the district groaned for years. It is, of course, the history of all such public
							works, that the cost is excessive beyond any necessity, and the burden seems more
							grievous because of this. But, ruinously heavy as it seemed, it has reclaimed an
							unexcelled farming district and created wealth in manifold return for the outlay. The
							ditch system by which this was accomplished is a comprehensive one, embracing the
							famous "Edgerton State Line Ditch," dredged along the state
							line, which was the first to be surveyed; and others, tributary to it or separate,
							followed—the "Edgerton," the "Edgerton and Carson," etc.
						About 1890, Edward Edgerton, Mr. Edgerton's oldest son, a retired naval officer, came
							to Woodburn, and undertook the management of the estate, surveying, platting and
							selling land, both in village and farms, a business in which his brother, Clement P.
							Edgerton of Fort Wayne, assisted. The result of this was a new wave of colonization,
							more commercial in its aspect than those pioneer settlements were, and certainly more
							swift in results. A sale aggregating some thousands of acres, including some village
							property, was made in one deal, the purchasing colony being groups of Amish and
							Mennonite farmers from Berne and elsewhere. This was in 1894, and within a short time
							another group from the vicinity of Archibald, Ohio, contracted for eighteen farms in a
							single day. The village of Woodburn, for years a scattered collection of strictly
							utilitarian houses, used chiefly for the accommodation of ditch laborers, began to
							wear a new aspect. Two grain elevators were put up in 1894 and 1895 by the "Woodburn
							Milling and Elevator Company," and the "Woodburn Lumber Company" opened a yard. In but
							little over twenty years since then the isolated railway station has forgotten the
							doleful days of its discouragement in the almost spectacular development of the town.
							Today the little city has a background of fine farms with up-to-date buildings, the
							church edifices of its distinguishing denominations and several manufacturing plants.
							The town itself is well built up with neat and prosperous looking homes, is well
							lighted at night by means of gas lamps, cement sidewalks lead in all directions, and
							the town is crossed in both directions by excellent county roads which are sub-named
							"streets" within the village limits. Four churches flourish in Woodburn, the
							Mennonite, or Amish, which was the first to be built; the Methodist Episcopal, a neat
							frame chapel; the German Lutheran, also frame, with a large parochial school; and the
							"Missionary" church, which was opened with a view to making a church home for all
							inhabitants of Woodburn who belonged outside the denominations previously mentioned.
							This church is built of cement blocks and serves its avowed purpose well. Electric
							light is available for private use in Woodburn, the current coming from
							Hicksville.
						The retail business of the village is quite broad, as befits the stirring activity of
							the community. Drygoods and groceries are dispensed by J. A. Eby and Company, H. H.
							Brenneke and the People's Hardware company, which sells almost every known commodity
							under the term "general merchandise." The Woodburn Hardware company, J.
							Neuenschwander, proprietor, includes carriages and 
							supplies in its stock. Two garages, one of which carries a sales department, are kept
							by Paul Augspurger, and the Goldsmith Brothers. The Fuelling Drugstore also carries
							wall paper, and the E. G. Perry bakery operates a lunch room in connection with its
							business. This, with the restaurant of Lewis Gale, takes the place of the Homestead
							hotel, recently closed. The blacksmiths and general tinners are O. D. Schepelmann, and
							the Kellers; and John Wright keeps a livery, feed and sales stable. Tremp and
							Applegate are grocers; and R. M. Curran, from New Haven, jeweler, optician and
							watchmaker, divides the week with Woodburn. There is a cream depot, a weekly "News,"
							and a moving picture theatre; a volunteer fire department, but no waterworks as
							yet—only wells; and a citizens' band which dispenses music every Saturday
							evening during the warm season, from the band stand near the bank building. The bank
							building is the pride of Woodburn, and surpasses the bank quarters of any other town
							in Allen county outside of Fort Wayne. August Brenneke is president, Austin Augspurger
							vice-president, and John R. Yaggy the cashier and manager. Mr. Yaggy is one of a
							Springfield township family from near Grabill. The Blue Cast Mineral Springs
							Sanitarium is about a mile and a half north of Woodburn,—which is proud to call
							itself a dry town.
						The township high school (commissioned) is located in Woodburn, and in 1916 had an
							enrollment of twenty-nine pupils, with six in the graduating class of June of that
							year. Domestic science and manual training departments are maintained and excellent
							work is done in every branch. The total school enumeration of Maumee township is 467,
							and of these 293 are enrolled in the public schools, while 96 attend parochial
							schools. The seven public school buildings are valued at thirty thousand dollars, and
							eleven teachers are employed at an expense of $3,633.50 for grade schools and
							$2,185.00 for high school, which with upkeep expenses brings the per capita cost of
							education to $16.09 for grade pupils, and $80.75 for high school students. Fourteen
							pupils graduated from the common schools last June. The average attendance was two
							hundred and sixty-four for each of the days taught. The Maumee library is small but
							growing.
						The health of Woodburn is in the charge of two wideawake physicians, Dr. A. G.
							Lueders and Dr. Edward Moser. The postoffice serves three rural routes.
					
					
						Lake Township
						Lake township is situated directly west of Washington, between Aboite on the south
							and Eel River on the north. Its name is derived from the presence, within its borders,
							of the largest lake in the county. This lake, a really beautiful little sheet of
							water, has passed among many by the title "Mud," a misnomer so far as the lake itself
							goes, and probably bestowed on account of the marshy approach. It also went into
							several maps as "Hull's" lake, possibly from the fact that the inlet to it rises near
							the place where the Hulls settled in Eel River township, or from some incident of
							early days. The lake is peculiarly situated, and a wild seclusion is characteristic of
							the locality, notwithstanding an effort made in recent years to  bring it into prominence as a resort. The land containing the feature was
							purchased some twenty years ago by Charles Everett, who came from Hicksville, and who
							contemplated the building of an electric railroad out to the lake and the conversion
							of the tract into a pleasure park. From Everett's hands the property passed to Mr.
							Henry M. Williams, who has parked the woods and improved the locality in many ways,
							hoping to realize the same dream. There is a strange charm about this half hidden body
							of water, clear, still, and said to be deadly cold. The inlet, forever pouring water
							into it, while no outlet exists above ground, adds the erie fascination of mystery.
							The woods of the vicinity of the lake are remarkable for the variety of the trees,
							many kinds being found here which have become extremely rare. The lake has long been
							known as Lake Everett.
						Much of Lake township is comprised in the wide marshy prairie, which has now been
							drained, but seems once to have been the course of some great glacial stream, which in
							subsiding left here and there an island, or a skirting bluff. The Aboite river rises
							in Lake township. Extensive under-draining was necessary to farming nearly everywhere,
							but the soil, a clay, is of very productive quality.
						The story of Lake is a sort of running narrative of comings and goings, interspersing
							a steady stream of quiet and determined settlers, and is not marked with any striking
							events. The vanguard of civilization in this district was composed of James Hinton,
							John Ross, William Grayless, George Slagle, Samuel Caffrey, James Pringle, Jacob
							Pearson and Clement Ryan, all of whom arrived, bringing their families, in 1834.
						James Hinton was from Ohio. He chose a tract on the Goshen road, in the northeastern
							part, and cleared and improved it, selling with the intention of buying a new tract,
							but he died about a month later. John Ross settled in the same neighborhood, enjoying
							a much longer lease of life, however. William Grayless and George Slagle settled in
							section five. Samuel Caffrey chose a place on the Goshen road and was a citizen of
							Lake for twenty-five years. James Pringle settled in section three, but after five
							years moved on to Whitley county. These Goshen road settlers were without doubt the
							"neighbors on the Goshen road" who helped Adam Hull cut the first road in Eel River
							from Heller's Corners east to the township line, an act whereby a township line was
							shown to be no barrier to co-operation. These neighbors were comrades in arms, when
							the arms were woodsmen's axes.
						Jacob Pearson stayed on the site he had chosen in section thirteen, for eleven years,
							when Iowa beckoned him hence. Samuel Caffrey went to Iowa from Lake township, also, at
							the end of a quarter of a century in Lake. John McClure, a native of South Carolina,
							came early in 1835, located in the western part, about one mile south of Hull's lake.
							Mr. McClure cleared his tract and cultivated the farm land thus laid bare for twenty
							years, when Missouri lured him westward. His son-in-law, Samson Pierson, who came on
							from Ohio in 1835, settled near McClure, and during his stay in Lake was a very active
							citizen, enterprising and progressive. He platted a village on the plank road near its
							crossing of the line of sections sixteen and seventeen, at an early date, naming it
							Pierson. It did  not develop, however, and was abandoned
							when the Piersons went west to Iowa. In the spring of 1836 Francis Sweet brought his
							family from Washington county, Tennessee, and "entered" a forty acre tract of woodland
							in this vicinity, May 24th. Mr. Sweet, however, did not become a resident of Lake
							township for eight years, during which he worked as a carpenter in Fort Wayne. When he
							returned to his tract in 1844, he "entered" more than land. He filled every office in
							the township during his career, serving as Justice for fifteen years consecutively.
							Other arrivals of 1836 were two men from Virginia, both with families, John Anderson
							and James W. Watson, who had already reached their prime at the date of their
							emigration. Their quality as citizens was unimpeachable, and their work in Lake
							township left fine farms which strangers afterward tilled, for Mr. Anderson died in
							1855, and James Watson moved to Whitley county. Joshua Goheene came to Lake in 1836,
							alone, to prepare for the coming of his family by making a clearing and building a
							cabin for them to live in. Mr. Goheene was a native of Pennsylvania, and his wife, of
							Maryland. He was a man of great energy, and rose to prominence in the affairs of the
							township. He died in 1874, and Mrs. Goheene in 1878, their son William inheriting the
							farm. Some of the others who came before 1840 were John Savage, who developed a good
							farm but sold out and moved to Missouri; Joseph Taylor, who undertook a clearing in
							1837, and farmed it until 1855, when he, too, took Missouri fever; and William Caster,
							John F. Gerding and Frederick Reed, all of whom were early settlers who sustained
							worthy parts in the upbuilding of the township.
						The first road, the Goshen, had been surveyed through the township in 1830, in
							advance of the settlement, which was greatly facilitated by it. The Yellow River road
							was the second to be undertaken, and it was surveyed in 1836 by R. J. Dawson, along
							the south line of the township. In October, 1836, a county road was surveyed by S. M.
							Black, from Raccoon village to Cracow (or "Kraco"), the town that was never built.
						The house of William Grayless was opened for the religious service held in the
							township in 1834, under the ministration of Rev. Mr. Black, of the Methodist church.
							Meetings were held at this house at intervals for a number of years. William Caster
							set out the first orchard of the settlement in 1836, the trees coming from the nursery
							of "Johnny Appleseed" in Washington township. On the last Saturday in May, 1837, the
							first township election was held, at the house of John McClure, who was election
							inspector by appointment. Mr. McClure's son, Eli, was elected township treasurer and
							clerk, Samuel and James Pringle, justices, and William Caster, constable. The
							following winter, the McClure home was the scene of the first township wedding, when
							Miss Mary Mangan became the bride of John Savage. The first postoffice in Lake was
							established at the house of John Crawford, who lived about one and a half miles north
							of Arcola. It was given the popular name of "Taw-Taw" postoffice, in memory of an old
							Indian chief of that vicinity. Mr. Crawford, who was the postmaster, resigned at the
							end of two years, and Francis Sweet was appointed to succeed him. Mr. Sweet took the
							office home with him, and from then until 1863 he fulfilled  the duties incumbent upon him, acting as mail carrier also after the
							advent of the Pittsburg railroad. When he resigned, the office was removed to Arcola,
							which in 1866 had sprung up on the railroad. In the early days being a postmaster
							meant very little remuneration for the shouldering of a heavy responsibility, which
							often incurred no little self-sacrifice. To the names and memory of all early
							postmasters, therefore, give all honor due.
						The first mill built in Lake was a steam saw mill, which was erected in 1849 by the
							"Plank Road Company," at a point near Samson Pierson's proposed village. This saw
							mill, or the site on which it was built, became the property of A. H. and O. D. Holt,
							who conducted it as a planing mill, but in the meantime, it had been first purchased
							from the company by William Thorpe, in 1850, and the first "general store" of the
							township started there. It was a good store, too, and set an example which was
							followed by J. L. Peabody, who built the second saw mill, located on the Yellow River
							road near the site of the future Arcola. Mr. Peabody's store was of later date,
							however, as it was not opened until 1866, about the same time as the platting of the
							new town.
						The Peabody mill was bought in 1873 by Jacob Coulter and Philip Smith, and continued
							a prosperous career for another ten years. In its day it was the largest manufactory
							of hardwood lumber in the county. It employed many hands, and sent its products to the
							Pennsylvania Railroad Company, for car building, and to the Pacific coast, also
							exporting a fine grade to Scotland. The same firm maintained mills at Williams
							Station, Monmouth, Decatur and Maples. Only the disappearance of the timber from this
							district may account for the discontinuance of lumber milling.
						The new town of Arcola, in these flourishing days of its existence, was soon the
							center of attraction in the township, and, naturally, the center of trade. Arcola
							furnished a very solid type of "general store," and the firms which started with the
							town have maintained a foothold through all the vicissitudes of changing times and
							even of changing hands.
						Edward Rockhill, who will be remembered as a pioneer of Wayne township, left a family
							two members of which came to Lake in 1851 and undertook the clearing of a new farm,
							working at the farm in the growing season and engaging in hunting and trapping for
							game and pelts during the winters. William returned to work his mother's farm until an
							opening at Arcola drew him thither in 1872. He embarked at once in business, with a
							stock of general merchandise, and about the same time was appointed postmaster, an
							office which he filled for fourteen years. The stock of goods was sold, in 1888, to
							John Grosjean, but only in order that Mr. Rockhill might gain opportunity to tear down
							the building and build greater, after which the business was resumed upon a much
							larger scale. Victor Cavalier also kept a general store, which was bought in by Mr.
							Grosjean, who with his brother had begun the manufacture of drain tile in the village
							in 1885. James Baxter kept the 'smithy, and I. W. Herrold and John Blietschau supplied
							the shoe trade. The decade—perhaps more—just mentioned was the high tide
							of Arcola's importance, but it was a tide that has been slow in subsiding, and left no
							particular wrecks in its wake. Like many a  new town it
							has settled down to a steady gait, and is not likely to be taken off the Allen county
							map while anyone now living is able to read one. Yet the Arcola of today is quite
							different in aspect from that of a quarter of a century ago. The population is now
							about two hundred and fifty, and the manufacturing interests of its early days are
							reduced to the "Clay Products Company" and the Arcola Stave Company. It is, however, a
							pleasing village, a good country trade center, and the business conditions are
							decidedly healthy, as the Arcola State Bank gives evidence. The original stores of
							earlier days are now represented by their successors, the "M. F. Bellamy Grocery and
							General Merchandise" and the Diebold and Miller, general merchandise store, which
							derive a good trade; while the White Hardware Company and the Stouder Drug Company
							fill all local needs in those lines. Arcola has its own local telephone exchange, its
							independent postoffice, which serves one rural free delivery route, and there is a
							hotel—the Lawrence. D. D. Lawrence maintains a garage. The professions, which in
							1880 were represented by two resident physicians, Drs. H. C. McDowell and C. V.
							Gorrell, are now at the same status, with Dr. C. R. Baumgartner in regular practice
							and C. M. Glock in veterinary surgery.
						Of religious bodies, the Baptists were the first to organize in Lake township, a
							class being formed in 1835 at the home of Joshua Goheene by the Rev. Mr. Gildersleeve.
							This group of Baptists all went to Eel River to church when the Baptists of that
							township built their first chapel. A large Baptist congregation was afterward
							organized and a church erected near Hadley Station, in the southeast corner of the
							township. The Methodists organized in 1849, with the assistance of the Rev. Mr.
							Palmer, at the house of William Grayless. They built "Lake Chapel" five miles north of
							Arcola, west of Hull's lake, and attended service there until 1871, at which time the
							Methodists of Arcola, who had organized in 1867, built a church in the village which
							drew the Lake township Methodists southward. A "first Sunday school" was inaugurated
							in 1849 in a deserted log cabin on the farm of Azariah Julin, attended by twenty-five
							pupils, taught undenominationally until each church was able to take up that line of
							church work. The Free Will Baptists flourished for a while, but died out. St.
							Patrick's Catholic church is the outgrowth of early mission work by Father Julian
							Benoit, services being held at private houses, then at a little chapel built in 1866
							by Father Madden, and later in the church edifice erected during the years following
							1895, while Father Robert Pratt was pastor. A school had been built in the previous
							decade, which is taught by the sisterhood of the Poor Handmaids. The past year it had
							an enrollment of forty pupils. The old chapel was used for many years as a hall for
							general parish purposes. St. Patrick's is clear of debt, and the mission at Pierceton
							is attended from the Arcola parish.
						Arcola has not been reached by the interurban lines, but the Pennsylvania railroad is
							quite sufficient for its shipping and travel, supplemented by its excellent roadway
							connections. The largest of the seven public school buildings is situated in the
							village, containing two rooms, and employing two teachers. General township annals in
							regard to schools is not obtainable for this chapter, but probably no unique features
							could be presented if they were. The  last school
							enumeration reported a total of three hundred and forty-four of legal age, of which
							number two hundred and twenty-six were enrolled in the public schools for the year
							1915-6. Eight teachers are employed in the whole township, and eight thousand dollars
							is the estimated value of the seven buildings. The school year is one hundred and
							sixty days, with an average attendance of one hundred and seventy-three daily for the
							year in question. Salaries amount to $4,096.00 and upkeep expenses to $731.91,
							bringing the cost of education in Lake township to $21.31 per capita. The libraries,
							small but growing, aggregated, June, 1916, six hundred and sixty volumes.
						The citizens of Lake township have in general been of a steadfast, yet enterprising,
							character, noted more for solid qualities than for those which make romantic reading.
							Doubtless they have made much more history than they have written down. Some few
							incidents of pioneer experience are extant which have more than a trace of interest in
							them to the student, at least, and doubtless to the present-day successors to the
							acres of the township. Thomas and Mary (Dugan) Tracy, both of Irish birth, came early
							enough to the forests of Lake to experience the dread of wolves at night, and to be
							familiar with the sight of an inquiring deer at the cabin window; and it was a common
							thing for them to give night's shelter to the friendly Indians who were not yet
							departed. Their son, William Tracy, born 1837, has been a good citizen after them.
							Mrs. Thomas Tracy lived thirty years or more after the death of her husband, in 1861.
							John and Catherine (Shonchron) Gearin, natives of Ireland, came to Lake in 1837, and
							their son Cornelius was born in the township May, 1843. The elder Gearins went west,
							to Oregon, but Cornelius remained in his native township. He served three years in the
							Civil War, and was engaged in the battles of Gettysburg, the Wilderness,
							Spottsylvania, Sheridan's raid, Petersburg, Winchester, Fisher Hill, Cedar Creek and
							the Five Forks. He was wounded at the latter place, was sent to Thunderville Station,
							then to Petersburg and different hospitals, finally receiving an honorable discharge,
							after which he returned to his paternal acres and engaged in agricultural pursuits, in
							which he has been successful.
						John Jones, born in Wales, the son of Benjamin and Sarah (Cadwallader) Jones, was a
							weaver by trade. He married Mary Humphreys, daughter of Edward and Ann, while in his
							native county, and his son Benjamin—named for the grandfather—was born and
							grew to manhood there. Grandmother Jones, a remarkable old lady whose eyesight till
							the day of her death was keen enough to need no spectacles, lived to the great age of
							ninety-five, only to meet the cruel fate of freezing to death. Benjamin, Jr., came to
							New York, U. S. A., in 1839, and worked at various pursuits in that city for four
							years. In the meantime, his father and family followed him over in 1841, and at
							Tarrytown they tarried until 1843, when they all migrated together to Lake township,
							Allen county, Indiana. Here they embarked in clearing and farming lands. Benjamin
							remained on the farm, his sisters marrying and living in Fort Wayne, where his brother
							John also went to work in the Wabash shops, after serving all through the Civil War.
							Benjamin (not until 1872) married Miss Sarah C. Carroll, and they had one  daughter, Mary A. Mr. Jones served Lake township as
							clerk, supervisor, school director and in similar capacities. Butts, Kronmiller,
							Stirling, Madden, Welsheimer, Rapp and Boaeuf, all arrivals of not later than the
							early '50s, are well-known names in Lake township records. The latter name, a French
							one, is only one among many French names in Lake and Washington townships. The story
							of Thomas Larimore, from Ohio, has interest to warrant its preservation. One of two
							little brothers orphaned by the death of their father under a falling tree, in 1832,
							little Thomas was "bound out" while his mother's hands were full, caring for the baby
							brother. In 1849 the mother and brother went to Noble county, Indiana, and several
							years later came to Lake township, in Allen. Meanwhile young Thomas, left in Ohio, had
							had a hard road to travel. The little "bound" boy's mistress died, and at the age of
							eight years he was thrown on the world to subsist by his own efforts. Somehow he grew
							up and at the age of twenty-one he married Miss Mahala Evans, with whom he came to
							Lake township in 1850, bought a tract of eighty acres and started in to win. By that
							time the eldest of their twelve children had been born, and they had also with them a
							"bound boy" who, fortunately, was not cast adrift at eight years old. Thus equipped,
							but without a penny in their purses nor a cabin on their land, the Larimores faced the
							winter of 1850-1. But the wonders which courage and industry will accomplish may be
							seen in the fact that the close of a life full of work and honors found them the
							possessors of a four-hundred-acre farm in Lake township and a valuable property in
							Fort Wayne.
					
					
						Aboite Township
						Aboite township, through which the River Aboite runs from north to south,
							unquestionably received its name from that stream, the title given the river in the
							earliest French treaties being "a Bouette," meaning "Minnow"
							river, the French term being easily corrupted by Indians, or trappers and traders,
							into "Aboite." Once applied to the river, it came by natural event to be applied to
							the whole basin, and especially to that part embraced in the township limits. It was a
							region of peculiar conditions incident to the circumstance of its embracing a large
							part of the Wabash-Aboite moraine, and also a large part of the Little river basin in
							the southern half, both districts having their interest for geologists, and their
							difficulties for engineers.
						The arrival of a colony numbering about thirty persons, in the early spring of 1833,
							quite suddenly broke the solitude of this region, which had not been disturbed by
							previous settlers. The party comprised the families of Enoch Turner, Richard Andrew,
							William Gouty and Richard Clark, all of whom hailed from Maryland, from which
							circumstance the group was called the "Maryland Settlement."
						Almost simultaneously, if not immediately before, came Jesse Vermilyea and his
							family, not from Maryland, but from Delaware county, New York. Within a few weeks was
							born the first white child of the settlement, Jesse Vermilyea, Jr., who died in the
							fall of the same year. Mr. Vermilyea became a prominent figure in the  new settlement immediately upon his arrival. He opened no
							store, but kept a small stock of general merchandise with which he accommodated his
							neighboring settlers and traded with the Indians.
						There were no more additions to the colony until the spring of 1834, when Lott S.
							Bayless and Benjamin Rogers settled there with their families. William Hamilton, from
							New York, purchased land in the spring of 1835, and brought his family, whom he had
							left in Cleveland, to live in the new land in the succeeding fall. George Bullard
							reached the district in November, 1835, and another early settler was Rayburn Beeson.
							Written records of these earliest days in Aboite are scant and incomplete, but
							remembering the stern necessity of the times, when the settlers were so busy making
							history that they had no time to write it down, we are the more impressed with the
							achievements that are recorded. First, enough timber had to be felled to make room for
							the pioneer roof trees, before even the roof trees could be raised to house the
							colony. And after that, other "first things" followed each other thick and fast. But
							it is results that display character most eloquently, and the quality of the Maryland
							settlers, and of those who were drawn to join them, is attested in what they
							accomplished, and the standing in the county which they attained. Venturing into a
							region where no white man's home had ever been before, these families carried with
							them into its forest fastnesses a standard of life in keeping with the social element
							from which they came.
						Enoch Turner's first gift to the community was a lot for a cemetery, the first burial
							made there being that of a little Irish lad whose pathetic story draws the tribute of
							a passing sigh. The son of an inebriate father who had drifted into the settlement,
							and whose fragile wife had died from neglect, Mr. Vermilyea befriended him, but the
							help came too late. Richard Andrew's house, doubtless a cabin of logs, but more or
							less capacious, was early opened for the holding of religious services, a custom which
							was continued for years, until the first schoolhouse was built. Rev. James Holman and
							Rev. Stephen R. Ball, a "circuit rider," conducted these services. Rev. Mr. Holman
							also performed the first wedding ceremony, when Miss Mary Andrew was married to Mr.
							Martin Kelly, Mrs. Goudy's brother, in 1834. George Bullard, whose first home was a
							rude log house of fair dimensions, built for temporary residence, began the erection
							of a new home in the spring of 1836. The Bullards had arrived very late in the year,
							via the overland route, in wagons, while their household goods came by way of
							Perrysburg, in pirogues. The family made the best of their first winter, and in the
							spring the father made haste to plant his corn, the first planted in the township. The
							new house went forward with some interruptions caused by illness, and by fall the
							family were moved into it. It was of hewn logs, and double in construction, of quite
							pretentious proportions, plastered throughout within, and, later, weather-boarded. It
							was the first of its kind to be built in the settlement, and remained the family
							residence for years. The corn field is said to have yielded a good harvest. That
							winter the Bullards gave the use of the original rough log cabin for the first term of
							school taught in Aboite township. They also provided a stove, and boarded the teacher,
							Miss Lavina Pierce, the daughter of Asa Pierce. Her salary  was made up by subscription. This young pioneer lady became, several years
							later, the wife of Samuel Cartwright, and both were always prominent in the affairs of
							pioneer days, attaining an honored old age.
						In 1836 the settlement petitioned to have the township set apart, and it was
							commissioned in May of that year. The election took place at once, although there were
							barely enough voters in the settlement to form the board and fill the offices.
							However, there seems to have been no useless timber in the Aboite colony, so all went
							well. The election was held at Mr. Andrew's house, and Mr. Andrew and Samuel Dunlap
							were chosen justices.
						The soil of Aboite afforded a substratum of clay under its rich black loam, which was
							very good for brickmaking, and upon his own farm Mr. Vermilyea, in 1839, made bricks
							and built with them a new home, the first brick house in the settlement. In this house
							was installed the first postoffice, Mr. Vermilyea being appointed postmaster, a
							position which he held for a long term of years. The Vermilyea home was by far the
							most luxurious in the township—a comparative mansion—and the hospitality
							of its inmates was far-famed. Many a merry party from Fort Wayne enjoyed gala days
							there, and it was a center of social life in the settlement, which drew many congenial
							spirits thither. The youngest daughter of the house became the wife of Stephen B.
							Bond, late president of the Old National Bank, of Fort Wayne, where during all her
							after life she was a universally beloved woman famed for her deeds of kindness and
							love. Mr. Vermilyea died during the cholera epidemic, his wife having preceded him to
							the Silent Land. The Vermilyea homestead stood on the Huntington road, about
							three-quarters of a mile north of the site of the village of Aboite. It is now owned
							by D. W. Simmers.
						Up to 1842 Aboite had no church, meetings still being held at the Andrews', or other
							homes. That year Enoch Turner donated land for the site of a building which should be
							used for the double purpose of a church and school. A condition was attached to the
							gift, for surety of the plan's fulfilment, that the land should revert to him if the
							agreement were not carried out as specified. The early conditions were so difficult,
							however, that the regular services called for could not always be held. But they did
							the best that circumstances allowed, and Mr. Turner accepted the will for the deed. He
							never reclaimed the land. This building was called "Friendship Church," the same name
							being applied to the school, and it stood on Mr. Turner's land close by the plot he
							had given for a burial ground, and adjoining the farm of William Gouty. The cemetery
							is still in use. The story of churches in Aboite differs somewhat from that in most of
							the other townships. The population was so very scattered, and of so many diverse
							denominations, that in spite of genuine fraternal atmosphere, it was long before any
							permanent organization was effected. The Bayless schoolhouse witnessed another group
							of adherents of the Methodist and kindred denominations, who continued to gather as
							often as a preacher could be had, but never built a church. The Bayless school was
							situated on the Liberty Mills road toward the west township line. Hiram Porter, now
							living at an advanced age in St. Joseph township, was once a  teacher at this old schoolhouse. The third attempt to form a permanent
							church in Aboite succeeded. It was held this time at the old "Red, White and Blue"
							school, situated on Liberty Mills road, just one mile south of the center of the
							township. The Methodists congregated here strong enough to form a class, and
							subsequently purchased the site and erected their church there. It is still a
							flourishing church, the only one existing in Aboite. A fourth church, called "Union
							Church," was built on Covington road, long after Friendship church had been abandoned,
							but it, too, became discouraged for want of followers, and the congregation, as many
							as there were, went elsewhere. Some, indeed, left the colony, because at that time
							there was no other church accessible, and they wished not to rear their families in a
							churchless community. The old Bullard schoolhouse, in the east part, was also used as
							a place of meeting for a long time. It was built before the county system of roads was
							in effect, and when the roads were relocated, the old avenues were closed in and the
							buildings were then too remote for use. The bad roads of the early days of Aboite were
							largely responsible for the difficulty in church building. Owing to the marshy lands,
							roads were difficult to construct, and each settler cut his roads to suit his own
							convenience. The canal, as soon as completed, was a means of communication with the
							headquarters of commerce, and, later, the building of the Wabash railroad replaced the
							canal for transportation purposes, but, aside from these, Huntington road was the only
							thoroughfare, and not much can be said of that as a highway previous to the movement
							for better roads begun in 1843, when Jesse Vermilyea and Captain Mahon were appointed
							a committee to secure subscriptions for its improvement. For these reasons, the units
							of population were kept isolated, and not only no churches, but no villages sprang up
							within the borders of Aboite. There have been years together in the history of Aboite
							that there was not even a store in it. After the passing of the old trading days the
							Vermilyea store was no longer kept. Some years previous to the Civil War Mr. Barney
							opened a store at the crossing of the Illinois road which runs north from the old
							reservation as far as the Yellow River road. The name of the road, which is now a
							traveled one, has been confused by the fact that it had once been surveyed as the
							"Kraco" road, the model town that never was built being its supposed terminal. The
							crossing was known, and still is known, from the store (which was the principal one
							Aboite township ever had) as "Barney's Corners," a name that still clings. The
							schoolhouse near the corners bore the same name. The store was quite extensive for its
							day, and was well patronized by the settlers. A granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Marlin
							Vaughn remembers hearing her grandmother Vaughn tell of going through the woods to
							Barney's Corners, trembling lest the wolves she could hear howling should attack her
							on the way. Mr. Barney's only son was killed in the war, and about 1867 the store was
							abandoned forever.
						George Bullard, in 1837, planted the first orchard in Aboite, and the same summer
							reaped his first crop of wheat. His entire lands, amounting to eleven hundred acres,
							were purchased from the government at from $1.25 to $2.50 per acre, the canal lands
							being held at double the price of the other. He was several times trustee  of the township, and for twenty-six years was justice,
							being known as "Judge" Bullard. A man of extreme personal dignity and very positive
							convictions and opinions, he was a valuable and thoroughly esteemed citizen always.
							Mrs. Bullard, a match for her husband, who lived to over ninety, was, up to the time
							of her death, which occurred at the age of eighty-three, able to read without glasses
							"by candle light," and could thread a needle to the last.
						Of Benjamin Rogers and Lott S. Bayless, who came at about the same time, in 1834, Mr.
							Rogers, a thorough-going settler of fine character, passed the whole of his subsequent
							life in Aboite. Mr. Bayless, of an active, stirring, positive temperament, first
							cleared his farm and settled it, and then turned his attention to mill building. In
							1846 he built the first sawmill in the township. It was located on Aboite river, from
							which it derived its power. After making a success of the mill Mr. Bayless, who seemed
							to have acquired the habit of pioneering, went west and located in Dakota, then a
							territory. Comparatively early as he left the township, Mr. Bayless's influence in the
							community scarcely failed for his absence. The settlers of the first two decades owe
							more, it is said, to Lott S. Bayless than to any other one man. There were times in
							those difficult early days when many of them would have suffered for the necessities
							of life if it had not been for his benevolence. His influence outside the township or
							in the county at large is a part of the broader history of Fort Wayne, where he was as
							well known as in his home township. William Hamilton, who came in 1835, was the second
							mill-builder of Aboite, the Hamilton mill dating five years later than the Bayless.
							Hamilton road is named after him, and ran past his farm. He was content to round out a
							full life career in the township of his choice, where he amassed wealth and held an
							honorable position. Of settlers who came a little later, but still early enough to
							bear a share in the development of Aboite from a wilderness to a highly civilized
							corporate community, James S. Bird (1848), John Sprankel (1849), John Harper (1848),
							Thomas Covington, Alfred Bates, John N. Corey, Austin M. Darroch are all due to be
							mentioned. James S. Bird, father of Ochmig, of Aboite, was born a farmer's son, but,
							like many another farmer's son, he took a little journey in the world before settling
							down to the plow. It was the early railroad that attracted him, and he worked on the
							construction of the first railroad bed laid in the country; and after he had once more
							become a farmer he was proud to tell that he had "run on the first railroad train in
							the United States." There is a touch of romance in the experience which brought Mr.
							Sprankel to Indiana also. He was forced to seek a new fortune after being thrown out
							of employment by a peculiar accident, in a rolling mill run by water power drawn from
							the Juniata river. A spring freshet caused the waters of the blue Juniata to sweep
							over its banks in a flood which reached the mill furnaces and burst them. The young
							single men were discharged, and young Sprankel came west and became a farmer in
							Aboite. Mr. Harper came from Pennsylvania, and his wife, a Miss Byall, was of a
							Maryland family. He not only cleared a fine farm, but reared a fine family.
						Mr. Bates allied himself to the Maryland group by marrying Miss Ann Turner, daughter
							of that good pioneer, Enoch Turner.  Austin Darroch, who
							married Miss Mary, daughter of William Hamilton, had the distinction of belonging to
							one of the very oldest pioneer families of Indiana, both his father and his mother
							having been born in Indiana, of Indiana pioneer parents. Mr. Darroch was a soldier in
							the great American conflict for three years, participating in seven battles.
						Richard Clark, of the Maryland colony, was a brother-in-law of Enoch Turner, whose
							farm the Clark homestead adjourned. Mr. Clark died in Aboite township, on the
							homestead, in 1850, and his wife, Nancy Turner Clark, in 1866. One of Richard Clark's
							sons removed to Fort Wayne where he became the founder of the Clark and Rhinesmith
							Lumber Company. A daughter of this Mr. Clark, Mrs. Florence Clark Binford, born in
							Fort Wayne in 1854, now lives in Greenfield, Indiana. Another son, Enoch Clark,
							remained on the homestead farm in Aboite, and is believed to have achieved the longest
							residence in the township of any member of the Maryland colony. His death occurred
							about 1912, and until 1903 or 1904, he resided on the original farm.
						Of a still later group, the Kelseys, families of numerous sons who settled in
							Lafayette and Aboite townships in the early '50s, the Marlin Vaughns, from Vermont
							about 1852, Philetus Smith, perhaps a little earlier, the Rhodes family and others
							have been prominent in the township. The Kelsey brothers' sawmill on the Covington
							road was built about 1871, and operated a long time. A gristmill was built by Isaac
							Kelsey in 1878 in the same neighborhood; and a brick building was erected and a
							general store was kept by Mr. Kelsey for several years. The railroads at the north
							were both built just too far to the north to benefit Aboite township industries to any
							great degree, and have not been followed by village platting as in other townships.
							The Pennsylvania road ran, as many remember, through one of the peculiar "sinks" which
							threatened to swallow it out of sight for a long time, but was finally mastered by the
							engineers. Districts of that sort are not good shipping points, however. The Nickel
							Plate road ran so far north of the mills which might have benefited by the railroad
							that they were abandoned. Dunfee, which is just over the county line, has received
							nearly all the advantage from these sources.
						Aboite township's present good roads go far to making up for what other traffic
							routes have failed to give it. The splendid gravel road system so well known in Allen
							county received, it may fairly be said, its first impetus from the meeting called by
							Charles Wells for the purpose of crystallizing public opinion for the betterment of
							roads. The meeting was held in the old "Red, White and Blue" schoolhouse. A system of
							roads was mapped out for graveling and the work was begun at heavy individual expense
							at first, but growing more moderate as experience taught wiser methods. The
							assessments were made on property owners on both sides of the road for a distance of
							one and a half miles. Liberty Mills road was the first to be graveled, the Illinois
							road following, and then the others. So it is really to Aboite citizens that Allen
							county owes the initial movement for its fine roads.
						Approached by the Liberty Mills road, which turns due west from Upper Huntington
							road, is a locality which is surpassed in  wild romantic
							beauty only by the gorges of the Cedar creek region in Perry township. The road, as it
							reaches the Aboite river valley, dips from the straight line of the prairie into the
							sinuous windings of picturesque "Devil's Hollow," and leads through a landscape which
							abounds in unique topographical features charming to the eye, and of deep interest to
							the scientist. A part of the beauty of the vicinity has been destroyed in the
							interests of agriculture, seven acres of lovely wooded river banks being denuded a few
							years ago for cultivation.
						Aboite township was one of three which were directly affected by the Little river
							problem. Since no other was more largely dependent, in the southern part, upon the
							solution of that problem, it may be not inappropriate to insert here a brief
							exposition of the enterprise of the Little River ditch, by which the fertile expanse
							of the Little river basin was drained and opened to cultivation. The sunken basin
							through which the Little river meandered for twelve miles or more extended through
							parts of Wayne, Aboite and Lafayette townships, with an average breadth of three
							miles. This region had been a miasmatic swamp since the memory of any man living
							thirty years ago. It was credited, on good grounds, with breeding malaria for all
							northeastern Indiana. Cognizant of its agricultural wealth, attempts had been made to
							drain it. Needless to say, the efforts of individuals were inadequate to so immense an
							undertaking. A drainage law was passed in 1883, and under its provisions a petition
							was filed to open necessary proceedings. The commissioners reported findings of
							eighteen thousand acres absolutely worthless, being covered with water; seventeen
							thousand more fit for culture only in the dryest seasons; and fifty thousand acres
							which the proposed drainage would benefit. Forty miles of ditches were recommended.
							Fearing that the stupendous cost would exceed the benefit, a strong protest was made.
							But on the principle of the greatest good to the greatest number, the work was
							ordered; and though the burden it imposed on some was crushing, and many smaller
							farmers did indeed lose their homes because of mortgages they could not lift, the work
							went on. The contract was let to the "Little River Ditching Company," with the late
							William H. Goshorn chief engineer. Edward Ely, of the commission, was appointed
							superintendent. This was in July, 1886. In July, 1889, the work was practically
							completed in the blasting through of the limestone ledge which formed the last
							barrier. The immense swamp, through which, in prolonged wet seasons, the Wabash trains
							were wont to crawl nearly axle deep in water, and passage by other means unless by
							boat was impossible, is now covered by some of the most famous farms of the middle
							west. Minor losses are all but forgotten in the larger good.
						Aboite, whose early settlers were a strong factor for the institution of free
							education, in the days when that subject was being threshed out, has, on account of
							the circumstances which have held it back in other ways, still no high school; but it
							sends to adjacent townships a quite large number of high school students. Twenty
							students were enrolled in outside high schools during the year 1915-1916, and seven of
							the number graduated in June, 1916. The enumeration that year was 339, and the
							enrollment was 243, there being  no parochial schools in
							Aboite to draw from the public schools. Eight teachers are employed, and one hundred
							and sixty days taught, with an average daily attendance of two hundred and nineteen.
							Six pupils finished the eighth grade in June, 1916. The school libraries aggregate two
							thousand and sixty-six volumes. Per capita cost of education in Aboite is $19.14.
						Aboite, or a part of it, was reached by the third rural free mail delivery route
							established from the Fort Wayne postoffice, September, 1900. The first electric
							interurban car that left Fort Wayne for Huntington traversed the Huntington line
							through the township. Since then, September 28th, 1901, even the casual traveler by
							rail cannot fail to note the rapid advance made in the aspect of the whole district
							along the route. The future beckons Aboite, while the past does it honor.
						Sparse as was the settlement of Aboite township at the beginning of the Civil War,
							perhaps no one of the twenty townships of Allen gave as high a percentage of its
							population to the service of the nation. This does not appear in the pioneer sketches,
							as the volunteers were all from the younger generation; but of the number of Aboite's
							brave lads who went into that conflict only a few more than half came back. The
							memorial record of the Grand Army of the Republic in Allen county bears their
							names.
						The "last leaf" among the daughters of pioneer families who were born before coming
							to Aboite township was Mrs. Caroline Fellowes-Smith, who died only a few years ago.
							The oldest living survivors among the settlers' sons are William A. Hamilton, who now
							lives in Wayne township, and Asa Turner, whose home is on West DeWald street, Fort
							Wayne.
					
					
						Pleasant Township
						A well-named township is Pleasant, its slightly undulating surface and rich soil
							inviting the agriculturally minded with most alluring glances. It is one of the
							southern border townships of the county, lying directly south of Wayne, from which the
							Bluffton road passes southward through the center line. Its northeast and northwest
							corners formerly were irregular, the St. Mary's river cutting off the first, while the
							latter was augmented by a triangle seemingly purloined from Aboite. Later adjustment
							of territory has made it a symmetrical square. A topographical peculiarity to be noted
							in this township is the rise of certain streams, some of which flow toward the basin
							of the St. Mary's and find an outlet to the sea by way of the Gulf of St. Lawrence,
							while others, Little river and Lost creek, drain into the Wabash river and reach the
							Gulf of Mexico via the waters of the Mississippi. "Lost" creek is not lost, but has
							been caught and confined to the strait-jacket of the ditch system by which these
							fertile acres were drained of the surplus water which used to conceal them for a great
							part of the year.
						The Bluffton road, in older times known as Godfrey Trace, was the second road to be
							surveyed through this district, an older route being the Indianapolis road, leading to
							the southwest. The Winchester road also leads through Pleasant township, on the
							eastern side. Parallel to the Bluffton road, but half a mile to the west,  runs the Lake Erie and Western railroad line to Muncie
							and Cincinnati. Near the southern limit of the township the railroad passes through
							the compact little town of Sheldon, which it helped to build by providing means of
							shipping the carriages once manufactured there. As if this were not enough, the
							interurban electric line to Bluffton and beyond in 1906 added one more traffic
							convenience to the township, building its tracks a rod or two east of the railroad
							right of way. Roads have been good through Pleasant territory from earliest settlement
							days, a fact which does not explain the quietude which has characterized its general
							development.
						Settlement of Pleasant township may be said to have begun in 1832, with the advent of
							a Mr. Cooper, who settled with his family in the vicinity of "Green Camp" on the
							Bluffton road. Green Camp was a favorite spring resort of the Indians, and of
							traveling emigrants later, probably on account of the cool spring which bubbled near
							by, providing drinking water. The first to follow the Cooper family into the fresh
							fields—or forests—were the Horney Robinson family, from Wayne township.
							Horney Robinson is the most picturesque character among the early citizens of
							Pleasant, as he perhaps had been in Wayne while he lived there. He came with his
							father, Thomas Robinson, and family, from Ohio in 1826. Thomas Robinson died very
							shortly after his arrival, and the family, of which Horney was the leading member, was
							about to return to Ohio, when neighbors persuaded them to buy land and settle in
							Wayne. Homrney took up a tract near the south township line, cleared and improved it,
							and then sold it, prospecting for a year in Aboite before choosing in 1834 his
							permanent location in Pleasant township. The new home was situated in the northwestern
							part, against the south line of Wayne. The property of the George Woods family is all
							concentrated along the south township line, in sections thirty-one and thirty-two.
							James Woods, a son, still lives, one of the oldest men in the township. While in
							Wayne, Horney married, in 1829, Miss Catherine, daughter of George Freshour, another
							Allen county pioneer. Both the Robinsons and the Freshours were ardent Methodists, and
							Horney Robinson was a powerful support to the struggling outposts of that denomination
							in the new settlement. He sheltered all the itinerant Methodist preachers of those
							days and his hospitality was boundless. At his home in Pleasant was held the first
							religious service in the township history, the Rev. Stephen R. Ball leading it. The
							first white child born in Pleasant was his son, Warren, November, 1834, educated at
							the Methodist college in Fort Wayne and afterward a teacher in his own township.
							Warren Robinson eventually became a farmer, and died about 1914, at the age of eighty.
							The first death in Pleasant was that of Mrs. David Bay, a sister of Horney Robinson,
							occurring in 1841. Mr. Robinson built the first sawmill in Pleasant township, on the
							banks of Lost creek, drawing the power therefrom. This mill was an important and
							eminently successful undertaking, disposing of the timber produced from the forests
							and so situated that the lumber found ready market not only in Fort Wayne, but as far
							in the opposite direction as the Salamonie river in Huntington county. Thirteen
							children were born to the Robinsons, only five of whom outlived the parents. Mrs.
							Robinson died in 1864, and her husband in 1887. Pleasant  township may boast no finer all-around pioneer citizen than Homrney Robinson,
							active in every phase of settlers' life, from felling timber, farming and milling, to
							hunting and trapping, which none could do better than he.
						The summer of 1834 brought many more settlers than the Robinsons before the leaves
							fell. Edward Kennark, born in Ireland, and Thomas Bradbury were two of these. The
							Bradbury and Kennark hewn-log houses were the first of the kind in the neighborhood,
							but their advantage over the round log style of architecture was so apparent that
							other settlers hastened to imitate. Kennark's land was near the center line of the
							township. William Watson, who came later in the year 1834, chose a site near that of
							Horney Robinson, who subsequently purchased a portion of it from him. Mr. Watson
							cleared only ten acres and then decided to settle north of Fort Wayne, in Washington.
							Another settler of 1834 was John Whetton, who spent the remainder of his life there.
							Little is told of his first years in the township, until 1843. James and Margaret
							(Ramsey) Cunnison, with their infant daughter Isabelle, born on shipboard on the way
							to America from Dundee, Scotland, reached Fort Wayne in 1833. They settled in Wayne,
							where Isabelle died at the age of four, and where two boys were born, who were
							orphaned by the death of Mr. Cunnison in 1843. After Robert Cunnison's death Mrs.
							Cunnison married John Whetton and brought her two little boys to Pleasant township to
							grow up. Robert, the eldest, died in 1880, the victim of an accident, leaving a wife
							and six young children. James Cunnison inherited the Whetton homestead farm, on which
							he is still living. In 1866, he married Miss Mary, daughter of William Dalman. He has
							been a successful man, and is a large property owner, both in Pleasant and in Fort
							Wayne. Mr. Whetton died in 1861. He was one of the fourteen voters who organized the
							township.
						Slow at the first, settlement in Pleasant began to come rapidly towards the close of
							the thirties. In the early days, the land seems to have been the sport of speculators,
							who bought tracts with no intention of settling, held them for a term of years,
							selling out at a profit. This process may account for the lack of that enthusiasm here
							which was so conspicuous in the settlement of other townships. Nevertheless the inrush
							of settlers was extraordinary for a term, as the reputation of the district spread.
							Among the early arrivals were George Woods, Nicholas Harber, Jacob Smith, Andrew and
							John Orrin, Ethelbert Sutton, Alexander Stonebrook, Cornelius Ferrell, Henry Castile,
							Asa and Noah Linscott, Henry and George Mercer, William Henry, Nicholas Rice, Thomas
							Swank, Zaccheus Clark, Henry Hall, Carroll Taylor, Jacob Kimmel, and four Parkers,
							Nathan, Washington, Wellington and Thomas. Asa Miller and his four sons, Christian,
							Joseph, John and Andrew, from Alsace, settled in 1841—the first to take up land
							on the old Indian reservation in the northeastern part of the township. A majority of
							these were previous arrivals to 1842, but all could not have been voters, who had
							settled at the time the township organization was effected. Thomas Greer, who brought
							his family to Pleasant in 1842, was one of the group of voters, the others being,
							beside John Whetton, Abraham Lutz, at whose house the election was held, David Hill,
								 Samuel Fogwell, Jacob Kinwell, John Nicodemus, Thomas
							Bradbury, Edward Kennark, Mr. Cooper, Enos Mooney, Benjamin Swett, Hugh O'Hara, and
							Horney Robinson. George Woods, who came about 1838, nor Jacob Smith, who is believed
							to have come with him, both bringing families, do not appear in the list. They may not
							have been naturalized. Descendants of both families are well known citizens of
							Pleasant township still, living on the original farms their fathers cleared. Caleb M.
							Preble did not come to Pleasant until 1848, and then by way of the canal, to Fort
							Wayne. His son, Darius Preble, was ten years old at the time. Charles M. Preble, a
							grandson, living in Fort Wayne, is now the only representative of the name. Edward
							Kennark's son John was the second child to be born in Pleasant, the date being 1837.
							In the winter of 1840 occurred the first wedding in the settlement, at the house of
							James Campbell, his daughter Rachel becoming the wife of Dennis Dunn. The ceremony was
							performed by Rev. Jacob Colcazar, of the Methodist church. It was twelve years before
							Pleasant township witnessed another wedding! The year 1852 recorded two such events,
							however, the new homes then started being those of Andrew Aug and Sarah Parker, and
							Edwin Bart and Miss Amanda Orrin. Early burials were made on the farm of Horney
							Robinson, although the plot was not established as a cemetery. The nearest gristmill
							to the settlement was that on the St. Mary's in Wayne, but with good roads, Pleasant
							township settlers found this as convenient as necessary. A well-known settler, the
							date of whose arrival has escaped his descendants' memory, was Noah Somers, who walked
							from his former home, in Virginia, to the eastern edge of Pleasant township in search
							of a new location for his trade as cooper. He settled in section twenty-five, where he
							farmed, cleared, and plied his trade of making sugar barrels, finding the material on
							his own land. Since then, five generations of Somers have risen in Pleasant township,
							the two now resident there being a great grandson, Mr. Harley Somers, of the Sheldon
							Bank, and his five-year-old boy. The name of Dalman is prominent in township history,
							beginning in 1833, when John and Mary Dalman, born in England, settled near the border
							of Wayne township, on Little river. Their home was, at that time, the only one on the
							section line between the reservation and the Wabash river. Edwin Dalman, their eldest
							son, in 1842, married Mary, the daughter of John and Jane McNair, natives of Ireland,
							who settled in Wayne in 1837. Edward's eldest son, John Dalman, served nine years as
							trustee of Pleasant township, and was twice elected Treasurer of Allen county. This is
							a remarkable career for a man who was denied, by circumstance, any education except
							his mother's teaching of the three R's, until he was a grown man. Pleasant was so
							prosperous that it appears strange that school advantages should not have been within
							reach; but the need of ditching was perhaps the chief difficulty, making it impossible
							for pupils to attend, in some parts. For there were schools, just the same in Pleasant
							as elsewhere, the first school being situated near the center of the township, and
							taught by an elderly German, named Koch, and supported by subscription. However, John
							Dalman went to school just as soon as he had the chance, and accomplished much in a
							short time. Mrs. Dalman was Miss Eliza Ake. William Dalman also  served the township as trustee. William and Mary Dafforn, of Warwickshire,
							England, came late, in 1855, but they made such good Americans and Hoosiers that
							Pleasant township may keep their memories green. Be it remembered that they gave their
							son, William, jr., to serve the country of their adoption all through the Civil War,
							after which he settled down to farming in Pleasant, with a Pleasant township girl for
							his wife.
						The Methodist church was naturally the first to organize in this township. A class
							was formed with the assistance of Rev. Stephen R. Ball in 1835. House-to-house
							meetings were held until 1844, when the first log chapel was built, Horney Robinson
							donating the land. This was replaced in 1866 by a frame building given the name of
							Brenton chapel. Subsequent developments in the township dispersed this congregation to
							other church centers, and the chapel was abandoned. The United Brethren organized in
							1854 at the house of John Miller, where they met until 1859, when they built a log
							chapel, which accommodated their sixteen members for a while. In 1868 they erected
							"Liberty Chapel" in section seven, near the Lafayette line. Their church at Five
							Points is a vigorous growing body of well towards one hundred and fifty members.
							"Union Chapel," standing on the east side of the Bluffton road, at the Wayne township
							line, was built by citizens of both townships, for meetings of all denominations not
							otherwise housed. It was dedicated in 1874 by Rev. Frank Robinson, Methodist, of Fort
							Wayne, and Rev. Mr. Berman, of the Christian church in Wells county. The church of St.
							Aloysius, Catholic, situated on the Bluffton road east of the village of Sheldon, was
							organized in 1858 under Father Jacob Mayer, with substantial support from the Miller
							and Harber families. The church was built the following year, and still stands, having
							been kept with excellent care, and improved from time to time. A parochial school was
							opened in 1876, and is attended by an increasing number of pupils. About one-third of
							the population of Pleasant township is connected with St. Aloysius' parish. The German
							Lutherans organized very early, also, their first place of meeting being a tiny log
							chapel, the ruins of which may still be seen. Their present church edifice stands in
							the center of section thirty-five, in the southeast angle of the old "Indian Survey,"
							to which enough land has been added to "square" the lot. This church maintains a
							parochial school attended by from sixty to seventy pupils. An English Lutheran church
							stands at Five Points, which after a falling off in membership, is once more growing.
							The Disciples also built a chapel in the eastern part, in section twenty-four. There
							was, for a time, a following of the Universalist church, but this seems to have
							disappeared.
						The village of Sheldon dates from about 1869, when Andrew J. Taylor, in preparation
							for the manufacture of carriages on his land, laid off a part of it in a town plat,
							along the tracks of the Lake Erie and Western railroad, then lately built, and passing
							under the name of "the Muncie." Arranging with the railroad company for a side track
							convenience, the village was named Sheldon in honor of the railroad superintendent of
							that day. The carriage business developed with almost spectacular rapidity, and the
							village grew apace, though no other industry save those incidental to the  population located there at that time. The carriages were
							sold largely by the auction method, which often brought as many as a thousand buyers
							to the scene. Mr. Taylor's sons all worked at carriage-making during this period, and
							business success brought wealth. The Methodists built a large church there, which
							still flourishes. As time went on, a worse than ordinary type of drinking saloons
							began to multiply in the village, and the place become a rendezvous for the tough
							element of the country round. Mr. Taylor, a kind man by temperament, and an indulgent
							father, did not control his sons in the old-fashioned way, nor did the sons develop
							the business ability of the father. As Mr. Taylor advanced in years, and his health
							broke, mismanagement and irresponsible dealing wrecked the carriage industry, and
							Sheldon was left with little but its saloons in the way of business. There were, it is
							said, ten of these places, and as a natural result, Sheldon was the scene of frequent
							murderous brawls and unsafe to visit at nearly every hour of the day. Yet it had
							business possibilities, situated in so productive and wealthy a township, which had so
							much industry to its credit. The late James Mitchell, the editor of the Fort Wayne
							"Dispatch," was inclined to disbelieve the ill reports sent in by his Sheldon
							correspondent, and went there to investigate on one occasion—which proved
							sufficient. The editor after expressing, aloud, his belief that Sheldon had been
							slandered, was himself assaulted eleven times on the way to the old depot (a distance
							of a furlong), thrown to the ground and battered well. However, the better element
							arose in its might about ten years ago, and threw off the shackles which bound it. A
							"dry" Sheldon took new lease of life, and began to grow of its own initiative, without
							the aid of any spectacular industry. The Sheldon Drain Tile company has an extensive
							plant with three mammoth kilns, the product of which is in constant demand. Two large
							elevators have been built, handling all sorts of produce, grain, hay, posts, etc.,
							also coal, and building materials. One of these is the Sheldon Equity Union, a local
							company, E. A. Smith, manager, while the other is the "Farmers'," owned by the
							Standard Milling company, of Clarksburg, Virginia, the manager being E. H. Smith.
							Neither plant does any milling. The Sheldon State Bank was organized several years
							ago, and has a capital of $25,000.00, while its deposits run to nearly two hundred
							thousand dollars. Charles True, of Marion township, is president, and Harley Somers,
							of Sheldon, is the cashier. The bank has very neat, substantial headquarters. The
							American Express company has an office in the village, at the interurban depot
							building. Sheldon has not yet attained beauty, but that may come. The "Sheldon" hotel
							and a restaurant, kept by John Gray, are minor features. The town is in healthy
							condition, has a good blacksmith shop, operated by Ambrose Freyburger, a
							representative of the old Freyburger family of Pleasant township, a general hardware
							store kept by Mr. McCoy, and two "general" stores kept by John Williams and J. E.
							Miller. There is no garage at Sheldon, though a large barn belonging to Alfred M.
							Worley sometimes shelters the unfortunate. Mr. Worley is a large buyer of stock, but
							maintains no stable at Sheldon. Dr. Shortt has the health of Sheldon's two hundred and
							fifty citizens in charge. A chief summer product of the Sheldon vicinity is
							strawberries,  which are raised here in larger
							quantities than anywhere else in the county, the quality being considered.
						Sheldon postoffice, in charge of Miss Lona Mayer, serves two rural routes, and also
							carries the mail to and from Zanesville for the railroad service. The carriers are
							Alfred M. Woods and Lumley Swain, both representing old Pleasant township families.
							Sheldon has no central telephone exchange, but borrows its lines from Zanesville,
							Ossian, "Nine Mile" and Poe—which is apparently "turn about," for Sheldon is
							said to have done to Poe what Hoagland did to Middletown, though with less ruinous
							effect. "Yoder" is a name which has been thrust upon the town of Sheldon by the
							railroads, though without other authority than themselves, but it applies only to the
							stations. Sheldon is the legal name, and Sheldon it will remain. Ferguson is a station
							farther north, where the Ferguson mill was located. Fairview Methodist church is said
							to be drawing many neighboring Methodists into its congregation, which is in vigorous
							growth at present. The largest of the Pleasant township school buildings is "No. 8,"
							located in Sheldon. It has two rooms and is modern in plan.
						The public school report of the year 1915-16 will give a fair idea of the educational
							affairs of the township, always remembering that the population increases, but that
							the large Catholic and Lutheran parochial schools draw a large proportion of the
							school enumeration thenceward. The parochial enrollment of that year was 107, and that
							of the public schools two hundred and twenty, while the school enumeration was 433.
							Ten teachers are engaged in the nine public schools. The school year is one hundred
							and fifty days, with an average attendance of only ninety-three, or 42 per cent of the
							enrollment, which seems unaccountably low—but this is a problem with which
							Pleasant township has always been vexed. Eleven pupils finished the eighth grade in
							June, 1916. Teachers' salaries amount to $4,717.50, and the upkeep expenses for the
							same time were $1,364.95. The cost per capita is $27.64. The value of the nine
							buildings is estimated at $22,000.00, and the libraries aggregate 1,362 volumes.
						The largest landowner in Pleasant township is Conrad Thiele, now nearly ninety years
							of age, but with faculties remarkably preserved, and gifted with exceptional memory.
							He is still in active rural business. Since the Little River ditch was finished,
							thirty years ago, Pleasant township also has benefited by the drainage, its once
							flooded expanses becoming the finest of farm land. Altogether this rural township is
							possessed of very solid wealth.
					
					
						Lafayette Township
						Lafayette township, latest of all the territory of Allen county to be entered, on
							account of its remoteness and the absence of any traffic route, except the old
							Indianapolis road, which was not available to the earliest comers, is possibly for
							that reason less advanced in some respects than the older township corporations. The
							magnificent timber with which it was once clothed in one unbroken stretch of forest
							has gone the way of all the forests. Perhaps as many of the giant oaks, beeches and
							poplars as were used for any purpose—  including
							fuel—were wasted, in the first few years, in grim desperation; not so much for
							the lack of a market, but for the lack of thoroughfares by which the markets could be
							reached. There was no choice. Trees, once felled, were more of an obstruction than if
							they were standing, and destruction by burning was the only feasible method of
							disposing of the wealth of timber that blocked its own progress. Wood enough to keep a
							whole generation of Allen county families warm went up in blue and fragrant smoke, and
							"black salts" or potash was all it yielded. In those days, old men tell us, nothing
							was considered good enough to burn for fuel but straight body wood of the choicest
							ash, hickory and maple. It is futile to say, now, that a government system could have
							conserved it; the settler's life at that time appears to have resolved itself into an
							inevitable and ceaseless strife with the forests for possession of the fertile acres
							under them. And the settlers, as everybody knows, won out.
						The survey of the Lower Huntington road, in 1842, was an encouragement to
							immigration, but several years elapsed before it was made the passable and popular
							thoroughfare which it has long since become. And notwithstanding the need of sawmills,
							it was ten years before one was built, obviously because of there being no water
							power, and no roads over which to bring machinery into the township. Logging naturally
							became the prominent industry of the township as soon as mills were accessible, but
							the first mill, built near Zanesville, by Henry Link, was far later in date than those
							of older townships, which were already embarked on the high seas of commerce by that
							time. Commerce is, perhaps, still a secondary consideration in Lafayette township,
							production holding as it probably will for many years to come, the first place in this
							fertile soil.
						The first man to settle in Lafayette township was Samuel Fogwell from Ohio, who
							purchased land in section one, where his sons David and William lived on after his
							death. This was a position of much advantage, being within the shortest distance from
							the settled district in Wayne township and from Fort Wayne itself. The timber was
							cleared from the tract and a fine farm brought under cultivation. Frank Morrison and
							David Overly came soon after Mr. Fogwell, settling near him. The years 1843 and 1844
							brought augmentations to the population from Pleasant and Marion townships, in the
							persons of Anthony Krumme and William Jobs. The latter had lived in Marion township
							with his parents for twelve years previous to his advent in Lafayette. He purchased
							land in section seventeen, and made it his home for life. In 1845 James Wilson, Isaac
							Alter, Owen Hatfield, John Akers and Christian and John Foley settled. Walter Kress
							took up a tract in section ten in 1846, and Henry S. Kelsey selected a site in section
							eighteen in 1847. These newcomers and others not listed were all rather near to the
							Lower Huntington road.
						At the first election, held in 1846, at the house of William Jobs, Owen Hatfield was
							elected justice of the peace, Isaac Alter clerk, James E. Wilson treasurer, and James
							Wilson, Samuel Fogwell and John Akers were trustees, while William Jobs became the
							first constable. The first marriage in the settlement had taken place before  this, and 'Squire Isaac Hall, of Springfield, had
							performed the ceremony, which united David Overly to Miss Kimball, of Pleasant
							township. The first death in the township was that of Daniel Overly, in 1847. The
							burial was made on the land which was afterward bought by Henry S. Kelsey, the plot
							being reserved for a cemetery, which is still in use. Isaac A., the son of James E.
							and Sarah Wilson, was the first white child born in the settlement, the date being May
							30, 1846. The first school house was built in 1848, near, if not on the Coverdale
							lands, and passed under the name of the "Coverdale School." Township school number one
							now stands very near the spot. Eli Ward was the first teacher of the school. In the
							fall of 1850 a second school house was built on the southeast corner of section
							eighteen, which was called the "Beech School" because it had been built of beech
							timber exclusively. Miss Eliza Ogden was the first teacher there. Beech school was the
							scene of many famous spelling contests, in ante-bellum days. Township school number
							four now stands on this spot, and a short distance north of it is the Disciple church.
							The organization of the township was an impetus in the development of the settlement,
							to which the building of the sawmill at Zanesville added force. About 1853 or 1854
							another school house, known as the "Hoosier School," was built on Lower Huntington
							road near the angle of the old reservation, in section nine.
						The village of Zanesville, though situated on the county line with formerly the
							larger part of its population owing allegiance to Wells county, has yet much to do
							with the affairs of Lafayette township. The Link sawmill certainly helped. Its
							proprietor soon afterward entered the mercantile field in Zanesville, the first in the
							village, but the mill still buzzed on. Zanesville, which is only reached by
							automobile, wagon, or the Zanesville omnibus, which runs between Fort Wayne and the
							village, has had a slow growth from its start, reaching, in 1880, a total population,
							in both counties, of two hundred and twenty-eight, which had in 1900 increased to
							three hundred, indicating a healthy and natural, but not spectacular
							growth—which, indeed, was not to be expected of a town which has neither steam
							nor electric railroad connections with the world at large. It is, however, in every
							attainable way, a progressive town.
						The gristmill built in 1875 by Conrad Knight, of Lafayette township, in the same
							vicinity with the sawmill, was an important local development. Another steam sawmill
							was built about this time on Eight Mile creek, by Isaac H. Kelsey and Amos Gipe, and
							operated for about two years. These mills are stated to be the only ones to which
							Lafayette township had direct access up to this date. The Smith and Giddings steam
							sawmill at the north edge of the township must, however, have been a rather close
							follower. In the absence of exact dates, this latter mill was built by the firm, who
							came from Ohio, during the late seventies and operated for four or five years. They
							cleared the land which they bought in the reservation, where the mill stood, and also
							purchased the tract known as the McClave lands. After clearing the timber from the
							last, the partnership dissolved and a new firm was formed, composed of Mr. Giddings
							and William Knowlton, and the mill was removed to St. Joseph township, where it did
							execution in the timber tracts still  standing there. It
							next migrated to Jefferson township in Whitley county, where the firm was re-organized
							to include Stephen B. Bond, of Fort Wayne. Albert Knowlton, now of Fort Wayne, was
							with the mill firm while they were located in this county.
						The first church to be built in Lafayette was the Evangelical, in 1850. The first
							church to be organized was the Methodist, a class being formed in 1852 at the Beech
							school, under Rev. Almon Greenman. Meetings were held at this school for three years
							or more, and then transferred to the "Hoosier" school. During the Civil War political
							dissensions nearly destroyed the congregation, but in 1869 a re-organization was
							effected, and "Munson Chapel" was built in 1870, near the "Hoosier" school house,
							where they had held services before the war. The Baptists next organized, in 1854, but
							this church was soon scattered by a rival congregation not far away, but in another
							county. The Disciples organized in 1865, and after several years a church was built
							near the Beech school. Prominent in the earlier history of church building of
							Lafayette township were Walter Kress, H. L. Riley, Wm. J. Bowman, J. Bolinger, A. S.
							Coverdale, M. Sites and G. H. Knowlton, of the Methodists; and Stephen, J. B. and J.
							A. Wilson, Thomas Wilkerson, Isaac B. Dawes and William Jobs, of the Disciples.
						One of the men who have helped to do things in Lafayette is William Branstrator, who
							settled upon lands in the reserve which came to him by inheritance from his father,
							who purchased them in 1839. The year of his settling he married Miss Catherine A.
							Hill, daughter of David and Sarah Fogwell Hill, and they began housekeeping in a new
							log cabin which Mr. Branstrator had just built. Mrs. Branstrator was a member of the
							Lutheran church at Five Points in Pleasant township. William Branstrator was in his
							time the largest landholder in Lafayette. Andrew Bowersock settled in 1851, and George
							Lopshire in 1852, though he had come to Fort Wayne in 1835 with his parents, who built
							a home on South Broadway, from which road the Lopshires helped to clear away the
							brush.
						The village of Aboite, close to the north township line, where the Wabash railroad
							enters Lafayette from the northeast, seems really to belong to Aboite township as
							Little river separates it from the rest of Lafayette; but it stands safely within
							Lafayette territory. Once but a station stop, it has achieved a population of
							seventy-five persons, has a township school, a drain tile manufactory, a Farmers'
							Exchange company and a grocery. The Christian church is located there also, and there
							is telephone service from Roanoke, and traffic communication with Fort Wayne and
							Huntington by means of both steam and electric lines. There are possibilities in
							Aboite.
						Roads, so slow to start in Lafayette, have multiplied until now nearly every section
							line is traversed by a road or lane, and the difficulty of transporting the township's
							produce is reduced to a minimum. Its schools also are in good condition, as the record
							of twenty-four pupils finishing the eighth grade in June, 1916, will indicate. Of the
							school enumeration of that year, two hundred and forty-four enrollments make 67½ per
							cent, which is the reverse of low, because in Zanesville the school is on the Wells
							county side of the line, and Lafayette's children are "transferred," so that they do
							not appear on township reports. The school at Zanesville is an  excellent one, we must admit, although it is not in Allen county. Even the
							students at the Fort Wayne high school respect the prowess of the Zanesville
							basket-ball teams. The average attendance in the nine township schools is eighty-five
							per cent of the enrollment. The per capita expense of education is $20.23. The
							libraries contain about fifteen hundred volumes.
					
					
						Jackson Township
						To make entertaining reading for today out of the early history of Jackson township
							would require the imagination of an "Uncle Remus" to be unreined, as the result of
							which precarious liberty B'rer Bear might appear in the character of heavy villain,
							with B'rer Wolf, B'rer Fox and B'rer Rabbit filling appropriate roles among the dramatis personae. But B'rer Bear and his associates were too
							real in the "sunless retreats" of the marsh forest in northern Jackson to be a subject
							of playful imaginings seventy-five years ago. The "bear's nest," as it was called,
							tempted no one to invade its gloom but hunters, and those well armed. Indeed, we
							recall that the young pioneers who tramped into Allen county from Ohio, leaving their
							own epitaph carved upon a tree by the way, stating that they had been eaten by bears,
							were hand in hand on that tramp; and it occurs to us that the intrepid marksmen of the
							"bear's nest" also may have "hunted in pairs." But it was a region to be shunned, and
							doubtless it was with justice that the early historian called it "a howling
							wilderness."
						The marsh was a part of the same tract as the southern part of Maumee township, with
							the same causes and the same remedy. A large part of it was included in the Joseph K.
							Edgerton lands, purchased by him in spite of its being entered on the government books
							as "condemned swamp lands." Other non-resident capitalists endowed with long vision
							had invested in the cheap lands, also. Rumsey, Hanna, Hayden, Nelson, Fleming and
							others are names to be noted on the township plat of the period. Homeseekers naturally
							avoided the difficult and uninviting district, and it was exclusively in the southern
							part of the territory, where the drainage conditions presented no great problem, and
							in the neighborhood of the Ridge road route, that the few settlers who came before the
							sixties established themselves.
						The population in 1880 was scarcely three hundred persons, and ten years later had
							made but little increase. The first white settler was George Hollinger, who came in
							1838, and boldly built his cabin near the center of the township, where he worked with
							energy at his clearing, and is also said to have been "fond of the sport" of hunting.
							This may not be questioned, but if the statement leaves in the mind of the reader an
							impression that the hunters of pioneer days followed hunting as mere sport, the notion
							should be corrected. The isolation of early pioneer families was such that their food
							supplies frequently gave out, or would have given out if the husband's rifle had not
							procured this flesh food from the forests. There are many settlers' sons yet living
							who remember all too clearly that they were often without grain or vegetable food for
							two or three weeks at a time, and would have faced bitter hunger if it had not  been for the father's rifle, which was merely a part of
							every settler's stock in trade. The present annalist heard, many years ago, a story of
							an old pioneer who, after spending the day and night previous in a fairly successful
							hunt for small food game, emerged at daybreak from the forest in the district under
							consideration, into a small clearing, where the smoke from a tiny cabin aroused
							pleasant anticipations of breakfast. A gaunt woman and several gaunt children met him
							at the door. In response to his question, the woman turned silently and pointed to a
							single pan in which the "breakfast" was being cooked. The hunter approached and bent
							over the simmering mess. It was a handful of the first spring grass, frying in a
							remnant of fat. Father and rifle were absent, and the family were starving. Not only
							was hunting the solution of the food problem, but the pelts of the animals killed came
							much nearer being currency than much of the paper money in circulation at that date,
							and was the greater part of all the currency the settlers had for some time. George
							Hollinger, therefore, was a real settler, and no care-free sportsman.
						David, John and Samuel Neff, from Dayton, Ohio, came to Jackson township not long
							after Hiollinger, and purchased large tracts of timber land in the southern part.
							Their purpose was to clear the land, after deadening the timber, and then to sell out
							at an advance. The enterprise was candid and respectable, but the brothers were unable
							to carry out the whole plan, and from some cause, perhaps the cholera scourge, all
							three men died, while the clearing waited. Their lands in Jackson township were put
							into the hands of Alanson Whitney, of Jefferson township, for sale. Transactions of
							this sort are, of course, responsible for the tardy development of the southern part
							of Jackson, which otherwise had every advantage possessed by Monroe. The purchase of a
							"part of the Neff lands" is an incident recorded in many pioneer biographies. Jacob
							and Robert Mooney settled in Jackson in 1840 and cleared farms on Flat Rock creek, the
							little drainage stream that meandered where it pleased, from Madison through Monroe
							and Jackson townships. It is not recognizable on the maps of today. The two farms were
							near the center of the township. Robert afterward sold out and took a fresh start in
							Jefferson. John Cline, Joshua Dickinson and Douglas Whitaker came in 1848 and bought
							lands. The latter two men were active as long as they remained in the township, but
							Mr. Cline was the only one of the trio who became a permanent resident. A part of the
							Neff lands was purchased in 1850 by a Mr. Meads, who settled on it, and in 1859 Peter
							Boody became a permanent settler. These were nearly all of the voters who had settled
							in Jackson up to the opening of the sixties. Numerous French emigrants had taken land,
							however, and among them are names which have become very familiar in Allen
							county,—as Florant Voirol, Francis Parnin, Constant Pernot, Chaussee, Lomont,
							Girard, and others. Monroe township names, J. D. Stephenson, Jasper Jones, and others,
							began to appear, also, near that township line, while Clement Evard, a native of
							Switzerland, crossed the line from Milan into Jackson.
						The township was not set apart until June, 1851, and the first election took place at
							the home of P. Mooney, who was appointed inspector. Douglas Whitaker was elected
							justice of the peace. The Sugar Ridge or Van Wert road, which had been surveyed some
								 time previously, was not opened through Jackson until
							several years after the first settlements were made. The second road to be opened was
							that leading to Paulding, Ohio, surveyed by S. M. Black, assisted by Alanson Whitney
							and others. Jackson had no schools until after the passage of the free school law. The
							first school house, erected in 1854, was built of logs and stood in section
							thirty-two.
						Timothy Baldwin came to Jackson township in 1861 and settled permanently. He was
							married, in 1862, to Miss Phoebe E. Ball, who was the first white child born in
							Jackson township. Mr. Baldwin served during the entire course of the Civil War. John
							McConnell and John Taylor, both old residents of Jackson, also served the country
							throughout that conflict. John Cline served three years in the Twenty-third Indiana
							Battery. Of the French settlers who came, Constant Pernot served the township as
							assessor for more than a quarter of a century.
						The coming of the railroads has done more than anything else toward the development
							of Jackson township's resources. In the north, where the Nickel Plate route cuts
							through the middle of the erstwhile Bear's Nest, the village of Edgerton sprang into
							existence May, 1889. It doesn't matter whether there are any picturesque features in
							its landscape or history, Edgerton, with its elevator, has become a shipping center,
							and a distributing depot besides, and a town is surely growing there. The population
							is about one hundred and seventy-five, and an independent postoffice is maintained
							there, as well as one of the township schools.
						In the southern half, the Fort Wayne and Findlay division of the Cincinnati, Hamilton
							and Dayton line has done equal service. Baldwin, platted on the Timothy Baldwin
							estate, has outstripped its big sister Edgerton, and presents practically all the
							advantages of the latter town. Its population has increased, from fifty in 1900, to
							over two hundred at the present date, and is still thriving. Both towns have a fair
							outlook for the future, at least from a purely commercial viewpoint. The township
							schools are in good condition, and considering the fact that a large number of
							children are sent to Jefferson and other adjoining townships, to parochial schools,
							the public school enrollment is high. The enumeration of 1915 returned three hundred
							and thirty-five eligible to attend school, and of this number two hundred and
							fifty-seven are enrolled in the public schools of the township. The eight school
							houses, valued at $20,000.00, employ eight teachers, for a school year of one hundred
							and fifty days. The average attendance was two hundred and ten, daily. Expenses for
							the year 1915-1916, from which all the figures are taken, were: For teachers'
							salaries, $3,435.00; for upkeep expenditures, $741.50; the per capita cost amounting
							to $16.25. The libraries at the beginning of the year totaled one thousand and one
							volumes, to which were added seventy-nine more during the year. It may be noted that
							the school enumeration of today exceeds the population of the whole township less than
							thirty years ago, and that though Jackson township may lack in written local history,
							it has certainly come out of the woods.
					
				
			
		
		
			
			
				INDEX
				An asterisk (*) after the page number indicates an illustration, portrait or map.
				
				
					A
					Aaron, Rabbi Israel, 403.
					Abbott, Dayton F., 554.
					Abbott, James, Sr., 89, 92, 93, 96, 182.
					Abbott, James, Jr., 96.
					Abbott, Robert, 96, 182.
					Abbott, Samuel, 96, 182.
					Abbott, William T., 441, 442*, 449, 466, 497.
					Abendpost, Fort Wayne, 545.
					Aboite (Allen County), 703.
					Aboite River, 71, 76, 83, 84, 682.
					Aboite Township, Allen County, 687-694.
					Academie, Indiana, 608.
					Academy of Medicine, 542.
					Academy of Music, 486, 487*.
					Achduth Veshalom Synagogue, 403.
					Ackerly, J. W., 493.
					Ackerman, Abe, 554, 574, 584.
					Adam, Rev. Father, 644, 663.
					Adamher family (see Adhemar family).
					Adams, Colonel, 211.
					Adams, Dr. H. E., 673.
					Adams Express Company, 488.
					Adams, George, 112.
					Adams, Jesse, 595, 602, 642.
					Adams, John, 167.
					Adams, John Quincy, 260.
					Adams Township, Allen County, 595-603.
					Adams Township Rangers, 441.
					Adhemar family, 86-91.
					Adhemar (Frenchman), 83.
					Adhemar, St. Martin, 95.
					African Methodist Episcopal Church, 486.
					Agne, Jacob, 554.
					Agricultural Society, the first, 358.
					Agricultural Society (1874), 492.
					Ah-ma-quah-zah-quah (Mary, or Mollie Wells, Mrs. Wolcott), 264.
					Ah-pez-zah-quah (Ann Wells, Mrs. Turner), 264.
					Aiken, Judge John H., 454, 534.
					Aiken, Rev. E. F., 496.
					Ainslie, Rev. J. S., 488.
					Air-brake test, 486.
					Akers, John, 701.
					Alaskan Gold Hunters, 537.
					"Alas P. Yorick," 521.
					Albach, James S., quoted, 84.
					Albaugh, Rev. W., 895.
					Alberson, Rev. E. F., 496.
					Alberthus, Rev. P. J., 530.
					Albrecht, Rev. M. J. F., 530.
					Alden, Judge Samuel R., 504, 580.
					Alderman, Frank, 526.
					Alderman, John, 669.
					Alerding, Bishop Henry J., 534, 542.
					Alert Engine and Hose Company, 315.
					Alert, The (publication), 497.
					Alexander, D. S., 468.
					Alexander, Francis, 295, 302.
					"Alien Enemies" (1917), 582.
					Alleger, John D., 635.
					Alleman, Rev. J. B., 496.
					Allen, Colonel John, 201*, 209, 211, 212, 218, 219, 264, 535.
					Allen County Building and Loan Association, 523.
					Allen County Created, 264.
					Allen County Home Guard (1917), 576.
					Allen County Horticultural Society (1865), 472.
					Allen County in Civil War, 456, 457.
					Allen County in Mexican War (1846-7), 388-389.
					Allen County in War with Germany (1917), 571-588.
					Allen County, original area, 252*.
					Allen County Orphans' Home, 525, 549.
					Allen, Cyrus W., 438, 441.
					Allen, D. M., 515, 672.
					Allen, Rev. E. W., 488.
					Allouez, Father Claude, 27.
					Altekruse, Fred, 395.
					Alter, Isaac, 701.
					Altomatt, Rev. B. F., 383.
					Alvord, George, 866.
					Aman, Louis, 357.
					American Farmer (publication), 497.
					American Fur Company, 249, 250, 254, 281.
					American House, 344.
					American Railway Union Strike, 531.
					American Steel Dredge Company, 551.
					American Telephone and Telegraph Co., 508.
					American Wheel Company, 495.
					Americus, Indiana, 369.
					Amherst, Sir Jeffrey, 58.
					Amherstberg, Canada (see also Malden), 96.
					Anderson, Calvin, 143, 368, 390*, 392, 395, 407.
					Anderson, Dr. James, 598.
					Anderson, E. G., 143, 395.
					Anderson, G. M., 486.
					Anderson, Hugh, 630, 631.
					Anderson, John, 683.
					Anderson, Judge A. B., 543.
					Anderson, Mandred, 668.
					Anderson, Oscar W., 552.
					Anderson, Rev. C. W., 295.
					Anderson, Richard, 666, 667.
					Anderson, T. P., 411, 440, 445.
					Anderson, William, 646.
					Andirons of Old Fort Wayne, 146*.
					Andrew, Richard, 687, 688, 689.
					Andrews, Dexter B., 655.
					Andrews, Rapin, 650, 654.
					Andrews, Theron M., 441, 442, 459, 655.
					Angell, Byron D., 366, 425.
					Angell, Orange, 416.
					Angell, W. W., 456.
					Ankenbruck, Martin, 545.
					Anthony Hotel, 148, 401, 541.
					Anthony, Susan B., 491.
					Anthony Wayne Club, 551.
					Anthony Wayne Fire Company, 313.
					Anthony Wayne Post, G. A. R., 477.
					Anti-Tuberculosis League, 563.
					Antrup, F. W., 386.
					Antwerp, Ohio, 139.
					Apple Tree, Lakeside, 178*.
					Aqueduct, Feeder Canal, 382*.
					Aqueduct Club, 552.
					Aqueduct, Wabash and Erie Canal, 364*, 368, 382*, 549, 552.
					Aque-noch-quah, father of Chief Little Turtle, 48.
					Archer, Benjamin (1), 608, 604.
					Archer, Benjamin (2), 192, 271, 273, 288, 333, 603, 604, 606.
					Archer Burying Ground, 371*, 378.
					Archer, David, 295, 319, 347, 566, 603, 607.
					Archer, John, 607.
					Archer, John S., 288, 298, 603.
					Archer, Samuel, 637.
					Arcola, Indiana, 684, 685.
					Argo, M. E., 497, 505, 633.
					Arion Band, 353.
					Arlington Hotel, 344.
					Armament of Old Fort Wayne, 213, 207, 241.
					"Armourer" of Fort Wayne, 231.
					Armstrong, Capt. John, 103, 105, 107.
					Armstrong, John, 219, 229, 280.
					Armstrong, LeRoy, 365.
					Armstrong, Lewis, 289.
					Armstrong, Robert, 407, 418.
					Arnaud, Sieur de, 42.
					Army Enlistments (1917), 574.
					Arnold, Benedict, 100.
					Arnold, John, 431, 434, 438, 489.
					Arrowin, Luke, 53.
					Ash, Henry J., 460.
					Ash, Mrs. H. J., 143.
					Asheton, Captain Joseph, 107, 112.
					Ashley, E. D., 678.
					Ashley, George, 678.
					Ashley, George L., 545.
					Ashley, John, 678.
					Askew, Mrs. H. L., 579.
					Askin, John, 137.
					Askin, John, Jr., 137.
					Askwith, John, 137.
					Asphalt Plant, 552.
					Atherton, Rev. William, 217.
					Atterbury, W. W., 530.
					Atwater, Caleb, quoted, 120.
					Aubray, Captain, 55.
					Audrain, J., 182, 183.
					Auger, Charles, 418.
					Augenbaugh, Jesse A., 281, 305, 310.
					Auglaize River, 127.
					Austin, Charles B., 502.
					Austin, Walter F., 529.
					Automobile, First, 535.
					Automobile Trucks, 551.
					Aveline, Captain Frank, 243.
					Aveline, Francis S., 243, 254, 302, 356, 411, 431, 468.
					Aveline Hotel, 243, 468, 477, 508, 511, 541, 457*.
					Aveline, James, 243, 254, 270, 287, 302.
					Aveline, John, 401, 473.
					
					Averill, Rev. E. W., 345.
					Aviation, 548, 557.
					Ax, Relic of Wayne Campaign, 148*.
					Axt, Moritz, 395.
					Aylesworth, Rev. John, 488.
					Aylesworth, Rev. William, 488.
					Ayres, Benjamin, 366.
					Ayres, Dr. Henry P., 354*, 360, 376, 386, 459.
					Ayres, Ebenezer, 614, 649, 650.
					Ayres, George, 278, 589.
					Ayres, H. B., 474.
					Ayres, Mrs. Henry P., 502.
					Ayres, S. C., 467.
				
				
					B
					Baade, H. C., 545.
					Baade, William, 360.
					Baade, William C., 543, 554.
					Babcock, James N., 519.
					Baby (Detroit), 86.
					Baby (Frenchman), 83.
					Bacher, Rev. T. J., 514.
					Bacon, Socrates, 314, 644.
					Badin, Rev. S. T., 111, 293, 302.
					Bailey, J. A., 600.
					Bailey, Judge Peter P., 351*, 360, 389, 407, 421, 447, 465, 476, 486.
					Bailey, J. Wade, 578.
					Bailey, Rev. J. Webster, 488.
					Bair, George, 331.
					Bair, Rev. J. B., 553.
					Baird, R. D., 647.
					Baker, Conrad, 439, 441, 450, 497.
					Baker, Enoch, 638.
					Baker, Frank J., 545.
					Baker, George, 345.
					Baker, Henry, 438, 439, 441, 445, S471, 486.
					Baker, Jacob, 345.
					Baker, John (1), 345.
					Baker, John (2), 662.
					Baker, Killian, 345.
					Baker, Sylvanus F., 347, 534, 538.
					Baldwin, Indiana, 706.
					Baldwin, Rev. J., 484.
					Baldwin, Timothy, 706.
					Bales, John P., 389.
					Ball, J., 393.
					Ball, Rev. S. R., 294, 339, 695, 698.
					Ballard, Alexander, 603, 604.
					Ballard, O. H., 529.
					Ballow, Samuel, 401.
					Baltes Hotel, 541.
					Baltes, M., 461, 506.
					Baltimore Oriole Baseball Team, 474.
					Bank of Fort Wayne, 435, 436.
					Bank of the State of Indiana, 316.
					Bank of Wayne, 543.
					Bannister, W. D., 450.
					Barbee, William, 271.
					Barber, Dr. Hiram, 619.
					Barber, John, 296.
					Barber, General, 144.
					Barbie, Brigadier General, 130, 131.
					Barbour, Myron F., 226, 281, 324*, 333, 401.
					Barbour, Mrs. Myron F., 226.
					Barce, Elmore, quoted, 183.
					Barfell, Rev. O., 496.
					Barge Canal, 564.
					Baril, Indian Chief, 45.
					Barker, B., 424.
					Barker, William, 437.
					Barlow, Wilson B., 289.
					Barlow, W. W., 363.
					Barnes, William, 677.
					Barnett, A. G., 213, 261, 279, 401; 437, 476.
					Barnett, B. H., 550.
					Barnett, Dr. W. W., 538, 545.
					Barnett, Hugh, 617.
					Barnett, James, 192, 213, 240, 243, 247*, 274, 275, 286, 289, 295, 311, 321, 323,
						398, 592.
					Barnett, Mrs. James, 240.
					Barnhart, Jacob, 633.
					Barnhart, John, 633.
					Barnhart, Peter, 630.
					Barns, Rev. R. M., 405.
					Barnwell, Dr., 602.
					Barr, John T., 259, 260, 263, 264, 267, 270, 280, 293, 294, 319.
					Barr, Rev. W. D., 496.
					Barrett, Fred, 490.
					Barrett, James M., 502, 519, 523, 526, 534, 575.
					Barrett, Walter A., 581.
					Barrie, J., 353.
					Barromeus Society, 459.
					Barron, Joseph, 184, 274.
					Barrow, Richard, 602.
					Barter, James, 389.
					Barthe, Pierre, 83.
					Barthelemy, M., 83.
					Barthelmie (Frenchman), 83, 87, 90, 91.
					Bartholomew, Rev. A. S., 395, 668.
					Bartlett, B. J., 565.
					Bartlett, C. R., 401.
					Bartlett, H. D., 401.
					Bartlett, J. A., 401.
					Barton, Charles M., 497, 515.
					Bartrand, Frenchman, 231.
					Baseball Grounds, the First, 468*.
					Bash, Charles S., 508, 521, 525, 526, 531, 544, 564.
					Bash, D. N., 441.
					Bash, Solomon, 403, 430, 497, 504.
					Bass, Colonel Sion S., 403, 416, 426, 446, 453, 456, 457*.
					Bass, John H., 394, 416, 446, 447, 466, 486, 490, 502, 509, 524, 543.
					Bateaux, 70.
					Bateman, Jeremiah, 597.
					Bates, Alfred, 691.
					Battery B., I. N. G., 521.
					Battery B, First Regiment (1917), 575.
					Battery D, Indiana Field Artillery (1916), 561, 577*.
					Battery D, First Regiment (1917), 574.
					Battin, Rev. S. A., 345.
					Battle Between St. Clair and Indians, 117.
					Battle of Fallen Timber, 128-132, 355.
					Battle of Harmar's Ford, 104-111.
					Battle of the Thames, 209, 221, 255.
					Battle of Tippecanoe, 167, 180, 189, 190, 209, 258.
					Bauer, J. J., 538, 545, 554.
					Baum, Rev. C., 488.
					Baumgartner, Dr. C. R., 685.
					Baumgartner, Rev. S. H., 484.
					Bauserman, Eli, 630.
					Baxter, J., 353.
					Baxter, James, 684.
					Bayer, William A., 545, 554.
					Bayless, Lott S., 317, 347, 358, 427, 454, 688, 691.
					Bayless, Rev. J. S., 294, 389.
					Bayless, Sol D., 351*, 406, 476, 486, 487, 458, 459.
					Bayonet, Relic of Harmar's Ford*, 107.
					Beaber, D. L., 536.
					Beach, Frederick, 352, 395.
					Beach, Henry, 543.
					Beach, W., 441.
					Beadell, Henry, 534, 578, 582.
					Beall, Dr. Charles G., 580, 581.
					Beall, M. E., 468.
					Beals, W., 353.
					Bean River (St. Joseph), 24.
					Bear, 39, 90, 92, 642.
					Beard, Thomas D., 462.
					Beaubien, Charles, 74, 77, 79, 80, 84, 97.
					Beaubien, Companion of Jacques Godefroy, 60.
					Beaubien, John, 50.
					Beaubien, Josette, 239, 243.
					Beaucharnois, M. de, 37.
					Beautiful (Ohio) River, 30, 40, 53.
					Beaver, 71, 90.
					Beaver, A. C., 286, 384, 450, 592.
					Beaver Chapel, Baptist, 529.
					Beaver, D. L., 443.
					Beaver, Rev. Milton, 295.
					Bechtel, S. B., 562, 582.
					Beck, William, 530.
					Becker, Christian, 441, 496.
					Becker, Frederick, 401.
					Beckman, Edward, 523, 531.
					Beckner, Moses, 619.
					Beckner, Samuel, 619.
					Beebe, Richard, 637.
					Beecher, Dr. Lyman, 381.
					Beecher, Dr. Lewis G., 339, 366, 373, 375, 387.
					Beecher, Henry Ward, 381.
					Beecher, Rev. Charles, 381.
					Beers, George W., 508.
					Beers, Mrs. George W., 579.
					Beers, Rev. H. B., 294.
					Beeson, Rayburn, 688.
					Beeson, Richard, 273.
					Begue, John, 497, 598, 599.
					Behler, Henry, 352.
					Beletre, Colonel, 56.
					Belknap, Dr., 126.
					Bell, Joe, 473.
					Bell, J. W., 522.
					Bell, Robert C., 309, 494, 497, 502, 515, 516, 523, 528, 583.
					Bell Telephone System, 507, 508.
					Bellamy, L. B., 288.
					Bellamy, L. G., 340.
					Belot, Frank J., 538, 545.
					Belt Line Railway, 544.
					Bengal (Allen County), 678.
					Benham, B. H., 434.
					Benham, Captain, 145.
					Bennett, B. F., 570.
					Bennett, Caleb, 647.
					Bennett, John, 647.
					Bennett, Rev. H. W., 405.
					Bennett, Solomon, 647.
					Bennigan, Hugh, 447, 448.
					Benninghoff, Howard, 570.
					Benninghoff, Solomon, 638.
					Benoit, Rev. Julian, 294, 356*, 358, 399, 445, 481, 621, 648, 663, 685.
					Benoy, Frank T., 554.
					Bensman, W. H., 576.
					Benson, George R., 497.
					Benson, Rev. H. B., 294.
					Bentley, Morgan, 641.
					Bentley, Thomas, 78.
					Bentz, Rev. H., 383.
					Benward, Isaac, 650.
					Bequette, Jean Baptiste, 212, 258, 293, 302, 312.
					Bergerson (Frenchman), 83.
					Berghoff Brewing Company, 522.
					Berghoff, Henry C., 523, 526, 531, 534, 539, 540, 560*, 576.
					Berghoff, Herman, 488.
					Beringer, Captain Richard, 72.
					Berkey, Joseph, 288, 319, 347, 349, 357, 359, 366.
					Berman, Rev. Mr.
					Bernard, F. H., 522.
					Berning, Henry, 622.
					
					Berry Street Methodist Episcopal Church, 294.
					Berry, William, 662.
					Besancon (Allen County), 643.
					Bessonies, Rev. Father, 643.
					Beswick, Rev. J. A., 390, 405.
					Bethany Presbyterian Church, 530.
					Bethel Evangelical Church, 484.
					Betz, A. l., 582.
					Beugnot, A. F., 634.
					Beuret, Charles A., 554.
					Beyer, Rev. J. A., 383.
					Bible Training School, Fort Wayne, 543.
					Bice, William, 675.
					Bickhart, Isaac, 672.
					Bickhart, Jacob, 672.
					Bicknell, Clarence F., 496, 582.
					Bicknell, Ernest P., 496, 579.
					Bicknell, Thomas, 508.
					Biddle, Thomas M., 476.
					Biederman, Rev. John, 495.
					Biederwolf, Charles L., 573, 582.
					Biewend, Adolph, 391.
					Biegler, John, 523.
					"Big Elm," 187, 189.
					Big Leg (Indian) Murder Case, 295.
					Bigger, Governor Samuel, 375, 386, 387, 389, 393*.
					Biggs, Simeon, 407, 418.
					Bijou Theatre, 485.
					Bilderback, Dr., 602.
					Bill, Jacob, 570.
					Binford, James W., 141.
					Birch, Rev. W. S., 295.
					Bird, James S., 691.
					Bird, Ochmig (1),. 321, 328, 345, 360, 375, 387, 403, 407, 409, 418, 427*, 431, 438,
						444, 447, 469, 459, 643, 644.
					Bird, Ochmig (2), 531, 554.
					Bird, R., 363.
					Bird, Samuel, 254.
					Bissot, Jean Baptist (Sieur de Vincennes), 34, 36, 37, 38, 41, 45.
					Bitler, S. D., 495.
					Bittenger, A. H., 529, 537.
					Bittenget, Jacob R., 497.
					Bittler, George A., 551, 552.
					Bittler, William, 531.
					Black, A. J., 554.
					Black Bird, Indian Chief, 93.
					Black, James, 630.
					Black Partridge, Indian Warrior, 194.
					Black, Rev. Mr., 683.
					"Black Salts," 630, 701.
					Black, S. M., 289, 336, 347, 356, 357, 360, 361, 387, 395, 396, 683, 706.
					Black, William, 207, 630.
					Black, W. E., 398.
					Blackwell, R. J., 600.
					Blaine, James G., 511.
					Blair, David D., 490.
					Blair, James, 363.
					Blair, Sol K., 529, 576.
					Blair, T. W., 522, 554.
					Blaisdell, P. O., 472.
					Blake, John G., 518.
					Blake, M., 387.
					Blakely, John, 597.
					Blaney, Rev. M. L., 488.
					Bleke, John, 609.
					Blietschau, John, 684.
					Bliss, Charles S., 529.
					Bliss, Dr. George S., 518.
					Blockhouse, Fort Wayne, 143*, 234, 235.
					Blood, Rev. Daniel, 382.
					Bloody Run (Creek), 261.
					Bloomers, 415.
					Bloomhuff, Mrs., 143.
					Bloomingdale, 165, 183, 186, 272, 478, 479, 529.
					Bloomingdale School, 478, 479, 503.
					Bloomfield, Lot, 265.
					Blosser, Benjamin F., 263, 296.
					Blue Cast Mineral Springs, 681.
					Blue, Cornet, 145.
					"Blue Dog" (Scrip), 392.
					Blue Jacket, Shawnee Chief, 91, 97, 102, 111, 119, 130, 174.
					Blue, John B., 450, 662.
					"Blue Pup" (Scrip), 392.
					Bluffton Road, 370, 589, 694.
					Blystone, Isaac, 385.
					Blystone, Mrs. Ann, 186.
					Blystone, Oliver, 357.
					Blystone, Peter, 264.
					Board of Trade (1877), 504.
					Boat Building Yards, 340.
					Bobajr, Peter, 373, 615.
					Bobilya, L. J., 523, 533, 531.
					Bobo, Jared, 597.
					Bodell, Rev. W. A., 530.
					Boerger, Gustave W., 545, 554, 580.
					Boerger, William, 336.
					Boggs, Joseph O., 281.
					Boggs, Rev. J. M., 484.
					Bohn, Frank E., 508, 550, 577.
					Bohn, Rev. Joseph, 530.
					Bohn, William A., 525.
					Boisbriant, M. de, 40.
					Boley, Francis, 404.
					Bolinger, J., 703.
					Bolinger, W. H., 553.
					Boltz, F. C., 513, 515, 525.
					Boltz, Gustave, 477.
					Bond, A. S., 576, 578.
					Bond, Charles D., 328, 360, 428, 441, 447, 450, 486, 490, 518.
					Bond, Charles E., 272.
					Bond, Henry W., 360.
					Bond, Jared D., 328, 360, 467, 486, 493, 525.
					Bond, J. Ewing, 569.
					Bond, Major P. S., 564.
					Bond, Mrs. Charles E, 579.
					Bond, Stephen B., 328, 360, 422, 472, 490, 495, 502, 504, 518, 689, 703.
					Bond, Mrs. Stephen B., 329.
					Bond, W. J., 497.
					Bond Piano Company, 495.
					Bondie, Antoine, 180, 201, 202, 204, 231.
					Boner, Rev. M. C., 496.
					Boneway, Egbert V., 313.
					Bonnecamps, Father Jean, 34, 46, 47, 48, 50.
					Boody, Peter, 705.
					Bookwalter, Elias H., 570.
					Boone, Daniel, 80, 167.
					Booth, John, 582.
					Borden, Judge James W., 306, 341*, 346, 360, 414, 415, 416, 479, 480, 496, 497,
						505.
					Borger, W., 431.
					Borgman, W. F., 554.
					Borgman, William, 449.
					Borke, Thomas, 53.
					Borkenstein, B., 531, 538, 545.
					Borkert, Rev. J. W., 501.
					Bosch, Rev. John H., 383.
					Boseker, Christian, 485, 494, 506, 523, 525, 531.
					Bossler, Henry, 646, 647.
					Boss Manufacturing Company, 543.
					Bossler, Henry H., 437.
					Bossard, Rev. J., 383.
					Bostick, E., 431, 438, 441, 444, 463.
					Boswell, Dr. A. J., 529, 537.
					Botts, Rev. Parry, 496.
					Boulton, Henry, 671.
					Bouquet, Colonel Henry, 56, 64.
					Bourie, John B., 239, 244, 249, 289, 296, 321, 323, 339.
					Bourie, Louis, 225, 226, 228.
					Bourie, Mrs. Louis, 227*.
					Bourie, Louis T., 314, 316, 401, 438*, 461, 464, 466, 467.
					Bourie, Mrs. Louis T., 249.
					Bowen, Dr. G. W., 236, 418.
					Bowen, Jeremiah, 662.
					Bowen, Marvin, 662.
					Bowen, Mason, 662.
					Bowers, H. H., 602.
					Bowers, John, 603.
					Bowers, William E., 600, 602.
					Bowersock, Andrew, 703.
					Bowles, Robert, 145.
					Bowman, William J., 703.
					Bowser, A. S., 570.
					Bowser Band, 354.
					Bowser, J., 644.
					Bowser, Jacob C., 347.
					Bowser, Jefferson C., 479, 489, 497.
					Bowser, Lafayette M., 451, 467.
					Bowser Playgrounds, 552.
					Bowser, S. F., 517, 565, 576.
					Bowser, William, 662.
					Bowserville, 478, 479.
					Boyd, Rev. G. M., 294, 363, 390.
					Boyer, Lieutenant, 138, 140, 142, 144, 147.
					Boyer, Rev. C. E., 551.
					Boyles, Mrs. Eudora, 225, 227.
					Boy Scouts, 568, 585.
					Boy Scouts' Band, 353.
					Boys' Working Reserve (1917), 586.
					Boys' World (Publication), 497.
					Brackenridge, Charles S., 467, 489, 490, 496, 523.
					Brackenridge, George W., 235, 305, 335, 378, 489, 525.
					Brackenrigde, Captain Joseph, 305.
					Brackenridge, Judge Joseph, 288, 305, 395, 415, 441, 442, 448, 453, 454, 465, 489,
						497.
					Brackenridge, Captain Robert, 300.
					Brackenridge, Judge Robert, 272. 305, 313, 360, 363, 366.
					Brackenridge, T. K., 313, 361, 395.
					Bradbury, Thomas, 696, 697.
					Braddock, General, 57, 66.
					Bradley, F. B., 398.
					Bradley, J. H., 363.
					Bradstreet, Colonel John, 62, 68, 64, 65, 66.
					Brady, Jennie Ninde, 528.
					Brady, Patrick, 310.
					Brady, William, 467.
					Brammer, Rev. J. H., 294.
					Brandt, Captain Joseph, Indian Chief, 110, 149.
					Brandt, Fred, 489.
					Brandt, Rev. B. F., 529.
					Brandriff, Alfred D., 416, 417*, 447, 466.
					Branger, H., 459.
					Brannan, John H., 523.
					Branson, Mrs. Ellis, 579.
					Branstrattor, Charles W., 581.
					Branstrattor, William, 703.
					Brase, F. C., 384.
					Braun, Peter M., 554.
					Breckenridge, Rev. J. C., 530.
					Breen, James, 497.
					Breen, William P., 534, 469.
					Brenton, Samuel, 294, 390, 394*, 406, 416, 427, 437.
					Breuer, William, 568, 569.
					Brice, Wallace A., 178, 485, 486.
					Brice, Calvin S., 509.
					Bricker, Dr. Jonathan, 430.
					Brick House, First in Fort Wayne, 247.
					
					Brickyard, the First, 273.
					Bridge, Rev. Henry, 522.
					Bridges, 412*, 450, 469, 476, 504, 522, 537.
					Bridges, Ensign, 113.
					Bright, Jesse D., 363.
					Briggs, Luther, 654.
					Briggs, Rev. A. T., 484.
					Briggs, Robert, 361.
					Brighthorn, Shawnee Warrior, 206.
					Brimmer, Joseph H., 495.
					Brintzenhofe, Lieutenant C. A., 575.
					Britt, Ensign D., 112, 113.
					Britton, J. L., 295.
					Britton, Richard L., 256, 258, 259.
					Brock, Captain Joseph, 132, 144.
					Broderick, John, 642.
					Brooks, Dr. William H., 358*, 359, 361, 431, 441, 459, 463.
					Brooks, Rev. J. P., 496.
					"Brookside," 543.
					Broom, Persis Chapman, 370.
					Brosius, Jesse, 545.
					Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, 471.
					Brotherhood of the Footboard, 471.
					Brown, Calvin H., 545.
					Brown, Dr. S. B., 477.
					Brown, Governor Ethan A., 363.
					Brown, John, 234, 284, 3138, 331, 425, 441, 459, 465, 597.
					Brown, Mrs. F. I., 579.
					Brown, Rev. A. B., 488.
					Brown, Rev. D. M., 496.
					Brown, Rev. F. G., 405.
					Brown, Samuel, 295, 596.
					Brown, Seneca B., 530.
					Brown, William, 317, 641.
					Brown, William J., 300.
					Browning, Barzilai, 594, 624.
					Brownson, Lieutenant, 166.
					Bruce, Rev. C. A., 345.
					Bruder, August, 496.
					Brudi, Joseph, 599.
					Bruebach, Dr. George T., 449.
					Bruecker, Michael, 406.
					Bruggeman, Dr. H. O., 545, 554, 576, 580.
					Brundige, David, 395.
					Bruno, Jean Baptiste, 111, 289, 294.
					Bruno, John, 274.
					Brunson, Aden, 619.
					Brute, Rev. Simon Gabriel, 293.
					Bryan, William Jennings, 533, 542.
					Bryan's Station, Kentucky, 80.
					Bryant, C. E., 398.
					Bryant, J. G., 467.
					Bryant, Private, 139, 140, 142, 147, 148.
					Bryant, William H., 359, 434, 461, 489, 515.
					Bryant, W. C., 407.
					Buchanan, George, 314.
					Buchanan, James E., 313.
					Buck, Charles H., 531, 538, 545, 553, 554.
					Buck, Dr. C. M., 629.
					Buchman, Dr. A. P., 552, 554.
					Buckles, J. H., 501.
					Buckley, Rev. M. L., 537.
					Buck-ong-a-helas, a Delaware Chief, 119.
					Buesching, Charles II., 570.
					Bueter, B. H., 404.
					Bueter, Frank, 600.
					Bueter, J. Herman, 545, 554.
					Buffaloes, 39, 676.
					Ruhr, C. H., 531, 538.
					Bulger, E. J., 395.
					Bull, John, 343.
					Bull, John W., 489.
					Bullard, George, 688, 690.
					Bullerman, Henry, 395.
					Bullerman, H. F., 523.
					Bull Rapids (Allen County), 666, 676.
					"Bull's Head" Tavern, 605.
					Bulson, Dr. Albert E., Jr., 287, 569.
					Bundy, Rev. Jason, 487.
					Burbeck, Colonel Henry, 125, 159, 160, 162.
					Burden, Rev. Daniel, 487.
					Burgess, Eben, 599, 640.
					Burger, John, 633.
					Burgess, Henry, 599.
					Burial Casket, Relic of Wayne's, 148*.
					Burial of General Wayne, 152.
					Burk, Thomas, 315.
					Burning of Post Miami, Site of Fort Wayne, 43.
					Burning of Aveline Hotel, 541.
					Burns House (Chicago), 182.
					Burns, Michael, 145.
					Burr, David, 271, 281, 282, 283, 312, 323, 324, 326.
					Burrier, Adam, 675.
					Burroughs, D. W., 367, 407, 415, 426, 431.
					Bursley and Company, G. E., 513.
					Bursley, Gilbert E., 485, 490, 495, 518.
					Bursley, Mrs. G. E., 526, 529.
					Bursley, Joseph A., 545.
					Burt, J., 450, 461.
					Burton, C. M., quoted, 73, 95.
					Bush, Emanuel, 526.
					Bush, Isaac, 533, 556, 613.
					Bushman, John A., 538, 545.
					Business Colleges, Early, 495.
					Business Men's Exchange, 521.
					Butler, Brigadier General Richard, 115, 116, 118, 119.
					Butler, Captain Edward, 118.
					Butler, Charles, 392, 393.
					Butler, General Benjamin F., 509, 512.
					Butler, George, 605.
					Butler, Joshua, 605.
					Butler, Lieutenant, 56.
					Butler, Nathan, 479, 484.
					Butt, John B., 545.
					Butt, William, 613.
					Butte, Captain, 182.
					Buttenbender, C. H., 523.
					Buttons from Uniforms of Old Fort Wayne Soldiers, 151*.
					Bvers, Andrew, 651.
					Byrer, Rev. G. F., 501.
					Byroade, Captain George L., 556, 573, 574, 576.
					Byron, Irene, 563.
				
				
					C
					Cadillac, de la Motte, 34, 41, 163.
					Caffrey, Samuel, 682.
					Cahill, James B., 583.
					Cahokia, 56, 69, 70.
					Cain, William, 619.
					Caldwell, Captain William, 80.
					Caldwell, Dr. James, 512.
					Caldwell, Ruth, 566.
					Caledonian Society, 448.
					Calhoun, J. A., 207.
					Calhoun, John C., 252.
					Calkins, Major W. H., 512.
					Call, The (Newspaper), 497.
					Callahan, Stephen A., 573, 576, 578.
					Calvary United Brethren Church, 501.
					Calvin, Dr. Jessie, 579.
					Calvin, Dr. W. D., 581.
					Camp Allen, 463, 464, 474, 514, 547, 456, 458.
					Camp Allen Park, 456, 547.
					Campau, Baptiste, 83.
					Camp Bed, Wayne's, 131, 141*.
					Campbell, Captain Donald, 56, 176.
					Campbell, Captain Mis, 131, 132.
					Campbell, Edward, 603, 604.
					Campbell, I. W., 809.
					Campbell, James, 697.
					Campbell, Major William, 125, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136.
					Campbell, Rev. J. W., 530.
					Canada, 18, 26, 27, 29, 33, 40.
					Canal Boats, 307, 320, 340, 362, 363, 366, 368, 414.
					Canal-boat Building Yards, 340.
					Canal Celebrations, 304, 305, 306, 322, 362-366.
					Canal Construction Contract, 314*.
					Canal Locks, 402.
					Canal Record Book, 378*.
					Canal Scrip, 392.
					Canal to Connect Lakes Erie and Michigan, 564.
					Canes Made from Old Fort Timbers, 461.
					Cannehous, Jean, 95.
					Cannibalism Among the Indians, 54, 85, 102, 110, 176.
					Cannon Balls Fired from Old Fort Wayne, 207*.
					Cannon, James, 269, 270.
					Canse, Rev. J. M., 484.
					Capron, J. C., 582.
					Captain Johnnie, Shawnee Brave, 206.
					Captain Johnny (Shawnee Chief), 88, 98.
					Carier, A. H., 489.
					Carins, Rev. Anthony, 333.
					Carleton, Sir Guy, 68.
					Carlin, Rev. P., 484.
					Carmichael, Dr., 138.
					Carnahan, W. L., 495.
					Carnegie, Andrew, 527.
					Carpenter, Rev. L. L., 488.
					Carrier, A. H., 416.
					Carrier Pigeons, 543, 544, 552.
					Carroll, Albert E., 518, 543.
					Carrying Place (See Portage).
					Carson, Judge W. W., 221, 285*, 336, 414, 418, 438, 453, 489, 502.
					Carson, W. H., 384.
					Carson, Miss Margaret, 384.
					Carter, Chauncey, 268.
					Carter, Mrs. M. A., 495.
					Cartwright, Samuel, 689.
					Case, Charles, 400*, 406, 419, 421, 431, 442, 443, 459, 477.
					Case, Willis W., 416.
					Casket, The, 497.
					Cass, General Lewis, 111, 158, 230, 251, 252, 256, 283, 362, 363, 365, 367*.
					Cassady, Samuel, 289.
					Cassidy, Pat, 474.
					Cast, Rev. C. C., 488.
					Caster, William, 295, 683.
					Castile, Henry, 696.
					Castleman, Henry, 641, 642.
					Caswell, J. W., 564.
					Caswell, William, 278, 299, 302, 596, 648, 650.
					Catfish, Pottawattomie Chief (1), 193.
					Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception (See also St. Augustine's Catholic Church),
						293, 445.
					Catholic Cemetery, 225.
					Catholic War Fund (1917), 583.
					Catlin, George B., quoted, 66.
					Cavalier, Jean Abbe, 33.
					Cavalier, Robert (See LaSalle).
					Cecil, Rev. J. K., 295.
					Cedar Creek, 23, 660.
					Cedar Creek Township, Allen County, 659-665.
					Cedarville, Indiana, 23, 180, 662.
					
					Celebration, Canal (1832), 304, 305, 306.
					Celebration, Canal (1835), 322.
					Celebration, Canal (1840), 362-366.
					Celebration of Centennial of Building of Wayne's Fort, 532.
					Celebration of Indiana's Admission to Statehood, 555-560.
					Celeron, M. de (Son of bienville de Celeron), 70, 73, 90, 91.
					Celeron, Pierre Joseph Bienville de, 30, 45, 46, 47*, 49*, 50, 51, 53, 54,
						55.
					Celmer, B., 354.
					Cemeteries, 93, 225, 270, 373, 406, 447, 513, 596, 597, 606, 614, 640, 649, 663,
						675, 688, 689, 702.
					Census (1830) 349, (1840) 349, (1850) 459, (1860) 459, (1870) 488-489, (1880) 512,
						(1890) 542, (1900) 542, (1910) 551, (1915) 548, (1917) 569.
					Census of French Village (Fort Wayne Site), 83.
					Centenary Chapel, 484.
					Centennial Celebration (1895), 141, 532.
					Centennial Celebration of 1916, 555-560.
					Centennial Hymn (1916), 557, 559*, 560.
					Centerville (Allen County), 627.
					Centlivre Brewing Company, 467.
					Centlivre, C. F., 528, 551.
					Centlivre, C. L., 467.
					Centlivre, C. L., Street Railway Company, 491, 524.
					Centlivre Hotel, 551.
					Centlivre, Louis A., 528, 5,19, 545.
					Central Catholic High School, 551.
					Central Express Company, 477.
					Central Union Telephone Co., 507, 508.
					Certia, Peter M., 570.
					Chacehton, M., 83.
					Chair of Chief Francis LaFontaine, 350.
					Chamber, B. S., 222.
					Chamberlain (Allen County), 638.
					Chamberlain Orff, 352.
					Chamberlain, William, 352.
					Chamberlain's Band, 351, 352.
					Champlain, Samuel de, 27*, 28, 29.
					Chapetan (See Chapeteau).
					Chapeteau, Angeline (See also Peltier Mrs. James; and, Griswold, Mrs. Edward), 175,
						176*, 179, 200.
					Chapeteau, George, 179.
					Chapeteau, Theresa, 179.
					Chapin, Judge Augustus A., 441, 442, 501, 523.
					Chapin, Miss Lizzie, 526.
					Chaplin, Rev. W. J., 374.
					Chapman, Chester, 404.
					Chapman, John ("Johnnie Appleseed"), 370, 566, 605, 629, 662, 683.
					Chapman, Samuel H., 388.
					"Charcoal Sketches" (Dawson's), 167, 259, 263, 268, 376.
					Charley, Indian Chief, 175.
					Charter, First Fort Wayne, 38.
					Charter of Wayne Lodge of Masons, 253*.
					Chase, Governor Ira P., 529.
					Chase, Judge Henry, 347.
					Chase, S. W., 384.
					Chase, Uriah, 647.
					Chavin (Frenchman), 60.
					Cheesman, D., 441.
					Chene, Miney, 60.
					Cheney Bank, 494.
					Cheney, Judge James, 425, 430, 494.
					Chesne, Anthony (See Shane, Anthony).
					Chess Club, Fort Wayne, 486.
					Chew, Joseph, 137, 149.
					Chicago, Illinois (See also Fort Dearborn and Fort Dearborn Massacre), 154, 172,
						181, 225, 231, 254.
					Chicago River, 193.
					"Chief Richardville," Canal Boat, 340.
					Children's Guardians, Board of, 537.
					Chillicothe Village (On the Maumee), 73, 93, 97, 104, 105, 112.
					Chin-win-tah, Miami Indian, 193.
					Chippewa Indians, 54, 73, 80.
					Chittenden, E. L., 315, 461, 479, 489, 497.
					Chittenden, L. S., 369, 394, 467, 492, 506, 515.
					Chittenden, W. B., 467.
					Chobert, Richard, 274.
					Cholera Scourge, 398-401.
					Chondonnai, Indian Chief, 230.
					Chopine, Frenchman, 239.
					Christ Episcopal Church, 344, 345.
					Christ, Henry, 439.
					Christ English Lutheran Church, 530.
					Christian Church, East Creighton Avenue, 544.
					Christian Church, West Creighton Avenue, 537.
					Christian Church, West Jefferson Street, 488.
					Christian Science Church, 537.
					Church of God, 544.
					Church, Rev. C. W., 484.
					Churchill, P. M., 564.
					Chute, Rev. James, 295, 606.
					Chute, Richard, 356, 431.
					Cicely (Slave Girl), 181.
					Cicotts Family, 95.
					Cigarmakers' Union, 479.
					Cincinnati, Ohio (See also Fort Washington), 45, 95, 96, 104, 106, 110, 115, 122,
						123, 133, 199, 219, 254.
					Cincinnati Gazette, 254.
					Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railroad, 522.
					Circuit Court, 514.
					Cissel, Rev. C. C., 295.
					Cisterns, Fire, 317.
					Citizens' Band, 353.
					Citizens' Bank, 452, 465.
					Citizens' Street Railway Company, 490.
					Citizens' Trust Company, 536.
					City Asphalt Plant, 552.
					City Charter of 1840, 359*.
					City Charter (1893), 527.
					City Court, 540.
					City Forestry Department, 548, 570.
					City Hall, 525.
					City (Hope) Hospital, 481.
					City House, 343.
					City Lighting Plant, 553.
					City Markets, 428, 551.
					City Mills, 338, 360.
					City Planning, 547.
					City Scrip, 466, 467*.
					City Seal, 448, 449*.
					City Water Works, 506, 507.
					Civic Forum, 570.
					Civic Health Parade (1916), 568.
					Civil War Record, Allen County, 453.
					Clairmont, Jaque, 95.
					Clapp, Melville N., 570.
					Clark, Adam, 316.
					Clark, A. W., 538.
					Clark, Dr. H. A., 499.
					Clark, Dr. Philip H., 602.
					Clark, Gen. George Rogers, 66, 69, 70, 72, 73, 80, 84, 95, 99, 100, 123, 148,
						214.
					Clark, Horatio N., 289.
					Clark, Lieutenant, 113.
					Clark, Lieutenant James, 238.
					Clark, Lieutenant William, 123, 136, 140, 143, 144, 146, 147.
					Clark, Miss Susan, 308, 319, 384.
					Clark, Nelson, 319.
					Clark, Rev. Robert, 496.
					Clark, Richard, 687, 692.
					Clark, Zaccheus, 696.
					Clausmeier, Edward F., 526, 531.
					Clay, Henry, 372.
					Clay School, 503.
					Clearing House, Fort Wayne, 540.
					Cleary, M. J., 536.
					Clem, Benjamin F., 635.
					Clem, Noah, 407, 630, 632.
					Clem, Samuel, 632.
					Cleveland, Grover, 309.
					Clifford, Rev. E. H., 544.
					Cline, Cyrus, 542, 545, 552, 564.
					Cline, John, 705, 706.
					Clinton, DeWitt, 240.
					Clinton, Governor George, 53, 110.
					"Clyde," Canal Boat, 340.
					Coat of Arms, Wayne's, 148.
					Coburn, Dr., 222.
					Cocanour, John B., 349, 354, 356, 360, 375, 401, 402, 407.
					Cochrane, John B., 334, 387, 396, 407, 434, 439, 448, 450, 489.
					Cocking, Rev. George, 496.
					Cockran, W. Bourke, 534.
					Cody, Garrett, 319.
					Cody, Morris (Maurice), 319, 407, 445, 450, 461, 462, 463, 479, 489, 497, 523,
						531.
					Cody, Patrick, 319.
					Coesse, Indiana, 196.
					Cohn, Fred, 403.
					Co-is-see, Miami Indian, 192.
					Colbert, Nicholas, 33.
					Colbert River (See Mississippi River).
					Cold Foot, Miami Chief, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 52.
					Cold Foot Valley, Site of Fort Wayne, 48, 52.
					Cold Spring Weather (1843), 375.
					Coleman, Benjamin, 614.
					Coleman, Captain James, 221.
					Coleman, David C., 389.
					Coleman, Judge, 409.
					Coleman, Judge Nathaniel, 112, 299, 319, 336, 347, 357, 360, 596.
					Colcazar, Rev. Jacob, 294, 295, 697.
					Coles, David, 310.
					Colerick, Charles, 388, 401.
					Colerick, David, 469, 479.
					Colerick, David H., 273, 279, 297*, 299, 300, 305, 318, 323, 331, 366, 369, 389,
						395, 413, 453.
					Colerick, Edward F., 111, 263, 280, 296, 378, 379, 385, 407, 418, 431, 424, 425,
						449.
					Colerick, Mrs. Edward F., 280.
					Colerick, Guy, 545, 554, 578.
					Colerick, Henry R., 272, 289, 407, 418.
					Colerick, Henry, 479, 528, 526.
					Colerick, John A., 314, 439, 441, 442.
					Colerick, Miss Margaret M., 280, 527.
					Colerick, Phil B., 581.
					Colerick, Walpole G., 504, 509, 514.
					Colerick's Hall, 411, 423, 453, 471.
					
					Coling, Peter, 360.
					Collegiate Institute, Fort Wayne, 390.
					College of Medicine, Fort Wayne, 499, 500, 501.
					Columbia City, Indiana, 410.
					Columbia City (on Ohio River), 96.
					Combs, Captain S. R., 221.
					Commandants of Fort Wayne, 101, 148, 155, 156, 159, 162, 163, 179, 187, 214, 220,
						222, 224, 238.
					Commercial Bank, 543.
					Commercial Club, Fort Wayne, 537, 538, 543, 544, 546, 551, 552.
					"Commodore Foote," 357, 461.
					Common Pleas, Court of, 415.
					"Commonwealers," 530.
					Company B, Signal Corps (1917), 575.
					Company E, First Infantry (1917), 575.
					Company E, Indiana National Guard (1916), 560.
					Comparet, A. C., quoted, 296, 335, 392.
					Comparet, D. F., 366, 368, 447, 476.
					Comparet, Francis, 243, 247*, 254, 259, 266, 271, 278, 288, 293, 294, 297, 298, 610,
						313, 323, 326, 340, 344, 483, 608.
					Compton, Amos, 296, 313, 344.
					Concordia Cemetery, 406.
					Concordia College Cadets, 556, 573, 577.
					Concordia College, 391, 392, 405, 544, 577.
					Concordia College Military Band, 354.
					Concordia Evangelical Lutheran Church, 538.
					Cone, Eli, 315.
					Cone, L. C., 502.
					Conger, John, 396, 461, 479.
					Congregation of Shaare Zedek, Jewish, 553.
					Conklin, Theodore, 434.
					Conner, Indian Trader, 166, 183.
					Conner, William, 265.
					Conolly, Dr. John, 100.
					Connolly, Dr. W. A., 634.
					Conscription for Civil War Service, 463.
					Conscription Registration (1917), 580.
					Conservatory of Music, Fort Wayne, 504.
					Convention Hall, 561.
					Conwell, Rev. B. A., 294.
					Conwell, Rev. F. A., 405.
					Cook, Christian, 450.
					Cook, Clarence F., 537.
					Cook, Ernest W., 518, 536, 544.
					Cook, John, 287, 353.
					Cook, Jonathan, 605, 606.
					Cook, J. D., 506.
					Cook, Philip, 287, 313, 340, 605.
					Cook, Thomas, 415.
					Cook, Walter E., 545.
					Coombs, J. M., 502.
					Coombs, William H., 336, 357, 360, 403, 416.
					Coomer, Seymour, 672.
					Cooper, Henry, 277, 278, 281, 289, 331, 360, 391, 596.
					Cooper, Rev. M. C., 484, 522.
					Cooper, William P., 331, 391, 484, 531, 537.
					Coquillard, Alexis, 246, 254, 259, 266, 278, 310.
					Corbin, Rev. William, 333.
					Cordell, Dr., 629.
					Corey, D. A., 354.
					Corey, John N., 691.
					Cornwell, C. T., 370.
					Corporation Seal, 448, 449*.
					Corpse, Washington, 667.
					Corydon, Indiana, 239, 240, 255.
					Cosgrove, B. G., 370.
					Cosgrove, Dr. F. K., 671.
					Cosgrove, F. K., Jr., 515.
					Costello, Michael, 584.
					Cottingham, W. H., 563.
					Coulter, Jacob, 684.
					Council of Defense, Allen County, 577.
					Council of Patriotic Service (1917), 577.
					Council Houses, 94, 173, 238, 249*, 354.
					County Addition, 241, 267*, 297.
					County Farm, 429, 542, 550, 659.
					County Seat Chosen, 265.
					County Library, 272.
					County Seminary, 258, 270, 280, 281, 305.
					Country Club, Fort Wayne, 520.
					Cour, Claude A., 360.
					Coureur de bois, 17*, 30.
					Court Houses, 298, 301*, 352*, 354, 355, 458, 459, 460*, 576*.
					Court House Square, 266, 270, 352*, 576*.
					Court of Common Pleas, 415.
					Courtmanche, Legardeur de, 36, 37.
					Courveille, Pierre, 302.
					Coustan, Jean, 95.
					Covens and Mortier, Cartographers, 28.
					Coverdale, A. S., 703.
					Coverdale, G. W., 545.
					Covington, Indiana, 369.
					Covington, Lieutenant, 132.
					Covington, Thomas, 691.
					Cox, Rev. William, 333.
					Cox, Moses, 285.
					Cox, Judge Joseph, 519.
					Cox, Jacob, 311.
					Cox, Abijah A., 389.
					Crabill, David, Sr., 631.
					Cracow (Allen County), 647, 683.
					Craemer, August, 391.
					Craft, A. B., 385.
					Craft, Rev. Frost, 295.
					Craig, Captain Elijah, 221.
					Craig, James C., 543.
					Craig, Oscar J., quoted, 41.
					Crane, George D., 485.
					Crane, William M., 449.
					Crankshaw, J. B., 551, 555.
					Craw, Edward L., 467, 516, 551.
					Crawford, A. C., 628.
					Crawford, Colonel William, 80.
					Crawford, George, 302.
					Crawford, John, 683.
					Crawfordsville, Indiana, 131, 141.
					Crematory, Garbage, 536.
					Crematory (Lindenwood), 536.
					Cremean, Rev. F. H., 522.
					Creoles, with LaBalme, 84.
					Crescent Avenue Evangelical Church, 551.
					Cressler, Alfred D., 488, 522.
					Crexius, Pere du, 29.
					Criminal Court, 480, 514.
					Cripe, Reinhard, 603.
					Croghan, Colonel George, 47, 58, 64, 65, 66.
					Croghan, Major George, 66, 201*, 214, 221.
					Cromer, Rev. J. C., 488.
					Cron, Isaac, 310.
					Crossley, Rev. M., 374.
					Crouse, Dr., 520.
					Crowe, Joseph, 645.
					Crow, Michael, 442.
					Crowell, Elivine, 145.
					Croxton, W. A., 519.
					Crozier (interpreter), 230.
					Crull, Dr. Eric A., 554, 563, 586.
					Crumley, James, 360, 375.
					Cuba (Allen County), 666, 671.
					Cuillier, Angeline, 66.
					Cummings, Eleazer, 655.
					Cummins, Henry, 671.
					Cummins, Joseph, 671.
					Cunnison, James, 696.
					Cunnison, Robert, 696.
					Curdes, Louis F., 512, 556.
					Currier, A. H., 476.
					Currier, Charles H., 398.
					Curtice, John F., 501.
					Curtis, Lieutenant Daniel, 200, 204, 210, 228, 238.
					Curtis, Major General Samuel E., 435, 436.
					Curtis, Rev. Eleroy, 382, 430.
					Curtis, Rev. G. O., 487.
					Curtis, William E., 430.
					Cushman, Benjamin, 257, 258, 266, 268, 277, 285, 286, 300.
					Cushman, Dr., 212, 273.
					Cushman, Holloway, 286.
					Cushman, William, 317.
					Cushovis, Lambert, 266.
					Custer House, 343.
					Cutler, I. L., 441.
					Cutshall, Frank H., 579.
					Cutshall, S., 394.
					Cutshall, W. Sherman, 554, 570.
					Cutts, Linas, 670.
					Cuyahoga River, 153, 163.
				
				
					D
					Dafforn, William, 698.
					Daguerreotype Artists, 370.
					Dailey, Joseph S., 489.
					Daily Mail Servlfe, the First, 369.
					Dale, William, 367.
					Dalman, Charles, 531.
					Dalman, Edwin, 697.
					Dalman, John, 515, 523, 526, 697.
					Dalman, Peter, 618.
					Dalman, William, 697.
					Dalton, John, 520.
					Daly, Rev. J. A., 530.
					Daly, William T., 431, 438.
					Dancer, Dr. Charles R., 580.
					Daniels, Captain, 318.
					Daniels, James, 289, 311.
					Daniels, Thomas, 597.
					Dannecker, Rev. H. P., 430, 537.
					D'Argenteuil, d'Ailleboust, 36.
					Darroch, Austin M., 691, 692.
					Darrow, Jared, 328.
					Darrow, Mrs. Jared, 328.
					Darrow, Miss Sarah, 328.
					D'Artiguette, M. de, 40.
					Daughters of the American Revolution, 133, 141, 152, 542, 544, 553, 558.
					Davenport, Major, 211.
					Davidson, Captain James, 221.
					Davies, Joseph A., 521.
					Davies, Rev. George E., 530.
					Davis, Anthony L., 257, 258, 264, 266, 268, 273, 281, 286, 289, 295.
					Davis, George D., 367.
					Davisson, Jacob B., 346.
					Davis, John, 269.
					Davis, John C., 430, 441, 461.
					Davis, Louis, 592.
					Davis, Louis H., 286, 295.
					Davis, Mrs. W. E., 563.
					Davis, U. B., 456.
					Davis, W. T., 266.
					Dawes, Isaac B., 703.
					Dawson, Captain Mark A., 575.
					Dawson, John W., 167, 183, 186, 196, 212, 232, 235, 259, 263, 275, 279, 281, 298,
						337, 341*, 345, 357, 368, 376, 379, 387, 389, 396, 486.
					Dawson, Judge C. M., 474, 487, 501, 512, 515, 523, 537, 538.
					Dawson, Judge Reuben J., 272, 310*, 313, 317, 347, 348, 357, 443, 683.
					Dawson, Mrs. C. M., 526, 563.
					Dawson, Ronald, 545.
					Day, Rev. G. B., 496.
					
					Day, Rev. J. M., 374.
					Day, Yearless, 370.
					Dayton House, 344.
					"Daylight Saving," 585.
					Dean, Laertes B., 402.
					Dearborn, General Henry, 159, 160, 162, 164, 165, 172, 237, 260.
					Debtors' Prison, 278, 279, 280.
					Decatur, Indiana, 224.
					Dedication of Fort Wayne, 147.
					Deep Waterways Association, 564.
					Deer, 90, 92, 261, 642.
					Deer, The, Miami Chief, 88.
					Defrees, James L., 441.
					Defrees, Joseph H., 467, 479.
					Defiance, Ohio (See also Fort Defiance), 63, 112, 127, 130, 154.
					Deihl, Hugh M., 473, 474, 497, 505, 515.
					Dehm, H. U., 570.
					Deitschel, Peter A., 554, 570.
					Dejean, Philippe, 70, 72.
					DeKay, Thomas T., 395, 407, 418.
					DeKay, Washington, 375.
					Delagrange, J. E., 523.
					Delaney, Rev. J. F., 528.
					Delaware Indians, 62, 73, 86, 89, 100, 101, 102, 111, 164, 165, 166, 183, 185,
						377.
					Delaware Town, 89.
					DeLong, John, 635.
					Delphi, Indiana, 369.
					Delta Lake (Lakeside), 491.
					Democrat, Fort Wayne (1), 309.
					Democrat, Fort Wayne (2), 415.
					Democrat (German Newspaper), 437.
					DeNeal, J. William, 313, 339.
					"Den of Thieves," 480.
					Dennis, Philip, 171, 172.
					Denny, Major Ebenezer, 100, 102, 103, 104, 111, 112, 115, 117, 118, 119,
						192*.
					DePeyster, Colonel Arent Schuyler, 72, 78, 79, 80, 83.
					Der Deutsche Beobachter von Indiana, 374.
					DeRome, Charles H., 611.
					DeRome, Maria Christina, 289, 244.
					Dessauer, Louis, 489, 496.
					Detroit, 29, 34, 85, 42, 48, 14, 46, 56, 65, 68, 70, 71, 72, 74, 76, 80, 102, 113,
						130, 154, 162, 172, 188, 189, 193, 204, 214, 217.
					Detroit River, 29.
					Detroit Township, 163.
					Detzer, Martin, 554.
					Detzer, A. J., 563.
					Detzer, Mrs. Laura G., 228, 305, 527, 558, 579.
					Dever, John, 663.
					DeVilbiss, Allen, 628.
					DeVilbiss, Thomas D., 531.
					"Devil's Hollow," 693.
					Devlin, James, 336.
					DeWald, George, 347, 352, 486, 489.
					DeWald, S. F., 575.
					Dewey, Hiram T., 349, 356.
					D'Iberville, LeMoyne, 33, 34.
					Dicey, Edwin, 560.
					Dickens, Charles, quoted, 167, 168.
					Dickerson, Gideon, 643.
					Dickerson, Henry, 430, 431, 438, 441.
					Dickerson, R., 363.
					Dickey, William, 368.
					Dickinson, Joshua, 705.
					Dickinson, L., 221.
					Dickson, Rev. Mr., 389.
					Dickson, Robert, 230.
					Diehle, Henry, 271.
					Diether, Charles F., 406.
					Diether, John H., 407.
					Diether, Louis, 407.
					Dietrich, C. J., 562.
					Diggins, Dr., 602.
					Dillon, Asa, 630.
					Dillon, John B., quoted, 120.
					Dills, Dr. Thomas J., 497, 656.
					Dills, W. H., 309.
					Dingman, Abraham, 618.
					Dinnen, Dr. James M., 512, 513.
					Dinwiddie, Governor, 55.
					Directory, First City, 448.
					D'Isay, Mrs. Isaac, 308, 330.
					Dispatch, The (Newspaper), 497.
					Distilleries, 403.
					Dittoe, Charles W., 554.
					Dixon, Rev. H. S., 295.
					Dixon, Robert, 230.
					Doane, George W., 648.
					Doane, Joseph, 286.
					"Dock, The," Canal Boat Landing, 369.
					Dodane, Joseph, 648.
					Dodez, Dr. E. W., 550.
					Doege, Rev. Gustave, 530.
					Doehrman, William, 515, 523, 545.
					Doerfler, George, 489.
					Dollar Weekly Press (Publication), 497.
					Donner, Joseph, 637.
					Dorchester, Lord, 95, 113, 125, 137.
					Dorien (Frenchman), 83.
					Dorn, Louis W., 554, 563, 569, 578, 581.
					Dorsey, Benjamin, 674, 675.
					Dorsey, George, 674, 675.
					Dorsey, John, 675.
					Dorsey, Robert, 674, 675.
					Dorsey, Thomas, 675.
					Dorwin, Rev. J. C., 484.
					Doswell, George W., 504.
					Doswell, John W., 447.
					Doty, Silas, 279.
					Dougall, Allan H., 449, 586, 537, 543, 598, 599.
					Dougall, John, 602.
					Doughman, Newton D., 531, 544.
					Douglas Hickory Club, 451.
					Douglass, Robert L., 278, 360, 395, 416.
					Douglas, W. V., 353, 467.
					Douglas, Mrs. William V., 335.
					Douglas, Stephen A., 451.
					Douville, Ensign, 27, 34.
					Downey, Dennis, 462, 479.
					Dowling, B., 600.
					Dowling, Thomas, 584.
					Downing, J. B., 477.
					Doyle, Samuel, 368.
					Doyle, William, 368.
					Draeger, C. P., 353.
					Drage, Henry, 619.
					Dragoons, Fort Wayne, 428.
					Drake, Benjamin, 187.
					Drake, Colonel James P., 388.
					Drake, F. P., 467.
					Drake, Jacob, 630.
					Drake, John, 431.
					Drake, M., 431.
					Drake, Moses, Jr., 386, 424, 450, 458*, 461, 476.
					Draker, John, 416.
					Draper, Dr. Lyman C., 188.
					Drayer, Dr. L. P., 538, 580, 582.
					Dreibelbiss, Robert B., 526, 540.
					Dreier, Andrew T., 497.
					Dreier, William H., 525.
					Dreisbach, Isaac, 671.
					Dreuillettes, Gabriel, 25.
					Drewett, Guy, 560, 561.
					Dreyer, Rev. F., 514.
					Dripps, William A., 467.
					Driver, Rev. John M., 484.
					Driving Park, 522, 532, 542.
					Driving Club, Fort Wayne, 522.
					Droegemeyer, J. A., 489, 496.
					Drought of 1838, 340.
					Drouillard (Frenchman), 83.
					Drover, Henry, 431.
					Drummond, C. L., 529, 526, 545.
					Dryer, Mrs. Charles R., 526, 529.
					DuBois, John B., 288, 289, 295, 310, 313, 321, 354*, 385, 396, 411, 453.
					Dubois, L., 95.
					Dubuisson, Ensign, 34, 38, 41, 44, 50.
					Dudley, W. W., 512.
					Duemling, Dr. H. A., 552, 554, 580.
					Dufresne, Antoine, 91, 92.
					Dugan, Joseph P., 401.
					"Duke of Tacoma" (Ferry), 227.
					Dumm, R. D., 309, 411.
					Duncan, Ensign, 132.
					Dunckelberg, William, 434.
					Dunkard Church, 536.
					Dunkelberg, Mrs. Charles A., 292.
					Dunlap, Rev. J. H., 338.
					Dunlap, Samuel, 689.
					Dunn, Jacob P (quoted), 19, 24, 36, 41, 56, 81, 83, 127, 162, 196.
					Dunten, Ephraim H., 649.
					Dunten, Ephraim H., Jr., 649.
					Dunten, Horace F., 649, 650, 651.
					Dunten, Thomas, 649, 650.
					Durbin, Governor W. T., 534.
					Durrie, H., 387.
					Durvey, Horace, 373.
					Dwenger, Bishop Joseph, 494, 530.
					Dykes, Andrew, 678.
					Dykes, Robert, 313.
				
				
					E
					Eades, David, 389.
					Eagle Engine Company, 315.
					Eagy, George, 625, 626.
					Eagy, John, 629.
					Earle, William, 485.
					Early Baseball Teams (See also Kekionga Baseball Team), 466, 473, 474.
					Early British Forts in the West, 49, 50.
					Early Mails, 254.
					Early Water Supply, 317.
					Earthquakes, 514, 536.
					East Creighton Avenue Church of Christ, 544.
					"Eastern" Time Adopted, 585.
					East Liberty, Allen County, 633.
					Eaton, Mrs. Kate, 491.
					Ebbert, F. R., 310.
					Eby, Gordon L., 569.
					Eckart, Frederick, 422, 504.
					Eckert, D. C., 538.
					Eckert, John C., 469, 489.
					Edgar, John, 73.
					Edgerly, Daniel, 389.
					Edgerton, Alfred P., 425, 446*, 448, 454, 479, 489, 497, 502, 504, 515.
					Edgerton, Clement W., 488, 678, 681.
					Edgerton, Edward, 680.
					Edgerton, H. H., 425.
					Edgerton, Indiana, 706.
					Edgerton, Joseph K., 243, 272, 384, 386*, 409, 459, 467, 483, 599, 608, 678,
						704.
					Edinger, Rev. M., 496.
					Edlavitch, Dr. B. M., 580.
					Edmunds, Eliphalet, 596.
					Edmunds, J. W., 287.
					Edsall, Clarence W., 523, 531.
					Edsall, John, 269, 273, 310.
					Edsall, Joseph P., 313.
					Edsall, Peter, 589.
					Edsall, Mrs. Peter, 269, 278.
					Edsall, Samuel, 269*, 274, 288, 295, 311, 313, 323, 325, 326, 340, 354, 355, 360,
						363, 366, 373, 419, 441, 442, 443, 444, 453, 456, 459, 471, 472, 589.
					
					Edsall, Simon, 269, 273, 295.
					Edsall, William S., 269*, 273, 306, 313, 323, 340, 348, 366, 373, 389, 403, 489,
						492, 589.
					Edsall's Mill, 269, 366*, 378.
					Edwards, A. M., 158.
					Edwards, Charles, 388.
					Edwards, Dr. Abraham, 158, 173, 182.
					Edwards, John, 625.
					Edwards, Rev. Jonathan, 295, 384.
					Edwards, Rev. L. M., 484.
					Eel River, 83, 112, 164, 166, 184, 211.
					Eel River Township (Allen County), 645-648.
					Eggeman, Judge John W., 554, 574, 577, 578, 582.
					Eggeman, Peter, 525, 531, 538, 545.
					Eggeman, William, 545, 554, 578.
					Eggleston, Judge Miles C., 284, 285.
					Ehinger, Roman, 352.
					Ehle, Rev. C. E., 551.
					Ehlers, J. H., 477.
					Ehrman, E. J., 538, 545, 570.
					Eighty-eighth Regiment, I. N. G., 456.
					Eisenhut, George, 582.
					Electric Works, Fort Wayne, 510.
					Electrotechnic Band, 353.
					Elephant, American, Remains of, 23.
					Elevation of Railway Tracks, 548.
					Elkhart River, 211.
					Eleventh Indiana Battery (1862), 456.
					Elks' Band, 353.
					Elks' Temple, 544.
					Ellicott, George, 171.
					Ellinger, William, 461.
					Ellingham, Lew G., 485, 582.
					Elliott, B. H., 554.
					Elliott, Colonel Matthew, 69, 77, 96, 122, 215.
					Ellis, W. A., 431.
					Ellison, Thomas E., 504, 515, 525, 531, 564, 565.
					Elliston, Captain Jacob, 221.
					Ellsworth, Henry L., 363, 364.
					Elskwatawa (See "Prophet, The").
					Ely, Edward, 545, 693.
					Ely, George W., 469, 523, 525, 526.
					Emanuel Evangelical Lutheran Church, 487.
					Embry, James, 235.
					Embry, John, 313.
					Eme, Claude F., 384.
					Emenhiser, Adam, 627.
					Emenhiser, Joseph, 627.
					Emenhiser, Stephen, 628.
					Empire Mill, 373.
					Empress Theatre, 552.
					Emrick, A. J., 431, 489.
					Emrick, Dr. A. G., 573.
					Emrick, F. A., 554.
					Emrick, E. V., 538, 574.
					Engages, 89, 96, 250.
					Engle, Dr. A., 627.
					Englemann, Mrs. Archangel, 225, 233, 353, 356*.
					Engler, E., 437.
					English, Colonel, 136, 137.
					English Explorers and Settlers, 20, 22, 32, 42.
					English, James, 628.
					English, William H., quoted, 73.
					Ensworth, Joseph, 288, 289, 313.
					Ephriam (Ephraim), Slave, 216, 218.
					Episcopal Church of the Good Shepherd, 487.
					Erdman, Rev. W. J., 382.
					Erf, Norma, 584.
					Erie-Michigan Canal Project, 564.
					Erwin, Dr. A. J., 467, 489.
					Erwin, Dr. Harry, 658.
					Esarey, Logan, quoted, 30, 95, 112.
					Esmond, George, 286, 592.
					Essig, Charles O., 526.
					Essig, William, 621, 623, 624.
					Ettelson, Rabbi Harry W., 403.
					Ettinger, Jeremiah, 456.
					Eustis, William, 166, 189.
					Evacuation of Fort Wayne, 240, 241.
					Evans, Amos S., 465, 593.
					Evans, Dr. John, 300, 361.
					Evans, Italia E., 563.
					Evans, Mrs. A. S., 495.
					Evans, Mrs. George, 577.
					Evans, P., 363.
					Evans, Rev. A. R., 382.
					Evans, Rev. E., 484.
					Evans, Rev. J. H., 484.
					Evans, Rinaldo, 300.
					Evans, S. Cary, 192*, 300, 386, 504, 608.
					Evans, W. Rush, 300.
					Evard, Clement, 705.
					Everett, Charles, 682.
					Everett Lake, 682.
					Everly, Jacob, 271.
					Ewing, Colonel Alexander, 254, 256, 258, 263, 265, 266, 267, 269, 270, 271,
						278.
					Ewing, Alexander H., 254, 255.
					Ewing, Charles W., 254, 258, 262*, 268, 269, 270, 271, 272, 306, 309, 336.
					Ewing, Colonel G. W., 227, 254, 255, 259, 262*, 287, 310, 323, 327, 329, 333, 435,
						453, 485, 461.
					Ewing, Dr., 221.
					Ewing, Mrs. Alexander, 194, 211.
					Ewing, Mrs. George W., 227, 254.
					Ewing, Judge W. G., 254, 255, 259, 266, 269, 272, 277, 287, 288, 300, 302, 310, 313,
						319, 323, 326, 327, 333, 345, 363, 364, 366, 395, 409, 414.
					Ewing's Hall, 485.
					Ewing's Tavern (See Washington Hall).
					Execution of Madden and Keefer, 432.
					Execution of Gregory McDougal, 440.
					Execution of Samuel McDonald, 511.
					Exline, Rev. Mr., 633.
					Eyansides, C. H., 484.
				
				
					F
					Fair Association, Fort Wayne, 542.
					Fairbank, Clark, 484, 487.
					Fairbank, Mrs. Clark, 264, 279, 348, 359, 362, 364, 365, 372, 419, 553, 577.
					Fairbanks, Charles W., 529.
					Fairbank, Rev. J. B., 488.
					Fairfield, Captain Asa, 286, 319, 320, 321, 324*, 326, 340, 366, 398, 592.
					Fairfield, Captain William, 319, 592.
					Fairfield, Charles, 320, 593.
					Fairfield, Cyrus K., 320, 593.
					Fairfield, James M., 593.
					Fairfield, John, 143, 297, 331, 388.
					Fairfield, Oliver, 319, 331, 593.
					Fairfield, William A., 593.
					Fairfield's Band, 388.
					Fairport (Allen County), 637.
					"Fairy Queen" (Eliza Nestel), 357, 461.
					Fair Grounds (Swinney Park), 492.
					Falabee, P., 479.
					Falk, Leopold, 418.
					Falker, Frank, 515.
					Fall, Philip, 596.
					Fallen Timber Battle, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132.
					Faller, Rev. E., 333.
					Faller, Rev. Edward M., 403.
					Fallo, George, 339.
					Falls, Joseph, 384.
					Farmers' Mutual Fire Insurance Co., 553.
					Farnsworth, Rev. Freeman, 294.
					Farrand, Nathan, 288.
					Faulkner, Captain, 104, 105.
					Fauve, Mrs. A. E., 579.
					Fay, Judge James A., 442*, 448, 480, 518.
					Federation of Women's Clubs, Indiana, 552, 553.
					Feeder Canal, 283, 305, 306, 325*, 503, 507.
					Feeder Dam, 283, 307, 322, 503.
					Felger, Harry W., 554.
					Felger, Henry G., 543.
					Felger, John, 622.
					Felix, Peter, 269.
					Felt, W. B., 492.
					Felts, George F., 521, 523, 529, 530, 542.
					Female College, Fort Wayne, 389.
					Ferguson (Allen County), 700.
					Ferguson, John, 437, 536.
					Ferguson, Major W., 113.
					Ferguson, W. A., 525, 581, 584.
					Ferguson, W. T., 563.
					Ferrand, Mrs. Ann, 186.
					Ferrell, Cornelius, 696.
					Ferries Across Fort Wayne Rivers, 290.
					Ferrand, Nathan, 264.
					Ferry, Colonel Clinton P., 227.
					Ferry, Elisha P., 307.
					Ferry, Lucien P., 227, 307*, 310, 317, 323, 326, 335, 340, 349, 357, 360, 363,
						375.
					Ferry, Mrs. Lucien P., 176, 179, 225*, 227, 228, 244, 249, 259, 279, 296.
					Feustel, August, 492.
					Feustel, Robert M., 576.
					Fickel, George W., 523.
					Field, Rev. J. N., 333.
					Fifth Court House, 534, 576*.
					Figel, John C., 545.
					Filton, Thomas B., 366.
					Finney, Rev. J. B., quoted, 248.
					Fink, Charles, 396.
					Findlay, Fort Wayne and Western Railway, 522.
					Fincher, Jonathan C., 471.
					Fire Alarm System, 315.
					Fire Association, Fort Wayne (1858), 315.
					Fire Department, 313-317.
					Fire Limits (1849), 314.
					Fires, 279, 286, 343, 345, 406, 445, 469, 483, 485, 494, 495, 502, 513, 514, 517,
						541.
					First Things in Fort Wayne: 
							Arc Lamps, 509.
							Automobile, 535.
							Balloon Ascension, 450.
							Bands of Music, 351.
							Bank, 326.
							Bank Building, 330*
							Baseball Club, 466.
							Baseball Grounds, 468*.
							Brick House, 247.
							Brick Business Building, 274.
							Brickyard, 273.
							Bicycle, 487.
							Catholic School, 387.
							Church Building, 324*, 333.
							
							Church Organizations, 292, 293, 294, 295.
							City Charter, 348.
							City Council, 348.
							City Directory, 448.
							City Officials, 348, 349.
							Clay School Building, 433*.
							Cook Stove, 335.
							County Election, 266.
							County Fair, 426.
							Court House, 298, 301.
							Daily Mail Service, 369.
							Daily Newspapers, 426.
							Decoration Day, 481.
							Dentist, 406.
							Divorce Case, 270.
							Druggist, 307.
							Fire Company, 311.
							Football Game, 520.
							Gas Company, 424.
							Golf Club, 520.
							Grist Mill, 286.
							Ice Cream, 386.
							Jefferson School, 434*.
							Labor Unions, 471.
							Lawyer, 254.
							Locomotive, 409.
							Mail Carriers, 492.
							Market House, 331.
							Marriage License, 270.
							Memorial Day, 481.
							Newspaper, 308.
							Photographs, 434.
							Police Station, 465.
							Postoffice, 252.
							Postmaster, 252.
							Public Schools, 420, 422, 425.
							Railroad, 408, 409.
							Railroad Excursion, 411.
							School Building, 346*.
							School of Fort Wayne, 244, 247.
							Secret Society, 253.
							Stenographer, 514.
							Strawberries, 386.
							Street Numbering, 415.
							Street Paving, 473.
							Street Railway, 490.
							Streets, 263.
							Suffrage Society, 491.
							Sunday School, 311.
							Taverns, 265.
							Taxicabs, 545.
							Telegraph Service, 397.
							Telephone System, 507.
							Theatre, 424.
							Typewriter, 514.
							White Man, 17*.
						
					First and Hamilton National Bank, 259, 423, 452, 465.
					First Baptist Church, 382.
					First Church of Christ, Scientist, 537.
					First Evangelical Church, 484.
					First Methodist Episcopal Church, 294.
					First Presbyterian Church, 295, 324*.
					First Regiment Band, 353.
					Fischer, Henry E., 523.
					Fisher, D. C., 513, 563.
					Fisher, George, 484, 489.
					Fisher, Rev. Joseph, 484.
					Fisher, R. J., 315, 474, 475, 513, 516, 530, 531, 641.
					Fisher, S., 363.
					Fisher, Sterns, 387.
					Fisher, William B., 465, 467, 489.
					Fishering, George W., 569.
					Fisk, Charles, 488.
					Fissell, Charles A., 570.
					Fitch, Amos, 653.
					Fitch, Charles B., 496, 526, 551, 569.
					Fitch, David, 655.
					Fitch, Matthias, 653, 655.
					Fitch, Nathaniel, 650, 653, 656.
					Fitch, Perry, 653.
					Fitzgerald, William, Sr., 637.
					Fitzsimmons, George W., 456.
					Five Medals, Indian Chief, 175, 207.
					Five Medals Village, 221.
					Five Points (Allen County), 698.
					Flag of Fort Wayne, 560, 561*.
					Flag-raisings (1917), 573.
					Flag, Wayne's, 162*.
					Fleming, George B., 497.
					Fleming, Helen F., 537.
					Fleming, O. E., 505.
					Fleming, Robert, 594.
					Fleming, Robert E. (R. Emmett), 254, 272, 313, 333, 336, 347, 348, 357, 360, 361,
						395, 414, 425, 443.
					Fleming, Stephen B., 545, 554.
					Fleming, William, 309, 394, 409, 417*, 418, 422, 425, 434, 438, 439, 441, 469, 479,
						489, 472, 504, 509, 522.
					Fleming, W. H., 542.
					Fleming, Rev. J. Budman, 382.
					Fletcher, Calvin, 478.
					Fletcher, C. C., 483.
					Fletcher, Governor Benjamin, 36.
					Fletcher, Harry P., 570.
					Fletter, Samuel C., 315.
					Flintlock Guns, 101.
					Flint Springs (Huntington), Indiana, 322.
					Floods, 93, 395, 416,' 484, 537, 542, 543, 544, 546, 547, 548, 549, 550.
					Flowing Wells, 494, 537.
					Flutter, Samuel C., 326.
					Foellinger, A., 545.
					Foellinger, Fred, 357.
					Foellinger, Jacob, 431, 441.
					Foellinger, Martin, 352.
					Fogwell, David, 701.
					Fogwell, Samuel, 697, 701.
					Fogwell, William, 701.
					Foley, Christian, 701.
					Foley, John, 701.
					Folsom, Rev. Arthur J., 488, 574, 575, 577, 582.
					Fonner, John B., 530, 531.
					Fontaine, Major James, 99, 103, 105, 106, 108, 109, 112, 113.
					Food Relief Committee (1917), 584.
					Football Game, First, 520.
					Foran, James, 474.
					Forbes, Charles, 438.
					Force, Edward, 446.
					Ford, Dr. J. H., 500.
					Ford, J. E., 535, 536.
					Ford, Owen, 541.
					Forest Fires, 676.
					Foresters, Independent Order of, 496.
					Forest Park, 108, 111.
					Forestry, City, 548.
					Forsythe, J., 95.
					Forsythe, James, 672.
					Forsythe, John, 278, 312.
					Forsythe, Robert, 192, 228, 258.
					Forsythe, Thomas, 266, 278, 280.
					Forsythe, Mrs. Thomas, 280.
					Fort Dearborn Massacre, 165, 178, 179, 181, 182, 183, 190, 193-196, 198, 230.
					Fortner, Joseph, 53.
					"Fort Recovery" (Anti-Tuberculosis Camp), 550, 564, 659.
					Forts: 
							Adams, 127, 155.
							Chartres, 56.
							Dearborn (See also Fort Dearborn Massacre, and Chicago, Illinois), 84, 111, 136,
								162, 165, 172, 178, 179, 181, 187, 188, 193, 194, 226, 231, 233, 237.
							Defiance (See also Defiance, Ohio), 128, 129, 130, 138, 139, 140, 146, 155, 156,
								207, 214-217.
							Deposit, 128, 130.
							Frontenac, 30.
							Granville, 56.
							Greenville (See also Greenville, Ohio), 124, 138, 141, 144, 146, 148, 149, 150,
								152, 153, 154.
							Hamilton, 115, 123.
							Harrison, 198, 208, 214, 244.
							Industry, 157.
							Jefferson, 115, 117, 123, 155.
							Knox (Indiana), 148.
							Knox (Ohio), 155.
							Laurens, 153.
							Lernoult (Detroit), 155.
							Mackinac (See also Mackinac), 155, 157, 159, 162.
							Meigs, 220.
							Miami (British), 125, 128, 182, 133, 134, 135, 138, 155.
							Michilimackinae (See Fort Mackinac and Mackinac).
							Niagara, 55, 219.
							Pitt, 62, 69, 73, 77, 119.
							Recovery, Ohio, 116, 138, 153, 155, 159, 174.
							St. Joseph, 58.
							Sandusky (See also Sandusky, Ohio), 58, 155.
							Stephenson (Fremont, Ohio), 201, 214, 221).
							Washington (See also Cincinnati, Ohio), 102, 104, 106, 113, 115, 119, 123, 132,
								167, 233.
							Winchester, 217, 221.
						
					Fort Wayne (Stockade), 22, 102, 120, 139-149, 155, 156, 157, 158, 164, 171, 177*,
						181, 190, 215, 228, 229, 230, 232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 247, 254, 258, 261, 297, 355,
						556*, 557*.
					Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad, 410.
					Fort Wayne and Decatur Traction Line, 529.
					Fort Wayne and Northern Indiana Traction Company, 524, 539, 550, 552.
					Fort Wayne and Northwestern Traction Line, 539.
					Fort Wayne and Saginaw Railroad (See also Lake Shore and Michigan Southern),
						482-483.
					Fort Wayne and Southwestern Traction Company, 539.
					Fort Wayne and Wabash Valley Traction Company, 524, 538.
					Fort Wayne College, 390.
					Fort Wayne Consolidated Railway Company, 524.
					Fort Wayne Dragoons, 428.
					Fort Wayne Drug Company, 538.
					Fort Wayne Electric Railway Company, 491, 524.
					Fort Wayne Flag, 560, 561*.
					Fort Wayne Gas Light Co., 424.
					Fort Wayne Guards, 356.
					Fort Wayne Hotel Company, 541.
					Fort Wayne Light Guards (1874), 492.
					Fort Wayne, Muncie and Cincinnati Railroad (See also Lake Erie and Western),
						482-483.
					Fort Wayne National Bank, 328.
					Fort Wayne, Richmond and Cincinnati Railroad (See also Grand Rapids and Indiana),
						482, 483.
					Fort Wayne Rifles, 530, 531.
					Fort Wayne Savings Bank, 486.
					Fort Wayne Street Railway Company, 490, 524.
					
					Fort Wayne Telephone Company, 508.
					Fort Wayne Traction Company, 524.
					Fort Wayne True Blues, 531.
					Fort Wayne Trust Company, 530.
					Forty-fourth Regiment, I. N. G. (1861), 46.
					"Forty-Niners," 401.
					Foster, Andrew J., 488.
					Foster, Colonel David N., 503, 522, 525, 526, 527, 531, 533, 536, 537, 547, 554,
						560, 561.
					Foster, Mrs. D. N., 526.
					Foster, Samuel M., 503, 504, 508, 512, 522, 526, 527, 530, 531, 534, 537, 540, 544,
						547, 551, 555, 578, 579.
					Foster, Thomas J., 484, 502, 505, 602.
					Fourth Courthouse, 458, 460*.
					Fowler, George S., 493.
					Fowler, Glen, 236.
					Fowler, Hugh, 236.
					Fowler, Miss Clara, 527.
					Fowler, Robert, 236.
					Fowler, W. J., 497.
					Fox, George, 493.
					Fox Hunts, 477.
					Fox Indians, 50.
					Fox, Joseph R., 403.
					Fox, Joseph V., 545.
					Fox, Louis, 504, 530, 531, 552.
					Fox, Rev. F. M., 484.
					Foxtater, George, 637, 638.
					France, Joseph S., 461, 497.
					Francisco, Prof. W. J., 495.
					Frank, Mendel, 488.
					Frank, Theodore, 534.
					Franke, Frank J., 431, 438.
					Franke, F. William, 545.
					Franke, Henry C., 523, 531.
					Franke, John B., 576.
					Franke, Julian F., 545, 583.
					Franklin, Benjamin, 73, 135.
					Franklin House, 339.
					Franklin, Ohio, 216, 223, 256.
					Franklin, Ross, 556.
					Frary, Rev. William, 333.
					Free Employment Bureau, 552.
					Free Mail Delivery, 491.
					Freeman, Avery, 368.
					Freeman, F. C., 646, 654.
					Freeman, James, 173.
					Freeman, J. B., 398.
					Freeman (Messenger to Indians), 122.
					Freeman, N. B., 615.
					Freeman, Rev. A. W., 382.
					Freeman, S. C., 286, 334, 340, 356, 363, 407, 418, 431, 438, 441, 461, 489, 496,
						592.
					Freeman, Thomas, 161.
					Free Methodist (Hughie Bowser) Church, 496.
					Free Rural Mail Delivery, 536.
					"Free" Schools (See Public Schools).
					Freiburger, Ignatius, 438.
					Freiburger, S., 488.
					Freie Presse, Ft. Wayne, 545.
					Fremion, Joseph, 430.
					Fremont, Ohio (See also Fort Stephenson), 201, 214, 221.
					French and Indian War, 47, 55.
					French, Charles G., 349, 354, 396, 402, 407, 420, 430.
					French Explorers and Settlers, 18, 20, 22, 25, 29, 31, 33, 42, 55, 74.
					French Forts (Site of City of Fort Wayne), 34*, 38*, 43*, 46, 47, 50, 52, 109, 110,
						112.
					French, R. Morgan, 384, 473, 511, 550.
					Freshour, George, 695.
					Fresh Air School, 364.
					Friedline, Emanuel, 631.
					Friedline, John, 631.
					Friedline, John D., 631.
					Friend, A. T., 531.
					Friend, Harry, 526.
					Friends, Society of, 169, 171, 172.
					Frink, A. F., 289.
					Frontenac, Governor of Canada, 36.
					Frothingham, Lieutenant, 113.
					Fruechtenicht, William, 545.
					Fry, H. W., 315.
					Fry, Jacob, 304*, 319, 441.
					Fry, James H., 530, 551, 552.
					Fry, Joseph B., 467, 489.
					Frysinger, Peter, 301.
					Fuelber, Anselm, 545, 582.
					Fugitive Slaves, 290, 291, 292.
					Fuhrman, Rev. C. E., 295.
					Fulkerson, Abraham, 662.
					Fulton, Rev. J. M., 382.
					Funk, Jacob, 545.
					Furste, Francis L., 441, 442, 450.
					Fur Trade, Early, 32, 33, 37, 39, 41, 48, 74, 89, 90, 249, 250, 287, 435.
				
				
					G
					Gable, Jacob, 545.
					Gaffney, William, 505, 515.
					Gamble, A., 438.
					Gamelin, Antoine, 101, 102, 110.
					Gamelin, Paul, 96.
					Garbage Crematory, 536.
					Ganiere, George E., 561.
					Gar Creek (Allen County), 638.
					Gard, Dr. Brookfleld, 488.
					Gardner, H. A., 471.
					Garnsey, Daniel, 360.
					Garten, H. B., 343.
					Garvin, Alma, 585.
					Gas Company, Fort Wayne, 516.
					Gas Service, 424, 425.
					Gaskins, Maude, 584.
					Gault, John, 625.
					Gause Agricultural Works, 509.
					Gavin, Robert, Sr., 113.
					Gayarre, M., 56.
					Gaylord, J. C., 368.
					Gazette, Fort Wayne, 468, 486.
					Geake, J. J., 495.
					Geake, William, 495, 538, 580, 582.
					Gearin, Cornelius, 686.
					Gearin, John, 686.
					Geneva (Allen County), 678.
					Geary, Daniel, 383.
					Geebance, Indian Chief, 231.
					Geller, George, 450.
					Gemmo, Indian Chief, 231.
					General Electric Company, 261, 509, 510.
					Genet, "Citizen," 121.
					George Humphrey Post, G. A. R., 477.
					George, Lorenzo D., 637.
					Georgetown, Indiana, 369.
					Gerard, Abner, 271, 289, 295, 300, 319.
					Gerard, John, 597.
					Gerard, Moses, 271.
					Gerard, Stephen, 319.
					Gerberding, R. E., 582.
					Gerding, John F., 683.
					Gerding, W. E., 538, 545.
					German-American National Bank, 540.
					German-American Trust Company, 551.
					German Baptist (Dunkard) Church, 536.
					German Immigration, 414.
					Geronimo (Indian Chief), 457.
					Gerrard, Captain, 205, 211.
					Getz, Carl J., 548, 570, 584.
					Getz, Joseph F., 545.
					Gibson, Colonel John, 165, 166.
					Gibeaud, Peter, 293.
					Gilbert, A., 483.
					Gilbert, John, 485.
					Gilbert, Newton W., 540, 544.
					Gildersleeve, Rev. William, 333, 685.
					Gilhams, C. C., 541, 542, 543.
					Gilkinson, W. S., 479.
					Gillett, C. M., 538, 545.
					Gillett, Rev. S. T., 390.
					Gillett, Wilkes, 637, 638.
					Gillie, Dr. George W., 177, 184, 190, 196, 552, 553, 570, 578, 580, 582.
					Gilmartin, Edward, 476.
					Gilpin, Dr. J. H., 554, 580, 581.
					Gilpin, Mrs. John H., 585.
					Ginius, Daniel M., 313.
					Gipe, Amos, 702.
					Girard (Messenger to Indians), 122.
					Girty, George, 73, 77, 80, 89, 92, 96.
					Girty, James, 73, 77, 80, 92, 93, 96.
					Girty, Simon, 69, 73, 77*, 80, 96, 110, 110, 122.
					Girty's Town (St. Mary's), Ohio, 209.
					Gist, Christopher, 53.
					Glacial Lake, 21*.
					Glaciers, 24.
					Gladieux, A. C., 554, 644.
					Gladwyn, Major Henry, 58, 59, 60, 62, 176.
					Glasgow, W. C., 513.
					Glassbrenner, Ben, 271.
					Glassbrenner, Jacob, 271.
					Glaze, Absalom, 666.
					Glaze, Richard, 666, 667, 668.
					Glenn, John, 441.
					Glenn, W. M., 581, 545.
					Globe Gas Light Co., 425.
					Glock, Dr. C. M., 685.
					"Glorious Gate," 153.
					"Glorious Gateway of the West" (Pageant), 559, 561.
					Gloyd, Albert, 656.
					Gloyd, Edwin G., 653.
					Gloyd, George B., 653, 656.
					Gloyd, Jeremiah D., 515, 653, 656.
					Gloyd, William S., 654, 656.
					Gloyd's Mill, 659.
					Glutting, A. F., 534.
					Gobrecht, Dr. W. H., 504.
					Gocke, Anthony, 416.
					Gocke, Frank, 523.
					Godefroy, Jacques, 60, 62, 63, 64, 95.
					Godet (Frenchman), 88.
					Godfrey, Annie, 381.
					Godfrey, Chief Francis, 381.
					Godfrey, George L., 381, 591.
					Godfrey, James (1), 227, 233.
					Godfrey, James (2), 381.
					Godfrey, James R., 381, 591.
					Godfrey, Jean Baptiste, 296, 302.
					Godfrey, John, Sr., 233, 381.
					Godfrey, John, Jr., 233.
					Godfrey, Louis, 244.
					Godfrey, Louisa, 381.
					Godfrey, Mary, 381.
					Godfrey, R. N., 438.
					Godfrey Trace, 694.
					Godman, Rev. A., 496.
					Godown, John M., 497.
					Goebel, Fred, 353.
					Goeglein (Allen County), 617.
					Goeglein, Jacob, 505, 515.
					Goheene, Joshua, 683, 685.
					Goheene, William, 683.
					Goins, Joseph, 605.
					Goldberg, Rabbi E. B., 553.
					Golden Eagle Baseball Team, 518.
					Golden, E. J., 526.
					Golf Club, 520.
					Gold Fields, Rush to, 401.
					Gomer, Rev. J. N., 484.
					Goodman House, 343.
					
					Goodrich, C. E., 418.
					Goodrich, D. Parsons, 559, 560.
					Good Shepherd, Church of, 487.
					Good Templars Lodge, 450.
					Goodwin, Rees, 271.
					Gordon, G. P., 521, 523.
					Gordon, Walter E., 566.
					Gorham, Charles D., 471, 473, 474, 529.
					Gorham, Mrs. Charles D., 351.
					Gorham, Charles E., 483, 498.
					Gorham, F. A., 473, 474.
					Gorman, Dennis F., 584.
					Gorman, George A., 389.
					Gorrell, Dr. C. V., 685, 384, 685.
					Gorrell, W. D., 602.
					Gorsline, Homer A., 487, 531.
					Gorsline, Mrs. M. B., 491, 537.
					Gorsline, Sylvester L., 487.
					Goshen Road, 112, 370, 606, 683, 693.
					Goshorn, J. S., 489, 493, 523.
					Goshorn, William H., 479, 489, 497, 505, 515.
					Gothe, Gustave, 600.
					Gougar, Mrs. Helen M., 491.
					Gouin (Frenchman), 83.
					Gould, Dr. Lyman K., 581.
					Gould, Jay, 514.
					Gouty, William, 687, 689.
					Gowdy, John K., 529.
					Grabill, Indiana, 664.
					Grace Chapel, Presbyterian, 553.
					Grace Evangelical Lutheran Church, 529.
					Grace Reformed Church, 514.
					Graebner, Rev. J. R., 530.
					Graeter, W. F., 584.
					Graff, Joseph, 385.
					Graff, M. L., 522.
					Graffe, Frederick, 357.
					Graffe, Henry, 531.
					Graffe, Henry C., 352.
					Grafton, J. J., 468.
					Graham, J. E., 497, 568.
					Grahame, Samuel, 632.
					Grand Army of the Republic, 477, 514, 529, 544.
					Grand Hotel, 501.
					Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad, 411, 482, 483, 550.
					Grave of Governor Bigger, 393*.
					Grave of "Johnnie Appleseed," 371*.
					Grave of Little Turtle, 81, 196, 197.
					Grave Robberies, 500.
					Gray, David, 75, 96.
					Gray, Fred W., 584.
					Gray, Governor Isaac P., 512.
					Gray, Miss Betsy, 92.
					Grayless, William, 682, 683.
					Great Miami River, 30, 31, 45, 49.
					Greaton, Captain, 148.
					Greeley, Horace, 437.
					Green, E. S., 443.
					Green, S. D., 510.
					Greene, General Nathaniel, 124.
					Greene, Jesse A., 496.
					Greenman, Rev. Almon, 703.
					Greenville, Ohio (See also Fort Greenville), 124, 125, 126, 136, 165, 167,
						191.
					Greenville Treaty (1795), 165.
					Greenwell, Dr, Frank, 545, 658, 659.
					Greer, John, 357, 438.
					Greer, Thomas, 696.
					Gregoire, M., 83.
					Gregg, Major James S., 477, 479.
					Greist, E. E., 562, 576, 582, 585.
					Greist, Rev. W. A., 484.
					Gresham, Judge Walter Q., 512.
					Grice, Jesse, 540, 545, 548, 560*.
					Griebel, A. L., 515.
					Griebel, Mrs. A. L., 528.
					Griebel, Charles A., 531, 545.
					Griebel, Louis, 345.
					Griebel, William, 545.
					Griffin, John B., 407.
					Griffin, P. F., 576.
					Grifin, William M., 362, 576, 582.
					Griffis, Thomas, 612.
					Griffith, Captain William, 194, 211*, 254.
					Griffith, Levi, 523, 531.
					Griffith, Rev. Nehemiah B., 294.
					Griggs, Charles S., 295.
					Griggs Family, 264.
					Griggs, Mrs. Jane T (Wells), 285*.
					Griggs, John H., 264, 271, 285, 295.
					Griggs, Mrs. John H., 264.
					Griggs, Matthew, 256, 271, 288, 289, 295, 311.
					Grimes, John, 401.
					Griswold, Chester, 397.
					Griswold, Edward, 176, 178, 179, 355.
					Griswold, Mrs. Edward, 175, 176*, 179, 200.
					Gronauer, Joseph, 639, 642.
					Gronauer, George, 640.
					Gronauer, William, 352.
					Gronuman, Henry, 315.
					Grosjean, John, 684.
					Grosjean, John B., 605.
					Gross, Dr. W. O., 544.
					Gros Loup (Mohecan Indian), 92.
					Gross, Rev. Charles, 487.
					Grosvenor, A. W., 570, 578.
					Grouseland, Treaty of, 184.
					Grout, H. A., 488.
					Groves, Avery M., 565.
					Grubb, Nelson, 662.
					Gruber, Christian, 666, 667.
					Gruber, Henry, 666, 667.
					Gruber, Joseph L., 523.
					Grund, John, 545.
					Grund, Philip, 456.
					Guendling, Rev. J. H., 294.
					Guenther, R. W., 554.
					Guiger, Colonel, 166, 167, 264.
					Guild, C. G., 530.
					Guild, Helen F., 537.
					Guild, Rev. D. H., 295.
					Guldlin, Olaf N., 519.
					Guldlin Playground, 220, 224, 552.
					Gumpper, Christian, 437.
					Guns, Relics of Harmar's Ford, 101*.
					Gutermuth, Val, 526.
					Guttmacher, Rabbi A., 403.
				
				
					H
					Haag, Charles, 531, 538.
					Habecker, Elias, 386.
					Hackett, E. A. K., 309, 497, 518, 563.
					Hackley, Ann (Mrs. Ferrand, Mrs. Blystone), 186, 239, 264.
					Hackley Burying Ground, 241.
					Hackley, Captain James, 197, 241, 258, 259, 264, 269, 270, 273, 278, 307.
					Hackley, Jack, 167, 186, 197, 264.
					Hackley, Jack W., 239, 241.
					Hackley, John, 662.
					Hackley, Rebecca, 273.
					Hackley, Mrs. Rebekah, 295.
					Hadden, William, 473.
					Hadley, Arthur L., 520.
					Hadley, Rev. H. C., 530.
					Hadley Station (Allen County), 685.
					Hagan, John, 662.
					Hahn, Rev. T. F., 530.
					Hahnhouser, Peter, 496.
					Haiber, Charles, 523.
					Hake, John, 622.
					Haldimand, Governor, 73, 78, 79, 84.
					Hall, Alvin, 497, 637.
					Hall, Arthur F., 540, 562, 569, 583.
					Hall, Henry, 696.
					Hall, Isaac, 461, 665, 666, 702.
					Hall, James, 376.
					Hall, Joseph, 361.
					Hall, Mrs. A. S., 143.
					Hall, Major, 103, 106, 108, 109.
					Hall, T. N., 545.
					Hall, Nelson B., 666.
					Haller, Gottlieb, 495, 523, 554.
					Halliday, Jedediah, 614.
					Hall's Corners, 671.
					Halstead, Rev. Benjamin, 345.
					Hamilton (Leo), Indiana, 663.
					Hamilton, A. H., 309, 446*, 451, 467, 493, 502.
					Hamilton, Alexander, 137.
					Hamilton, Allen (1), 259, 261, 266, 270, 275, 281, 285, 289, 295, 301, 309, 319,
						323, 326, 331, 336, 345, 360, 362, 363, 366, 411, 414, 447, 453, 454, 468, 628.
					Hamilton, Allen (2), 554, 578.
					Hamilton, Dr. Allen, 580.
					Hamilton Bank (See First and Hamilton National Bank).
					Hamilton, Colonel Henry, 66, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 77.
					Hamilton, Frank G., 576.
					Hamilton Hall, 485, 491.
					Hamilton, James S., 395, 403.
					Hamilton, Miss Agnes, 526, 427.
					Hamilton, Miss Katheryn, 491.
					Hamilton, Mrs. Allen, 502.
					Hamilton, Mrs. (Dr.) Allen, 579.
					Hamilton, Mrs. E. J., 491.
					Hamilton, Montgomery, 328, 422, 477, 496, 515.
					Hamilton National Bank (See also First and Hamilton National Bank), 422, 466.
					Hamilton Reading Room, 527.
					Hamilton, Thomas, 313, 348, 366, 390, 411.
					Hamilton, William, 688, 691.
					Hamilton, William A., 694.
					Hamion, Rev. Joseph, 621.
					Hamtramck, Colonel John F., 97, 101, 131, 132, 145, 147, 148, 150, 154, 155, 159,
						160, 161, 163.
					Hamtramck Township, 163.
					Hance, J. D., 489, 496, 497.
					Hanging of Gregory McDougal, 440.
					Hanging of Madden and Keefer, 432.
					Hanging of Samuel McDonald, 511.
					Hanna, Charles A., 66.
					Hanna, Charles, 464.
					Hanna, Henry C., 513, 221, 513.
					Hanna Homestead, 202, 207.
					Hanna, H. H., 417.
					Hanna, Hugh, 259, 271, 284, 288, 295, 310, 326, 363.
					Hanna, James B., 311, 389, 396.
					Hanna, J. S., 363.
					Hanna, Judge Samuel, 226, 235, 240, 242, 243*, 252, 257, 260, 266, 267, 268, 271,
						275, 277, 281, 282, 283, 286, 288, 289, 294, 295, 303, 306, 310, 313, 318, 323, 32R,
						335; 347, 359, 364, 365, 369, 373, 389, 399, 409, 411, 413, 416, 420, 421, 443, 447,
						453, 454, 465, 483, 486, 525, 592, 599.
					Hanna, Mrs. Samuel, 226.
					Hanna, Olivet S., 260, 513.
					Hanna, Robert B., 193*, 544, 546, 531, 555.
					Hanna, Mrs. Martha B., 556.
					Hanna, Samuel T., 484, 489, 490.
					Hanna School, 478, 503.
					Hannan, Rev. Joseph, 333.
					Hannegan, E. A., 363.
					Harber, Nicholas, 696.
					
					Harber, William, 570.
					Harden, Rev. John, 496.
					Hardendorf, John, 317, 439.
					Hardesty, F. P., 635.
					Hardin, Colonel John, 82, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 112, 113, 115, 122.
					Hardin, Rev. F. A., 405.
					Harding, Charles, 678.
					Harding, Daniel L., 504, 506, 519, 523, 529, 560*.
					Harding, Mrs. D. L., 526.
					Harlan, Indiana, 671.
					Harmar, General Josiah, 23, 95, 98-115, 129, 148.
					Harmar's Ford, Fort Wayne, 99, 104-111, 187, 558.
					Harmar's Ford Marker, 558.
					Harmar School, 478, 479, 503, 553.
					Harper, Edward, 643.
					Harper, James B., 501, 512, 534.
					Harper, Mrs. J. B., 537.
					Harper, John, 691.
					Harper, William, 641, 642, 643.
					Harras, Rev. Z. A., 537.
					Harrington, J., 316.
					Harrington, Jeremiah, 642.
					Harrington, John S., 461, 462.
					Harris, Elisha B. ("Yankee"), 278, 617.
					Harris, E. V., 544.
					Harrison, General Benjamin, 509.
					Harrison, General William Henry, 47, 70, 123, 129, 131, 132, 163-166, 169, 170, 175,
						180, 182, 183, 185, 187, 189, 195, 199-210, 211*, 212, 215-219, 221, 229, 230, 237, 240,
						254, 255, 258, 260, 355, 379.
					Harrison Hill, 569.
					Harrison, Rev. James, 620.
					Harrison, Robert H., 450, 545.
					Harrison, Rev. J. S., 294.
					Harrod, Dr. Morse, 531.
					Harrod, Eli, 622.
					Harrod, Isaac, 619, 622, 629.
					Harrod, Joseph, 628.
					Harrod, William, 622.
					Harrodsburg (Allen County), 628.
					Hars, Robert, 258, 266, 270.
					Hart, A. N., 565.
					Harter, William, 441.
					Hartman, Dr. D. P., 384, 390, 484.
					Hartman, D. P., 407.
					Hartman, G. R., 390.
					Hartman, Homer C., 468, 482, 512, 518, 563.
					Hartman, Jacob, 570.
					Hartman, Henry, 430, 515, 523.
					Hartman, Jacob, 554.
					Hartman, Lemuel R., 384.
					Hartman, P. D., 418.
					Hartnett, Murray, 531, 537.
					Hartshorn, Ensign, 105.
					Hartung, Charles, 658.
					Hartzell, Levi, 599, 602.
					Harver, John, 614.
					Haskell, Washington, 467, 486.
					Hassell, John, 145.
					Hatch, Jason, 650.
					Hatch, Newman, 650.
					Hatfield, Owen, 701.
					Hatfield, Thomas, 603, 606, 607.
					Hathaway, Abiathar, 265.
					lathaway, John, 647.
					Hattersley, A., 437.
					Hattersley, Willis, 531.
					Hauss, Daniel F., 545.
					Hawes, Rev. L. P., 295.
					Hawkins, John, 672.
					Hawkins, Lieutenant B. S., 575.
					Hawley, E. H., 438.
					Hawley, W. W., 565.
					Hay, Henry, 83, 86 et seq., 110.
					Hayden Park, 561.
					Hayes, Byron E., 578.
					Hayes, John, 398.
					Hayden, Frederick J., 496, 512, 529, 542.
					Hayden, Mrs. Fred J., 521.
					Hayden, John W., 438, 501, 512, 519, 523, 538.
					Hayden Homestead, 202, 207.
					Hayden Park, 362, 521.
					Haydn Quartet, 504.
					Hayes, J. J., 538, 545, 554.
					Hayes, Rutherford B., 519.
					Hays, John, 252.
					Haywood, Dr., 138.
					Hazeltine, Rev. E. A., 488.
					Hazzard, Louis, 406, 523, 531.
					Heald, Captain Nathan, 178, 179, 181, 188, 190, 193, 194.
					Heald, Mrs. Nathan, 178*, 180, 181, 193, 194.
					Heath, John, 637.
					Heath, Stephen, 531, 637.
					Heathcote, Colonel Caleb, 39.
					Heaton, Jesse, Sr., 619, 620, 623.
					Heaton, Jesse, Jr., 623.
					Heaton, Judge Owen N., 501, 518, 545, 623.
					Hedekin Hall, 454.
					Hedekin House, 143, 234, 310, 368, 392, 435, 454.
					Hedekin, Michael, 173, 249, 294, 310*, 319, 392, 407, 445, 489.
					Hedekin, Thomas B., 525.
					Hedgehog, Indian Chief, 43.
					Hedges, John P., 177, 186, 196, 222, 227, 228, 258, 263, 278, 279, 281, 288, 289,
						305, 336.
					Hedges, Mrs. John P., 227.
					Heidelberg Reformed Church, 536.
					Heilbroner, Samuel, 418.
					Heine, Mrs. G. H., 579.
					Heiny, Othmar N., 583.
					Heit, Amos, 437.
					Heit-Miller-Lau Company, 542.
					Heller, B., 353.
					Heller, Mahlon, 496, 497.
					Heller, Peter, 646, 647.
					Heller, T. S., 515, 523.
					Heller's Corners, 104, 112, 645, 647.
					Hellwarth, J. A., 600.
					Helm, Captain Leonard, 70.
					Helm, Lieutenant Linai T., 194.
					Helm, Mrs. Linai T., 194.
					Hemenway, Rev. F. A., 405.
					Hemenway, W. F., 390.
					Hench, G. R., 538, 543, 545.
					Hench, Judge S. M., 469, 497, 501, 505, 515, 522, 523, 526, 531, 570, 575.
					Henderson, A. R., 550.
					Henderson, Miss Angie, 491.
					Henderson, Miss Sophia, 384.
					Henderson, William, 640.
					Henderson, William D. (1), 339, 431, 438, 461.
					Henderson, William D. (2), 545, 554.
					Henderson, William H., 312.
					Henderson, Zenas, 286, 290, 311, 323.
					Hendricks, Governor William, 266, 268, 281.
					Henline, Samuel, 570.
					Hennepin, Louis, 31.
					Henry, Alexander, 137.
					Henry, Governor Patrick, 70, 73.
					Henry, James M., 545.
					Henry, Milton, 317, 387.
					Henry, William, 696.
					Hensley, Lieutenant Lee, 561, 575.
					Henson, Rev. L. L., 333.
					Herald, Labor, 529.
					Herber, John, 622.
					"Hermans" Fire Company, 313.
					Herrick, Rev. H. N., 390.
					Herrick, William R., 637.
					Herrington, S. A., 401.
					Herrman, George, 545, 554.
					Herrold, I. W., 684.
					Herron, Rev. T. M., 496.
					Hert, Alvin T., 496.
					Hess, William J., 551.
					Hesse Cassel (Allen County), 618, 621.
					Hettler, C., 477, 489, 497, 506, 508.
					Heuchling, Dr. Theodore, 497.
					"H. H. Stout," Canal Boat, 414.
					Hibbard, Frederick C., 566.
					Hibernian Rifles, 535, 536.
					Hicksville Road, 612.
					Hidiker, H., 313.
					Higgins, C. R., 193*, 485, 522.
					Higgins, Ensign, 113.
					Higgs, Rev. J. J., 537.
					High School, Old, 482*.
					Hilbrecht, Henry (1), 523.
					Hilbrecht, Henry (2), 317, 523, 531.
					Hild, Henry, 531.
					Hilgeman, Frank H., 584.
					Hilgemann, Harry H., 545, 554, 574.
					Hilgemann, Henry (1), 404.
					Hilgemann, Henry (2), 554.
					Hilgemann, Henry W., 430.
					Hill, C. C., 424.
					Hill, Charles L., 404.
					Hill, David, 696.
					Hill, John E., 254, 288, 300, 339, 348, 401, 447, 467, 473.
					Hill, Mrs. Cynthia A., 259.
					Hill, Onslow G., 418.
					Hill, Rev. John, 295.
					Hill, William, 625.
					Hillegass, Hezekiah, 656.
					Hillegass, Jacob, 650, 656.
					Hillegass, Jerry, 484, 497, 515, 521, 656.
					Hillegass, Samuel, 646.
					Hills, Leslie W., 22, 54, 68, 75, 81, 151, 227, 237.
					Hillsworth, Charles, 294.
					Hilty, Dr. O. K., 664.
					Hines, Dr., 520.
					Hinton, James, 682.
					Hire, Elias, 395.
					Hirons Park, 547.
					Hirschberg, Rev. Samuel, 403.
					Hirschman, Rev. C. A., 551.
					Historic Spots Marked, 558.
					Historical Exhibit, Relic Room, 141.
					Historical Markers, 558.
					Historical Pageant (1916), 558.
					Hitchcock, Samuel, 668.
					Hitzfield, Henry, 387.
					Hoagland (Allen County), 628.
					Hoagland, Cornelius N., 476.
					Hoagland, James, 315.
					Hoagland, Joseph C., 476.
					Hoagland, J. R., 473.
					Hoagland, Pliny, 328, 380*, 385, 409, 438, 439, 441, 447, 450, 454, 459, 462, 469,
						479, 483, 496, 628.
					Hoagland, T., 340.
					Hoagland School, 478*, 503.
					Hobbs, Elias, 625.
					Hobbs, Rev. C. M., 522.
					Hochstetter, Frederick, 360.
					Hochstaetter, Rev. Christian, 430.
					Hoehn, Rev. M., 484.
					Hoffman, A. Ely, 531, 485.
					Hoffman (Bandmaster), 352.
					Hoffman, Edward G., 485, 544, 556, 569, 573, 578, 582, 673.
					Hoffman, F. E., 576.
					Hoffman, George, 181, 182.
					Hoffman, Henry C. H.. 570.
					Hoffman, John C., 570.
					Hoffman, J. E., 485.
					Hoffman, Mrs. S. C., 526, 527.
					
					Hoffman, W. H., 485.
					Hofmann, G. Max, 516.
					Hogan, M., 489.
					Hogan, Harry G., 554, 555, 576, 578, 582.
					Hogan, Hugh T., 545.
					Hogan, Timothy, 497, 505, 506, 515.
					Hohenholz, Herman, 522.
					Hoit, David, 479.
					Holcomb, Absalom, 286, 597.
					Hollinger, George, 704.
					Hollopeter, Cyrus, 668.
					Hollopeter, Jacob, 672.
					Holman, B. M., 468.
					Holman, James, 274, 294, 299, 302, 688.
					Holman, Joseph, 259, 261, 266, 267, 271*, 273, 281, 285, 288, 289, 309.
					Holman Street Playgrounds, 551.
					Holmes, Ensign Robert, 43, 47, 56, 58, 59, 60, 62, 66, 95.
					Holmes, John, 619.
					Holmes, Joshua, 497, 506.
					Holmes, Milton, 625.
					Holton Avenue School, 479.
					Holton, Ensign William, 215.
					Home Guards (1917), 576.
					Home Telephone and Telegraph Co., 508.
					Homing Pigeons, 543, 544, 552.
					Hood, Robert, 273, 278, 288, 295, 300, 319, 331.
					Hood, T. N., 357, 428, 448.
					Hood, William E., 211, 255, 256, 257, 312, 319, 397.
					Hood, Judge William N., 255, 257, 266, 267, 269, 271, 278, 285, 286, 288, 295, 300,
						301, 311, 312.
					Hood, Mrs. William N., 254.
					"Hoosier Nest" Tavern, 598.
					Hoover, Frederick, 290.
					Hoover, Rev. Jesse, 333, 334.
					Hoover, Rev. U. G., 496.
					Hope Hospital, 481.
					Hopkins, Gerard T., 171.
					Hopkins, J., 493.
					Hopple, George, 619.
					Horn, Patrick, 497.
					Hornier, Israel, 389.
					Horse-drawn Street Cars, 490, 491.
					Horstman, C., 353.
					Horstman, Rev. G. H., 551.
					Hosey, William J., 538, 540, 545, 550, 552, 555, 560*, 566, 573, 574, 580, 582,
						584.
					Hoskinson, George, 366.
					Hossler, Q. A., 468.
					Hostetter, Dr. M. H., 664.
					Hostetter, Rev. H. B., 484.
					Hospital Unit (1917), 580.
					Hough, John, Jr., 373, 389, 394, 416, 486.
					Howard, Earl, 560.
					Howe, Estes, 666, 667, 670.
					Howe, James, 407, 418, 450.
					Howe, Rev. E. E., 369.
					Hubbard, C. H., 288.
					Hubbell, J. L., 370.
					Hubbell, Miss, 334.
					Hubbell, M. W., 313, 328, 366, 375.
					Hubbell, W. S. B., 366.
					Hudson, James, 288, 289, 298.
					Hudson, Jeremiah, 611.
					Hudson, Rev. C. G., 295.
					Huestis, Dr. Alexander C., 390, 395, 477, 486.
					Hughes, Charles E., 567.
					Hughes, Major, 145.
					Hughes, Rev. Joseph, 382.
					Hulburd, A. M., 420, 425.
					Hulburd, Mrs. A. M., 420, 425.
					Hulburt, Archer B., quoted, 84.
					Huling, Peter, 319, 335.
					Hull, Adam, 325, 645, 654, 682.
					Hull, Adam, Jr., 647.
					Hull, General William, 175, 185, 188, 193, 198, 214.
					Hull, Jacob, 396.
					Hull, L. O., 477.
					Hull, W. H. H., 450.
					Hull's Lake, 681.
					Humane Society, Fort Wayne, 522.
					Humbert, James, 388.
					Humbert, Michael, 406.
					Hummer, Rev. C., 536.
					Humphrey, Col. George, 315, 336, 388, 428, 432, 434, 441, 450, 455*, 456, 477, 482,
						562.
					Humphrey, James, 319, 331, 387, 396, 418, 420, 421, 441, 448, 450, 461, 463.
					Hundley, Rev. A. A., 530.
					Hunt, Dr. A. M., 500.
					Hunt, Colonel Thomas, 139, 156, 157, 158, 162, 173, 233, 234.
					Hunt, Family of Colonel Thomas, 173.
					Hunt, George, 228, 274.
					Hunt, Henry, 158.
					Hunt, John E., 363.
					Hunt, John Elliot, 158, 192*, 228.
					Hunt, Ruth Fessenden, 158, 173.
					Hunter, Governor Robert, 39.
					Hunter, L. C., 581.
					Hunter, Samuel, 289.
					Hunter, William, 389, 650.
					Hunter, William T., 656.
					Hunter, W. J. D., 522.
					Huntertown, Indiana, 440, 656.
					Hunting, Fred S., 510, 577, 578, 582.
					Huntington, Indiana, 322, 322, 369, 539.
					Huntington Road, 370.
					Hurd, A. M., 310.
					Hurd, Colonel Orrin D., 315, 428, 441, 450, 456, 461, 536.
					Hursh, Allen, 554.
					Hursh, J. C., 483.
					Hurst, Captain, 596.
					Huron Indians, 42.
					Huser, Louis P., 523.
					Hutchell, G. W., 648.
					Hutchins, A. J., 578, 584.
					Hutchins, Rev. Benjamin, 345.
					Hutchinson, T. J., 489.
					Hutker, Barney, 317, 431.
					Hutzell, Joseph C., 554, 576.
					Huxford, Dr. Merchant W., 307*, 313, 319, 339, 366, 389, 392, 398.
					Hyde, Charles, 145.
				
				
					I
					Iddings, Hiram, 501.
					Ideal Auto Company, 551.
					Incorporation of the City of Fort Wayne, 348.
					Incorporation of the Town of Fort Wayne, 288.
					Independent Order of Good Templars, 450.
					Independent Order of Odd Fellows, 387.
					Indian Horse Race, 284.
					Indian Reservations in Allen County, 239*.
					Indian Treaties (See Treaties with Indians).
					Indian Tribes (See under Specific Names).
					Indiana Bakers' Association, 551.
					"Indiana," Canal Boat, 340, 369.
					Indiana Centennial Association, Fort Wayne, 55.
					Indiana Centennima Celebration, 555-560.
					"Indiana City" (Allen County), 677.
					Indiana Pomological Society (1865), 478.
					Indiana Real Estate Association, 553.
					"Indiana's Second City," 548.
					Indiana School Band, 354.
					Indiana School for Feeble Minded Youth, 517, 518, 543.
					Indiana State Fair in Fort Wayne, 472.
					Indiana State Journal, 309.
					Indiana Territory Created, 168, 164.
					Indiana University Extension, 569.
					Indiana Volksfreund, 494.
					Indianapolis Road, 694.
					Infantile Paralysis Epidemic, 567.
					International Business College, 538.
					Interurban Railroads, 539.
					Ingersoll, Rev. H. C., 496.
					Ingham, Andrew, 286.
					Ingoldsby, Colonel, 35.
					Immanuel Baptist Church, 553.
					Immigration, A Plea for, 414.
					Ireland, Rev. G. P., 488.
					"Irish War" (1835), 323-325.
					Ironside, George, 75, 76, 83, 90, 92, 93, 96.
					Iroquois Indians, 26, 35.
					Irvin, George A, 384, 421, 441, 443.
					Irvin, John, 637.
					Irving, Washington, quoted, 110, 118, 120.
					Irwin, David, 278.
					Irwin, John S., 341, 441, 444, 489, 496, 502, 531, 534.
					Irwin, Thomas, 105, 106, 112, 116.
					Italian Catholic Church, 552.
					Item, The (Newspaper), 497.
					Iten, J. C., 316, 496.
				
				
					J
					Jackson, Andrew, 260.
					Jackson, Gregory, 677.
					Jackson, John C., 576.
					Jackson, Phanuel, 655.
					Jackson Township, Allen County, 704-706.
					Jackson, William A., 438, 439.
					Jacobs, George A., 576.
					Jacobs, Henry G., 570.
					Jacobs, John H., 143, 471, 477.
					Jacobs, Robert, 492.
					Jacobs, William, 466.
					Jacoby, George, 489, 496.
					Jacoby, L. C., 360, 416.
					Jaenicke, Adolph, 570.
					Jails, 401, 402, 403, 478, 479, 494.
					James, Benjamin, 271.
					James H. Smart School, 479.
					James, William E., 673.
					Jameson, J. Franklin, 157, 161.
					Jamieson, John, 313.
					Jay Treaty, 207.
					Jayne, Dr. James E., 574.
					Jeancoir, Rev. Jean, 293.
					Jeffcoat, John, 295.
					Jefferds, Oliver W., 360, 375, 387, 396, 399, 407, 418, 427, 450, 461, 593.
					Jefferds, T. L., 467.
					Jefferies, William T., 531, 554, 570.
					Jefferson Township, Allen County, 639-644.
					Jefferson School, 479, 503.
					Jefferson, Thomas, 80, 170.
					Jeffersonian, Fort Wayne (Newspaper), 426.
					Jeffras, Rev. C. W., 522.
					Jenkins, Lieutenant Edward, 56.
					Jenkinson, Isaac, 218, 431, 488, 463, 468, 488, 562.
					Jenkinson, Joseph James, 218.
					Jenkinson, Major Joseph, 216, 218*, 220, 223, 224.
					
					Jenkinson, Miss Emma, 218, 228, 224.
					Jenkinson, Moses Vail, 218, 224, 357, 441, 442.
					Jenney Electric Light Co., Fort Wayne, 509.
					Jenney, James A., 509, 510.
					Jennings, Governor Jonathan, 238, 239, 243.
					Jesuits in Maumee Valley, 20, 25, 29, 31, 289.
					"Jesuit Relations," quoted, 19.
					"Jigger Boss," Canal, 326.
					"Jitney" 'Buses, 568.
					Jobs, William, 701, 703.
					Jocquel, John J., 430.
					Jocquel, Louis, 515.
					John, Robert, 282.
					"Johnnie Appleseed" (John Chapman), 370, 371*, 566, 605, 662, 683.
					Johns, Alfred S., 336, 353.
					Johns, Mrs. A. L., 579.
					Johns, Henry, 299, 300.
					Johns, Robert, 554.
					Johnson, Alexander, 518, 530, 537, 543.
					Johnson, Benjamin, 678.
					Johnson, Colonel Richard Menter, 209, 211, 215, 218*, 219-222, 364.
					Johnson, David, 145.
					Johnson, Ensign, 145.
					Johnson, Governor (Pennsylvania), 413.
					Johnson, Ira, 669.
					Johnson, J., 368, 431, 438, 439.
					Johnson, James, 678.
					Johnson, John H., 576.
					Johnson, Judge George, 385, 389.
					Johnson, Judge Thomas, 310, 313, 328, 336, 340, 366.
					Johnson, Lieutenant Colonel James, 221.
					Johnson, Mary, 580.
					Johnson, Miss Lizzie, 143.
					Johnson, Marion B., 545, 554.
					Johnson, Rev. Amasa, 294.
					Johnson, Rev. D. A., 501.
					Johnson, Rev. F. A., 405.
					Johnson, Rev. T. J., 484.
					Johnson, Sir William, 64, 66, 67, 68, 113.
					Johnson, Uriah, 336.
					Johnson, William A., 542, 545.
					Johnson, Will, 554, 578.
					Johnson, William, 578.
					Johnston, Colonel John, 167, 169*, 171, 181, 182, 185, 186, 189, 191, 196, 200, 226,
						230, 238, 244, 251, 364.
					Johnston, David, 648.
					Johnston, John R., 646.
					Johnston, Joseph, 646.
					Johnston, Stephen, 169, 200, 202, 204, 228.
					Joliet, Louis, 28.
					Jones, Benjamin, 686.
					Jones, Charles (1), 398.
					Jones, Charles (2), 625.
					Jones, Charles M., 353.
					Jones, Dr. Joseph H., 494.
					Jones, Dr. Philip G., 272, 319, 347, 357, 366, 401, 415.
					Jones, D. W., 468, 486, 497.
					Jones, Fremont L., 504, 486, 536.
					Jones, George W., 333.
					Jones, Hiram, 285.
					Jones, H. W., 352, 357, 365, 387, 395, 409, 428, 441.
					Jones, Harvey P., 353.
					Jones, Jasper E., 523, 531, 705.
					Jones, John, 373.
					Jones, John P., 359, 383.
					Jones, Joseph, 646, 647.
					Jones, L. G., 401.
					Jones, Maurice L., 502.
					Jones, Miss Amanda, 486.
					Jones, Paul, 686.
					Jones, Rev. Daniel, 295.
					Jones, Rev. Mr. (with Wayne), 143.
					Jones, Rev. R. C., 484.
					Jones, Rev. W. H., 496.
					Jones, Thomas, 630.
					Jones, W. H., 416, 472.
					Jones, William H., 424, 446, 447.
					Jones's Band, 353, 482.
					Jonquiere, Marquis de la, 53.
					Jordan, Sergeant W. K., 193, 195, 196.
					Josse, Dr. John M., 459, 461, 497.
					Jouett, Captain, 377.
					Journal, Fort Wayne, 468, 484.
					Journal (Newspaper), 437.
					Journal-Gazette, Fort Wayne, 468, 484, 485.
					Journal of Medical Science, 504.
					Journal, The Summit City (Newspaper), 497.
					Judson, Colonel W. V., 564.
					Juengel, Rev. Henry, 514.
					Julin, Azariah, 685.
					Juvenile Court, 543.
				
				
					K
					Kabish, Julius, 488.
					Kahn, Fred, 545.
					Kaiser, Ellis, 364.
					Kalbacher, Andrew, 315.
					Kamm, John J., 486, 487*.
					Kammeier, Christ, 609.
					Kane, P. H., 531, 538.
					Kaough, William, 193*, 495, 521, 545.
					Karn, John, 619.
					Karns, L. H., 353.
					Karoll, Rev. J. M., 383.
					Kartholl, Alexander A., 583.
					Kaskaskia, 48, 56, 69, 70, 72, 73, 76, 77, 84.
					Kaskaskia Indiane, 164.
					Kasten, L. C., 536, 538, 545.
					Kauffman, Dr. D. E., 583, 634.
					Kauffman, George A., 467.
					Keating, John, 146.
					Keator, T. P., 468, 512.
					Keefer, George, 432.
					Keegan, H. G., 581.
					Kelker, Samuel S., 578.
					Keel Boats, 296.
					Keenan, H. J., 541.
					Keil, Frederick W., 193*, 468, 502.
					Keil, S. D., 468.
					Keintz, Philip, 531.
					Keiser, John, 389.
					Keith, Daguerreotype Artist, 370.
					Kekiogue Brass Band, 352, 363.
					Kekionga, Site of Fort Wayne (See also Kiskakon Village and Miami Town), 27, 36, 38,
						44, 45, 46, 51, 53, 54, 58, 61, 65, 69, 70, 84, 104, 111, 178, 448, 449.
					Kekionga Band, 352, 363.
					Kekionga Baseball Team, 473, 474, 475.
					Kekionga Guards, 440.
					Kekionga Golf Club, 520.
					Kelker, Anthony, 437, 523, 531.
					Kelker, S. S., 554.
					Kell, George V., 440, 531, 533, 538, 545.
					Kell, Jacob, 655, 656.
					Kell, Solomon, 655.
					Keller, Albert H., 554.
					Keller, Judge, 363.
					Kellison, William, 645.
					Kelly, Christian, 477, 496, 497.
					Kelly, Martin, 688.
					Kelly, Robert E., 545, 554, 573, 583.
					Kelsey, Captain W. A., 553.
					Kelsey, Dr. P. G., 563.
					Kelsey, David, 404.
					Kelsey, Isaac, 692.
					Kelsey, Isaac H., 702.
					Kelsey, Henry S., 701, 702.
					Kemp, Martin, 625, 633.
					Kennark, Edward, 696, 697.
					Kennark, John, 697.
					Kennedy, Andrew, 375.
					Kennedy, Rev. D. S., 484.
					Kennerk, Harry F., 583.
					Kensill, John C., 523.
					Kentucky River, 153.
					Keplinger, H. A., 525.
					Kercheval, Benjamin B., 228, 244, 252, 254, 258, 264, 267, 268, 271, 273,
						285.
					Kercheval, Eliza C., 239, 243, 252.
					Kerns, Ely, 368.
					Kerr, H. Waveland, 554.
					Kertley, Jeremiah, 221.
					Kesler, Dr. A. J., 523, 531, 545.
					Kessler, George E., 546.
					Kettle (French), Found on Site of Fort Wayne, 52*.
					Kichkagon Village, Site of Fort Wayne (See also Kekionga and Miami Town), 19.
					Kickapoo Indians, 164, 164.
					Kielsmeyer, Rev. Edward, 488.
					Kilbourne, E. H., 573, 576, 582.
					Kil-so-quah, Miami Princess, 162, 176, 177, 180*, 186.
					Kil-so-quah's Home, 186*.
					Kimball, B. H., 461, 462, 479, 484.
					Kimball, Miss Laura, 491.
					Kimball, Virgil M., 444, 463, 459.
					Kimball, W. R., 524.
					Kime House, 344.
					Kimmel, Jacob, 696.
					Kincaid, J. H., 272.
					Kinder, Paul F., 554.
					Kinder, Michael, 545, 554.
					King, Charles, 570.
					King, Corporal, 172.
					King, F. W., 570.
					King, James, 666.
					King, Rev. Ben B., 544.
					King, Rufus, quoted, 135.
					King, Slayer of Tecumseh, 222.
					King, William, 449*, 450.
					Kingsbury, Captain, 148.
					Kingsbury, Dr. C. C., 467.
					Kingsbury, Colonel Jacob, 181.
					Kinnan, Rev. A. S., 405.
					Kintz, Ambrose W., 384.
					Kintz, Daniel W., 576.
					Kintz, Philip, 353.
					Kinwell, Jacob, 697.
					Kinzie, John, 87, 89, 90, 93, 96, 111, 112, 194.
					Kinzie, John, Jr., 230.
					Kinzie Mansion (Chicago), 182.
					Kinzie, Mrs. John, 194.
					Kirkpatrick, David, 384.
					Kirtley, William, 343.
					Kiser, Charles, 316.
					Kiser, D., 407.
					Kiser, Peter, 277, 313, 331, 353*, 356, 364, 392, 395, 396, 407, 418, 453, 489,
						651.
					Kiskakon Indians, 17, 18, 19, 21, 26.
					Kiskakon Village, Site of Fort Wayne (See also Kekionga and Miami Town), 19, 44, 45,
						46.
					Kitchin, Dr. John M., 401.
					Kiwanis Club, 569.
					Klaehn, Frederick, 485.
					Klein, F. A., 544.
					Klein, Jacob, 334.
					Klein, Rev. J. H., 383.
					Kleinegees, Rev. A., 430.
					Klett, Jacob, 430.
					Kline, Peter, 352.
					Klinger, Henry, 317.
					Klinger, Isaac, 605.
					Klinger, James D., 295.
					Klinger, Jesse, 612, 614.
					
					Klinger, John, 612.
					Klinger, Philip, 295.
					Klondike Gold Hunters, 537.
					Klug, Nicholas, 569.
					Klug Park, 569.
					Knaggs, James, 239, 244.
					Knapp, Dr. Isaac, 437, 441, 453, 518.
					Knapp, William, 541.
					Knats, Rev. F. W., 488.
					Knight, Alice, 579.
					Knight, Charles S., 610.
					Knight, Conrad, 702.
					Knight, Rev. A. H., 487.
					Knights of Columbus, 588.
					Knights of the Golden Circle, 452, 458.
					Knights of Labor, 513.
					Knisely, Daniel, 671.
					Kniss, Samuel, 646.
					Knott-Van Arnam Manufacturing Company, 542.
					Knowlton, Albert, 703.
					Knowlton, Captain Lynn O., 575.
					Knowlton, G. H., 703.
					Knox, Gen. Henry, 82, 115, 119, 123, 145, 146, 149, 159.
					Knox, J. J., 368.
					Koch, J. M., 487, 489, 497.
					Koehler, John, 537.
					Koehler, Michael, 359.
					Koenig, Charles W., 554.
					Koenig, Otto W., 570.
					Koenig, Rev. Edward, 476.
					Koerdt, Rev. F., 495.
					Koerber, Robert, 550.
					Korbel, Josef, 552.
					Korte, Herman J., 554, 570.
					Kosciusko, Thaddeus, 170.
					Krahn, Rev. A., 383.
					Kramer, C., 523.
					Kraco (Allen County), 647, 683.
					Kratz, Rev. F. W., 488.
					Kress, Walter, 701, 703.
					Kriete, Rev. M., 488.
					Kroll, Rev. H. F. Jeseph, 476.
					Kronmiller, George, 334.
					Krueger, Rev. W., 484.
					Krumme, Anthony, 701.
					Krider, Rev. L. M., 522.
					Kruse, Dr. Edward H., 545, 554.
					Kruse, H. F. E., 545.
					Kucher, Rev. John, 430.
					Kuelling, Rev. John, 488.
					Kuhn, Rev. Hugh B., 430.
					Kuhne, Frederick W., 479, 486.
					Kuhne, Paul F., 541.
					Kuhns, J. M., 576.
					Kuhns, Marvin, 520.
					Kuhns, Lieutenant F. W., 575.
					Kunkle, E. B., 476, 535.
					Kunkleman, Rev. A. J., 395.
					Kyle, William D., 353.
				
				
					L
					LaBalme, Augustus Mottin de, 69, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 83, 95, 96.
					LaBarre, Lefebore de, 33.
					Labelle, M., 88.
					Labor Day, 519.
					Labor Herald, 529.
					Labor Times-Herald, 529.
					Labor Unions, the First, 471.
					LaChambre (Frenchman), 95.
					LaDemoiselle, Piankeshaw Chief, 45, 46, 54.
					Lafayette House, 343.
					Lafayette, Indiana, 27, 40, 369.
					LaFayette, Marquis de, 76.
					Lafayette Rangers, 441.
					Lafayette Township, Allen County), 700-704.
					LaFolia, Margaret, 590.
					LaFontaine, Francis, Miami Chief, 75, 95, 225, 233, 239, 243, 273, 275, 350*, 356,
						379, 380, 381.
					LaFontaine's, Chief, Chair, 350*.
					LaFontaine's Chief, House, 353*.
					LaFontaine, Joseph, 381.
					LaFontaine, Peter, 74, 75, 92, 97.
					Lafontaine, Rev. A. E., 551.
					"La Grippe," 128.
					LaGro, Indiana, 323, 324, 402.
					LaGros (Indian), 289, 244.
					Lakmeyer, Daniel, 528.
					Lake Chautauqua, 30, 45.
					Lake Michigan, 80, 86.
					Lake, Curtis, 687, 638.
					Lake, Curtis C., 666.
					Lake Erie, 17, 21, 29, 31, 82, 35.
					Lake Erie and Fort Wayne Railway, 544.
					Lake Erie and Western Railroad, 482, 483.
					Lake Everett, 682.
					Lake Huron, 30.
					Lake, Nathan, 636, 637, 666.
					Lake, Rev. J. W., 501.
					Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad, 482, 483.
					Lake Township, Allen County, 681-687.
					Lake-to-Lake Canal Project, 564.
					Lakeside (Fort Wayne), 19, 41, 48, 60, 88, 94, 99, 101, 103, 108, 109, 111, 143,
						178, 412, 519, 520, 530.
					Lakeside Park, 547, 553.
					Lakeside School, 479.
					Lakeside Street Railway Company, 524.
					Lalumiere, Rev. S. P., 298, 333.
					Lamb, Charles, 401.
					Lamberville, Jean de, 26.
					Lamley, Moses, 526.
					Lamoreux (Frenchman), 95.
					Lampfort, Rev. A. W., 405.
					Landenberger, John M., 501.
					Land Drainage, 376.
					Land Patents for Fort Wayne Site, 260*.
					Lane, Charles R., 468, 543, 552, 569, 577, 580.
					Lane, John, 631.
					Lane, Moses, 506.
					Lane, Thomas F., 313.
					Lanier, Jacob W., 384.
					Lang, A. J., 504.
					Langard, Louis C., 545.
					Lange, Rev. A. H., 538.
					Langlade, Charles, 54.
					Langley Arc Light, 510.
					Lannin, William, 431.
					Large, Rev. J. S., 345.
					Larimore, Thomas, 687.
					La Riviere Petite (See Little River).
					LaSalle, Robert Cavalier, Sieur de, 22, 25, 29*, 30, 31, 35, 39, 41.
					Lasselle, Antoine, 90, 91, 96, 111, 112, 151.
					Lasselle, Francis D., 277, 289, 294, 311, 340, 376, 381, 431, 438, 441.
					Lasselle, Hyacinth, 70*, 74, 83.
					Lasselle, Hyacinth, Jr., 329.
					Lasselle, Jacques, 70, 74, 75, 76, 83.
					Lasselle, Jean Baptiste, 90, 95, 96.
					Lasselle, Marie Ann, 70.
					Last Blockhouse, Fort Wayne, 143*.
					Lathrop, John E., 547.
					LaTourette, W. H., 553.
					Latta, Dr. M. M., 500.
					Laubach, Dr. A. J., 504.
					Laudeman, Rev. E. Q., 484.
					Lauferty, Alexander, 494.
					Lauferty Bank, 494.
					Lauferty, Isaac, 384, 403, 494.
					Lauferty, L., 431.
					Launching a Canal Boat, 414.
					"Laurel Wreath, The," 236, 415.
					LaVanway, Charles, 614.
					LaVanway, John, 614.
					LaVanway, Silas, 614.
					Lavely, Christopher, 326.
					LaVenture, Frenchman, 239.
					Lawlessness, 358, 480, 501, 526.
					Law, Charldes D., 495.
					Law, Judge, quoted, 41.
					Law Library, 542.
					Lawrece, George B., 588, 545.
					Lawrence, Robert, 60, 61.
					Lawton, Major-General Henry W., 455*, 456, 457, 438, 472, 522, 586, 564.
					Lawton Home Muument Association, 554.
					Lawton Park, 528, 541, 668, 572.
					Lawton Post, G. A. R., 477.
					Lear, Tobias, 118.
					Leard, S., 359.
					LeCygne (Indian Chief), 68.
					Lee Family (Fort Dearborn Massacre), 198.
					Lee, Richard Henry, 81, 122, 136.
					Lee, Job, 614.
					Leeper, Rev. J. M., 382.
					Leesburg Road, 606.
					Legare, Major, 72.
					Leggett, Ensign, 215.
					"Legion of the United States," 121, 122.
					LeGris, Indian Chief (1), 52, 56.
					LeGris, Miami Chief (2), 76, 87, 88, 90, 92, 96, 111, 151, 153.
					Leiffels, Joseph, 344, 353.
					Leighty, Rev. J. D., 530.
					Leinker, C. H., 497.
					Leith, George, 86, 87, 90, 98, 96.
					Lemart, Lloyd, 677, 678.
					LeMastre, Captain, 112.
					LeMay, Mrs. Eliza, 536.
					Lenig, Rev. Frank, 405.
					Lennart, W. J., 538.
					Lennon, E. J., 545, 554.
					Lent, C. V. N., 313.
					Lenz, Charles, 554.
					Leo, Indiana, 663.
					Leonard, Captain I. W., 544.
					Leonard, Elmer, 494, 522.
					Leonard, James H., 518.
					Leonard, Nelson, 494.
					Leonard, N. R., 468.
					Leonard, P. M., 431.
					Leonard, Wilmer, 494.
					Leonardson, Rev. A. V., 496.
					Lepper, Adolph W., 570, 578.
					Lepper, Charles, 599.
					Lepper, Charles O., 554, 570.
					Lepper, H. W., 551, 564, 581.
					Lepper, Louis, 599.
					Leslie, Dr. G. M., 576, 582.
					L'Esperance (Frenchman), 64.
					Lessman, Jacob, 343.
					Letcher, William, 669.
					Lewis, Bert G., 561.
					Lewis, Captain D. W., 388, 389.
					Lewis, Captain H., 132.
					Lewis, Captain T., 132.
					Lewis, Colonel (Shawnee Chief), 251.
					Lewis, Colonel William, 211, 218.
					Lewis, C. W., 315.
					Lewis, Edward R., 576.
					Lewis, Jacob, 317, 396, 401.
					Lewis, Major Samuel, 236, 263, 286, 295, 306, 326, 359, 467.
					Lewis, Meriwether, 173, 286.
					Lewis, Morgan, 387.
					Lewis, Mrs. Katherine, 236.
					Lewis, Mrs. Samuel, 408.
					Lewis, T. K., 352, 388, 89.
					Lewis, William H. D., 387.
					Lewisburg, Indiana, 369, 592.
					Lexington Day (1917), 572, 577.
					Liberty Bell, 553.
					"Liberty Bond" Sale (1917), 583.
					
					"Liberty Hall" (Newspaper), 254.
					Liberty Mills Road, 692.
					"Liberty" Parade (1917), 581.
					Liberty Poles, 232, 383.
					Library, County, 272.
					Library, Law, 542.
					Library, Public, 526, 527.
					License to Trade in Furs, 74.
					Lieber, Dr. Francis, 431.
					Life Saving Crew, 549.
					Liggett, James, 531.
					Liggett, James A., 570.
					Light Guards (1874), 492.
					Light Infantry, Fort Wayne (1834), 310, 325.
					Liebe, James, 496.
					Lillie, John, 406.
					Lillie, Samuel, 343, 377, 441.
					Lillie, Samuel, Jr., 441.
					Lillie's Tavern, 343.
					Lima Road, 335, 370, 399, 606.
					Limecooly, Fred R., 489.
					Limestown, 94.
					Lincoln, Abraham, 461.
					Lincoln, Edmund, 523.
					Lincoln, General Benjamin, 136.
					Lincoln Highway, 551, 608.
					Lincoln Life Building, 486, 527, 540.
					Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, 540.
					Lincoln School, 609.
					Lindeman, William, 489.
					Lindemuth, George, 545.
					Linden, George W., 373.
					Lindenwood Cemetery, 447, 500, 536.
					Lindlag, C. W., 461.
					Lindley, Harlow, 246.
					Link, Adam, 492, 495.
					Link, Mrs. Adam, 143.
					Link, Colonel William H., 420, 431, 441, 454, 456.
					Link, George, 489.
					Link, Heeley, 582.
					Link, Henry, 701.
					Linscott, Asa, 696.
					Linscott, Noah, 696.
					Lintz, "Tony," 490.
					Lipes, Christopher, 619, 621.
					Lipes, David H., 479, 489.
					Lipes, David, 623.
					Lipes, Prof. H. H., 495.
					Liquor, Evil Effects of, 32, 48, 170, 171, 183.
					Little Beaver, Indian Chief, 153.
					Little Egg (Miami), 95.
					Little, George, 594.
					Little, George I., 476.
					Little, George L., 441.
					Little Girls' Aid Society (1862), 463.
					"Little Little Turtle" (Miami Indian), 244.
					Little, Rev. George O., 382.
					Little River Ditch, 693.
					Little River, 20, 21, 35, 71, 153, 173.
					Little Turtle, Miami Chief, 76, 78, 81, 83, 87, 90, 96, 98, 99, 111, 114, 116, 119,
						120, 126, 127, 129, 130, 136, 146, 153, 162*, 164, 166-171, 175, 176, 180, 184, 186,
						189, 190, 192, 193, 211, 222, 230, 264, 285, 535, 558.
					Little Turtle's Grave, 176*, 177*.
					Little Turtle Tablet, 190*.
					Loag, Dr. George W., 523.
					Location of Fort Wayne, the Stockade, 232-235.
					Lochner, Albert, 177, 184.
					Lochner, Charles, 177, 184.
					Lockport, Indiana, 369.
					Loehe, Rev. William, 391.
					Loesch, George H., 504, 531, 545, 554.
					Logan, Captain John, Shawnee Brave, 180, 199, 200, 201, 206, 207, 210, 212.
					Logan, General Benjamin, 199, 201, 212.
					Logan, General John A., 512.
					Logan, Thomas J., 564, 582.
					Logansport, Indiana, 70, 83, 212, 255, 287, 324, 330, 331, 340, 369.
					Log Jail, 278, 279, 296.
					Lohman, Dr. Maurice, 581.
					Lohman, Mrs. Joseph, 579.
					Lomax, Joseph, 483.
					Long Beard, Indian Chief, 164.
					Long, Major Stephen H., quoted, 248.
					Long, Mason, 476.
					Long, T. A., 634.
					Long, William A., 489.
					Longueuil, M. de, 42, 44.
					Lopshire, George, 703.
					Lorain (Frenchman), 62.
					Loring, Rev. W. T., 496.
					Lorimer (Frenchman), 80.
					Lorrance, M., 83.
					Lorraine (Frenchman), 94, 97.
					Lossing, Benson J., quoted, 120, 172, 176, 177, 196, 212-412.
					Lotz, Henry, 360, 363, 366, 368*, 369, 383.
					Louisiana, Province of, 40.
					Louisianau, French Blacksmith, 220.
					Louttit, George W., 538, 540, 545.
					Louvigny, Sieur de, 37.
					Loux, Rev. D. H., 530.
					Lower, Rev. John, 501.
					Lower Huntington Road, 701.
					Lowrie, Rev. J. M., 295.
					Lowry, Judge Robert, 387, 479, 481, 501, 502, 505, 512, 513, 517.
					Lowry, Miss Lottie, 526.
					Lucas, Thomas, 669.
					Luckey, William, 287.
					Ludlum, Judge Samuel, 484.
					Luecke, Dr. Martin, 391.
					Luecke, Martin H., 550.
					Lueders, Dr. A. G., 681.
					Luehr, Rev. C. Henry, 514.
					Luehrs, Bishop J. H., 445, 494.
					Lukens, A. T., 543, 493, 513.
					Lumbard, S. C., 469, 473, 492, 507, 526, 530.
					Lunsford, David, 388.
					Lunt, G. W., 484.
					Lusey, Jeremiah, 641.
					Lutheran Hospital, 481.
					Lutheran Male Academy, Fort Wayne, 391.
					Luttman, M., 628.
					Luttrell, Rev. J. L., 501.
					Lutz, Abraham, 696.
					Lydecker, Harmon, 662.
					Lykins, Early Teacher, 244.
					Lyne, William, 492, 495.
					Lyric Theatre, 545.
					Lytle, Benjamin, 618.
					Lytle, William, 360, 375, 387, 396, 451.
				
				
					Mc
					McAdams, Captain Ray, 560, 575.
					McAfee, Captain Robert B., 184, 190, 196, 210, 220, 221, 240, 245, 364.
					McArdle, Dr. J. E., 554, 578, 581.
					McArthur, General Duncan, 229, 230, 231, 232, 251.
					McArthur, J. W., 451, 461, 467, 469.
					McBride, Dr. W. O., 581.
					McCarthy, John, 642.
					McCarthy, Jonathan, 300, 302, 306.
					McCartney, John, 489.
					McCartney, J. H., 537.
					McCarty, Thomas B., 367.
					McCarty, William M., 309.
					McCaskey, Dr. G. W., 504.
					McCaskey, Mrs. G. W., 262.
					McCaughey, W. F., 563.
					McCausland, Dr. J. W., 545.
					McClelland, James, 375.
					McClellan, Judge C. A. O., 519.
					McClelland, W. H., 531.
					McClure, Eli, 683.
					McClure, John, 682, 683.
					McColley, Rev. J. E., 545.
					McComb, D. O., 543, 569, 578, 586, 608.
					McConehy, Rev. J. R., 496.
					McConnell, John, 706.
					McCorkle, John, 258, 259, 260, 262, 263, 264, 267, 270, 280.
					McCormick, Henry, 384.
					McCoy, George F., 492.
					McCoy, Rev. Isaac, 221, 244, 245, 246, 256, 295.
					McCracken, James K., 413.
					McCracken, J. H., 531, 538.
					McCrary, B. H., 451.
					McCulloch, Charles, 327, 328, 383, 422, 435, 443, 467, 504, 506, 508, 515, 521, 523,
						526, 531, 532, 534, 537, 541.
					McCulloch, Fred H., 550.
					McCulloch, Judge Hugh, 272, 288, 309, 311, 313, 316*, 319, 323, 326, 327, 328, 330,
						331, 334, 359, 363, 366, 369, 375, 381, 389, 414, 419, 454, 455, 466, 521, 595.
					McCulloch's, Hugh, Commission, 475*.
					McCulloch, J. Ross, 423, 447, 555, 561, 577.
					McCulloch Park, 261, 270, 375, 393.
					McCullough, Dr. Thomas P., 459, 479.
					Mccurdy, A. R., 529.
					McDaniel, Rev. Robert, 487.
					McDonald, A. J., 483.
					McDonald, Archibald, 370.
					McDonald, E. H., 514, 531, 583.
					McDonald, H. C., 515.
					McDonald, Patrick J., 523, 531, 543, 548.
					McDonald, Mrs. P. J., 579.
					McDonald, R. T., 394, 460, 491, 509, 510, 530.
					McDonald, Rufus, 395, 598.
					McDonald, Samuel, 511.
					McDonald, W. H., 407, 418, 441.
					McDougal, Gregory, 440.
					McDougall, Lieutenant George, 176.
					McDowell, Dr. H. C., 685.
					McElfatrick, Isaac, 456.
					McElfatrick, Samuel, 438, 441, 450, 459.
					McEnrie, Captain, 492.
					McFarlane, W. H., 382.
					McGee, Patrick, 317, 438, 441, 450, 461, 479, 489, 494.
					McGinnis, Daniel, 360.
					McGoogan, Dr. G. B., 537, 544.
					McGowan, Peter, 389.
					McGrady, John D., 317.
					McGraw, Rev. J. A. P., 484.
					McIntosh, John, 295, 596.
					McIntosh, Joseph, 628.
					McJunkin, Alexander, 341, 346, 396, 407, 425*.
					McKeag, Rev. N. R., 405.
					McKean, W. T., 496, 506.
					McKee, Colonel Alexander, 69, 77, 80, 89, 96, 112, 119, 125, 135, 136, 137, 151,
						185.
					McKeen, Hugh B., 258, 266, 278.
					McKenny, Lieutenant, 132.
					McKim, J. B., 495.
					McKinley, Major William, 511, 533, 542.
					McKinley, William (1), 317, 439, 450.
					McKinley, William (2), 539.
					
					McKinnie, Henry, 484.
					McKinnie House, 454, 484.
					McKinnie, William, 484, 518.
					McKinnie, Mrs. William, 579.
					McLachlan, Neil, 437, 447.
					McLain, Captain John, 388.
					McLain, Nelson, 334, 376, 409, 442, 619, 620.
					McLaughlin, William, 441, 450.
					McMahon, Elza A., 360, 386, 395, 416, 432.
					McMahon, Major, 125.
					McMahon, J. H., 357, 360.
					MeMahon, Sylvester, 531, 538.
					McMaken, Joseph H., 289, 319, 339, 343, 349.
					McManus, Silas, 474.
					McMillen, Harry H., 570.
					McMullan, Richard, 313, 331, 356, 360, 396, 418, 427, 431, 432, 438, 474.
					McMullen, Major, 108, 109, 112.
					McMullen (Richmond, Virginia), 93.
					McMurtney, Captain, 113.
					McNagny, W. H., 530.
					McNair, John, 697.
					McNeiff, P., 137.
					McNiece, G. R., 504.
					McNiece, Robert G., 468.
					McNutt, L. D., 524.
					McNutt, Rev. Cyrus, 390.
					McOscar, Dr. E. J., 522.
					McQuown, S. S., 537.
					McWherter, H., 628.
				
				
					M
					Macarty, Captain, 56.
					Macbeth, Dr. A. H., 570.
					Macbeth, Jesse, 551.
					Mackinac (see also Fort Mackinac), 36, 37, 58, 78, 80, 154, 181, 194, 198, 204, 219,
						226.
					Mackinaw Township, 163.
					Mackwitz, Herman, 582.
					Macomb, General A. D., 157, 229.
					Macphail, William, 496.
					Mad Anthony Guards, 412, 428, 432.
					Mad Anthony Park, 519.
					Madden, Benjamin, 432.
					Madden, Rev. Father, 685.
					Madden, William, 647.
					Madison, President James, 199.
					Madison Township, Allen County, 624-630.
					Magee, David W., 389.
					Mahan, James, 315.
					Mahin, Rev. A. E., 405.
					Mahin, Rev. Milton, 294.
					Mahon, Archie, 340.
					Mahon, Monroe, 340.
					Mahon, Samuel, 340.
					Mahon, William, 340.
					Mahurin, Isaac, 420.
					Mahurin, M. S., 518, 525.
					Mahurin, Miss M. L., 420.
					Maier, John G., 352, 385, 386*, 428, 497.
					Mail, First Military, 189.
					Mail, The (newspaper), 497.
					Maisonville, Alexis, 66, 83.
					Maisonville, Francis, 60, 66.
					Majestic Theatre, 543.
					Majors, John, 313.
					Makepeace, S. D., 353.
					Malden, Canada, 188, 190, 192, 214, 217, 230.
					Mallet, Edmond, quoted, 41.
					Maloch, Francis, 176.
					Maloch, Jean Baptiste, 175, 176.
					Manchester, Rev. Charles, 545.
					Man-eating Indians (see Cannibalism).
					Manford, Rev. Erasmus, 374.
					Mann, Major, 180, 210, 212.
					Mann, Miss, 334.
					Manning, Amos, 660.
					Manning, John, 660, 662, 663.
					Manning, William, 336, 660.
					Mannix, Thomas, 430, 489.
					Mansion House, 343.
					Manteth, Sieur de, 37.
					Maples (Allen County), 644.
					Maples, D. W., 434.
					Maples, Lewis S., 644.
					Marble, Rev. M. S., 295.
					Marest, Father Gabriel, 39.
					Margane, Francois (Sieur de Vincennes), 34, 36, 40, 41, 119.
					Margry, Pierre (quoted), 19, 30, 36, 40, 50.
					Marietta, Ohio, 79, 84.
					Marion Township, Allen County, 617-624.
					Marine, Rev. A., 295, 405.
					Market Hduses, 331.
					Markel, Ephraim, 671.
					Markey, Rev. D., 484.
					Markley, Daniel, 518.
					Marks, Rev. S. F., 484.
					Marquardt, Jacob, 625.
					Marquis, Isaac, 286, 288.
					Marshall, Thomas R., 566.
					Mart C., 353.
					Martin, A., 444.
					Martin, August, 650.
					Martin, August E., 538.
					Martin, Delphos, 385.
					Martin, Dr. Harvey E., 580.
					Martin, Dr. W. W., 602.
					Martin, Frank A., 572.
					Martin, Lambert, 431.
					Martin, Lucien, 401.
					Martindale, Rev. Charles, 405.
					"Mary Delorme" Creek, 665.
					Mary Louisa, mother of Chief Richardville, sister of Chief Little Turtle (see also
						Ta-cum-wah), 88, 92.
					Mary Penrose Wayne Chapter, D. A. R., 133, 141, 152, 542, 544, 558.
					Mason, Benjamin, 354, 390, 646.
					Mason, C. W., 398.
					Mason, J., 185.
					Mason, Joseph N., 545.
					Mason, Rev. Thomas, 488.
					Masonic Lodge, the first, 253, 258.
					Masonic Temple, 512.
					Massacre of Jenkinson's Men, 220, 224.
					Massillon (Allen County), 627.
					Master, Rev. Henry B., 295, 597.
					Mastodon, Remains of, 22*, 23*, 24*, 659.
					Mather, Glenn, 570.
					Matron, Captain Richard, 221.
					Matthews, Rev. Edward, 496.
					Matthews, Gov. Claude, 532.
					Matthews, Robert, 474.
					Matthews, William, 614.
					Mauk, R. H., 562.
					Maumee City, Ohio, 125, 158, 219.
					Maumee River, 17, 21, 29, 30, 31, 35, 36, 65, 71, 73, 82, 86, 91, 102, 103, 108,
						111, 114-117, 120, 125, 129, 130, 134, 140, 146, 154, 214, 215, 232, 240, 283,
						329.
					Maumee Road, 596.
					Maumee Mission (1830), 294.
					Maumee Township, Allen County, 676-681.
					Maumee Valley Monumental Society, 519.
					Maumee-Wabash Portage, 20*, 22, 26*, 35, 41, 48, 55, 153, 161, 173, 227, 256.
					Mautner, Isador, 526.
					May, Edwin, 459.
					May, Ezra, 665, 667, 671.
					May, John, 111.
					May, William, 122, 130.
					Mayer, Albert, 353.
					Mayer, Dr. Charles F., 459.
					Mayer, George J. E., 343, 346, 473, 474.
					Mayer House, 343, 346*.
					Mayer, Rev. Jacob.
					Mayer, W. D., 515, 531.
					Mayflower Mills, 551.
					Mayhew, James, 614.
					Mayo, John R., 647.
					Maysville, Indiana, 406, 672.
					Mazontel, M., 83.
					Mead, Franklin B., 540.
					Means, William, 272.
					Mechanics Fire Company, 315.
					Me-che-noch-quah (see Little Turtle).
					Medals (French) found on the site of Fort Wayne, 52*.
					Medbury, S., 363.
					Medical College, Fort Wayne, 500.
					Medical Schools, 499-501.
					Medical Society, Fort Wayne, 459, 502.
					Medical Society, Allen County (1860), 459.
					Meegan, Charles J., 528.
					Meegan, Ellen Peltier, 179.
					Meegan, Thomas, 438.
					Meek, Andrew, 625.
					Meek, Thomas, 630.
					Meeson, Rev. J. D., 333.
					Meier, Ferdinand, 545, 554.
					Meier, Willis, 521.
					Meigs, Governor Return J., 199, 202, 215, 252.
					Melchers, Dr. E., 500.
					Melching, Albert E., 538.
					Melodeon, The, 476.
					Melosh, Jean Baptiste, 175, 176, 228.
					Melosche (Frenchman), 83.
					Melsheimer, S. D., 497.
					"Men and Measures of Half a Century," 311, 327, 381.
					Mendenhall, H. D., 484.
					Mendenhall, Rev. M. H., 405.
					Mennonite Church, 544.
					Mensch, Henry S., 492.
					Mentzer, Dr. S. E., 634.
					Mercer, George, 696.
					Mercer, Henry, 696.
					Merchants' National Bank, 476.
					Merchants' Union Express Company, 479.
					Meredith (Detroit), 86.
					Meredith, H., 438.
					Mergentheim, A., 488.
					Merriam, Dr. Willis, 408, 409.
					Meriam, Mason M., 295.
					Meriwether, Mrs. J. R., 568.
					Merriam, Amza, 623.
					Merriam, Cyrenus, 619.
					Merriam, Edward, 624.
					Merrifleld, Richard, 424.
					Merrill, Addison, 349.
					Merritt, E. H., 544.
					Mershon, Aaron J., 402.
					Mertz, Dr. D. G., 570.
					Mertz, Lieutenant L. A., 561, 575.
					Merz, J., 489.
					Messerschmidt, George, 315, 441.
					Messman, Rev. A., 495.
					Meshingomesia, Chief, 379.
					Metcalf, Dr. Dean, 580, 581.
					Metcalf, Dr. Samuel C., 488, 513, 523, 531, 656.
					Metcalf, M. V., 406, 545.
					Metcalf, Vachel, 650.
					Me-te-a, Pottawattomie Chief, 180*, 201, 210.
					Meteor of 1876, 502.
					Methodist College, 389, 404*.
					Mettler, Mathias, 472.
					Mettler, Peter, 489.
					
					Metzgar, Andrew, 360, 671.
					Metzgar, Henry M., 531.
					Mexican Border Service (1916), 560.
					Mexican War (1846-7), 388, 389.
					Meyer, Charles, 526, 531.
					Meyer, Diedrich, 523.
					Meyer, H. W., 535.
					Meyer, Henry, 558.
					Meyer, J. F. W., 395, 523, 525, 532, 534.
					Meyer, Rev. A. P., 529.
					Meyer, Rev. C. F. W., 530.
					Meyer, William (2), 471, 498, 523, 531.
					Meyer, William (2), 545.
					Meyer, William, Jr., 526, 531, 538, 542, 545.
					Meyers, Captain Otto C. Jr., 535.
					Miami Indians, 19, 25, 27, 30, 35, 36, 39, 42, 46, 51, 55, 75, 77, 80, 100, 102,
						103, 106-108, 119, 150, 153, 164, 166, 184, 185, 186, 189, 208, 230, 243, 252, 275, 283,
						377, 378, 379.
					Miami and Erie Canal, 282.
					Miami River, Ohio, 82, 153.
					Miamisport (Peru), Indiana, 256.
					Miami Town, site of Fort Wayne (see also Kekionga and Kiskakon Village), 71, 74, 76,
						77, 78, 84, 86, 101, 103, 111, 112, 119, 120.
					Michael Herman, 515, 523, 531, 536.
					Michaelis, G. K., 264.
					Mi-chi-ki-nah-quah (see Little Turtle).
					Michilimackinac (see Mackinac and Fort Mackinac).
					Middleton, Humphrey, 628.
					Middletown (Allen County), 621.
					Midland Telephone Co., 508.
					Mier, Sol, and Company, 543.
					Mifflin, Thomas, 111.
					Milan Township, Allen County, 636-639.
					Miles, Prof. William, 558, 573.
					Military "Draft" (1862), 463.
					Military "Draft" (1917), 580, 581, 582.
					Military Reservation (Fort Wayne), 161, 262.
					Millar, Alexander, 278.
					Millard, Robert, 543, 551.
					Miller, Abraham, 597.
					Miller, Albert T., 581.
					Miller, Andrew, 696.
					Miller, Asa, 313, 647, 696.
					Miller, Captain John E., 560, 576.
					Miller, Captain Sydney S., 575.
					Miller, Cassius, 473, 474.
					Miller, C. C., 468.
					Miller, Charles C., 510, 514.
					Miller, Christian, 696.
					Miller, Christopher, 130.
					Miller, David, 597, 601.
					Miller, Edward C., 193*, 545, 553, 555, 569, 573, 576, 579, 582.
					Miller, Edward ("Peg"), 529.
					Miller, Edwin W., 578.
					Miller, Henry A., 570.
					Miller, James E., 531.
					Miller, John, 696.
					Miller, John Fay, 145.
					Miller, John M., 347, 431, 434, 438, 439, 441, 465.
					Miller, Joseph, 696.
					Miller, Henry D., 489.
					Miller, Henry J., 510.
					Miller, Hugh, 390.
					Miller, Martin H., 473, 474.
					Miller, Nathaniel C., 416, 489.
					Miller, Rev. C. W., 294.
					Miller, Rev. Jacob, 484.
					Miller, Rev. Jacob W., 333.
					Miller, Rev. J. F., 529.
					Miller, Rev. R. O., 488.
					Miller, Rev. U. B., 333.
					Miller, Samuel, 484.
					Miller, Silas, 628.
					Miller, William Howard, 560.
					Milliman, C. V. N., 480.
					Milliman, Robert, 473, 474.
					Millis, Colonel John, 564.
					Mills, H. J. H., 368.
					Mills, J. B., 554.
					Mills, Major, 132.
					Milton, Henry, 431.
					Miner, Byron D., 327, 333, 411, 434, 450, 451, 461, 484, 641.
					Miner School, 479.
					Miner, William, 608.
					Minie, Charles, 274.
					Minie, Francis, 179, 274.
					Minton, Rev. W. B., 484.
					Missionaries, Catholic (see Jesuits in Maumee Valley).
					Missionaries, First Protestant, 244.
					Mississinewa Indians, 183.
					Mississinewa River, 230.
					Mississippi River, 20, 22, 30, 33, 35, 45, 76.
					Mitchell, Edward, 271.
					Mitchell, James, 497, 699.
					Mitchell, William, 328, 370, 409, 467.
					Mitten, Dr., 602.
					Model of Old Fort Wayne, 556.
					Moderwell, Hiram, 473.
					Moellering, William, 406.
					Moellering, William L., 508.
					Moellering, W. H. F., 545, 554.
					Moffat, Rev. D. W., 295, 534.
					Moffat, Samuel C., 520.
					Mogge, E. L., 562.
					Mohr, John, 460.
					Mohr, John, Jr., 422, 423, 515, 523, 531.
					Mohr, Joseph D., 422.
					Moll, Rev. William, 487.
					Mommer, John, 407.
					Mommer, Joseph, 407.
					Mommer, Joseph, Jr., 497, 505.
					Monahan, Daniel, 523, 634.
					Monahan, F. J., 536.
					Monahan, John, 319, 642.
					Monahan, W. A., 575.
					Monday Morning Times, 529.
					Monning, Henry, 316, 331, 418, 460, 462, 479, 481, 489, 506, 523, 531.
					Monning, John B., 521.
					Monroe, James, 219, 251, 258, 260, 261.
					Monroe, Michigan, 201, 217, 218.
					Monroe Township, Allen County, 630-636.
					Monroeville (Allen County), 627, 633.
					Montforton (Frenchman), 83.
					Montgomery, Jessie B., 479.
					Montgomery, Matthew, 651.
					Montgomery, Rev. Edward, 484.
					Montosoqua (Mrs. James R. Godfrey), 591.
					Montreal, 25, 34, 43, 44, 74.
					Montroilles (Frenchman), 95.
					Monument to Perry A. Randall, 565.
					Monument to Richardville, 225*.
					Monument to General Wayne, 561.
					Moon, C. F., 603.
					Moon, George, 501.
					Moon, Mrs. Minnie, 528.
					Moon, William L., 288, 313, 349, 360.
					Mooney, Enos, 697.
					Mooney, P., 705.
					Mooney, Robert, 705.
					Mooney, William F., 646.
					Moore, Andrew J., 603, 607.
					Moore, Captain Asa, 282.
					Moore, Captain Hugh, 214.
					Moore, D. F., 563.
					Moore, Dr. P. G., 162.
					Moore, Francis E., 570.
					Moore, L. H., 580.
					Moore, Tom, 340.
					Moore, William, 675.
					Moorman, Rev. George, 584.
					Moran, Clifford J., 545, 554.
					More, D. F., 512.
					Moreland, Charles, 541.
					Morgan, Colonel Thomas, 456.
					Morgan, Francois (Sieur de Vincennes), 34, 36, 40, 41.
					Morgan, Joseph, 288, 289, 311, 317, 326, 344, 348, 349, 359, 363, 396, 483.
					Morgan, J. D., 523.
					Morgan, Oliver P., 316*, 317, 328, 349, 387, 396, 407, 441, 443, 444, 461, 489, 490,
						496, 497, 525, 531.
					Moriarity, Lieutenant H. C., 561, 575.
					Moritz, E., 526.
					Moritz, John M., 531.
					Morning Musical, 528.
					Morning Press, 521.
					Morpock, Pottawattomie Chief, 192.
					Morr, Dr. John W., 541.
					Morris, Captain Robert, 47, 50, 60, 62, 63, 64, 66, 95, 96.
					Morris, Charles, 353.
					Morris, David Hamilton, 112, 113.
					Morris, Dr., 602.
					Morris, J., 94.
					Morris, Judge Bethuel F., 277.
					Morris, Judge John, 448, 453, 454, 486, 513, 514, 518, 534, 537.
					Morris, John, Jr., 522.
					Morris Plan Company, Fort Wayne, 553.
					Morris, Rev. W. S., 484, 496.
					Morrison, J. F., 505.
					Morss, Samuel E., 309, 394, 396.
					Morss, Samuel S., 289, 313, 319, 330, 349, 361, 394*, 431, 441.
					Morss, Mrs. Samuel S., 308, 319, 330, 384.
					Morrison, Frank, 701.
					Morton, Governor Oliver P., 473.
					Morton, Jared, 619.
					Morton, G. E., 628.
					Moser, Dr. Edward, 681.
					Moses, F. D., 519.
					Mosier (Allen County), 638.
					Mosier, Joseph, 637, 638.
					Moss, Benjamin, 441.
					Mossman, B. Paul, 540, 544, 555, 562, 563, 578, 579, 583.
					Mossman, William E., 562.
					Mossman, Mrs. W. E., 528.
					Mossman, Yarnelle and Company, 523.
					Motherwell, J. E., 367.
					Motorization of Fire Department, 569.
					Motschman, Rev. L. J., 530.
					Moudy, Martin L., 454.
					Mound Builders, remains of, 22*, 23, 24.
					Mount, Governor James A., 458, 534, 542.
					Mowrer, Isaac, 523.
					Mower, John S., 462.
					Moynihan, A. J., 484, 485, 565.
					Moynihan, Mrs. A. J., 485, 491.
					Moynihan, M. H., 485.
					Mud Lake, 681.
					Mueller, Rev. Louis, 293, 294, 333.
					
					Muhler, Charles F., 396, 407, 431, 515, 516, 517, 525, 532, 560*.
					Muhler, Rev. M., 488.
					Muir, Major A. C., 215.
					Muirhead, Alexander, 521.
					Muldoon, Charles, 681.
					Mulholland, Samuel E., 556, 576.
					Muller, Harry W., 555, 569, 573, 576, 583.
					Muller, William, 660.
					Mulligan, Charles E., 561.
					Mungen, John H., 581.
					Mungovan, J. Frank, 545, 554, 570.
					Mungovan, Thomas C., 437.
					Municipal Asphalt Plant, 552.
					Municipal Coliseum, 562.
					Municipal Court, 540.
					Municipal Forestry Department, 548.
					Municipal Greenhouses, 585.
					Municipal Lighting and Power Plant, 541, 553.
					Municipal Swimming Pool, 568.
					Municipal Waterworks, 506, 507.
					Munschina, Rev. Alphonce, 333.
					Munson, Charles A., 143, 498, 502, 503*, 505, 506.
					Munson, James P., 375, 396, 503.
					Murder of Ensign Robert Holmes, 60.
					Murphy, John, 676.
					Murphy, William T., 271.
					Murray, Captain Elias, 306, 363.
					Murray, Kerr, 430, 448.
					Murray, Major, 88.
					Murray, Rev. C. H., 405.
					Murrow, James, 145.
					Murtah, W. H., 343.
					Myers, Charles Frederick, 345.
					Myers, Dr. W. H., 459, 486, 489, 496, 499, 500, 507, 512.
					Myers, Essie Preble, 523.
					Myres, General, 363.
					Myers, Hiram, 656.
					Myers, Jesse, 625.
					Myers, John, 625.
					Myers, Mrs. W. H., 526.
					Mystic Shrine Band, 354.
				
				
					N
					Nail's (Allen County), 644.
					Nail, J. W., 644.
					Napoleon, Ohio, 130, 138.
					National Fire Alarm System, 315.
					National Handle Company, 538.
					National Hotel, 344.
					National Telephone and Telegraph Co., 508.
					Natural Gas and Fuel Company, Fort Wayne, 516.
					Natural Gas Supply, 516.
					Navarre, Alexis, 214.
					Navarre, Colonel Francis, 218.
					Navarre (Frenchman), 83.
					Navarre, Jacques, 214.
					Navarre, Peter, 214, 222.
					Navarre, Robert, 214.
					Navy Enlistments (1917), 575.
					Navy League Branch, 575.
					Ne-ah-long'quah (Indian), 239.
					Neal, Rev. A. G., 295.
					"Nebraska" (Fort Wayne), 484, 537.
					Nebraska School, 479, 503.
					Neff, David, 705.
					Neff, John, 705.
					Neff, John E., 309.
					Neff, John P., 625.
					Neff, Samuel, 705.
					Negro Exclusion, vote on, 414.
					Neireiter, Conrad, 403, 462.
					Nelson, B. J., 579.
					Nelson, DeGroff, 528.
					Nelson, George, 441.
					Nelson, I. D. G., 196, 272, 288, 306, 309, 327*, 333, 355, 359, 866, 377, 406, 407,
						409, 416, 481, 439, 441, 447, 450, 458, 473, 500, 459.
					Nelson, Miss Rena B., 528.
					Nelson, Mrs. DeGroff, 269.
					Nelson, Mrs. I. D. G., 502.
					Nelson Railroad Bill, 327.
					Nelson, Rev. J. S., 530.
					Nelson, William R., 309, 458, 467.
					Nesbit, Mrs. Josephine L., 547.
					Nestel, Charles, 357, 461, 593.
					Nestel, Daniel, 357, 450 461, 467, 593.
					Nestel, Miss Eliza, 357, 461, 593.
					Nethercutt, Rev. M. E., 405.
					Nettlehorst, A., 451.
					Nettlehorst, Charles C., 661.
					Nettleton, Nathan, 367.
					Neubert, Gustavus J., 447.
					"New France" (Allen County), 643.
					New France (Canada), 18, 22, 27, 29, 33.
					New Haven, Indiana, 598.
					New Haven Vigilants, 441.
					Newman (deserter), 127.
					Newman, William P., 438.
					Newport, Kentucky, 179, 223, 224.
					News, Fort Wayne, 496.
					Newton, C. H., 568.
					Newton, C. W., 536.
					Newton, S. C., 369, 375.
					New York and Indiana House, 359.
					New York, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad, 394, 509.
					New York Inn, 598.
					Neyon, Chevalier de (Villiers), 53, 56.
					"Niagara," canal packet, 368, 405.
					Niagara Falls, 32.
					Nicholas, Indian Chief, 38, 42, 44, 45, 50.
					Nicholson Paving, 473.
					Nichter, Edmund C., 583.
					Nickel Plate Railroad, 394, 509, 529.
					Nickerson, Rev. H. S., 522, 651.
					Nicknames of Anthony Wayne, 136.
					Nicodemus, John, 697.
					Nierman, Dr. H. C., 537.
					Nierman, H., 331.
					Nierman, H. G., 531.
					Nierman, Henry, 427, 487, 489, 450, 462.
					Nierman, Herman, 357.
					Nierman, Martin, 315.
					Niezer, Charles M., 574, 578.
					Niezer, J. B., 523, 635.
					Niezer, Maurice C., 551, 570, 583.
					Nightwatch, First, 317.
					Nigsch, Rev. Francis, 586.
					Nill, Conrad, 333, 450.
					Ninde, B. F., 531.
					Ninde, Daniel B., 540, 545, 575.
					Ninde, Harry W., 518.
					Ninde, Judge Lindley M., 416, 426, 450, 453, 457, 501, 515, 518.
					Ninde, James W., 336.
					Ninde, Lee J., 547.
					Ninde, Mrs. Lindley M., 491, 495.
					"Nine Mile" House, 619.
					Nipissing River, 28.
					Nirdlinger, F., 408, 441, 479, 489.
					Nirdlinger, Sam, 475.
					Nirdlinger, Max, 474, 514.
					Noel, Smalwood, 256, 274*, 281, 295, 308, 358, 453.
					Noel, S. V. B., 272, 308, 309.
					Noel, Mrs. Smalwood, 254.
					Nohr, Dr. Robert, 543.
					Noll, Rev. John F., 574.
					Normal, Fort Wayne, 479, 553.
					Norris, Rev. H. J., 295.
					Northern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, 516.
					Northern Indiana Poultry Association, 521.
					Norris, Rev. H. J., 484.
					Northrup, Rev. S. A., 333.
					Northside Park (see Lawton Park).
					"North Side" (Bloomingdale), 529.
					"North Wayne" (Bloomingdale), 529.
					Northwest Territory, 79, 82, 84, 164.
					Notestein, Jacob, 615, 660, 661, 662.
					Notestine, Peter, 659.
					Notestein, Uriah, 615.
					Now-ee-ling.qua (Indian) murder case, 295.
					Nugent, Edward, 637.
					Null, Dr. L. S., 515, 602.
					Nuttle, John, 636, 687.
					Nuttman Bank, 260, 452, 518.
					Nuttman, J. D., 313, 452*, 465, 513.
				
				
					O
					Oakley, B. W., 328, 384, 407, 424, 425, 437, 440, 453, 466, 489.
					Oakley, Colonel Chauncey B., 384, 477, 483, 525, 528, 531, 533, 543, 560*.
					Oakton (Allen County), 644.
					O'Brien, Dennis, 477, 497, 523.
					O'Connor, Bernard S., 357, 449, 459.
					Odd Fellows' Block, 272.
					Odd Fellows, Independent Order of, 375.
					Oechtering, Rev. J. H., 403.
					Ofenloch, Peter, 554.
					Ofenloch, Valentine, 528.
					Officers' Reserve Corps (1917), 576.
					Official Flag of Fort Wayne, 560.
					O'Hara, Hugh, 697.
					Ohio and Indiana Railroad, 409.
					Ohio Electric System, 539.
					Ohio, Indiana and Illinois Telegraph Co., 397.
					Ohio Land Company, 53.
					Ohio River, 22, 35, 40, 58, 82, 102, 123, 136, 153, 190.
					Ohneck, Edward, 537.
					Ohnhaus, Peter, 489.
					"Old Apple Orchard" (Lakeside), 148.
					Old Apple Tree, Lakeside, 48, 49.
					"Old Britain" (see La Demoiselle).
					Old Fort House, 344.
					Old Fort Park, 157, 233, 235, 465, 472, 519, 542.
					Old High School, 482*, 503.
					Old National Bank, 272, 328.
					Old Raccoon (Indian), 239.
					Old Settlers' Reunion (1860), 461.
					"Old Stone" Mill, 366*, 378.
					Olds, Charles L., 504, 513.
					Olds, H. G., 498, 509.
					Olds, H. J., 467.
					Olds, Noble G., 461.
					O'Leary, Rev. Thomas, 523.
					Oliver, William, 185, 200, 206, 207.
					Oliver, Peter, 202, 228.
					Oliver, P. H., 356.
					Olmstead, Lemuel G., 152.
					Olmstead, Rev. B. L., 496.
					Olympic Theatre, 485.
					
					Omans, John, 598.
					Omo, Frederick, 669, 670.
					Omo, Simon, 670.
					One Hundred per Cent Club, 569.
					One Hundredth Regiment, I. N. G. (1862), 456.
					Opp, Dr., 602.
					Oppenheimer, A., 315, 347, 357, 403, 528, 526.
					Oquanoxas, Ottawa Chief, 275.
					Orange Township, 300.
					Orbison, A. M., 254, 403, 447, 471.
					Ordinance of 1787, 79.
					O'Reilly, Henry, 397.
					Orff, Charles, 441.
					Orff, C. E., 538, 545.
					Orff, Christian, 444, 450.
					Orff, E. A., 345.
					Orff, Frank, 497.
					Orff, Henry, 352.
					Orff, John, 373, 431, 441, 450, 465, 504, 529, 538.
					Orff Mill, 269, 366*, 373.
					Orff Park, 529.
					Original Plat of Fort Wayne, 263, 267*.
					Ormiston, James, 431.
					O'Rourke, Judge Edward, 449, 454, 480, 489, 502, 515, 525, 531, 537, 540,
						543.
					O'Rourke, Patrick S., 357, 479, 633.
					O'Rourke, W. S., 515.
					O'Rourke, Mrs. W. S., 491.
					Orphans' Home, Allen County, 525.
					Orr, Charles W., 523, 544.
					Orr, John W., 468.
					Orrin, Andrew, 696.
					Orrin, John, 696.
					Ortlieb, G. C. A., 542.
					Ortmann, Henry W., 496.
					Orwick House, 376.
					O'Ryan, John J., 538, 545.
					Ossem, Henry, 296.
					Ostrander, Lieutenant Philip, 181, 182, 190, 200, 204, 210.
					Oswego, New York, 80.
					Ott, Frances, 579.
					Ottawa Indians, 33, 54, 56, 150, 275.
					Ottenwiler, Frank, 628.
					Otter, 90.
					Otis, Colonel E. C., 499.
					Ouamis (Maumee) River, 35.
					Oubache River (see Wabash River).
					Ouiatanon Indians, 27.
					Ouiatanon, Post, 40, 41, 44, 48, 56, 58, 60, 65, 70, 77, 115, 119.
					Ouilmette House (Chicago), 182.
					Overdeer, Rev. H. L., 484.
					Overly, David, 701.
					Overmeyer, Mrs. Ida M., 525.
					Owl, John, 180.
					Owl, The, Indian Chief, 164.
				
				
					P
					Packard Band, 353.
					Packard Company, 495.
					Paff, Sebastian, 662.
					Page, William D., 193*, 494, 496, 497, 513, 521, 537.
					Page, Mrs. W. D., 491.
					Pageant, Children's Historic, 553.
					Pageant of 1916, 558, 561*, 576*.
					Paige, Charles, 387.
					Paillet (Payett), Frenchman, 87, 96.
					Palace Hall, 476.
					Palace Theatre, 550.
					Palmer, E., 344.
					Palmer, Lucius, 674, 676.
					Palmer, Nathan, 674.
					Palmer, Rev. Mr., 685.
					Palmer, Walter S., 548.
					Palo Alto House, 343, 346*.
					Panic (1837), 331.
					Pantonne, Etienne (Frenchman), 95.
					Pape, Albert C., 582.
					Pape, Albert O., 570.
					Pape, Charles, 406.
					Paper Mill, 476, 486.
					Paramore, H. H., 521.
					Parish, Half-breed Pottawattomie, 208.
					Park, Benjamin, 243.
					Park Commissioners, Board of, 546.
					Park, Joseph, 239.
					Park Laws, 546.
					Parker, A. R., 545.
					Parker, Amaziah, 649, 650.
					Parker, Benjamin, 650.
					Parker, Christian, 316*, 321, 357, 385, 395, 409, 613, 662.
					Parker, George, 429.
					Parker, Nathan, 696.
					Parker, Nelson, 620.
					Parker, Peter, 418, 430, 614.
					Parker, Thomas, 696.
					Parker, W. M., 395, 396.
					Parker, Washington, 696.
					Parker, Wellington, 696.
					Parkman, Francis, quoted, 30, 48, 56, 59, 66, 176.
					Parks, Jehial, 674, 675.
					Parks, Volney, 360.
					Parnin, Francis, 705.
					Parr, Rev. W. D., 405.
					Paschall, Rev. J. W., 484, 522.
					Pask, Charles E., 570.
					Pasteur, Major Thomas, 155, 156.
					Pathin, John, 53.
					Patrick, David, 625.
					Pattee, Rev. David, 642, 671.
					Pattee, Rev. True, 614, 638, 667.
					Pattee, Zeru, 395.
					Patterson, James, 633.
					Pattison, Rev. E. C., 345.
					Patterson, Rev. J. A., 484.
					Patterson, Rev. M., 487.
					Patterson, Jesse, 295.
					Patton, Jesse, 543.
					Paul, Henry C., 510, 515, 525, 526, 530, 578.
					Paul, William, 395.
					Paving of Streets, 478, 569.
					Pawnee Indians, 96.
					Pay-as-you-enter Street Cars, 524.
					Payee (Louis Payet), 87, 96.
					Payet, Louis (Payee), 87.
					Payett (Paillet), Frenchman, 87, 92.
					Payne, Brigadier General, 205, 211.
					Payne, Captain John, 221.
					Payne, Major Duval, 221.
					Peabody, J. L., 684.
					Pearse, J. Willis, 545.
					Pearson, Jacob, 682.
					Pecanne (Miami Chief), 62, 66, 76, 88, 96, 164.
					Pe-che-wa (See Richardville, Jean Baptiste).
					Peckham, Charles, 625.
					Pecot, Rev. Father, 293.
					Peirce, Edwin W., 562, 583.
					Pelletier, Francois, 163.
					Pelletier, Jean Baptiste, 163.
					Peltier, Charles, 179, 228.
					Peltier, James (1), 84, 176, 213, 228.
					Peltier, James (2), 176, 178, 179, 200, 212.
					Peltier, James C., 176*, 179, 516.
					Peltier, John B., 339.
					Peltier, Louis, 176, 179, 212, 261, 303.
					Peltier, Mrs. James, 176, 178, 179, 200.
					Peltier, Salvador, 179, 213.
					Peltier, William H. W., 84, 176*, 178, 213, 520, 535.
					Pe-me-sah-quah (Rebekah Wells, Mrs. Hackley), 264.
					Pennsylvania and Ohio Railroad, 408, 410.
					"Pennsylvania" Shops, 446, 448.
					"Pennsylvania" Station, 413, 454*.
					Pens, Conrad, 462, 465, 489.
					People's Advocate (Publication), 497.
					People's Press, 357.
					People's Trust and Savings Company, 543.
					Peoria, Illinois, 35, 154.
					Pepper, Colonel A. C., 363, 377.
					Perfect, A. H., and Company, 536.
					Perfect, Arthur H., 562.
					Perfect, Harry A., 578.
					Pernot, Constant, 705, 706.
					Perot, Nicholas, 83.
					Perrine, Van B., 550, 553.
					Perry Center Seminary, 655.
					Perry, Commodore, 221.
					Perry, James, 300.
					Perry, Oliver L., 398.
					Perry, Orrin, 507.
					Perry Randall School, 564.
					Perry Rangers, 441.
					Perry Township, Allen County, 648-659.
					Perry's, Commodore, Cannon, 362.
					Peru, Indiana, 256, 271, 330.
					Peters, Claus, 350.
					Peters, J. C., 518.
					Petrie, Jerome, 367.
					Petrilli, Rev. Anthony, 552.
					Pettijohn, Rev. J. D. G., 294.
					Pettit, Adam, 603, 607.
					Pettit, W. L., 531.
					Pevert, Frank, 386.
					Peyton, Gavin, 605.
					Pfeiffer, Charles F., 540.
					Pfeiffer, Christian F., 345, 497, 506.
					Pfeiffer, Henry, 485.
					Pfeiffer, John N., 545.
					Pfleger, Harry G., 554.
					Phelps (Allen County), 678.
					Phelps, Douglass, 450.
					Phelps, Rev. Boyd, 294.
					"Phenomenon, The" (Steamboat), 318.
					Philadelphia, Penn., 167.
					Phillabaum, John, 465.
					Philley, C. H., 595.
					Philley, R. S., 563.
					Phillips, George, 344, 406.
					Phillips House, 344.
					Phillips, John, 86.
					Phillips, Jabez, 678.
					Phillips, Rev. N. H., 295.
					Phillips, William, 363.
					Piankeshaw Indians, 27, 45, 54, 164, 165, 183.
					Piatt, John H., 222, 236.
					Pickard, Thomas R., 430.
					Pickawillany, 49, 51, 53, 54, 55, 56.
					Pickering, David, 289, 302, 325.
					Pickering, Thomas, 186.
					Piepenbrink, C. P., 461, 462, 489.
					Pierce, Dr., 343.
					Pierce, George, 402.
					Pierce, Mrs. Ogden, 486.
					Pierce, Rev. W. O., 405.
					Pierce, Winslow, 489.
					Pierre, John, 614.
					Pierre, Peter, 416.
					Pierson (Allen County), 682.
					Pierson, Samson, 682, 684.
					Pike, Major Zebulon, 162.
					Pike, Zebulon M., 163.
					Pipe-ne-way (Indian), 239.
					Pinniger, Harry G., 554.
					Pioneer Railroads, 429.
					
					Piqua, Ohio, 167, 200, 202, 208, 212, 214, 230, 251.
					Piqua Road, 370, 595, 618.
					Pirogues, 70, 76, 87, 93, 172, 223, 234, 240, 287, 296, 328, 329.
					Pittsburg, Fort Wayne and Chicago (Pennsylvania) Railroad, 408-413, 464, 468.
					Pittsburgh, Indiana, 369.
					Pixley, George W., 502, 522, 543.
					Placey, M de, 83.
					"Planked" Streets, 421, 445.
					Plank Road Poster, 399*.
					Plat of Fort Wayne, the Original, 263, 267*.
					Platter, George, 677, 678.
					Pleasant Township, Allen County, 694-700.
					Plow Boy, The (Publication), 497.
					Plymouth Congregational Church, 488, 564.
					Poe (Allen County), 621.
					Poirson, P., 538.
					Pokaw, Indian Warrior, 202.
					Polhamus, Albert H., 460.
					Police Court, 540.
					Police Matron, 552.
					Polish Band, 354.
					Polish Catholic Church, 551.
					Polk, Judge William, 306, 355.
					Polo, 543.
					Ponchartrain, M. de, 84, 37.
					Pond, Mrs. O. L., 527.
					Pontiac (Ottawa Chief), 22, 45*, 50, 57, 61, 62, 66, 176.
					"Poor" Farm, 429, 550, 659.
					Poole, Frank H., 423.
					Poor Handmaids of Christ, 481.
					Popple, James, 366.
					Population of Fort Wayne (1830) 349, (1840) 349, (1850) 450, (1860) 459, (1870) 488,
						(1880) 512, (1890) 542, (1900) 542, (1910) 551, (1915) 548, (1917) 569.
					Pore Epic, Indian Chief, 43.
					Porcupine, The (Indian Chief), 95.
					Porcupines, 92.
					Portage (See Maumee-Wabash Portage, etc.).
					Porter, Alexander, 326.
					Porter, Captain, 148.
					Porter, Dr. Miles F., 504, 579, 580, 581.
					Porter, Dr. Miles F., Jr., 580.
					Porter, Hiram, 197, 370, 373, 689.
					Porter, James, 613.
					Porter, John, 197.
					Porter, Peter Buell, 242.
					Porter, Sergeant, 145.
					Posey, General, 125.
					Post House (Tavern), 389, 376.
					Post, James, 288, 289, 290, 331, 339, 640.
					Postage Rates, Early, 383.
					Postmaster, the First, 252.
					Post Miami, British (See Fort Miami).
					Post Miami (Site of Fort Wayne), 34, 36, 41, 42, 44, 45, 53, 56, 58, 60, 61.
					Postoffice, the First, 252.
					Post Ponchartrain (Detroit), 34.
					Post Vincent (See also Vincennes), 79.
					Postal Savings Bank, 552.
					Postal Sub-stations, 548.
					Postal Telegraph System, 398.
					Potier, Father, 83.
					Pottawattomie Indians, 88, 166, 183, 184, 185, 192, 377.
					Potts, Rev. T. Pliny, 382, 553.
					Poultry and Cats (Publication), 497.
					Pound (For Stray Animals), 266.
					Powell, Brigadier H. Watson, 78.
					Powell, Rev. Sherman, 496.
					Powers, Amasa, 599.
					Powers, Aretas, 640, 642.
					Powers, John, 352.
					Powers, John A., 599.
					Powers, Prof. Thomas, 495.
					Powers, Reuben, 599, 642.
					Powers, Rev. H. P., 345.
					Powers, Volney, 599.
					Poyser, Hiram, 430, 489.
					"Prairie Schooners," 401.
					Pranger, John H., 497.
					Pratt, Samuel, 315.
					Pratt, Rev. Robert, 685.
					Pratt, William, 401.
					Pratt, William T., 406, 439, 441, 450, 469, 486.
					Preble, Caleb M., 697.
					Preble, Charles M., 697.
					Precious Blood Church, 536.
					Pre-glacial Man, 24.
					Pre-historic Animals, 22*, 24*, 659.
					Pre-historic Man, Relics of, 22*, 23*, 24*.
					Prentice, Charles, 473.
					Prentiss, J. R., 489.
					Press, Fort Wayne, 408.
					Presbyterian Academy, 384, 478.
					Preston, Captain, 148.
					Preston, Rev. A. S., 405.
					Price, Captain W. M., 221.
					Price, F. M., 570.
					Price, Joseph, 315, 441, 450, 456, 464.
					Price, Major, 130.
					Price, T. J., 396.
					Prince, C. A., 513.
					Prince, W. H., 387.
					Princess Rink, 502, 532, 543.
					Pring, John, 660.
					Pringle, James, 682, 683.
					Pringle, Samuel, 683.
					Prior, Captain, 132.
					Prison, Debtors', 278, 279, 280.
					Pritchard, Thomas, 289, 310, 387.
					Private Currency, 385*.
					Probasco, A. C., 483, 426, 438, 483.
					Probation Officers, 543.
					Probst, William, 269.
					Proctor, General, 215.
					Proegler, Dr. Carl, 502.
					Prophet, George H., 377.
					"Prophet, The," 174, 175, 182*, 186, 187, 189, 190, 191, 221.
					Prophet's Town, 189.
					Protection Engine and Hose Company, 315.
					Prouty, Joshua B., 473.
					Public Library, 526, 527.
					Public Schools (See also Township Schools), 419, 421, 443, 566, 569.
					Public Square (See Court House and Court House Square).
					Pucan, Indian Chief, 184.
					Puckett, E. W., 555.
					Pugh, Henry, 333.
					Pumping Stations, 507, 538.
					Purcell, Edward, 368.
					Purcell, Frank E., 531.
					Purvis, H. E., 600.
					Putnam, General Rufus, 136.
					Putnam, N. H., 441, 447, 450, 461, 496, 497, 506.
				
				
					Q
					Quaife, Dr. M. M., quoted, 95, 96, 180.
					Quakers (See Friends).
					Quarles, William, 285.
					Quebec, 25, 29, 30, 35.
					"Queen City," Canal Boat, 367.
					Quest Club, 569, 577.
					Quinlan, Rev. John R., 294, 575.
					Quinn, David, 289.
				
				
					R
					Rabbit, Joseph, 630, 633.
					Raccoon Village, 66.
					Raccoons, 90, 92.
					Racine, Amie, 406, 523.
					Racine, Joseph, 523.
					Rademacher, Bishop Joseph, 403, 480, 542.
					Radway, O. E., 489.
					Rahe, Frank J., 550.
					Railroad Regulations (1862), 464*.
					Railroad Strike of 1877, 498, 499.
					Railroads (See under Specific Names).
					Railroad Tickets, Early, 427*.
					Railroad Track Elevation, 548.
					Railroad Young Men's Christian Association (See also Young Men's Christian
						Association), 553.
					Raimond, M. de, 84, 48, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53.
					Rainbeare, Henri, 95.
					Rainstorms of 1915, 558.
					Raisin, River, 192, 201, 218.
					Ralston, Governor S. M., 550.
					Randall, Franklin P., 232, 234, 272, 279, 297, 345, 346*, 347, 348, 352, 356, 359,
						360, 364, 365, 366, 375, 395, 410, 418, 437, 438, 439, 441, 448, 449, 453, 454, 455,
						458, 461, 479, 488, 489, 492, 495, 564, 565.
					Randall, Frank M., 531, 554, 569.
					Randall, Mrs. Franklin P., 502.
					Randall, Mrs. Julia Fay, 579.
					Randall, Mrs. Julian, 491.
					Randall, "General," 530.
					Randall Guards (1860), 456.
					Randall, Perry A., 496, 509, 522, 532, 537, 544, 551, 561*.
					Randall (Perry A.) Monument, 496.
					Randolph, Beverly, 136.
					Ranjard, Mrs., 87, 89, 91.
					Ranke, Captain William F., 531, 535, 545, 552, 554, 561, 570, 578, 582.
					Ranke, William, 438, 450.
					Rankin, David, 319, 335.
					Rankin, John, 311.
					Rankin, Rev. Mr., 614, 651.
					Raquette, P., 488.
					Rarey, Rev. C. D., 484.
					Rariden, James, 278, 284.
					Rastetter, Louis, 448, 459.
					Rathrauff, Rev. W. P., 395.
					Ratledge, Moses (1), 630.
					Ratledge, Moses (2), 630.
					Ratledge, William, 630.
					Rauch, Joseph, 403.
					Raugh, C., 394.
					Ravencroft, Patrick, 296.
					Rawlins, Captain, 132.
					Ray, Governor James B., 257, 265, 283, 285.
					Ray, Major, 103, 110.
					Rayburn, Colonel, 363.
					Rayhouser, R. C. F., 411, 415.
					Raynor, J. A., quoted, 167.
					Read, A. J., 416.
					Read, Charles E., 526.
					Read, Henry A., 523.
					Read, Moses, 522.
					Reade, Brigadier General Philip, 149.
					Reading, Corporal James, 145.
					Ream, W. R., 497.
					Red Cross Campaign (1917), 578.
					Red Cross Chapter, Fort Wayne, 579.
					Red Cross Christmas Stamp Sales, 563.
					Red Cross Hospital Unit (1917), 580.
					Red Cross Motor Ambulance, 585.
					Red Cross Supply Depot, 579.
					
					Reddinghouse, Elijah, 630.
					Redeemer Church, English Lutheran, 530.
					Redelsheimer, D. S., 633.
					Redelsheimer, Sigmund, 347, 387, 403.
					Reed, A. F., 456.
					Reed, Captain, 148.
					Reed, Colonel Hugh B., 328, 386, 387, 440, 456, 452*, 472.
					Reed, Daniel, 288, 409.
					Reed, Frederick, 683.
					Reed, Sergeant, 145.
					Reed, William, 343.
					Rees, Rev. C. W., 333.
					Reese, Captain Charles, 406, 515, 523.
					Reese, Captain Charles E., 531, 535, 539.
					Reese, John, 288.
					Reformed Orphans' Home, 514.
					Regnault, Charles Sieur Dubuisson (See Dubuisson, Ensign).
					Regular Army Enlistments (1917), 574.
					"Regulators," 440, 441, 514.
					Rehl, Rev. Lewis, 522.
					Reichelderfer, Aaron M., 545, 669.
					Reichelderfer, Charles, 669.
					Reichelderfer, Elihu, 505, 669.
					Reichelderfer, Jacob, 668, 669.
					Reichelderfer, John D., 666, 668, 669.
					Reichelderfer, Lewis, 669, 671.
					Reichelderfer, William, 669.
					Reichelderfer, W. A., 531.
					Reid, Daniel, 306, 340.
					Reiling, August, 578.
					Reineke, Fred J., 353.
					Reineke, John B., 441.
					Reinewald, Rudolph C., 523, 531.
					Reinhart, Adam A., 581, 582.
					Reilly, M. J., 570.
					Reiter, E. F., 477.
					Rekers, Bernard, 360, 424.
					Rekers, Clement A., 359, 438, 451, 469, 489.
					Rekers, John B., 352, 479.
					Relic Room, Historical Exhibit, 141.
					Relics of French Occupation of Fort Wayne Site, 52*.
					Relief Society, Fort Wayne (1864), 471.
					Remington, Frederick, 17.
					Remmel, A. C., 492.
					Remmel, Arthur K., 576.
					Remmel, Mrs. Arthur K., 579.
					Renaud, Francis, 302.
					Renaudot, Abbe, 31.
					Reno, Francis, 302.
					Republican, Fort Wayne, 351, 447.
					Requa, James, 281.
					Rescue Home and Mission, Fort Wayne, 343.
					Reservoir Park, 512, 556, 558, 561*, 576*.
					Reservoir, Waterworks, 507.
					Resolutions (Lexington Day, 1917), 573.
					Retail Merchants' Association, Fort Wayne, 544.
					Rettig, Rev. John, 514.
					Reuss, John B., 502, 528.
					Revarre, Anthony, 180.
					Revarre, Anthony, Jr., 176*, 180.
					Reynolds, John W., 570.
					Reynolds, Judge, 638.
					Reynolds, Reuben, 123.
					Reynolds, William, 625.
					Rhamy, Dr. B. W., 580.
					Rhea, Capt. James, 184, 187, 188, 192, 200, 202, 208, 204, 210.
					Rhinehart, J., 310.
					Rhy, M., 78.
					Ribidos (Frenchman), 95.
					Rice, Benjamin F., 336.
					Rice, J. A., 152.
					Rice, Nicholas, 696.
					Rice, Rabbi William, 403.
					Rice, Rev. P. J., 488.
					Rich, Sanford, 521.
					Rice, Thomas, 289.
					Rice, Wallace, 152, 559, 500.
					Rich Hotel, 521.
					Richardson, Dr., 222.
					Richardville, Catherine, 225, 233, 380, 591.
					Richardville, Jean Baptist de, Miami Chief, 48, 50, 66, 88, 90, 92, 94, 96, 151,
						164, 166, 178, 227, 230, 233*, 237, 239, 243, 244, 271, 296, 330, 379, 590.
					Richardville, Joseph, 289, 243.
					Richardville, Joseph Drouet de, 48, 50, 88, 96, 233.
					Richardville, LaBlonde, 225, 233, 881, 590.
					Richardville Monument, 225*.
					Richardville Reservation, 590.
					Richardville, Susan, 225, 283, 590.
					Richardville's Safe, 227*, 237.
					Richey, Amos, 425.
					Richmond (Indiana) Enquirer, 269.
					Richter, Paul, 530.
					Rickoff, Rev. M. F., 587.
					"Ridge" Road, 612, 638.
					Ridgeway, Joseph, 303.
					Ried, A. D., 441.
					Riedmiller, J. M., 497.
					Rieman, Calvin K., 232, 545, 554.
					Riese, Chas., 497.
					Rifles, Fort Wayne (1860), 456, 521.
					Riheldaffer, Rev. J. G., 295.
					Riley, Captain James, 241, 242, 248, 261, 263, 281.
					Riley, G. W. G., 309.
					Riley, H. L., 703.
					Riley's "Narratives," 242.
					Riley Township, 300.
					Rinehart, Henry, 537.
					Rinehart, John, 326.
					Ring, John, 489, 497.
					Ringwalt, William, 545, 666, 668.
					Ringwalt, William H., 668.
					Rink, The, 486, 487*.
					Rissing, John, 582.
					Ritchie, John, 289.
					Rivard (Frenchman), 83, 86, 91, 96.
					Rivard, Miss, 86, 87, 89, 96.
					River Ferries at Fort Wayne, 290.
					River Front Commission, 546.
					River Improvement Association, 546.
					River Raisin, 192, 201, 218.
					"River" Road, 596, 599.
					Rivers (See under Specific Names).
					Riviere Petite (See also Little River), 71.
					Robe, Rev. J. T., 294.
					Robedeux (Frenchman), 95.
					Roberts, Absalom, 619.
					Roberts, Humphrey, 289.
					Roberts, Rev. Scepter, 496.
					Robertson, Colonel Robert S., 54, 59, 66, 101, 151, 196, 231, 375, 477, 479, 482,
						489, 494, 512, 517, 519, 527, 532, 534, 536, 557.
					Robertson, Donald, 557, 559.
					Robertson, Mrs. Frances-Haberly, 542, 561.
					Robertson, R. S., Jr., 151.
					Robertson, William, 86, 95, 96.
					Robinson, Adam, 625, 627, 628.
					Robinson, Charles Mulford, 546.
					Robinson, Elijah, 648.
					Robinson, H. H., 467, 484.
					Robinson, Homrney, 695, 697, 698.
					Robinson House, 487.
					Robinson, James, 437, 466.
					Robinson, James (Hoagland, Indiana), 628.
					Robinson, James M., 173, 523, 533, 584, 540, 543.
					Robinson, John A., 429, 479, 489.
					Robinson, John L., 628.
					Robinson, M. S., 467.
					Robinson, Rev. Frank, 698.
					Robinson, Rev. J. B., 390.
					Robinson, Rev. R. D., 294, 390, 448, 450, 501.
					Robinson, Thomas, 278, 387, 695.
					Robinson, Warren, 695.
					Robinson, William, 359, 407, 418, 430.
					Robison, M. Stanley, 533.
					Robison Park, 307, 533, 539, 617.
					Roche de Bout, 128.
					Roche, Rev. P. F., 294.
					Rock, Uriah J., 614.
					Rockford, Ohio, 221.
					Rockhill, Edward, 590, 684.
					Rockhill, H. C., 522, 528, 540, 546, 578.
					Rockhill House, 343, 344*, 427, 451, 461.
					Rockhill Park, 547.
					Rockhill, William (1), 256, 257, 266, 267, 269, 274, 280*, 288, 295, 313, 314, 318,
						319, 323, 326, 331, 341, 343, 344, 348, 360, 366, 375, 385, 389, 395, 425, 443,
						461.
					Rockhill, William (2), 684.
					Rockhill, W. W., 193*, 513, 515, 522, 523.
					Rocking Chair, First, 280*.
					Rodabaugh, John F., 531.
					Rodabaugh, T. J., 316, 437.
					Rodenbaugh, Peter, 375.
					Rodenbeck, Charles H., 545.
					Rodenbeck, Frederick J., 430.
					Roebbelen, Prof., 391.
					Rogers, Lieutenant, 113.
					Rogers, Amasa, 599.
					Rogers, Benjamin, 688, 691.
					Rogers, Jabez, 596.
					Rogers, John, 596, 597, 598, 662.
					Rogers, John S., 596.
					Rogers, L. M., 598, 599.
					Rogers, Major Robert, 55, 56.
					Rogers, Orrin D., 284, 598.
					Rogers, Rev. G. B. M., 484.
					Rogers, Simon, 640.
					Rogers, William, 513.
					Rogge, Gust. F., 554.
					Roggen, A., 545.
					Rohan, John H., 454, 494, 538.
					Rohan, Mrs. W. H., 579.
					Rohle, Frank, 343.
					Rohyans, Mildred, 564.
					Rois, Interpreter, 45.
					Roller, Hiram B., 545.
					Rolling Mills, Fort Wayne, 543.
					Rome City, Indiana, 243.
					Romy, Robert L., 479.
					Roosevelt, Theodore, quoted, 73, 120, 135.
					Root (Allen County), 618.
					Ropa, William, 430, 528.
					Rorick, William, 545.
					Rosenthal, Dr. I. M., 459, 460, 479, 496, 499.
					Rosenthal, Rabbi, 403.
					Ross, Dr., 602.
					Ross, Dr. G. A., 535.
					Ross, James P., 608.
					Ross, John, 682.
					Ross, Moses U., 389.
					Ross, Rev. John, 256.
					Ross, Robert B., quoted, 66.
					Rossington, Richard, 489.
					Rossington, R. B., 101, 151, 468, 581.
					Rotary Club, Fort Wayne, 550.
					Rothschild, Benjamin, 530.
					Rothschild, Dr. Charles J., 570, 586.
					
					Rothschild, Henry, 526.
					Rothschild, Solomon, 526.
					Rouisso de Roill (St. Mary's River), 91.
					Rounds, Rev. G. I., 390.
					Rout, John, 683.
					Rowan, Winifred, 579.
					Rowand, Rev. C. A., 295.
					Rowland, Israel, 187.
					"Royal Americans," 56.
					Royal Baking Powder, 476.
					Royce, James A., 613.
					Rubin, E., 403.
					Rudisill, E., 394.
					Rudisill, Henry, 289, 293, 295, 297*, 299, 300, 302, 305, 308, 310, 311, 325, 333,
						356, 358, 363, 366, 378, 403, 407, 409, 414, 606, 615.
					Rudisill, Henry J., 299, 390, 395, 407, 472, 473, 479, 489, 492, 562.
					Rudisill Mill, 299*, 301, 606.
					Rudisill, Miss Eliza, 298, 299, 491.
					Rudisill School, 300, 478, 479.
					Rudolph, Rev. J. F., 333.
					Rue, Thomas, 271.
					Ruf, E. P., 569.
					Ruf, Rev. B., 538.
					Ruff, Rev. Felix Matthew, 293, 333.
					Rugg, Samuel, 619.
					Ruhl, Rev. Philip, 488.
					Ruins of Blockhouse, Fort Wayne, 143*.
					Rumsey, Philo, 317, 349, 356, 366, 387, 406.
					Rundels, Philemon, 650.
					Rurode, Ernest C., 460, 467, 521.
					Rural Free Mail Delivery, 536.
					Russell, Rev. C., 487.
					Ryan, Captain T. F., 574, 581.
					Ryan, Clement, 682.
					Ryan, William C., 533, 538.
					Ryan, Henry P., 542.
					Ryan, Edward, 480.
					Ryan, Daniel, 469.
					Ryall, John, 489, 497.
				
				
					S
					St. Andrew's Catholic Church, 551.
					St. Augustine's Catholic Church (See also Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception),
						294, 333, 385, 399, 408.
					St. Augustine's Institute, 385.
					St. Clair, General Arthur, 23, 79, 84, 94, 95, 100, 102, 110, 111, 114*, 115-120,
						125, 129, 185.
					St. Hyacinth's Catholic Church, 551.
					St. Joe Detectives, 441.
					St. Joe Rangers, 441.
					St. Joe River Dam and Park, 568.
					St. Joe Road, 614.
					St. John's Evangelical Lutheran Church, 430, 513.
					St. John's Reformed Church, 383, 486.
					St. Joseph Benevolent Association, 344.
					St. Joseph Hospital, 343, 344, 427, 481, 538.
					St. Joseph Iron Works (1834), 310.
					St. Joseph River, 17, 21, 24, 29, 30, 82, 48, 82, 86, 101-108, 109-112, 140, 141,
						158, 154, 217, 232, 283, 300, 549, 568.
					St. Joseph River (of Lake Michigan), 88, 194, 254.
					St. Joseph Township, Allen County), 611-617.
					St. Joseph's Catholic Church, 552.
					St. Lawrence River, 20, 28, 28, 82.
					St. Mary's Catholic Church, 333, 403, 517.
					St. Mary's, Ohio (See also Girty's Town), 209, 281, 237, 242, 248.
					St. Mary's River, 17, 20, 21, 24, 29, 32, 46, 91, 102, 108, 108, 111, 127, 140, 141,
						153, 220, 224, 226, 232, 263, 264, 290, 296, 450.
					St. Orr, 54.
					St. Our, 54.
					St. Patrick's Catholic Church, 523.
					St. Paul's Catholic Church, 476.
					St. Paul's German Evangelical Lutheran Church, 333, 391.
					St. Paul's Methodist Episcopal Church, 522.
					St. Peter's Catholic Church, 495.
					St. Rochus's Hospital, 538.
					St. Vincent (Frenchman), 63.
					St. Vincent's Orphan Home, 521.
					St. Vincent, Post (See Vincennes), 40.
					Sabbatan, Joseph A., 424.
					Sac Indians, 150, 185.
					Sacred Heart Academy, 608, 617.
					Saengerbund, Fort Wayne, 488.
					"Safety First" Movement, 552.
					Saganaugh (Indian) Murder Case, 278.
					Salamonie Mining and Gas Company, 516.
					Salamonie River, 151.
					Salem Reformed Church, 488.
					Saleron (Celeron?), Frenchman, 90, 91.
					Salvation Army, 522.
					Sample, Samuel C., 300.
					Sanders, James, 605.
					Sandusky, Ohio (see also Fort Sandusky), 50, 154.
					Sandusky River, 31.
					Sanlaren (Celeron?), Frenchman, 90, 91.
					Sanosket, Indian Chief, 38, 42, 44.
					Sanosket Village, 50.
					Sanson, Nicolas, 28.
					Sargent Township, 168.
					Sargent, Winthrop, 168.
					Sarnighausen, John D., 447, 467, 497, 502.
					Sarver, B. F., 554.
					Sauer, Rev. H. G., 338.
					Sauermeister, Arnold, 477.
					Sau-gan-ash, Indian Warrior, 194.
					Saunders, B. H., 313, 315.
					Saunders, Benjamin, 375, 438.
					Saunders, James, 310.
					Saunders, Rev. J. W., 487, 488.
					Savage, James, 630.
					Savage, John, 683.
					Sawtelle, John B., 389.
					Sawyer, Rev. B., 522.
					Saylor, O. F., 539.
					Saylor, Ulrich, Sr., 677.
					Saylor, Ulrich, Jr., 677.
					"Saylor's Postoffice," 677.
					"Scalp Buyer" (Hamilton), 72, 73.
					Scalping Knives, 59*.
					Scalping Raids, 73, 87, 88, 94.
					Scarlet, Chester, 404.
					Schaaf, Rev. Carl, 383.
					Scheffer, Captain John C., 523, 561.
					Scheffer, Lieutenant F. C., 575.
					Scheid, Peter J., 487, 523, 531, 538, 545.
					Scheiman, F. W., 545.
					Scheiman, William H., 545, 555, 573, 577, 582.
					Schenck, R. C., 218.
					Schele, A. F., 462.
					Schell, James H., 489, 479.
					Scherer, Henry P., 526, 528, 581, 533, 538, 560*.
					Scherer, Louis, 395.
					Scherzinger, Geison, 343.
					Scherzinger, Primus, 476.
					Schick, C. H., 688.
					Schiefer, Christian, 395.
					Schiefer, William, 317.
					Schiefer, William D., 177, 358, 515.
					Schilling, Dr. Carl, 531.
					Schilling, Dr. John, 544.
					Schlatter, Christian, 662.
					Schlatter, C. C., 341.
					Schlaudroff, Ludwig, 305.
					Schlebecker, Frank H., 554, 570, 584.
					Schlemmer, Peter, 630.
					Schmetzer, M. F., 489, 497, 505.
					Schmidli, J., 484.
					Schmidt, August M., 581, 545.
					Schmidt, Gottfried, 469.
					Schmidt, William, 488.
					Schmitz, Dr. Charles A., 335*, 336, 358, 374, 375, 387, 459.
					Schmoe, Louis, 554.
					Schneider, Dr. A. L., 581.
					Schneider, William, 489, 496.
					Schneiders, B. H., 406.
					Schnelker, Henry, 496, 497, 506, 600.
					Schnitker, August R., 454.
					Schone, Henry, 357.
					Schoo, Mrs. C. J., 579.
					School, First in Fort Wayne, 244, 247.
					Schoolcraft, Henry, quoted, 66, 256.
					Schools, Public (See Public Schools).
					Schott, E. A., 553.
					Schramm, Frank A., 570.
					Schroeder, Louis S. C., 523, 554.
					Schroll, Otto, 495.
					Schroeder, Paul, 474.
					Schrock, Rev. W. H., 530.
					Schuhler, F. X., 531, 538.
					Schuelke, Paul, 354.
					Schurz, General Carl, 465, 509.
					Schwab, Charles, 607.
					Schwan, Rev. H. W., 587.
					Schwartz, Fred, 523.
					Schwartz, Henry F., 545, 538.
					Schwartz, Mrs. J. G., 585.
					Schwartz, William, 523.
					Schwedes, Rev. F. R., 838.
					Schwegman, Henry, 554.
					Schwier, William C., 545, 554, 576, 578, 582.
					Scioto River, 30.
					Scipio Township, Allen County, 674-676.
					Scott, Captain, 118.
					Scott, General Charles, 115, 126, 131, 144, 199, 201, 211.
					Scott, General Winfield, 364, 365.
					Scott, Guy, 578.
					Scott, James, 448.
					Scott, Joseph, 318.
					Scott, John A., 542.
					Scott, Rev. Walter, 487.
					Scott, Moses, 266, 271, 288.
					Scottish Rite Cathedral, 541.
					Seabrease, Rev. A. W., 345.
					Seal of Fort Wayne, 448, 449*.
					Seavey, Mrs. Amy R., 141.
					Second Court House, 354.
					Second (Westminster) Presbyterian Church, 381.
					Segur, Captain William P., 454, 456.
					Seidel, Otto, 545.
					Selective Conscription Registration (1917), 580.
					Sell, Rev. H. T., 488.
					Semans, Rev. R. L., 496.
					Senate Club, 570.
					Sensemy, Dr. H. N., 580, 581.
					Senseny, John, 597.
					Sentinel, Fort Wayne, 308, 318*.
					
					Serva, A. A., 576, 578, 583.
					Sevenick, Dr. B., 361.
					Seventy-Fourth Regiment, I. N. G. (1862), 456.
					Sewall, Mrs. May Wright, 491.
					Seymour, Harry, 465.
					Seymour, Rev. J. M., 488.
					Shackleford, Rev. D. M., 496.
					Shafer, Elias, 599.
					Shafer, Henry, 599.
					Shaker, Jabez, 625, 627, 629.
					Shafer, John, 627.
					Shaffer, J., 441, 442, 461, 479.
					Shaffer, Valentine I., 545.
					Sham Battles, 521, 533.
					Shambaugh, William H., 519, 528, 531, 545, 555.
					Shamhart, Rev. W. P., 537.
					Shane, Anthony, 191, 221.
					Shane's Crossing, 220, 221.
					Shanesville, Ohio, 221.
					Shanfarber, Rabbi T., 403.
					Sharp, George, 83, 86, 96, 111.
					Sharp, Henry, 336, 349, 396, 407, 420, 481, 488.
					Sharp, Lew P., 544.
					Sharp, Miss Carrie B., 511.
					Sharp, Rev. J. W., 496.
					Shaw, John, 166, 192.
					Shaw, Richard, 605.
					Shawnee Indians, 51, 62, 71, 75, 78, 100, 101, 102, 119, 150.
					Shawnee Run, 542.
					Sheets, M. A., 207.
					Shelden, Dr. William, 401.
					Sheldon, Indiana, 695, 698, 699, 700.
					Shelden, James T., 401.
					Sheldon, E. M., quoted, 41.
					Shell, Philip, 674.
					She-moc-o-nish, Indian Chief, 162, 180.
					Shepard, Walter T., 540.
					Sherlock, a Trader, 95.
					Sheridan, Michael, 545.
					Sherwood, Charles, 367.
					Shields, James L., 555.
					Shields, Joseph, 662.
					Shields, William, 662.
					"Shinplaster" Currency, 466, 467*.
					Shiras, Michael, 336.
					Shirley, Rev. C. O., 530.
					Shirley, James, 677, 678.
					Shirley, Robert B., 538, 545.
					Shirtwaist Manufactory, 504.
					Shoaff Building, 468, 541.
					Shoaff, David M., 648.
					Shoaff, James P., 654.
					Shoaff, John P., 646, 469, 489, 496.
					Shoaff, John A., 416, 434, 473.
					Shoaff, S. H., 387.
					Shoaff, Thomas B., 467.
					Shoaff, Wade, 347.
					Shober, Gart, 529.
					Shober's Band, 353.
					Shockney, Theodore, 529.
					Shoemaker, Rev. C. W., 496.
					Shoemaker, Rev. P. S., 496.
					Shook, Dr. N. J., 664.
					Shookman, Nicholas, 599.
					Shordan, Daniel, 523.
					Shriner, Charles, 636, 637.
					Shriver, Colonel James, 282.
					Shrine Band, 354.
					Shryock, Jacob, 489.
					Shryock, Samuel, 646, 650.
					Shurick, F. S., 504.
					Shute, Jacob S., 489.
					Shutt, George F., 484.
					Shutt, J. M., 672.
					Siege of Fort Wayne, 198-212.
					Siemon, August, 101.
					Siemon, R., 486.
					Sihler, Dr. William, 391, 333.
					Sihler, Miss Elizabeth, 491.
					Silk Culture, 357, 358.
					Silver, C. S., 396.
					Silver, J. D., 459, 468.
					Silver, J. M., 456.
					Silver, O. P., 313.
					Silver, Oliver S., 387.
					"Silver Palace" Sleeping Cars, 448.
					Silvers, Joseph, 662.
					Silvers, Joseph C., 289.
					Simcoe, Governor, 137.
					Simon, George, 650.
					Simon, Solomon, 652.
					Simons, Oscar A., 394, 466, 483, 492, 509, 510.
					Simonson, James H., 476, 531.
					Simpson Methodist Episcopal Church, 484.
					Simrall, Colonel, 211, 215.
					Sims, Rev. G. H., 488.
					Sinclair, Samuel E., 496, 515.
					Sinclear, Joseph, 288, 326, 360, 414.
					Sinclair, Joseph, 678.
					Sinex, Rev. T. H., 405.
					Singleton, M., 497.
					Singleton, Philip, 537, 545.
					Singmaster, Joseph, 403.
					Singmaster, Joseph M., 554, 552, 554.
					Singrey, Frank E., 554.
					Sion S. Bass Post, G. A. R., 477.
					Sirrop, The (Indian), 95.
					Siskakon (See Kiskakon).
					Sites, M., 703.
					Sithers, Stephen K., 301.
					Sivers, Dr. E. L., 536.
					Sivey, John C., 281.
					Sivotts, Moses, 612, 662.
					"Six Mile" Creek, 597.
					Six-Mile Reservoir, 306.
					Skelton, Benjamin W., 531, 544, 545.
					Skinner, B. D., 486.
					Skinner, Rev. T. D., 295.
					Slade, Rev. G. P., 488.
					Slagle, George, 682.
					Slattery, M. M. M., 510, 524.
					Slattery Storage Battery, 524.
					Slavery Question, 415, 451.
					Slaves, 70, 83, 176, 181, 183, 216, 218, 290, 291, 292.
					Slocum, Dr. Charles E., quoted, 24, 41, 56, 155, 207, 218, 557.
					Slocum, E., 451, 444, 461, 462, 489.
					Slocum, Ed., Fire Company, 317.
					Slocum, Francis, 381.
					Slough, Captain, 116, 132.
					Small, D. L., 628.
					Small, John, 623.
					Small, Joseph, 619, 678.
					Small, Robert, 623.
					Smallpox Epidemic, 52, 301, 512.
					Smart, Dr. James H., 478*, 492, 502.
					Smart, James H., School, 479.
					Smead, John M., 605.
					Smith, Art (Aviator), 548.
					Smith, Benjamin, 288, 313, 339, 340.
					Smith, Clark, 366.
					Smith, Dr. Cornelius S., 430, 459.
					Smith, Dr. Daniel, 228.
					Smith, Dr. J. L., 545, 628, 629.
					Smith, Edward, 196, 418.
					Smith, Edward R., 566.
					Smith, Elisha J., 416.
					Smith Eugene B., 542, 554.
					Smith, George E., 401.
					Smith, Henry, 352.
					Smith, H. E., 563.
					Smith, H. I., 533.
					Smith, Jacob, 696, 697.
					Smith, John (1), 523.
					Smith, John (2), 597.
					Smith, Joseph, 597.
					Smith, J. McNutt, 398.
					Smith, J. R., 367.
					Smith, Lieutenant Campbell, 132.
					Smith, Major, 112.
					Smith, Mrs. G. C., 513.
					Smith, Oliver H., 284, 285, 364.
					Smith, Philetus, 692.
					Smith, Philip, 684.
					Smith, Rev. J. W., 294.
					Smith, Rev..N. S., 481, 484.
					Smith, Robert L., 485.
					Smith, Spencer R., 563.
					Smith, Thomas, 597, 620.
					Smith, Thomas J., 272, 442.
					Smith, William, 395, 545, 597.
					Smith, William S., 417*, 420, 421, 430, 434, 449, 450, 453, 455, 456, 461,
						481.
					Smith, William W., 620.
					Smythe, John, 283.
					Smyser, Peter D., 484.
					Smyser, Mrs. Peter D., 528.
					Snake, The, Shawnee Chief, 95.
					Snashall, Rev. H. S., 333.
					Snavely, Christian, 367.
					Sneiders, B. H., 483.
					Snively, Clara A., 558.
					Snively, J. M., 431.
					Snook, Tom, 570.
					Snyder, George, 642.
					Snyder, Henry, 619.
					Snyder, John, 621.
					Snyder, J. J., 352.
					Soc-a-jag-wa, wife of Chief Godfrey, 381.
					Society of St. George (1862), 467.
					"Society of the Miami," 76.
					Soest (Allen County), 621.
					Soldiers' Monument, 527.
					Soldier, The (Indian Chief), 95, 153, 231.
					Solomon, Rabbi, 403.
					Somers, Byron H., 555, 576.
					Somers, Harley, 697, 700.
					Somers, H. G., 531.
					"Somers, H. L., 545.
					Somers, Noah, 697.
					Sons of Liberty, 452, 453.
					"Sons of Malta," 437.
					Sons of the American Revolution, 141, 530.
					Sons of Veterans, 522.
					Sordelet, Charles, 545.
					Sosenheimer, Charles J., 528, 531.
					Souder, Daniel M., 523.
					South Bend, Indiana, 37, 231, 249, 254.
					South Side Baptist Church, 551.
					South Wayne, 319, 518, 519.
					South Wayne School, 479.
					Sowers, Samuel, 343.
					Spalding, A. G., 514.
					Spanish-American Troops, 535.
					Spanish Cannon, 542.
					Spanish War Veterans, 542, 552.
					"Spare Wayne's Fort" (Poem), 236.
					Spark, Captain, 148.
					Speicker, Rev. R. D., 484.
					Spelman, H. B., 424.
					Spencer, Colonel John, 272, 288, 289, 296, 298, 306, 310, 313, 317, 323, 325, 337,
						344, 345, 354, 407, 606.
					Spencer House, 261, 369, 376, 416.
					Spencer, Isaac, 326.
					Spencer, M. V. B., 460, 484, 505, 563.
					Spencer, Mrs. M. V. B., 526.
					Spencer, O. M., 96.
					Spencer, William B., 439.
					Spencerville, Indiana, 310.
					Spiegel, Gustave, 406.
					Sperry, LaVon, 579.
					Spiher, Rev. H. H., 545.
					Spindler, David E., 545.
					Spitler, Michael, 619.
					Sprankel, John, 691.
					
					Springer, Captain, 144.
					Springer, Elizabeth E., 580.
					Springfield Detectives, 441.
					Springfield Township, Allen County, 665-674.
					Spy Run Creek, 97, 484, 507.
					Spy Run District, 151, 165, 177, 183, 186, 192, 196, 197, 272, 603.
					Squire, Lafayette, 675.
					Squires, Platt, 384, 638, 674, 676.
					Staats-Zeitung, 447, 467, 545.
					Stafford, H. E., 544.
					Stambaugh, Rev. Nathan, 496.
					Standard, Fort Wayne, 415, 426.
					Standard Oil Company, 513.
					Stanley, C., 473.
					Stansbury, Colonel Howard, 282, 322.
					Stanton, Elizabeth Cady, 491.
					Stapleford, C. S., 353.
					Stapleford, Edward, 304*, 313, 319, 356, 361.
					Stapleford, F. A., 467.
					Stapleford, Henry, 353, 316, 304.
					Stapleford, I. D., 313.
					Stapleford, Thomas, 313.
					Stapleford, William R., 304.
					Staples, T. L., 538.
					Stark, Captain John, 191.
					Stark, "Mollie," 191.
					Starkey, Mrs. O. L., 143.
					Starkweather, Robert, 357, 360, 361, 407, 409, 418, 431, 438, 439.
					Starr, Charles A., 673.
					Starr, Gilbert, 671.
					State Bank of Indiana, Fort Wayne Branch, 311, 316, 326-328, 330.
					State Encampment, G. A. R., 529.
					State Fair in Fort Wayne, 472.
					Statue of General Wayne, 561.
					Steadman, Samuel, 628.
					Steamboats, 299, 318, 405.
					Steam Canal Packet, 405.
					Steel Tomahawks, 54*.
					Steffey, Rev. W. M., 484.
					Steger, Rev. John B., 584.
					Steinman, H. E., 634.
					Steiss, Charles J., 582.
					Stellhorn, Charles, 438.
					Stellhorn, Frederick W., 384.
					Stellhorn, Henry C., 523.
					Stellhorn, J. H., 523, 531, 534.
					Stellhorn, Rev. Theodore, 529.
					Stemen, Dr. C. B., 390, 499, 504.
					Stemen, Dr. George B., 545.
					Stemen, William, 520.
					Stephens, Rev. G. L., 383.
					Stephenson, John, 632.
					Stephenson, John D., 632, 705.
					Sterling, James, 66.
					Steup, Henry, 496.
					Stevens, B. B., 356, 359, 360, 361, 363, 366, 388.
					Stevens, Brazille, 313.
					Stevens, Charles, 143.
					Stevens, George W., 473.
					Stevens, Thomas, 467, 473.
					Stevens, W. W., 341.
					Stewart, Alexander, 448.
					Stewart, Rev. J. P., 501.
					Stewart, Rev. J. W., 522.
					Stewart, William, 375, 383, 274, 279, 387, 401, 438, 441, 450, 458.
					Sthair, William, 545.
					Stickney, Major Benjamin F., 166, 170, 191, 193, 200, 201, 202, 207, 210, 228, 231,
						240, 241, 249, 251, 252.
					Stille, Charles J., quoted, 123.
					Stillwagon, Joseph A., 316, 456, 461.
					Stinchcomb, G. F., 461, 471.
					Stockbridge, Charles A., 81.
					Stockbridge, J. W., 81.
					Stockbridge, Nathaniel P., 367*, 373, 396, 407.
					Stockton, Rev. J. V., 484.
					Stoeppelwerth, Rev. Paul, 530.
					Stoll, Geo., 496.
					Stoll, Henry, 404.
					Stoll, John, 489.
					Stolte, Leonard, 608.
					Stone Implements 22*.
					"Stone" Mill, 266.
					Stone, Rev. G. R., 333.
					Stonebrook, Nicholas, 696.
					Stonecifer, B. F., 584.
					Stoner, John, 650.
					Stoner's Mills, 650.
					Stopher, Samuel, 625.
					Stophlet, John W., 474.
					Stophlet, Sanimuel, 289, 313, 326, 357, 360, 363, 396, 406.
					Storey, J. S., 92.
					Storm, J. A. M., 523.
					Story, James, 347.
					Story, S. W., 456.
					Stotz, Ulerich, 493.
					Stouder, Frank E., 550, 555, 573, 581.
					Stouder, Jacob M., 95, 170, 177, 184, 190, 197.
					Stoughton, S. J., 438, 439, 441, 450.
					Stoughton, Colonel Sanford J., 456.
					Stout, David C., 554, 578, 580.
					Stout, George W., 545.
					Stoves (early types), 381*.
					Strand Theatre, 552.
					Stratton, Joseph, 361, 425, 441.
					Straughan, J. C., 521.
					Straughan, J. R., 408, 409.
					Straus Brothers, 543.
					Strawbridge, Charles T., 504.
					Strawn, B. A., 545.
					Street Cars Electrically Driven, 524.
					Street Cars Horse Drawn, 490, 491.
					Street Fair, 537.
					Street Paving, 569.
					Street Railway Employes' Strikes 525, 553.
					Stribley, E. B., 456.
					Strikes of Railway Employes, 470, 498, 499.
					Strikes of Street Railway Employes, 525, 553, 568.
					Strodel, C. L., 575.
					Strong, Daniel B., 637.
					Strope, D. B., 497, 506.
					Strout, Joseph A., 461.
					Strubey, Charles, 352, 353.
					Strubey's Band, 352, 412, 413.
					Stubnatzy, Rev. Wolfgang, 404, 481, 486, 487.
					Stucker, Captain Jacob, 221.
					Studebaker, David, 415, 633.
					Studebaker, John, 476, 504.
					Study, Justin N., 534, 573.
					Stults, Dr. J. E., 545.
					Sturgis, Dr. Charles E., 366, 386*, 400, 420, 421, 438, 439, 443, 445, 461.
					Sturgis, Mrs. Charles E., 254.
					Sturgis, E. J., 486.
					Sturgis, Dr. Louis T., 531.
					Sturgis, William, 366.
					Sturms, William, 612.
					Suffrage Societies, 491.
					"Sugar Ridge" Road, 639, 641.
					Suggett, James, 221.
					Sullivan, John, 465.
					Sullivan, Peter, 662, 663.
					Sullivan, Robert E., 561.
					Suman, Rev. W. R., 484.
					Summit City Baseball Club, 466, 473.
					Summit City Journal, 437.
					"Summit City" (origin of name), 427.
					Sun, The, Indian Chief, 153.
					Sun Time, 514.
					Sunderland, Benjamin, 607.
					Sunderland, Franklin, 605.
					Superior Court, Allen County, 501.
					Surfus, John, 652.
					Surrender of Detroit (1812), 198.
					Sutherland, M. R., 564.
					Suttenfield, Colonel William, 226, 254, 265, 269, 271, 278, 285, 288, 295.
					Suttenfield, George W., 401.
					Suttenfield, Mrs. Laura, 66, 225*, 228, 231, 233.
					Suttenfield, William F., 226.
					Sutton, Ethelbert, 696.
					Swaidner, Jacob, 368.
					Swain, Richard, 269.
					Swain, W., 216.
					Swamps within present city limits, 262, 349.
					Swan Creek, 187.
					Swan, Dr. S. H., 500.
					Swank, Thomas, 696.
					Swann, Scott, 336.
					Swartout, Luther M., 389.
					Swayne, Mrs. Margaret, 491.
					Swayne, Samuel F., 407.
					Sweany, Jacob, 634.
					"Sweet Breeze" (see Ah-mah-quah-zah-quah).
					Sweet, Ensign, 113.
					Sweet, Francis, 683.
					Sweet, J. N., 678.
					Sweet, William, 665, 666, 667, 668.
					Sweetser, Madison, 272, 409, 340, 345, 348, 366, 401, 453.
					Sweringen, Dr. Budd Van, 554, 577.
					Sweringen, Dr. Garrett Van, 580.
					Sweringen, Dr. Hiram Van, 449, 500.
					Swett, Benjamin, 697.
					Swiatkowski, Rev. Michael, 551, 583.
					Swift, Alpheus, 633.
					Swift, Dr. C. F., 673.
					Swimming Pool (municipal), 568.
					Swinehart, Rev. A. O., 529.
					Swinney Park, 111, 255, 256, 258, 363, 492, 494, 496, 519, 530, 537, 552,
						566.
					Swinney, Joseph L., 255, 257, 319.
					Swinney, Samuel, 255, 257.
					Swinney, Thomas W., 241, 255*, 256, 257, 319, 336, 492, 493, 530.
					Swinney, Mrs. Thomas W., 241, 257.
					Swisher, Solomon, 677.
					Sword (found in Lakeside), 68*.
					Sykes, Mrs. Lydia, 384.
					Sylvan Lake, 243.
					Synagogue, Achduth Veshalom, 403.
					Sythers, Stephen, 388.
				
				
					T
					Taber, Cyrus, 241*, 257, 266, 269, 285, 291.
					Taber, Paul, 241, 255, 257, 269, 273, 278, 296.
					Taber, Samuel, 241, 257.
					Taber's Addition, 232, 234, 241, 262, 297.
					Tabernacle Baptist Church, 569.
					Tablet to "Johnnie Appleseed," 370, 371, 566.
					Tablet to Theodore F. Thieme, 552.
					Ta-cum-wah, sister of Chief Little Turtle, mother of Chief Richardville (see also
						Mary Louisa), 48, 96.
					Taft, William H., 558.
					
					Tagtmeyer, William, 468, 537, 545.
					Talon, M., 30.
					Tam, Silas, 506.
					Tanner, Corporal James, 542.
					Tanneyhill, Captain, 456.
					Tapp, Ferdinand, 477.
					Tate, Rev. C. C., 345.
					Tavern licenses, 267.
					Tavern rates (first), 267.
					Taw-Taw (Allen County), 683.
					Tax Assessment (first), 267.
					Taxicabs, The First, 545.
					Taylor, Abram, 646.
					Taylor, Alfred, 615.
					Taylor, Andrew J., 698.
					Taylor, Carroll, 696.
					Taylor, Charles F., 468, 474, 496, 497.
					Taylor, Edgar L., 508.
					Taylor, E. L. (Ohio), quoted, 30.
					Taylor, Frank B., 564, 565.
					Taylor, H. B., 235, 269, 347.
					Taylor, Horace, 638.
					Taylor, Israel, 266, 278, 596.
					Taylor, J., 489.
					Taylor, John, 706.
					Taylor, John M., 505, 515, 646, 647.
					Taylor, Joseph, 683.
					Taylor, Judge Robert S., 320, 450, 472, 480, 481, 489, 490, 513, 518, 521, 527,
						541.
					Taylor, Marshall K., 266.
					Taylor, M. H., 441.
					Taylor, Morton, 437.
					Taylor, Mrs., Daughter of Kil-so-quah, 180.
					Taylor, Mrs. Charles, 495.
					Taylor, Mrs. R. S., 526.
					Taylor, P. H., 375, 389.
					Taylor, Philo, 340.
					Taylor, Rev. E. L., 544.
					Taylor, Rev. Isaac, 382.
					Taylor, Royal W., 313, 333, 428, 441, 447.
					Taylor, Thomas S., 484.
					Taylor University, 390.
					Teas, Thomas Scattergood, quoted, 246, 247.
					Tecumseh (Shawnee chief), 50, 119, 174, 184*, 186, 187, 189, 190, 191, 198, 202,
						214, 221, 222, 535.
					Tegtmeyer, William, 489.
					Telegraph Service (first), 397.
					Telephone Systems, 507, 508.
					Tellagher, Colonel, 370.
					Teller, James B., 488.
					Tenney, Zephaniah B., 288.
					Terre Haute, Indiana, 27, 40, 214, 244.
					Tervooren, Rev. J. F., 293.
					Test, Judge Charles H., 286, 300.
					Teutonia Building and Loan Association, 530.
					Thacker, Dr. I. N., 494.
					Thames, Battle of, 255.
					Thanhouser, B., 504.
					Theobalds, Samuel, 222.
					Thibos, Rev. R. A., 544.
					Thiele, Conrad, 700.
					Thiele, Rev. Charles, 495.
					Thielkeld, Ensign, 113.
					Thieme Drive, 451.
					Thieme Frederick J., 437.
					Thieme, G. C., 525.
					Thieme, John G., 395.
					Thieme Park, 552.
					Thielne, Theodore F., 525, 552, 576, 595.
					Third Church of Christ, 544.
					Third Courthouse, 354.
					Third Presbyterian Church, 484.
					Thirtieth Regiment, I. N. G. (1861), 456.
					Thomas, Albert E., 545, 578, 581.
					Thomas, Osborne, 272.
					Thomas, Willard M., 569, 570.
					Thompson, B. J., 354.
					Thompson, Byron S., 467.
					Thompson, Dr. Lewis G., 212, 284, 288, 295, 300, 301, 302, 309, 311, 319, 321, 323,
						340, 360, 366, 373, 375, 383, 387.
					Thompson, Dr. W. H., 673.
					Thompson, James, 650.
					Thompson, John, 95.
					Thompson, Major David, 221.
					Thompson, 'Milo, 523.
					Thompson, Peter A., 576.
					Thompson, Thomas, 619.
					Thompson, W. L. G., 467.
					Thorne, William, 684.
					Thornton, Stephen, 658.
					Thorp, Captain, 113.
					Thorp, Moses, 266.
					Thorp, Rev. T. J., 484.
					Thrift, Dr. R. W., 500.
					Thurman (Allen County), 617.
					Thurman, I., 313.
					Thwaite, Dr. Reuben G., 19, 66.
					Tibbits, Isaac, 646.
					Tiernan, Thomas, 373.
					Tiffin, Edward, 242, 248.
					Tigar, Thomas, 308, 309, 320*, 326, 356, 365, 374, 434, 439, 441, 443, 451, 467,
						678.
					Tigar, W. H., 531.
					Tilbury, Henry, 638, 596, 615.
					Tilbury, John, 613.
					Tilbury, William, 637.
					Till, Michael L., 584.
					Tillman, John, 642.
					Tillman, John L., 642.
					Tillman's (Allen County), 644.
					Times, Fort Wayne, 112, 356, 403, 426, 471.
					Times-Herald, Labor, 529.
					Times, Monday Morning, 529.
					Times-Post, Morning, 529.
					Timmons, P., 343, 395.
					Tinkham, F. P., 307, 310, 340.
					Tinkham, John P., 384.
					Tippecanoe, Battle of, 70, 285.
					Tippecanoe River, 189, 282, 283, 287.
					Tipton, General John, 212, 233, 255*, 258, 264, 266, 268, 269, 271, 278, 278, 288,
						287, 322, 377.
					Tipton, S. S., 363.
					Tisdale, Rev. Robert, 332, 620.
					Toby, Rev. Reuben, 405.
					Todd, A. B., 627.
					Todd, Brigadier General, 130, 131, 138.
					Todd, Colonel John, 77, 84.
					Todd, Jesse, 625.
					Todd, Rev. E. M., 488.
					Tolan, B. C., 534.
					Toledo and Chicago Electric Line, 539.
					Toledo Guards, 362, 368.
					"Toledo War," 191.
					Toll Gates, 447.
					Tomahawks, steel, 54*.
					Tomes, Rev. O. E., 488.
					Tonkel, Joseph, 545, 554.
					Tonkel, William A., 578.
					Tonne, Julius, 545.
					Tons, Henry, 407, 450, 461, 464, 562.
					Toomey, Thomas, 585.
					To-pe-ah (Indian), 289.
					To-pe-ah, son of Francis Lafontaine, 273.
					Topenebe, Indian warrior, 194.
					Topliff, I. N., 473.
					Torrent Engine and Hose Company, 315.
					Total Abstinence Lodge, 450.
					Tough, Mrs. Littleton, 274, 329.
					Tower, B. H., 418, 461, 462, 479, 481, 489.
					Tower, L. G., 327.
					Towles, Lieutenant, 132.
					Town Wells, 301, 498.
					Towne, D. H., 474.
					Townley, Jonas W., 418.
					Townley, R. W., 440, 466.
					Townsend, Joseph, 597, 602.
					Township Histories, 587 et seq.
					Township Schools, Allen County, 595, 597, 602, 606, 617, 620, 624, 629, 635, 638,
						642, 643, 648, 649, 663, 664, 667, 674, 675, 676, 688, 681, 688, 689, 690, 694, 697,
						700, 702, 703, 706.
					Track Elevation, 548.
					Tracy, Thomas, 686.
					Tracy, William, 686.
					Trade-Mark Title Company, 544.
					"Trail of Death," 377.
					Transfer Corner, 298.
					Travelers Protective Association, 552.
					Travis, Rev. C. Claud, 405.
					Treaties with Indians, 152, 164, 165, 166, 183, 184, 185, 190, 202, 261, 283,
						377.
					Treaty of Greenville (1795), 152, 153, 154.
					Treaty of Greenville (1814), 202.
					Tremmel, Conrad, 489.
					Tremont House, 483.
					Trenkley, Celestine, 477.
					Trent, Captain William, 54.
					Trentman, A. C., 422, 504, 521.
					Trentman, Bernard, 357, 471.
					Trentman, H. J., 513.
					Trentman, John, 344.
					Trentman, John H., 497.
					Trentman, John J., 431, 450.
					Tresselt, C., 360, 395, 450, 523.
					Tresselt, Oscar W., 552, 554.
					Tressenet, M. de, 34.
					Trevitt, Dr., 238.
					Trier, Conrad, 442.
					Trier, Henry, 333, 489, 496.
					Trimble, Colonel Allen, 217.
					Trinity English Lutheran Church, 394.
					Trinity Episcopal Church, 344, 345.
					Trinity Evangelical Lutheran Church, 530.
					Trinity Methodist Episcopal Church, 496.
					Tri-State Building and Loan Company, 522, 543.
					Tri-State Loan and Trust Company, 543.
					Troops to Mexican Border (1916), 560.
					Troops to Mexico (1846-7), 388-389.
					Trotter, Col., 102, 103, 104, 112, 113.
					Trotting Association, Fort Wayne, 522.
					Troutman, Joseph, 278.
					Troutner, John, 597.
					Troutner, Joseph, 266, 269.
					Truckey, Madore, 286.
					Trude, William, 389.
					True Blues, Fort Wayne, 531.
					True, Charles, 700.
					Trueman, Major Alexander, 122.
					Trumbull, Colonel John, 114.
					Trythall, James, 385, 436, 467.
					Tucker, A. C., 489, 495.
					Tunison, Rev. M. C., 551.
					Tupper, General, 216.
					Turflinger, Thomas, 542.
					Turkeys (wild), 92.
					Turner, Asa, 694.
					Turner, Dr. William, 244, 248, 249, 251, 252, 264.
					Turner, Enoch, 687, 688, 689, 691.
					Turner, Henry K., 497.
					Turner, Mary, 273.
					Turner, Mrs. Ann, 295.
					Turner, R. D., 426, 427, 497.
					
					Turnverein Vorwaerts building, 220, 224.
					"Turtle" Relies, 81*.
					Turtles, Indian Names of, 81.
					Turtle Village, 211.
					Tuscarora River, 153.
					Tuschknagen, Henry, 640.
					Tuschknagen, William, 640.
					Twelfth Regiment, I. N. G. (1861), 456.
					Twenty-Eighth Indiana Battery (Spanish-American war service), 585.
					Twenty-eighth Light Battery, 521.
					Twightwee (Miami), Indians, 27, 55.
					Twightwigh Indians (see Twightwee Indians).
					Twixtwee Indians (see Twightwee Indians).
					Tyler, J. A., 568.
					Tyler, J. S., 416.
					Tyler, F. H., 427.
					Typewriter (first), 514.
					Typographical Union, Fort Wayne, 471.
				
				
					U
					Uebelhoer, Frederick, 352.
					Ulrey, Lew V., 545.
					"Underground Railroad," 290, 291, 292, 320*.
					Underhill, P. S., 479, 489.
					Ungemach, John H., 448.
					Union Band, 353, 413.
					United States District Court, 543.
					United Workmen, Ancient Order of, 543.
					Universalist Church, 373.
					University Club, 569.
					University of Indiana Extension, 569.
					Umbagh, Lawrence, 630.
					Updyke, Henry, 662.
					Updike, Rev. P. O., 537.
					Updike, Rev. J. V., 488, 537.
					Uplegger, C., 489.
					Upper Piqua, Ohio, 191.
					Upper Sandusky, Ohio, 167, 191.
				
				
					V
					Valentine, Jackson, 321.
					Valentine, John, 646.
					Valleynitte, Christopher, 271.
					Van Alstine, William, 401.
					Van Anda, Thomas, 289.
					Van Arnam Manufacturing Company, 542.
					Van Auken, Glenn, 570.
					Van Buren, Martin, 364.
					Van Buskirk, Dr. A. E., 500, 504.
					Van Buskirk, Dr. E. M., 563.
					Vance, Arthur St. Clair, 278.
					Vance, Captain Samuel C., 261.
					Vandegriff, James, 431.
					Vandergrift, James, 650.
					Vandolah, James, 650, 651, 662.
					Van Geisen, Munson, 400*, 461, 479.
					Van Homrne, M., 366.
					Van Rensselaer, Captain, 132.
					Van Slyke, Rev. J. M., 295.
					Van Sweringen, Dr. Budd, 554, 577.
					Van Sweringen, Dr. Garrett, 580.
					Van Sweringen, Dr. Hiram, 449, 500.
					Van Wert Road, 370, 627, 639.
					Vaudreuil, M. de, 37, 38, 41.
					Vaughn, Marlin, 692.
					Veith, Peter, 406.
					Velocipedes, 488.
					Vermillion River, 27.
					Vermilyea House, 274, 406.
					Vermilyea Jesse, 274*, 335, 688, 680, 690.
					Vermilyea, Jesse, Jr., 687.
					Verweire, John L., 353, 354, 560.
					Vesey, Dick M., 570.
					Vesey (John H) Park, 547.
					Vesey, Judge William J., 501, 504, 508, 518, 537, 588.
					Veterans, Fort Wayne, 514.
					Viberg, George H., 520, 523.
					Vichert, Rev. J. F., 333.
					Vigilant Fire Company, 315.
					Vigo, Colonel Francis, 165, 166.
					Vigus, Jordan, 306.
					Villiers, Chevalier Neyon de, 53, 56.
					Villiers, Coulon, 56.
					Virgil, Dr. T. S., 487.
					Vincennes, Indiana, town and city (see also Vincennes, Post), 40, 41, 69-72, 75, 77,
						79, 80, 83, 93, 95, 99, 148, 154, 164-166, 187, 189, 208, 280.
					Vincennes, Post (see also Vincennes, town and city), 36, 40, 41, 48, 64, 66, 101,
						136.
					Vincennes, Sieur de (Jean Baptist Bissot), 34, 36, 37, 38, 41, 45.
					Vincennes, Sieur de (Francois Margane), 34*, 36, 40, 41, 119.
					Vinsiene (see Vincennes, Sieur de).
					Vivian, Dr. Alfred, 566.
					Vocational Public Schools, 566.
					Vogel, Frank B., 316, 430, 496, 497.
					"Voice from the Tomb," 485.
					"Voice of the People," 586.
					Voirol, Florant, 705.
					Voirol, Francis A., 406.
					Volney, Count, 168.
					Volkert, Fred, 343.
					Volland Mills, 551.
					Vollmer, Rev. Philip, 488.
					Von Bonhurst, Dr., 406.
					Vonderau, Christian G., 570, 578.
					Vordermark, E., 441, 450, 523.
					Vordermark, H., 563.
					Vose, Major Josiah N., 138, 238, 240, 249.
					Vote on "Free" Schools, 420.
				
				
					W
					Wabash and Erie Canal, 23, 171, 239, 240, 242, 264, 269, 271, 281, 282, 283, 303,
						304, 305, 322, 325, 338*, 339*, 340, 342, 349, 350, 351, 362, 369, 374, 378, 392, 394,
						402, 509, 565.
					"Wabash," Canal boat, 340.
					Wabash, Indiana, 271, 324, 369.
					Wabash-Maumee Portage (see Maumee-Wabash portage).
					Wabash Railroad, 432, 542.
					Wabash Railroad Shops, 261.
					Wabash River, 20, 27, 34, 40, 71, 116, 151, 189, 237, 264.
					Wabash Valley, 27, 29, 32.
					Waddington, William, 462, 479, 489.
					Wade, Rev. R. J., 484.
					Wagenhals, Rev. Samuel, 395, 534.
					Wagner, Edward A., 554, 576, 578.
					Wah-shin-gah, son of Little Turtle, 180.
					Wainwright, Babel, 605.
					Waite, Chief Justice, 519.
					Wakefield, Andrew, 637.
					Waldo, John H., 521.
					Waldschmidt, George, 550.
					Walgus, Rev. R. L., 501.
					Walker, Colonel I. N., 528.
					Walker, General, 363.
					Walker, Mrs. George B., 254.
					Walker, Rev. W. F., 484.
					Walker, W. M., 403.
					Wall, James, 317.
					Wall, Watson, 441, 466.
					Wallace, Andrew, 236.
					Wallace, Captain, 549.
					Wallace, Dr. J. C., 581.
					Wallace, General Lew, 131, 286, 403, 586.
					Wallace, Governor David, 286, 403, 405*.
					Wallace, John M., 383, 385, 392.
					Wallace, Mrs. Z. G., 491.
					Wallace, Rev. Matthew G., 211.
					Wallace, Sabina, 401.
					Wallace, William H., 317.
					Wallen, Indiana, 608.
					Wallen, H. D., 488.
					Waltemath, Charles H., 480, 531.
					Walter, Amos R., 487, 482.
					Walter, Major William, 56.
					Walter, Mrs. W. B., 491.
					Walter, William B., 279, 376, 385, 431.
					Walters, Elias, 605.
					Walther League of America, 544.
					Walthers, W. H., 485.
					Walton, Rev. John, 558.
					Walton, William, 566.
					Walts, Rev. J. K., 295.
					Wampum, 155.
					Wamsley, Christopher, 658.
					Wa-pa-se-pah (Indian), 91
					Wa-pe-mong-gah (William Wayne Wells), 264.
					War belts, Indian, 58.
					War Fund, Catholic (1917), 583.
					War Fund, Y. M. C. A. (1917), 583.
					"War" Gardens (1917), 584.
					War with Germany, 571-588.
					Ward, A. L., 582.
					Ward, Captain, 215.
					Ward, Eli, 702.
					Ward, Horatio N., 406.
					Ward, William (1), 462.
					Ward, William (2), 619.
					Wardrop, William M., 495, 553.
					Warfield, Captain Benjamin, 221.
					Waring, A., 504.
					Waring, Anson, 568.
					Warner, Joseph, 655.
					Warner, Samuel, 655.
					Washington, George, 23, 82, 53, 55, 56, 80, 82, 84, 95, 98, 100, 101, 110, 114,
						117-119, 121, 122, 125, 136, 137, 140, 149, 154, 162, 167, 170, 177, 184, 193, 197, 305,
						535.
					Washington Hall (Ewing's Tavern), 226, 235, 258, 265, 268, 285, 319, 322, 343, 376,
						469.
					Washington House, 343, 359.
					Washington School, 478.
					Washington Township, Allen County, 603-611.
					Wasmuth, Edward, 565.
					Wass, Samuel, 632.
					Waters, Jacob, 326.
					Waters, John, 352.
					Waters, John P., 441, 442, 461, 469, 489, 497.
					Waterworks System, 506, 507.
					Watkins, Captain L. H., 564.
					Watson, James W., 683.
					Watson, William, 696.
					Watt, William H., 522.
					Wayne Club, 530, 551.
					Wayne County (1796), 146, 163.
					Wayne Hotel, 483, 518.
					Wayne Knitting Mills, 288, 525.
					Wayne Lodge of Masons, 253, 258.
					Wayne, Major General Anthony, 23, 47, 101, 110, 112, 121, 122, 123, 124-150, 156,
						230, 242, 582, 535, 561.
					Wayne Monument, 661.
					Wayne Street Methodist Episcopal Church, 405.
					Wayne Township, Allen County, 588-595.
					
					Wayne Township Library, 424.
					Wayne Trace, 123, 133*, 618.
					Wayne Trace Marker, 133, 544.
					Wayne, William, 148.
					Ways Sanitarium, 481.
					Wea Indians (see Ouiatanon Indians), 42, 167.
					Weaks, Joseph H., 389.
					Weather Bureau, 548.
					Weatherhogg, Charles R., 562.
					Webb, A. M., 331, 438, 439, 441, 450, 458, 497, 505.
					Weber, Andrew, 437.
					Webb, Elias, 367.
					Webb, Lieutenant, 132.
					Webbe, Rev. W. N., 345.
					Webber, M. N., 523.
					Weber, Carl, 530.
					Weber, Frank, 531.
					Weber, Frederick C., 449.
					Weber, J. J., 488.
					Webster, Daniel, 364, 374.
					Webster, George, 633.
					Weeks, Charles, 269, 278, 596, 648, 650, 692.
					Weeks, Charles, Jr., 596.
					Weeks, Martin, 326, 596, 612, 638.
					Wefel, Martin H., 539.
					Wefel, Adam, 333.
					Wehmer, Dr. H., 400, 431, 439, 450.
					Wehmer, D. H., 431, 439, 450.
					Wehrenberg, F. D. C., 570, 582.
					Weil, Jacob, 437.
					Weiler, James, 683.
					Weinstein, Rabbi Aaron R., 403.
					Weisser Park, 547.
					Welch, Charles E., 554.
					Welch, John (1), 60.
					Welch, John (2), 515.
					Welch, John H., 521, 545.
					Welch, Rev. J. A., 484.
					Well of old fort, 234, 235.
					Weller, C. W., 531.
					Wells, Ann (see also Hackley, Mrs. Ann), 200, 264, 273.
					Wells, Captain William, 120, 127, 129, 136, 155, 158, 162, 164, 165*, 166-172, 175,
						178, 181-183, 186, 187, 190-196, 210, 239, 259, 264, 285, 295, 479.
					Wells, Colonel, 205, 211.
					Wells, Jane T. (Mrs. Griggs), 264, 285*.
					Wells, Juliana, 264, 273.
					Wells, Joseph C., 619.
					Wells, Mary, 200.
					Wells, Mrs. Delphene B., 511.
					Wells, Rebekah (daughter of Captain William Wells), 200, 264.
					Wells, Rebekah (see also Heald, Mrs. Nathan), 178*, 180, 181.
					Wells, Rev. A. J., 484.
					Wells, Rev. David, 496.
					Wells, Samuel, 180.
					Wells, Samuel G., 264.
					Wells, William S., 545.
					Wells, William Wayne, 264, 273.
					Wells, Yelberton P., 264, 267, 273.
					Wells's Pre-Emption, 165, 186, 272, 273.
					Wemhoff, Rev. J., 495.
					Wendell, Ferd W., 521.
					Wentworth, Henry, 675.
					Wentworth, John, 264, 675.
					Wentz, Theodore, 540, 551.
					Wentworth, Samuel, 675.
					Wentz, Theodore, 562.
					Werden, J. D., 438, 439, 450.
					Wessel, J., 523.
					West, Albert U., 389.
					West Creighton Avenue Church of Christ, 537.
					Western Gas Construction Company, 519.
					Western, Mr., 479.
					Western Newspaper Union building, 232.
					Western Union Telegraph Company, 398, 507, 508.
					Westfield Presbyterian Church, 553.
					Westinghouse, George, 486.
					West Jefferson Street Church of Christ, 488.
					Westminster Presbyterian Church 381.
					Westminster Seminary, 511.
					Westover, M. F., 510.
					West Side Mission (Presbyterian), 530.
					Wetzel, Henry, 554.
					Wetzel, Henry A., 578.
					Wetzel, L. O., 568.
					Weurtz, Rev. R., 403.
					Wyss, John B., 545, 554.
					Whaley, Jeremiah, 666, 669.
					Wharton, Jared, 620.
					Wharton, Rev. F. L., 484.
					Wheeler, Schuyler, 442, 654.
					Wheelock, Dr. E. G., 650.
					Wheelock, Dr. Kent K., 515, 538, 580.
					Wheelock, Matilda Henderson, quoted, 180, 356.
					Whetton, John, 696.
					Whipky, Peter, 633.
					Whipple, Major John, 163, 171, 173.
					Whiskey, evil effects of, 32, 48, 170, 171, 183, 246, 248, 275, 277, 379.
					Whistler, George Washington, 172, 224, 225, 231*.
					Whistler, James Abbott McNeill, 182, 225, 231.
					Whistler, Lieut. William, 172, 185.
					Whistler, Major John, 96, 111, 139, 157, 172, 175, 182, 185, 192, 203, 224, 225,
						228-233*, 234.
					Whistler, Sarah, 96.
					Whitaker, Daniel, 619.
					Whitaker, Douglas, 705.
					Whitaker, John W., 401.
					Whitcomb, Philo, 618, 619, 623.
					White, Albert S., 363.
					"White, Albert S." Canal Boat, 366.
					White, Captain J. B., 430, 468, 495, 506, 517, 525, 532.
					"White Dog" (scrip), 392, 393.
					White, Edward, 520, 540, 545.
					White Fruit House, 343.
					White, James B., Jr., 520, 521.
					White, John I., 406, 482, 536.
					White, John W., 541, 525.
					White Loon, Indian Chief, 175, 239.
					White Loon (son of Kil-so-quah), 176*, 180.
					White National Bank, 466, 525.
					White Pigeon, Pottawattomie Chief, 231.
					White Raccoon (Miami chief), 202, 275.
					White Raccoon (Indian), 345.
					White, Rev. C. E., 496.
					White River, 42, 45.
					White Skin (Indian), 111.
					White Wheel Works, 495.
					"Whitehead" Torpedo, 575, 577*.
					Whitehouse, Richard, 252.
					White's Opera House, 424.
					Whitesides, Jeremiah, 614.
					Whitcomb, Governor James, 352.
					Whitlock, Major Ambrose, 131*, 141.
					Whitman, H. A., 456.
					Whitmore, Charles, 401, 412, 421, 424, 431.
					Whitney, Alanson, 642, 705, 706.
					Whitney, Jared, 639, 640.
					Wick, Judge William W., 268, 278.
					Wickenhiser, F. E., 564.
					Wideawake Fire Company, 315.
					Wiebke, H. A., 545.
					Wiessel, Dr. David D., 476.
					Wighton, John M., 366.
					Wilcox, James, 212, 289.
					Wilcox, Rev. O. E., 484.
					Wilber, Flora, 479, 553, 558, 584.
					Wilder, H., 467.
					Wilding, C. A., 522, 530, 543.
					Wilding, John, 576.
					Wiley, Alexander, 315, 317, 439, 441, 469.
					Wiley, General, 363.
					Wiley, O. B., 523.
					Wiley, Rev. Alexander, 294.
					Wilkening, Ralph R., 570.
					Wilkerson, Thomas, 703.
					Wilkin, Herman, 395.
					Wilkins, Rev. Stephen, 333.
					Wilkinson, C. H., 484.
					Wilkinson, Frank, 523, 531.
					Wilkinson, General James, 40, 115, 132, 154, 155, 165.
					Wilkinson, James, 515, 523.
					Wilkinson, John, 506.
					Wilkinson, Thomas, 520, 552.
					Wilkinson, W. B., 387.
					Willard, B. P. L., 489.
					Willard, Governor, 449.
					Willard, James R., 468.
					Williams, C. B., 564, 565.
					Williams, Edward P., 422, 486, 490, 563.
					Williams, General Reub, 468.
					Williams, Harry M., 521, 529.
					Williams, Henry, 387.
					Williams, Henry M., 465, 477, 490, 523, 582, 682.
					Williams, Jesse L., 111, 256, 295, 303, 320*, 323, 328, 350, 360, 364, 366, 369,
						393, 411, 447, 454, 459, 476, 481, 483, 549, 565.
					Williams, John S., quoted, 138.
					Williams, J. J., 523.
					Williams, Lysander, 289, 313.
					Williams, Micaish T., 282.
					Williams, Mrs. E. C., 519.
					Williams, Mrs. Jesse L., 502.
					Williams, Mrs. S. C., 491.
					Williams Park, 523.
					Williams, William, 464.
					Williamson, Alexander, 633.
					Williamson, Englishman, 65.
					Williamson, Ira G., 389.
					Williamsport (Allen County), 621.
					Willshire, Ohio, 242.
					Wilson, Alexander, 363.
					Wilson, E. R., 459.
					Wilson, George, 344, 387, 407.
					Wilson, G. H., 489, 525, 526, 531, 538, 545.
					Wilson, Edward R., 360.
					Wilson, G., 313.
					Wilson, J. A., 703.
					Wilson, J. B., 703.
					Wilson, James, 701.
					Wilson, James E., 701.
					Wilson, Judge Edwin R., 441.
					Wilson, Lazarus B., 288, 321, 323, 363.
					Wilson, Oscar J., 438, 455.
					Wilson, Rev. G. P., 496.
					Wilson, Rev. William, 294, 405.
					Wilson, Rev. W. H., 382.
					Wilson, Stephen, 703.
					Wilson, Thomas, 662.
					Wilson, Woodrow, 567.
					Wilt, John M., 317, 407, 418, 431.
					Winamac, Pottawattomie chief, (1), 193.
					Winamac (2), 193, 204, 207.
					Winans, Rev. J. W., 608.
					
					Winch, C. J., 491.
					Winch, Fannie, 552.
					Winchester, General James, 198, 199, 200, 205, 208, 211, 214-219.
					Winchester, Indiana, 271.
					Winchester Road, 267, 370, 595, 694.
					Wines Flouring Mill, 345.
					Wines, Marshall S., 285, 320, 336, 345, 347, 357, 360, 405, 562.
					Wing, John F., 518, 525.
					Wingate, General, 220.
					Win - ne - meg, Pottawattomie chief, 193.
					Winston, Richard, 77, 84.
					Wise, Charles P., 513.
					Wise, Frank, 521.
					Wise, Platt J., 395, 431, 438, 439, 441, 442, 461, 505, 515.
					Witherington, John, 94.
					Withers, Warren H., 357, 403, 454, 455, 461, 465, 486, 506, 513.
					Wittenburg, Frank, 506.
					Wittenbrook, C. E., 560.
					Woenker, Fred, 521.
					Wohlfort, R. W., 409.
					Wolcott, Frederick Allen, 264.
					Wolcott, Judge James, 264, 273, 596.
					Wolf, Abraham, 430.
					Wolf, Adolphus, 601.
					Wolf, Carl, 75.
					Wolf, Christian, 640, 642.
					Wolf, J. E., 570.
					Wolf, Louis, 484, 526.
					Wolf, Paul E., 531.
					Wolf, Sam, 555.
					Wolf Scalp Bounty, 267.
					Wolf, The (Shawnee chief), 95.
					Wolff, Floyd, 561.
					Wolke, F., 309.
					Wolke, F. H., 497.
					Wolke, Frank, 474.
					Wolke, Henry, 373.
					Wolke, Lewis, 313, 333, 340.
					Wolke, Louis, 431, 441, 459.
					Wolter, Rev. A., 391.
					Wolves, 301.
					Women's Christian Temperance Union, 513, 551.
					Woman's Club League, 526, 547.
					Women's Rights Association, 491.
					Women's Suffrage Societies, 491.
					Wones, Rev. W. R., 496.
					Wood, Albert, 649.
					"Wood" Check, 468*.
					Wood, Dr. H. D., 500.
					Wood, George W., 272, 288, 309, 313, 333, 335*, 348, 356, 359, 397, 403, 413,
						426.
					Wood, James J., 510.
					Wood, Lieutenant L. F., 575.
					Wood, Ranger, 17*, 30.
					Wood, Sol A., 544, 582.
					Woodbridge, Mrs. Eliza Kercheval, 252.
					Woodbridge, William, 230.
					Woodburn, Indiana, 676, 678.
					Woodcock, Isaac, 318.
					"Woodlawn," 405.
					Woodlawn Mills, 345.
					Woods, George, 695, 696, 697.
					Woods, James, 695.
					Woods, Rev. John, 484.
					Woodward, Colonel N. A., 358.
					Woodward, Marcus, 437.
					Woodworth, C. B., 467, 516, 526, 545.
					Woodworth, Dr. B. S., 390*, 401, 421, 441, 459, 479, 496, 499, 501.
					Woodworth, James C., 477.
					Woolpert, Rev. D. C., 295.
					Wooster, W. R., 540.
					Worch, Rudolph, 494.
					Worden, Charles H., 466, 504, 546, 583.
					Worden, Ezra, 670.
					Worden, J. B., 634.
					Worden, Judge James L., 360, 400*, 406, 407, 431, 438, 439, 441, 442, 450, 473, 489.
						501, 515.
					Work, David, 319.
					Work, Henry, 288, 289, 310, 319, 373, 419.
					Work, Robert, 319.
					Work, Wesley I., 544, 552.
					Workingmen's Institute and Library, 434.
					World Series of baseball games, 514.
					Wort, Quartermaster R., 575.
					Worth, William, 373.
					Worthington, General Thomas, 206, 208.
					Worthington, W. W., 502, 516.
					Woulfe, James, 523.
					Wreck of Pennsylvania Railroad Train, 552.
					Wright, A. M., 563.
					Wright, Amos R., 468.
					Wright, George F., 289, 357, 360.
					Wright, H. B., 357.
					Wright, John, 282, 347, 357.
					Wrobel, Rev. S. J., 551.
					Wyandotte Indians, 42.
					Wyllys, Major John, 99, 100, 107-109, 112, 113, 558.
					Wyman, James, 258, 266, 269, 278.
					Wynekin, Rev. Frederick, 333.
					Wyss, John B., 583.
					Wyss, Philip H., 545.
				
				
					Y
					Yaggy, John R., 681.
					Yaple, Judge Carl, 501, 545, 554.
					Yarnelle, Edward F., 504, 552.
					Yates, Lovell, 605.
					Yates, Thomas L., 310.
					Yeager, Anthony F., 414.
					Yellow River Road, 370, 606, 683.
					Yergens, William, 385, 489.
					Yoder, Indiana, 700.
					Yokum, Rev. W. F., 390.
					You, A. J., 526, 531.
					Young, Calvin, quoted, 83.
					Young, Charles H., 570.
					Young, Flavius J., 529, 543.
					Young, J. F., 531.
					Young Ladies' Patriotic Society (1862), 463.
					Young Men's Christian Association, 511, 562.
					Young Men's Christian Association (Railroad Department), 512).
					Young Men's Christian Association War Fund (1917), 583.
					Young Men's Democratic Club (1860), 451.
					Young Men's Fremont Club, 438.
					Young Men's Literary Society, 394, 435, 486, 497.
					Young, Moses, 289.
					Young, Robert, 263, 264.
					Young Women's Christian Association, 527, 528.
					Younge, John W., 504.
					Youse, John S., 628.
				
				
					Z
					Zanesville, Indiana, 702.
					Zartman, Rev. A. K., 514.
					"Zebra, The" (Fort Wayne Jeffersonian), 426.
					Zeimmer, John, 669, 670.
					Zembuelte, Rev. Father, 663.
					Zichel, Rev. Daniel, 484.
					Ziegler, William, 476.
					Zimmerman, Anthony, 430.
					Zion Evangelical Lutheran Church, 514.
					Zollinger, Henry C., 545.
					Zollars, Judge Allan, 479, 485, 489, 496, 497, 501, 513, 534.
					Zollinger Battery, 521, 530, 531, 532.
					Zollinger, Christian, 492.
					Zollinger, Colonel Charles A., 405*, 496, 497, 485, 489, 492, 498, 499, 513, 525,
						526, 528.
					Zorbaugh, E., 497, 506.
					Zueblin, Charles, 546.
					Zulu (Allen County), 644.
					Zurbuch, J. E., 545.
					Zurbuch, J. F., 538.
				
			
		
	
