
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Dillon, John B. (John Brown), 1808?-1879. The national decline of the Miami Indians. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0879
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			

			
				

					INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY PUBLICATIONS VOLUME
							I NUMBER IV
					


					THE NATIONAL DECLINE
						OF THE MIAMI INDIANS
				

				
					BY
					JOHN B. DILLON (Delivered before the Society May 23,
					1848)

				INDIANAPOLIS
					THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY
					1897

			

			

		
		
		

			

			
				THE NATIONAL DECLINE OF THE MIAMI INDIANS.

				

				In the northern part of the state of Indiana on the 28th of November, 1840, the chiefs
					and the head men of the Miami nation were holding a council with two commissioners of the
					government of the United States. The council ground was at the forks of the river Wabash.
					A treaty--it was the thirteenth treaty between the Miamies and the United States--was,
					with the usual formality, laid before the red men. The first article of that treaty, which
					was cautiously explained in the presence of the Indians by skillful interpreters, was in
					these words:
				"The Miami tribe of Indians do hereby cede to the United States all that tract of land on
					the south side of the Wabash river not heretofore ceded, and commonly known as the
					'residue of the Big Reserve'--being all of their remaining lands in
						Indiana."
				For different reasons, and with various emotions, twenty chiefs and headmen, some
					willingly, but others reluctantly, signed the treaty; and thus the last remnant of the
					National Domain of the Miamies passed from them forever.
				If we look backward, through a period of more than one hundred and fifty years, to the
					dawning of civilization in the west, at every point where a ray of light illumines the
					condition of the Miami Indians, we shall behold mournful evidences of the downward
					progress of a great aboriginal nation, and we shall learn, too, something of the slow and
					sad means by  which a vast and beautiful region has been
					reclaimed from a state of barbarism.
				According to the best traditional authorities, the dominion of the Miami confederacy
					extended, for a long period of time, over that part of the state of Ohio which lies west
					of the Scioto river--over the whole of Indiana--over the southern part of Michigan--and
					over that part of the state of Illinois which lies southeast of the Fox river and the
					river Illinois. The Miamies proper, whose old national name was Twightwess, formed the
					eastern and most powerful branch of this confederacy. They have preserved no tradition of
					their migration as a tribe, from one country to another. The great extent of the territory
					which was once claimed by them is some evidence of the degree of national importance which
					they formerly maintained among the Indian tribes of North America, but neither the names
					nor the numbers of the several kindred tribes of the ancient Miami confederacy can now be
					stated with accuracy. Within the boundaries of their territory the arms of hostile nations
					have clashed on many a battle field--barbarism opposed the advance of civilization--truth
					struggled against error--creed rose in hostility against creed--race fought against
					race--and over the field of conflict, for more than a hundred years, the proud banners of
					monarchy floated until at last they were struck down by the strong arms of free men. In
					thirty hostile expeditions, warriors of the white race have carried their desolating arms
					into the territory which was claimed by the Miamies. Twenty battle fields, and the ashes
					of fifty Indian towns are among the memorials of the triumphs of civilized man in this
					region.
				In the early part of the eighteenth century, and perhaps for a long period before that
					time, the Miamies had villages at various suitable places within the boundaries of their
					large territory. Some of these villages were found on the banks of the Scioto--a few were
					situated in the country about the  head waters of the Great
					Miami--some stood on the banks of the river Maumee--others on the St. Joseph of Lake
					Michigan--and many were founded on the borders of the Wabash and on some of the principal
					tributaries of that river. The villages which stood on the banks of the St. Joseph of Lake
					Michigan, those which lay about the head waters of the Maumee, and those which stood on
					the borders of the river Wabash, were visited by Catholic missionaries and French fur
					traders before the middle of the eighteenth century, but the several periods at which the
					French founded settlements at or near the principal Miami villages can
					not now be told with any degree of certainty. Neither the occasional presence of
					missionaries nor the periodical visits of fur traders, nor the building of rude temporary
					trading posts, can be regarded as the founding of permanent civilized settlements.
				In 1672 the Indians who resided in the country about the southern shores of Lake Michigan
					were visited by the missionaries Allouez and Dablon, who opened the way for several
					subsequent but almost fruitless attempts to establish missions within the territory of the
					Miamies. Among the missionaries who visited this territory between the years 1672 and 1712
					were Ribourde, Mambre, Hennepin, Marquette, Pinet, Bineteau, Joliet, Rasles, Periet,
					Bergier, Mermet, Marest, Gravier, DeVille and Chardon. The history of the missionary
					labors of these men is a record of perseverance, disappointment and suffering. The efforts
					of Christian missionaries have been often embarrassed and sometimes wholly paralyzed by
					obstacles which were based upon the adverse religious tenets and the political stratagems
					of rival Christian nations. For a period of one hundred and fifty years, Protestant
					England and Catholic France were rivals in the great works of acquiring territory,
					planting colonies and establishing trade among the Indian tribes of North America.  Of the missionaries of these two nations few were free from
					the influence of the hostile rivalry which was brought into action and maintained by their
					respective governments.
				In the year 1687 Governor Dongan, an officer of the English government, met the Five
					Nations in council at Albany, and made to them a speech in which he said: My opinion is,
					that the [Indian] brethren should send messengers to the Utawawas, Twightwees [or
					Miamies], and the farther Indians, and to send back, likewise, some of the prisoners of
					these nations, if you have any left, to bury the hatchet, and to make a covenant chain,
						that they may put away all the French that are among them, and that
					you will open a path for them this way * * * that, by that means, they may come hither
					freely, where they may have everything cheaper than among the French. * * * There was no
					advice or proposition that I made to the [Indian] brethren all the time that the priest
					lived at Onondaga, but what he wrote to Canada, as I found by one of his letters which he
					gave to an Indian to carry to Canada, but which was brought hither; therefore, I desire
					the brethren not to receive him or any French priest any more, having
					sent for English priests with whom you may be supplied to your
					content."
				Among a number of reasons which were assigned for the planting of British colonies in New
					England there was one which declared that it would "be a service unto the church of great
					consequence to carry the gospel into those parts of the world and raise a bulwark against
					the kingdom of anti-Christ, which the Jesuits labor to rear up in all parts of the
					world."
				The Reverend Cotton Mather, in his Ecclesiastical History of New England, says that in
					the year 1696 an Indian chief informed a Christian minister of Boston that the French,
					while instructing the Indians in the Christian religion, told them that the Savior was of
					the French nation; "that they were  the English who had
					murdered him, and that, whereas he rose from the dead and went up to the heavens, all that
					would recommend themselves unto his favor must revenge his quarrel upon the English."
				Thus, in North America, throughout a long period, between the early colonists of England
					and the early colonists of France there was no friendly intercourse; there was no long
					season of peace. Ever eager to advance the interests of their respective governments,
					small and weak branches of Christian nations, with antagonistic creeds, hot animosities,
					bitter revilings and deadly warfare, were agitating and destroying one another. The
					Indians heard and saw and felt these things, and listened doubtingly to the instructions
					of the few pious men who told them that the truths of the Christian religion were revealed
					to the world by the son of the only true God, to establish on earth "peace and good-will
					towards men."
				By means of the persevering efforts of missionaries, and by the enterprise of a few
					adventurous traders, pacific relations and a small traffic were established between the
					Miamies and the French colonists of Canada before the close of the seventeenth century.
					The governor-general of Canada laid before the English colonial authorities at Albany in
					1684 a remonstrance, in which it was stated that the Five Nations (between whom and the
					English a league then existed) were interfering with the rights and property of French
					traders among the remote western Indian tribes. The Five Nations, when they were informed
					of this charge, replied by saying that their enemies were furnished with arms and
					ammunition by French traders. Soon afterwards the governor-general of Canada held a
					council with a large number of Indians of the Five Nations. He told them that they, the
					Senecas, Cayugas, Onondagas, Oneidas and Mohawks, had abused and robbed French traders who
					were passing to the west. Grangula, an Onondaga chief, in replying to the charge said:  We plundered none of the French but those that carried guns,
					powder and balls to the Twightwees [Miamies] and the Chictaghicks, because those arms
					might have cost us our lives. * * * We knock the Twightwees and the Chictaghicks on the
					head because they had cut down the trees of peace, which were the limits of our country.
					They have hunted beaver on our lands. They have acted contrary to the custom of all
					Indians, for they left none of the beavers alive; they killed both male and female. * * *
					We have done less than either the English or the French, that have usurped the lands of so
					many Indian nations and chased them from their own country."
				After the discovery by LaSalle of the mouth of the river Mississippi, the government of
					France began to encourage a project of establishing a line of trading posts and missionary
					stations, in the country lying west of the Allegheny mountains, from Canada to the Gulf of
					Mexico; and this project was supported by France with considerable perseverance, but with
					only partial success, for a period of about seventy-five years. During a longer period the
					zealous labors of French missionaries among the Indian tribes of the west were continued,
					amid many obstacles, without producing much general and permanent improvement of the
					condition of the aborigines.
				The missionary Hennepin visited some of the tribes of the Miami confederacy in 1680:
					"There are," says Hennepin, "many obstacles that hinder the conversion of the savages, but
					in general the difficulty proceeds from the indifferency they have to everything. When one
					speaks to them of the creation of the world and of the mysteries of the Christian religion
					they say we have reason, and they applaud in general all that we say on the great affair
					of our salvation. They would think themselves guilty of a great incivility if they should
					show the least suspicion or  incredulity in respect of what
					is proposed. But, after having approved all the discourses upon these matters, they
					pretend likewise on their side that we ought to pay all possible deference to the
					relations and reasonings that they may make on their part, and when we make answer that
					what they tell us is false, they reply that they have acquiesced to all that we said, and
					that it is a want of judgment to interrupt a man that speaks and to tell him that he
					advances a false proposition; all that you have taught touching those of your country is
					as you say--but it is not the same to us, who are of another nation, and inhabit the lands
					which are on this side the great lake. The second obstacle which hinders their conversion
					proceeds from their great superstition."
				The third obstacle, says the same missionary, "consists in this, that they are not fixed
					to a place," and "the traders who deal commonly with the savages with a design to gain by
					their traffic are likewise another obstacle. * * * They think of nothing but cheating and
					lying to become rich in a short time. They use all manner of stratagems to get the furs of
					the savages cheap. They make use of lies and cheats to gain double if they can. This,
					without doubt, causes an aversion against a religion which they see accompanied, by the
					professors of it, with so many lies and cheats."
				"The Illinois," says Hennepin, "will readily suffer us to baptize their children, and
					would not refuse it themselves but they are incapable of any previous instruction
					concerning the truths of the gospel, and the efficacy of the sacraments. Would I follow
					the example of some other missionaries I could have boasted of many conversions, for I
					might easily have baptized all those nations, and then say (as I am afraid they do without
					any ground), that I had converted them. * * * Our ancient missionaries of Canada, and
					those that succeeded them in that work, have always given it for  their opinion, as I now own it is mine, that the way to succeed in converting
					the barbarians is to endeavor to make them men before we go about to make them Christians.
					* * * America is no place to go out of a desire to suffer martyrdom, taking the word in a
					theological sense. The savages never put any Christian to death on the score of his
					religion. They leave everybody at liberty in belief. They like the outward ceremonies of
					our church; but no more. * * * They do not kill people but in particular quarrels, or when
					they are brutish, or drunk, or in revenge, or infatuated with a dream, or some extravagant
					vision. They are incapable of taking away any person's life out of hatred to his
					religion."
				The Miamies, or Twightwees, were visited by missionaries before the year 1670, and
					Allouez, it is said, founded the principal mission to these Indians on the banks of St.
					Joseph of Lake Michigan. An account of the religious exercises which were observed by the
					early missionaries among the Illinois Indians is related in a letter written by P. Gabriel
					Marest, at Kaskaskia, on the 9th of November, 1712. That missionary said: "The following
					is the order we observe each day in our missions. Early in the morning we assemble the
					catechumens at the church, where they have prayers; they receive instructions and chant
					some canticles. When they have retired mass is said, at which all the Christians assist,
					the men placed at one side and the women at the other; then they have prayers, which are
					followed by giving them a homily, after which each one goes to his labor. We then spend
					our time in visiting the sick to give them necessary remedies, to instruct them and to
					console those who are laboring under any affliction. After noon the catechising is held,
					at which all are present, Christians and catechumens, men and children, young and old; and
					where each, without distinction of rank or age, answers the questions put by the
					missionary. As these people have no books and are naturally 
					indolent, they would shortly forget the principles of religion if the remembrance of them
					was not recalled by these almost continual instructions. In the evening all assemble again
					at the church to listen to the instructions which are given, to have prayers, and to sing
					some hymns. * * * These hymns are their best instructions, which they retain the more
					easily, since the words are set to airs with which they are acquainted and which please
					them."
				The river St. Joseph of Lake Michigan was called the river of the Miamies in 1679, in
					which year LaSalle built a fort or trading post on its banks and near the shore of the
					lake. The principal station in the mission of St. Joseph, which was founded for the
					instruction of the Pottawattamies and Miamies, was established on the banks of this river;
					and, from the foundation of this mission, the river bore the name of the St. Joseph of
					Lake Michigan.
				The missionary Hennepin gives the following account of the building of the first French
					post within the country of the Miamies: "Just at the mouth of the river Miamies there was
					an eminence with a kind of a platform naturally fortified; it was pretty high and steep,
					of a triangular form, defended on two sides by the river, and on the third by a deep ditch
					which the fall of the waters had made. We felled the trees that were on the top of that
					hill and cleared the same from bushes for about two musket-shot; we then began to build a
					redoubt forty foot by eighty, with great square pieces of timber laid one upon another,
					and prepared a great number of stakes of about twenty-five feet long, to drive into the
					ground to make our fort the more inaccessible on the river sides. We employed the whole
					month of November [1679] about the work, which was very hard, though we had no other food
					but the bears' flesh our savage killed. These beasts are very common in that place because
					of the great quantity  of grapes they find there, but their
					flesh being too fat and luscious our men began to weary of it, and desired leave to go a
					hunting to kill some wild goats [or deer]. M. LaSalle denied that liberty, which caused
					some murmurs amongst them, and it was but unwillingly that they continued their work.
					This, together with the approach of the winter, and the apprehension M. La Salle had that
					his ship was lost, made him very melancholy, though he concealed it as much as he could.
					We had made a cabin wherein we performed divine service every Sunday, and Father Gabriel
					and I, who preached alternately, took care to take such texts as were suitable to our
					present circumstances and fit to inspire us with courage, concord and brotherly love. Our
					exhortations produced a very good effect and hindered the men from deserting, as they
					designed. We sounded in the meantime the mouth of the river, and having found a sand on
					which our ship might strike, we fixed two great posts therein, to which we fastened bears'
					skins, as so many buoys to direct the course of our ship through the channel she ought to
					pass; and, for a greater precaution, two men were sent back to Missilimakinak, to wait
					there till the return of our ship and serve as pilots. * * * The fort was at last
					perfected and called Fort Miamis."
				In 1711, the missionary Chardon, who was "full of zeal and who had a rare talent for
					acquiring languages," had his station on the river St. Joseph, among the Pottawattamie and
					Miami Indians.
				In 1721, about fifty years after the time that Allouez and Dablon traversed the country
					lying on the southern shores of Lake Michigan, Charlevoix visited a trading post on the
					river St. Joseph, where there was a missionary station. In a letter dated "River St.
					Joseph, August 16, 1721," Charlevoix says--"It was eight days yesterday since I arrived at
					this post, where we have a mission, and where there is a commandant  with a small garrison. The commandant's house, which is but a sorry one, is
					called the fort, from its being surrounded with an indifferent pallisado, which is pretty
					near the case in all the rest. * * * We have here two villages of Indians, one of the
					Miamies and the other of the Pottawattamies, both of them mostly Christians; but as they
					have been for a long time without any pastors, the missionary who has lately been sent
					them will have no small difficulty in bringing them back to the exercise of their
					religion. * * * Several Indians of the two nations settled upon this river are just
					returned from the English colonies, whither they had been to sell their furs, and from
					whence they have brought back in return a great quantity of spirituous liquors. The
					distribution of it is made in the usual manner; that is to say, a
					certain number of persons have daily delivered to each of them a quantity
						sufficient to get drunk with, so that the whole has been drank up in eight days.
					They began to drink in both villages as soon as the sun was down, and every night the
					fields echoed with the most hideous howlings. One would have thought that a gang of devils
					had broke loose from hell, or that the two towns had been cutting one another's
					throats."
				More than one hundred years have passed away after Charlevoix wrote this letter, yet
					spirituous liquors and riotous drunkenness, maintaining their power among the passing
					generations of the aboriginal race of North America, were still opposing and baffling the
					labors of Protestant and Catholic missionaries, not only at Indian towns on the banks of
					the St. Joseph, but at every Indian village throughout the northwestern territory of the
					United States.
				Sebastian Rasles, a missionary, in a letter which is dated "12th October, 1723,"
					says--"It is a blessing to the Illinois that they are so far distant from Quebec, because
					it renders it impossible to transport to them the 'fire water' as it is  carried to others. This drink among the Indians is the
					greatest obstacle to Christianity, and the source of an infinite number of their most
					shocking crimes. We know that they never purchase it but to plunge into the most furious
					intoxication; and the riots and sad deaths of which we were each day the witnesses ought
					to outweigh the gain which can be made by the trade in a liquor so fatal."
				Another missionary, Vivier, in a letter dated "at Illinois, the 17th of November, 1750,"
					says--"We have three stations in this part of the world, one of Indians, one of French,
					and a third composed partly of French and partly of Indians. The first contains more than
					six hundred Illinois, all baptized, with the exception of five or six, but the 'fire
					water' which is sold to them by the French, and especially by the soldiers, in spite of
					the reiterated prohibitions on the part of the king, and that which is sometimes
					distributed to them under pretext of maintaining them in our interest, has ruined that
					mission and caused the greater part of its converts to abandon our holy religion. The
					Indians, and especially the Illinois, who at other times are the gentlest and most
					tractable of men, become, when intoxicated, frantic and brutally ferocious. Then they
					attack each other with their knives, inflicting terrible wounds. Some have lost their
					ears, and others a part of the nose in these tragical scenes."
				The Miamies were visited in 1751 by Christopher Gist, who was an agent of the Ohio
					company. In his journal of that visit he says: "The Twightwees (Miamies) are a very
					numerous people, consisting of many different tribes under the same form of government.
					Each tribe has a particular chief or king, one of whom is chosen indifferently out of any
					tribe to rule the whole nation, and is vested with greater authority than any of the
					others. They are accounted the most powerful nation to the westward of the English
					settlements, and much superior to the Six Nations, with whom they are now in  amity. They formerly lived on the farther side of the Wabash,
					and were in the French interests. They have now revolted from them and have left their
					former habitations for the sake of trading with the English." The "revolted" Miamies,
					however, renewed their friendship and intercourse with the French in 1753.
				In 1754, George Croghan, a British officer in the Indian department, visited some of the
					western tribes. The following passages are taken from his journal: "On the 14th of January
					we set off to Logstown, where we found the Indians all drunk." "January
					16th the Indians were all drunk." "From the 16th to the 26th we could do
					nothing, the Indians being all drunk." In 1765, the Miami nation or
					confederacy was composed of four tribes whose total number of warriors was estimated at
					one thousand and fifty men. Of this number there were two hundred and fifty Twightwees,
					three hundred Weas or Ouiatenons, three hundred Piankeshaws and two hundred Shockeys. The
					principal villages of the Twightwees were situated on the head waters of the Maumee river,
					at or near the site of the town of Ft. Wayne. The larger Wea villages were found near the
					banks of the Wabash, in the vicinity of Ouiatenon, and the Shockeys and Piankeshaws lived
					on the banks of the Vermillion river, and on the river Wabash between Vincennes and
					Ouiatenon. At different periods branches of Pottawattamies, Shawnees, Delawares and
					Kickapoos were permitted to enter and reside at various places within the boundary of the
					large territory which was claimed by the Miamies. On the 15th of April, 1784, Thomas J.
					Dalton held a council with the Piankeshaws tribe of the Miamies at Vincennes. At the close
					of the council the principal Piankeshaw chief said: "This being the day of Joy to the
					Wabash Indians we beg a little drop of your milk (meaning rum) to let our warriors see it
					came from your own breast. We were born and raised in the woods. We never  could learn to make rum. God has made the white flesh masters
					of the world. They make everything, and we all love rum."
				In a letter which was written at Vincennes on the 16th of June, 1793, and addressed to
					Winthrop Sargent, secretary of the territory of the United States northwest of the river
					Ohio the writer said: "There are parties of Indians continually coming to and going from
					this place, where they are furnished with liquor for their skins in such quantities as
					they are able to pay for--which disturbs much the good order and peace of the village.
					They remain here eight or ten days, which is one continual round of drunkenness and
					disorder. * * * The laws are worse executed at this place than at any other in the
					territory. There are but few of the inhabitants of this village that do not violate that
					part of the law which prohibits the sale of spirituous liquors to Indians."
				In the summer of 1796 a distinguished traveler and author, Constantine Francis Volney,
					went to Vincennes, partly to observe at his leisure the Indian tribes in that quarter. In
					one of his works this traveler says: "My stay at Vincennes afforded me some knowledge of
					the Indians who were assembled to barter away the produce of their red hunt. There were
					four or five hundred of them, men, women and children of various tribes, as the Weas,
					Peorias, Sawkies, Piankeshaws and Miamies. * * * The men and women roamed all day about
					the town merely to get rum, for which they eagerly exchanged their peltry, their toys,
					their clothes, and at length, when they had parted with their all, they offered their
					prayers and entreaties, never ceasing to drink until they had lost their senses. Hence
					arise ridiculous scenes. They will hold the cup with both hands like monkeys, burst into
					unmeaning laughter and gargle their beloved cup, to enjoy the taste of it the longer. They
					will hand about the liquor with clamorous  invitations, bawl
					aloud to each other though close together, seize their wives and pour the liquor down
					their throats, and, in short, display all the freaks of vulgar drunkenness. Sometimes
					tragical scenes ensue. They become mad or stupid and fall in the dust or mud to lie a
					senseless log till the next day. We found them in the streets by dozens in the morning,
					wallowing in the filth with the pigs. * * * I at first conceived the design of spending a
					few months among them, as I had done among the Bedouins, but I was satisfied with this
					sample."
				On the 5th of November, 1805, Governor Harrison, of the Indiana territory, addressed to
					Governor Tiffin, of Ohio, a letter from which the following passage is copied:
					"Conformably to the request of the legislature of this territory, I have the honor to
					enclose herewith a law passed at the late session, entitled 'An act to prohibit the giving
					or selling of intoxicating liquor to Indians.' Your excellency will observe that the law
					is not to take effect until a similar one is passed by the states of Kentucky and Ohio and
					the territories of Louisiana and Michigan. The necessity of this provision arose from the
					great inconvenience which the citizens who reside on the frontiers of this territory would
					suffer if the prohibition to sell liquor to Indians did not extend to their neighbors as
					well as to themselves. With regard to the propriety of the prohibition it is I presume
					unnecessary that I should make a single remark. The dreadful effects which have been
					produced among our Indian neighbors, by the immense quantities of ardent
						spirits which have been poured in upon them by our citizens, have long been known
					and lamented by every friend of humanity."
				In the message addressed to the Indiana territorial legislature in 1806, Governor
					Harrison said: "It is true that the general government has passed laws for fulfilling not
					only the stipulations contained in our treaties (with the Indians) but  also those sublimer duties which a just sense of our
					prosperity and their wretchedness seemed to impose. The laws of the territory provide also
					the same punishment for offenses committed against Indians as against white men. Experience, however, shows that there is a wide difference in the execution of
						those laws. The Indian always suffers and the white man never. This partiality has
					not escaped their penetration and has afforded them an opportunity of making the proudest
					comparisons between their observance of treaties and that of their boasted superiors."
				A letter dated "May 3d, 1814," written by an officer of the general government to a
					gentleman who held a high official station, contains the following remarkable passages:
					"The idea of a treaty will fix the attention of the Indian and will keep them quiet for
					the present. I have (caused) the information of the treaty (with this view) to be spread
					far and wide in the Indian country; in order to insure a general attendance of the remote
					tribes, two months notice will be requisite. I have such channels of intelligence
					established through the Indians that nothing of importance can be going forward without my
					knowledge. They are so much distracted and divided now that no scheme of hostility against
					us could be carried into effect. With the view of increasing their wants and distresses
					and thereby rendering them more harmless, I have permitted all the traders to sell as much
					liquor as they thought proper. This in a political point of view, at this time, is of more
					effect than many would suppose."
				The treaty referred to in this extract was concluded at Greenville, in July, 1814. The
					Miamies, who were present, expressed with great earnestness a wish to remain neutral in
					the war which was then going on between the United States and Great Britain, but one of
					the commissioners of the United States government said to them: "You have now come  forward to take us by the hand; we are equally anxious and
					willing to take you by the hand, but you must take up the tomahawk and with us strike our
					enemies. Then your great father, the President, will forgive the past."
				I will read two short extracts from the official journal of the commissioners at this
					treaty: "July 16th, 1814--The council adjourned after giving instructions to the agent to
					furnish the Indians with whisky to whet their hatchets, etc." "July 18th, 1814--The
					Indians having received a quantity of whisky in order to sharpen their hatchets, as they
					expected, were unfit for any business this day."
				The national character and the condition of the Miamies in 1817 were faithfully described
					in a letter written by Benjamin F. Stickney, an Indian agent who resided among them. This
					agent, writing at Fort Wayne on the 27th of August, 1817, said: "The civilization of the
					Indian is not a new subject to me. I have been between five and six years in the habit of
					daily and hourly intercourse with the Indians northwest of the Ohio, and the great
					question of the practicability of civilizing them ever before me. * * * That I might have
					an opportunity of casting in my mite to the bettering the condition of these uncultivated
					human beings and the pleasure of observing the change that might be produced upon them was
					the principal inducement to my surrendering the comforts of civilized society. Upon my
					entering upon my duties I soon found that my speculative opinions were not reducible to
					practice. What I had viewed at a distance as flying clouds, proved on my nearer approach
					to be impassable mountains. * * * It will be proper for me to be more particular and give
					you something of my ideas of the nature and extent of the obstacles to be met.
				"First. The great, and I fear, insurmountable obstacle, is the insatiable thirst for
					intoxicating liquors that appears to be born with all the yellow skin inhabitants of
					America. And 
					the thirst for gain of the citizens of the United States appears to be
					capable of eluding all the vigilance of government to stop the distribution of liquor
					among them. * * * If the whites can not be restrained from furnishing them with spirituous
					liquors nor they from the use of them, I fear all other efforts to extend to them the
					benefits of civilization will prove fruitless. The knowledge of letters serves as the
					means of entering into secret arrangements with the whites to supply the means of their
					own destruction; and within the limits of my intercourse, the principal use
						of the knowledge of letters or civilized language has been to obtain liquor for
						themselves and others. This has made it proverbial among them that the knowledge of
					white people makes very bad Indians.
				"Secondly. The general aversion to the habits, manners, customs and dress of civilized
					people; and in many cases an Indian is an object of jealousy for being acquainted with the
					civilized language, and it is made use of as a subject of reproach against him.
				"Thirdly. General indolence, connected with the firm conviction that the life of the
					civilized man is that of slavery--and that savage life is manhood, ease and
					independence--from which proceeds the opinion among them that to say a white man is equal
					to an Indian is the highest compliment that can be paid him.
				"Fourthly. The unfavorable light in which they view the citizens of the United
					States--believing that their minds are so much occupied in trade and speculation that they
					never act from any other motive--and that they universally lie to and cheat them. Their
					opinion of the government of the United States is in some degrees more favorable, but
					secretly they view all white people as their enemies and are extremely suspicious of
					anything coming from them, and if they had the  power they
					would extirpate, or at least drive them all from the continent.
				"Fifthly. Their extreme fondness for their children, and fear of their being absent from
					their sight. You request to be informed in relation to their numbers and manner of living,
					and whether they have had any schools or missionaries among them. All the Miamies and Eel
					River Miamies are under my charge and about one thousand four hundred in number, and there
					are something more than two thousand Pottawattamies come within my agency. The proportion
					of children can not be ascertained, but it is much less than among the white inhabitants
					of the United States. They have had no schools among them nor missionaries since the time
					of the French Jesuits. They have places that are commonly called villages, but perhaps not
					correctly, as they have no uniform place of residence. During the fall, winter and part of
					the spring, they are scattered in the woods hunting. The respective bands assemble
					together in the spring at their several ordinary places of resort, where some have rude
					cabins made of small logs covered with bark, but more commonly, some poles stuck in the
					ground and tied together with pliant stripes of bark, and covered with large sheets of
					bark or a kind of mat made of flags. Near those places of resort they plant some corn.
					There are eleven of those places of resort called villages within my agency. The Miamies
					and Eel River Miamies reside principally on the Wabash, Mississinewa and Eel rivers and
					the head of the White river. The Pottawattamies reside on the Tippecanoe, Kankakee,
					Iroquois, Yellow river, St. Joseph and Iroquois of Lake Michigan, the Elkhart, Miami of
					the Lake, the St. Joseph emptying into it and the St. Mary's river.
				"Inasmuch as you contemplate the introduction of the Christian religion through the
					medium of letters you will wish to know something of their present religion. They all  believe in a God as Creator and Governor, but have no idea of
					His will being communicated to man except as it appears in the creation, or as it appears
					occasionally from His providential government. Some of them have been told of the
					communications having been made to the white people a long time since--and that it is
					written and printed--but they have neither conception or belief in relation to it. Their
					belief in relation to a future existence is a kind of transubstantiation--a removal from
					this existence to one more happy, with similar appetites and enjoyments. They talk of a
					Bad Spirit, but never express any apprehension of his troubling them in their future
					existence. They pay respect to the religious opinions of others and appear to conceive
					that the same is due theirs in return. There is no people who appear to be more firmly
					fixed in their theological faith. The Jesuits made some impression on a few of them with
					the external form of their religion but taught them no science."
				Now, by the aid of various authentic documents, I have traced faintly the outlines of the
					history of the Miami Indians backwards from the present time through a period of one
					hundred and fifty years. Yet even these faint outlines form a long and mournful picture of
					ignorance, superstition, war, barbarity and the most debasing intemperance. There are some
					sincere and good men, who, successfully entering the field of missionary labor, endeavored
					to establish among these Indians the foundation of civilization and the doctrine of
					Christianity. But these philanthropists were few in number--with an imperfect knowledge of
					the language of the Miamies--without schools, without homes, often placing their lives in
					peril, and in some instances falling the victims of savage violence. They were, in the
					west, the pioneers in the conflict between barbarism and civilization. At the present day
					a few small, mixed and miserable bands constitute the remnant of the once powerful Miami
					nation. Their ignorance,  their errors, their misfortune and
					devices which they learned from the white race still cling to them with unabated power to
					degrade and destroy. Thus shrouded in darkness, with the lights of civilization and
					religion beaming around them, the last fragments of one of the most powerful aboriginal
					nations of North America are passing away from the earth forever. The arms of the Miamies
					are now powerless. Their last lingering bands are slowly tottering towards the grave of
					their nation. Sometimes they pause on their way and turn their faces to the east, to cast
					their latest reproaches upon their conquerors. Listen! Do they not say to us: 'Men of the
					white race, you are faithless. You drive us onward towards the setting sun. We shall go
					down in the west like him. He will rise again, but we shall be seen no more upon the
					earth. Our nation is dying and it received its death wounds from you. You came to our land
					in weakness many years ago when we were strong. You promised to enlighten our minds. You
					promised to make us acquainted with the arts of civilized life. You promised to establish
					schools among us. You promised to teach us a pure and holy religion. When you became
					strong you told us that we were your children. And you taught us to call you our father.
					You spoke of peace on earth and good-will to men, but you made war on one another. How
					could we believe your words? We gave you leave to establish trading posts in our country.
					And you brought your fire-water to your posts, and with that fire-water you made those
					places the scenes of drunkenness, lying, theft, profanity, debauchery and murder. You did
					those things for the love of gold. You promised us blessings--they never came to us, but
					you taught us vices and crimes of which we were ignorant until you became our instructors.
					You have used your superior knowledge to deceive and debase our nation. You have poured
					your fire-water over our whole land. You have used your superior strength to destroy us.
					You have  violated the treaties which you have made with us.
					You entered our country by force; you took possession of our lands; you told your warriors
					to strike us hard; you drove us from our homes; you killed our men and women; you
					destroyed our scanty crops of corn that we might starve; you gave our villages to the
					flames that we might be homeless. You have encouraged jealousies, divisions and enmities
					between our different tribes that we might be powerless. You told us that you were our
					protectors. Our protectors! When or where did your strong arm ever strike a white
					oppressor of the Indian race? Behold us now! Where are the lands of our nation? Where is
					our nation? Where are our homes? Where is the civilization that you promised to bring to
					us, to enlighten our benighted minds? Where are the arts you promised to teach us? Where
					are the schools that you promised to establish among us? Where is that holy religion of
					which you told us? Oh! You are a strong, false, false race." Have civilized nations
					nothing to say in reply to such reproachful language? Yes. The philanthropist of the white
					race might say to the departing red man: "We found you in a state of ignorance and
					barbarism. We sent good men among you to enlighten your minds and to teach you the
					purifying doctrines of the Christian religion. You disregarded their instruction. We
					warned you constantly of the evils which your love of the fire-water would bring upon your
					nation. You neglected our warning and you madly continued to indulge your appetite for the
					liquid poison. We tried to establish agriculture and other useful arts among you, but you
					turned away from the plow and the school and the missionary station to roam in the
					forests, or to revel in drunkenness, or to seek the war path. We carried many of your race
					to our colleges and universities where they were educated in the knowledge of the white
					people, but, with few exceptions, they returned to the wilderness and relapsed into the
					customs of  their tribe. We have tried many expedients to
					save your nation from ruin. We gave you warning after warning of the fate which awaited
					you if you continued to neglect our advice. We tried to treat you with forbearance,
					moderation and humanity even when your tomahawks and scalping knives were red with the
					blood of our murdered men, women and children. From generation to generation, with
					unyielding and unreasonable obstinacy, you stood in the way of advancing civilization and
					Christianity, and when neither our kindness, nor our entreaties, nor our threats were
					sufficiently powerful to induce you to move, we were compelled in sorrow to force you from
					your position by the might of a strong arm. The land which you once claimed was not made
					to remain forever a wilderness, to be used only as a vast hunting ground for the race of
					red men."
			

		
	
	
