
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Dunn, Jacob Piatt, 1855-1924.. The new tax law of Indiana. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0883
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			

			
				
					THE NEW TAX LAW OF INDIANA AND
						The Science of Taxation
					
					A series of Letters published in the Indianapolis
							Sentinel, August 14, 1891 to April 20, 1892, with Statistical
						Appendices
				
				JACOB P. DUNN, State Librarian
				INDIANAPOLIS:
					Indianapolis Printing Co., 39 Virginia Ave.
					1892
			


			

			
		
		
			
				The new tax law of Indiana and the science of taxation
				
					I. THE NEED OF TAX REFORM
					At the present time, when the public mind is directed to the question of taxation, and
						when a fair and candid discussion of that question will perhaps receive some portion of
						the attention which the importance of the subject merits, it seems desirable to present
						to the people some considerations of the science of taxation in connection with the new
						tax law, and this not only as to what the law is but also as to what it should be. It is
						especially desirable that the members of the Democratic party should give the subject
						careful attention, because they are at present intrusted with the government of the
						State, and have expectations of continuing for a time in that trust. Indeed, to realize
						that expectation they must consider the subject well, for taxes know no party
						discrimination-they fall alike on the just and the unjust-and it will always strain the
						party allegiance of a tax-payer to remain content with an unjust or vicious tax law
						merely because his party originated it. Party policy itself, therefore, demands that we
						should consider this question primarily as citizens, and should give any law our
						approval or disapproval as it tends to promote or impede the general welfare.
					In one sense the science of taxation may be said to be in its infancy. Taxation, of
						course, is as old as government, and it is probably impossible to devise any system of
						taxation that has not been at some time in use, or at least been advocated as desirable.
						And yet, with all the experience that has been had, and the vast amount of study and
						thought that has been given the subject, it appears impossible to secure universal
						consent to many of what would seem to be rudimentary principles. For example, the people
						of the United States are divided on the question whether it is legitimate and
						advantageous to levy a tax for the avowed purpose of producing economic results entirely
						distinct from the raising of necessary revenue—that is to say, for the so-called
						protection of home industries. And it is a singular fact that quite a number of those
						who oppose such a tax are strongly in favor of a tax aimed at an economic  result equally distinct from the raising of revenue—I
						refer to the "single tax," or "tax on land values." which is urged by its friends on
						account of its anticipated effects on the occupation, use and price of lands. Beyond
						such rudimentary questions there are almost endless controversies as to the modes,
						limitations, safeguards and ultimate effects of various systems of taxation, that
						exasperate and confuse the student and cause the casual reader to suspect the whole
						subject one of guesswork.
					I take it that this diversity of opinion is chiefly due to three causes: 
							As a country advances from a primitive state to one of high civilization
								there is necessarily a change in its industries and its forms of wealth which call
								for changes in its tax system. No system devised in the abstract would be equally
								advantageous at all times or in all countries. And yet there are some principles
								that are universally applicable, and evils may be pointed out which should always be
								avoided.
							The necessity of the defense of a system by the power that originates 'it
								often produces a resort to fallacious argument and manufactured facts, and in free
								countries this style of debate also often characterizes the attacks on a system by
								the opposition party. Hence there may be found attacks on and defenses of almost all
								schemes of taxation, which will, of course, be accepted as satisfactory by some
								portions of each community.
							The inherent intricacy of the subject, reaching out as it does to all the
								financial and property interests of the State, prevents any simple solution. As in
								other complicated subjects, the remedy which at first blush seems best may on
								reflection be seen to be the worst that could be applied. If there were any easy and
								simple way of perfecting a tax system it would have been discovered and utilized
								years ago. Whenever you find a man who has a simple scheme for a perfect system of
								taxation, or of revenue, or for any other great governmental problem, you will find,
								on examining his system, either that it is something which has been tried and proven
								a failure or that it is so utterly impracticable that no one could be induced to try
								it. As a rule, superficial remedies and superficial objections should be
								disregarded. The merits and demerits of a tax system are not to be judged by surface
								indications. If the experience of centuries has taught the world anything it has
								proven that the sources of evil of a system of  taxation
								are to be exposed only by deep and thorough investigation. They are like those
								diseases of the blood which manifest themselves in eruptions on the skin. It is
								useless to make surface applications of salves and lotions. You must go to the
								center of the system with your remedy.
						
					From the existing state of the science of taxation it results that almost any system of
						taxation may be assailed or defended easily and plausibly, and this has led modern
						investigators to rely chiefly on experiment and observation, and is leading them to a
						convergence in the opinion that the system of taxation is best which works best. No
						system, however faultless in theory, is of any value if it can not be applied
						practically. No system is to be condemned, though seeming faulty, if it "works out"
						well. In other words, any system tried at all should be tried fairly and judged by its
						results, not by theoretical criticism only. The manifestations of these facts are found
						in the special attention now given to taxation in our universities which make political
						economy a specialty, and in the appointment of tax commissions, in several of the more
						progressive states and cities, whose special business is to examine into various systems
						of taxation and report to the legislative bodies. Among the more notable of the latter
						are the New York Tax Commission Report of 1871, the Maryland 'report of 1888, the
						Baltimore report of 1881-2, the West Virginia report of 1884 and the Pennsylvania report
						of 1889. This work may fairly be called the beginning of American fiscal science, for
						prior to it there was no systematic study of taxation and no literature on the subject
						except a few political speeches and chapters in general works on political economy.
					The new study has already produced some material benefits, as for example calling
						public attention to the value of corporate franchises as sources of municipal
						revenue—a subject which has been very fully considered during the past year in
						connection with the city government of Indianapolis. One thing has certainly been
						demonstrated by this investigation, and that is that the old system of assessing,
						levying and collecting the general property tax, which was substantially the same
						throughout the United States, was grossly unjust and inequal, and therefore contrary to
						the spirit of the constitutional provisions whose letter it purported to carry into
						effect. It has been made evident that it favored the rich as against the poor, the
						corporation as against the natural person, the owner of personal property as against the
						owner of real property,  and the tax-dodger as against the
						honest citizen. The testimony to this effect is overwhelming, and its causes in part at
						least are evident.
					The subject of taxation was brought into prominence in Indiana by the condition of the
						State's revenues. The State was in debt and the debt was being increased annually by a
						deficit of over five hundred thousand dollars. It was necessary to raise additional
						revenue. There was a common opinion that much property was escaping taxation because the
						law did not provide that it should be taxed. On examination it was found that this idea
						was erroneous. The law provided : "All real property within this State, all personal
						property owned by persons residing in this State (whether it is in or out of this
						State), and all personal property within this State owned by persons not residing within
						this State, subject to the exceptions hereinafter stated, shall be subject to taxation,"
						and throughout the law the provisions and definitions were so broad that scarcely any
						property imaginable was not legitimately included. In some states legislators have
						undertaken to define specifically what property should be taxable, and in such cases
						there have always been unintentional omissions, but Indiana was not in that
						condition.
					The whole trouble was that the law was not enforced as written. No one pretended to
						return his property at its "fair cash value," as the law expressly provided, and no
						assessor pretended to assess at "fair cash value," as he was required under oath to do.
						There was-an universal understanding that "fair cash value for assessment purposes" was
						an entirely different thing from "fair cash value" for any other purpose. The machinery
						for enforcing the law was crude and imperfect. The boards of equalization were hampered
						by restrictions that absolutely prohibited equalization. If the tax officials had
						earnestly desired to enforce the law they could not have done so. Under these
						circumstances it was necessary to reconstruct the law with a view to giving it vitality,
						aid to this task the members of the Legislature to whom the duty was assigned resolutely
						addressed themselves. They examined the literature of American taxation as far as their
						limited time would permit. They counseled with persons acquainted with the subject. They
						obtained a fair view of the existing evils and submitted their plans for correcting them
						to the Legislature. It would be absurd to contend that the last Legislature of Indiana
						framed a perfect tax law-no such law has yet been 
						formulated in any country. It would be folly even to assert that the Legislature did the
						best it could have done, for there was necessarily a lack of information and a conflict
						of opinions that always characterize first attempts at reform. Some concessions had to
						be made to secure any law, and there were constitutional restrictions in the way of some
						desirable amendments. The Legislature itself recognized the imperfection of its work by
						offering an amendment to the constitution for the special taxation of corporations
						(Acts, p. 484) and by its provision for tax commissioners who are required by law "to
						make diligent investigation and inquiry concerning the revenue laws and systems of other
						states and countries," and "to recommend to the General Assembly, at each session
						thereof, such amendments, changes or modifications of our revenue laws as seem proper or
						necessary to remedy injustice or irregularity in taxation, or to facilitate the
						assessment and collection of public revenues." (Sec. 120.)
					There is a substantial merit in doing something when relief is needed. It is better to
						try some remedy than to stand still and discuss the merits of various systems. Possibly
						the remedies selected may not be the best, but whether they are or not will never be
						learned from the mere discussion of theories. If the Legislature has started in the
						right direction, if it has done something to improve the wretched system in use, if it
						has made advances toward equality and justice in taxation, it is entitled to the thanks
						of the commonwealth, and I think it is apparent that it has done this much. Certainly
						the entry for the first time on the assessment lists of thousands of dollars of taxable
						property, and the outcry of those who have heretofore evaded the law, are not evidences
						of any deterioration in the law.
				
				
					II. APPRAISEMENT AT TRUE VALUE
					The feature of the new tax law which has thus far occasioned the most complaint is its
						provision for enforcing the requirement that all property shall be assessed at its fair
						cash value, which is defined to be "the usual selling price at the place" where the
						property is located, or "the price which could be obtained therefor at private sale, and
						not at forced or auction sale" (Sec. 53). And yet this is clearly the most  valuable feature of the new law—the greatest step
						toward equal and just taxation. Those who' have heretofore evaded taxation have been
						shrewd enough to foresee the effects of equal assessment, and by their clamor have
						unquestionably duped many persons who will actually profit by the system which they
						denounce. The necessary effects of "fair cash valuation" can readily be made apparent to
						any reasoning pan. Let us examine the matter.
					There are two factors that determine the amount of taxes paid by any citizen— (I)
						the assessment of his property, (2) the rate levied. As between individuals the rate is
						fixed; that is to say, in each township or city each tax-payer must pay the same rate on
						the assessed value of his property. Therefore any advantage obtained by one individual
						over another must be through the assessment. As between townships the county rate and
						State rate are fixed, and hence any advantage obtained by one township over another must
						be through the assessment. As between counties the State rate is fixed, and hence any
						advantage obtained by one county over another must be through the assessment. In other
						words, so far as the administration of the law is concerned, all inequality of taxation
						is inequality of assessment. (Of course no reference is had to inequality created by the
						law, such as exempting certain property or duplicating taxation.) Hence the point to be
						guarded is the assessment, which must be so regulated as to prevent, as far as possible,
						the concealment of property, or its undervaluation or overvaluation.
					The natural basis for valuing anything is its actual worth— its fair cash
						value—which is exactly what the law calls for. Money is the universally accepted
						measure of value, and the money equivalent of anything is its actual value, in the
						commercial sense. This is more easily and accurately arrived at than any other value.
						True, it is to some extent a matter of judgment as to which men will differ, but they
						will not differ materially. It is the value most universally and correctly understood.
						Men may quibble about it, but everyone understands what "fair cash value" means, and the
						quibble is merely for the sake of quibbling. Additional definition is more likely to
						obscure than to clear its meaning. For example, a recent Utah statute defines it as "the
						amount at which the property would be taken in payment of a just debt due from a solvent
						debtor," but this introduces an unnecessary element of uncertainty, for the price in
						such case would depend on  whether or not the creditor
						wanted that particular kind of property; whether the debtor would probably resist
						collection in money; and whether the debtor was barely solvent or of unquestionable
						wealth. It is sometimes endeavored to assess at a fixed per cent. of fair cash value (or
						true value, which is to be understood as the same thing when used in reference to this
						law), but in such case the true value must first be estimated and the per cent.
						calculated, so that the determination of value is merely complicated to that extent.
					Whatever basis for valuation is taken, it must be fixed absolutely, for if assessors
						are permitted to depart from a fixed rule there is an end of all equality. Each assessor
						becomes a law unto himself, and if any two adopt the same basis it is the result of
						chance or similar local interests. For example, at the last appraisement of real
						property under the old law, the assessors in Marion county aimed to assess at 6o per
						cent. of the true value. In St. Joseph county, at the same appraisement, it was aimed to
						assess at 40 per cent. of the true value. Other counties undoubtedly varied still more.
						The result was that the residents of Marion county paid 50 per cent. more State taxes on
						the same true value of property than those of St. Joseph county. Throughout the State
						the old law was administered as if it read, All property shall be assessed at its full
						cash value or at such per cent. of the same as the assessor may prefer.
					The most common basis of valuation used in Indiana was the value at forced sale. As
						commonly expressed, "fair cash value for assessment purposes," meant "what a thing would
						bring if put up by the sheriff and sold to the highest bidder." This was applied more
						particularly to personal property, for there was usually some attempt made to arrive at
						either a uniform percentage valuation or a uniform acreage valuation of real estate. In
						so far as this distinction was observed there was a discrimination against real estate,
						for of all methods of escaping taxation, except concealment of property, "forced sale
						valuation" is the most successful. The sheriffs had not been idle in Indiana since the
						panic of 1873, and it was notorious that prices at sheriffs' sales were extremely low.
						So uncertain was this basis that an assessor could hardly dispute any kind of valuation,
						and it is a matter of public notoriety that large amounts of personal property were
						returned at merely nominal value.
					You sometimes hear men discussing a sale of property, 
						when one will say: "It brought all it was worth," and another: "It should have brought
						more money," but when they put their ideas into figures there will ordinarily be no
						great difference in the, values fixed by men acquainted with the market. If you ask the
						same men for a "forced sale valuation" they will either tell you that such a valuation
						is pure guesswork, or, if attempting to fix values, they will vary much more widely than
						they do as to the market value. The reason for this is that besides all the elements of
						uncertainty pertaining to true value there are additional ones affecting forced sale
						value, and of these the most important are, (1) the knowledge of buyers that the sale is
						forced-that the seller has no choice nor power of self-protection; (2) the limit of time
						which cuts off the probability but not the possibility of competition; (3) the lack of
						warranty of title, from which the purchaser not infrequently buys a lawsuit instead of
						property; (4) the right of redemption of real estate, which often limits the bids to the
						amount of debt sought to be collected; (5) the temporary condition of money as to plenty
						or "tightness," which is liable to make a difference of 100 per cent. in forced sale
						prices in a very few days.
					But worse than the inherent uncertainty of forced sale valuation is the fact that it
						bears continually against small properties. If you will take three residences fairly
						worth $500, $5,000 and $50,000 respectively, you will find them assessed in the average
						Indiana county at about $300, $2,500 and $20,000—that is to say at 60 per cent.,
						50 per cent. and 40 per cent. of their respective values. Anyone may prove this by
						investigation. Take the fine residences of your town and the ordinary residences,
						estimate their fair values and then compare their former assessed values. The smaller
						property will always be found assessed at a higher per cent. of its true value than the
						large, unless the latter should happen to belong to a non-resident or a foreign
						insurance company. And the discrepancy is greater as to the personalty than as to real
						property. There are four reasons why this state of facts exists: (1) All values are
						affected by supply and demand. Where there is one person able to buy a
						fifty-thousand-dollar house, there are 100 buyers for a five-thousand-dollar house and
						1,000 for a five-hundred-dollar house. Hence, it is certain that at forced sale the
						smaller property will bring a larger per cent. of its true value, and if we are to have
						a forced sale valuation for a basis of assessment it is just and  right that the larger property should be appraised at a smaller per cent. of
						its value. (2) The rich' man finds it to his interest to devote time to the care of his
						property. He can well afford to put in a day or two with the board of equalization, or
						even to employ an attorney, to secure a reduction of assessment to what he claims would
						be a forced sale value. On the other hand, his poorer neighbor is not familiar with
						business affairs and cannot leave his daily labor for the chance of securing a reduction
						in value, which may amount in taxes to less than a day's wages. (3) When you pass beyond
						necessaries of life and come to luxuries, price is always more affected by use. The man
						who is able to live in a fifty-thousand-dollar house is able to indulge his tastes by
						building one to suit himself. Wealthy Mr. A. does not desire to use second-hand
						furniture of Mr. B. or ride in the carriage that Mr. C. has occupied, even though no
						sign of wear is visible. Hence, at a forced sale, the finer and more costly the goods
						the greater shrinkage in percentage of prices paid, but everyone knows that their fair
						cash value does not shrink in the same proportion. (4) There is a peculiar impression
						produced on the mind by the contemplation of the amount of taxes paid by a citizen, not
						considering the amount of his property, that for want of a better term may be called the
						fallacy of gross amount. The wealthy man, when it comes to taxation, imagines that he is
						in some way aggrieved by owning so much property, and the assessor is very apt to form
						his opinion as to the rich man's just share of the public burdens from the amount of the
						tax instead of the amount of his property. It is difficult to realize fully that a
						million dollars' worth of property in one man's hands should be taxed no less than the
						same amount in ten men's hands. 
					The difference in the rate of valuation between large and small property holders is
						well known to everyone who is conversant with taxation in its practical application, and
						it is found wherever there is a departure from fair cash valuation. A few extracts from
						reports of investigators will show this, and illustrate other statements as to
						inequality made above.
					"A man of small means pays as a rule, more in proportion than a man of large means. The
						statistics bearing on this point will scarcely be credited by persons who have not
						investigated the subject, and they exhibit a condition of things that ought not to be
						tolerated. It will be found, for instance, that a house and lot worth $800 is valued at
						$70, while  a house and lot worth $8,000 is valued at
						$4,000—in the one case at seven-eighths and in the other at one-half; that is to
						say, the owner of the small property has $100 untaxed and the owner of the large
						property has forty times that amount untaxed. Again, when a person dies his entire
						personal estate is listed and valued by the appraisers, whose appraisement is recorded
						by the county clerk. By comparing a number of these appraisements with the tax
						assessments made next prior to the death of such person, we find that a man with a
						personal estate valued immediately after his death at $200, was rated immediately before
						his death at $178; while a man whose estate is appraised at $5,000 was rated at only
						$1,500." —West Virginia Tax Commission, report of 1884.
					"It is the theory of the law that the burden of taxation shall rest equally upon the
						citizens and taxpayers of the commonwealth in proportion to their property. * * * But
						the practice is widely different from the theory. The realty of one man is assessed at
						one-third, one-half, two-thirds, or even the full measure of its actual value; while
						that of his neighbor is assessed at one-sixth, one-tenth, one-twentieth, or as was shown
						in one instance of considerable magnitude, one twenty- fifth of its actual value. The
						owner of the one pays as his annual tax five or six per centum of the whole capital
						invested, while the owner of the other pays one-fourth or one-fifth of one per cent.
						Such distinctions are too invidious to be meekly borne. The discriminations in favor of
						personal property, and against realty, are glaring and unjust, amounting in some
						species, of the former class, to" an almost total escape from taxation."—Illinois Revenue Commission, report of 1886.
					"A house worth two, three, four or five thousand, will, in Baltimore, at any rate, be
						assessed for nearly its true selling value, and sometimes for more, while a house worth
						from thirty to eighty thousand or more will probably not be assessed for over two-thirds
						its value, the owners arguing, and with some plausibility, that it could not be sold for
						what it cost. It may be doubted, however, whether the Legislature intended those whose
						means enables them to build houses so expensive that there is no market for them, to
						bear a smaller relative burden than others."—Prof. Ely, of Maryland
							Tax Commission, report of 1888.
					"Inequality in assessed valuation is in effect unequal taxation, and a departure from
						the rule of valuing property at its  fair market value is
						fraught with many evil results. When assessors depart from such a rule they are adrift
						and without any compass to guide them. If they set out with the determination of
						assessing all property at 20, 30 or 40 per cent. below its market value they are far
						more likely to fall into errors than when they keep a practicable rule like that
						mentioned always in sight."—Pennsylvania Revenue Commission, report
							of 1889.
					
					"In the late returns of the assessors of all the towns of the State for the use of the
						State valuation commissioners, it appears that the assessors of 132 towns based their
						taxes on less than a just value of the property assessed. Thirteen based them on
						four-fifths value, thirty-five on three-fourths value, fifty-three on two-thirds value,
						and sixteen on one-half, while in two towns the assessors considered their duty done
						when they assessed at one-third of the 'cash value' of the property taxed."—Maine Tax Commission, report of 1889.
					In all these cases the commissions insisted on appraisement at true value, and
						recommended stringent measures for securing that result. As reasonable men they could
						not do otherwise. It needs no argument but the facts themselves to prove the necessity
						of assessment at fair cash value if there is to be any equality in taxation. Large
						property-owners may object to it from interested motives, but the small taxpayers, who
						constitute the great mass of the people, will be injuring themselves if they do not
						stand resolutely for a universal appraisement at fair cash values. Public sentiment will
						have much to do with the proper enforcement of the law, and securing the relief which it
						contemplates. The small property holder need not be deceived. Whenever he gets his
						property reduced one or two hundred dollars below its true value, he may be sure that
						wealthier and more influential men will secure far greater reductions, and that in the
						end his taxes will be increased by what he imagines to be a reduction. *NOTE. An investigation of the actual results of
							the new appraisement in Center Township, Marion County, (including the city of
							Indianapolis), showed that there were 549 taxpayers who owned property valued at
							$25,000 or over. The total property owned by these was $53,833,090, or a little over
							one-half the total valuation of the township, which was $105,658,575. The effort to
							reach true cash value had increased this property to this amount from $30,723,800 in
							1890, or an advance of 75 per cent. The remaining property in the district was owned
							by 38,014 taxpayers, and had increased from $33,344,230 in 1890 to $51,825,485 in
							1891, or an advance of 55 per cent. A comparison of those owning from $5,000 to  $25,000 with those owning less would probably be still
							more convincing. (See Indianapolis News, January 8; Indianapolis Sentinel, January 12,
							1892.)
				
				
					III. APPRAISEMENT OF RAILROAD PROPERTY
					The comparative amount of taxes paid by corporations in this State has for some time
						been a fruitful source of complaint, and rightfully so. The principal means of their
						escape from taxation has been through the assessment. The causes which have been
						mentioned as operating to the advantage of the rich operate with increased power as to
						corporations. They are as a rule wealthy. They have large political influence, both
						through control of employes and through favors which they can extend to influential
						persons. They act altogether through agents. Many of them keep attorneys in regular
						employ. Their property is usually designed for special uses, and is not in general
						demand, besides which it is ordinarily so valuable as to find few purchasers. They are,
						therefore, in position to urge the "forced sale valuation" to its utmost limit of
						absurdity. In addition to this they have one form of property—their corporate
						franchise—whose value is not often easily ascertainable. It is an intangible right
						whose money value varies with its exclusiveness, its admission of the holder to the use
						of public property, and the profits of the business conducted under it. On account of
						the difficulty of fixing the value of franchises, the attempt to do so directly has
						generally been abandoned and indirect means have been adopted.
					When the stock of a corporation is actually on the market and has a cash selling value
						recorded from day to day, a convenient and just basis for the assessment of its property
						is afforded. Unfortunately this state of facts does not always exist, and as to some
						classes of corporations seldom exists. There is also such an essential difference in the
						character of business of corporations, the location and comparative value of their
						property, and their facilities for removing from the state property accumulated in the
						state, that a classification of them for purposes of taxation becomes necessary. By far
						the most important class, as to property owned, is that of railroad companies. On
						account of their public character, and the almost universal handling of their stock on
						the open  market, the value of their property is more
						easily ascertained than that of any other class of corporations, and yet their property
						has been continually assessed in the past at from 20 to 30 per cent. of its fair cash
						value. This fact was repeatedly called to the attention of the old State Board of
						Equalization, and as often it was urged in reply that in Indiana no property was
						assessed at its fair cash value. This proposition could not be disputed; and when once
						admitted no one could say certainly what per centage of fair cash value would be a just
						basis. The census report of 1880 estimated that the total assessed valuation of Indiana
						was 48.55 per cent. of its true value, but even if this were assumed as correct it would
						not give an exact basis, for this estimate includes this railroad property, which is
						assessed at a much lower percentage of true value. It may safely be said that no
						injustice would have been done to the railroads if they had been assessed at 50 per
						cent. of their true value, and that they were unjustly exempted from taxation to
						whatever extent they were assessed below that figure.
					This gross inequality arose from the departure from assessment at fair cash value, and
						this must always operate, for the reasons previously given, to the benefit of large
						property-owners, among whom corporations form the strongest class. The people of Indiana
						may properly blame themselves for the injustice done. If each individual, instead of
						seeking to reduce his own assessment below the legal level, had insisted on a strict
						enforcement of the law, the people would not have borne, as they have 'for years,
						one-half of the burdens that justly belonged to the railroads. The impediments mentioned
						no longer exist under the provisions of the new law. There remains no excuse for the
						State Board of Tax Commissioners if they do not assess railroad property at its fair
						cash value, or at least on an equality with other property. If it is now charged that
						other property in any locality, or in the entire State, is not assessed at its fair-cash
						value, it is made the express duty of the Board to examine the matter and assess it in
						accordance with the provisions of the law. (Secs. 133, 136.)*
					The fair method of arriving at the true cash value of the railroad property may best be
						shown by illustration, and for this purpose I take the L., N. A. & C. road, commonly
						known *NOTE. This does not apply to
							personal property, and the result is explained in Chap. 6.
						 as the "Monon," because it extends into a large number of
						the counties of the State. In this I make no unfair distinction, for the Monon was
						assessed by the old State Board somewhat higher than the average of railroads. The
						actual market value of the entire property of the road is as follows: 
							
								Bonded debt, at par
								$12,800,000
							
							
								Capital stock, $5,000,000-average price Jan. 1 to June 1, 1891, $0.20 
								1,000,000
							
							
								Total
								$13,800,000
							
							
								Total miles controlled
								512
							
							
								Average value per mile
								$26,953
							
						
					
					This road rents "trackage" over 27.61 miles of other roads in making its terminal
						connections,but this is assessed to the other roads, and of course is omitted from the
						estimate as any other rented property. If these additional miles were leased and
						controlled by the road, they should be included. It will be observed that the bonded
						debt is counted at par, although the bonds representing it are at a premium on the
						market. That premium does not affect the value of the property owned by the road. It is
						caused by the desirability of the bonds as an investment. The bonded debt at its face
						value is a mortgage on the road, which is to be paid at its face value when due, and the
						market value of the stock measures the fair cash value of the property over and above
						the mortgage. The two added together measure the total value of all the property of the
						road. The track owned and controlled by this road is entirely within the State of
						Indiana. If a part of it were outside of the State the average value for each mile would
						remain the same, but only the miles within the State could be assessed in Indiana.
					Now, how does the value thus estimated compare with the value estimated in other ways ?
						The total cost of the road and equipment, as reported by the company, was
						$15,959,478.55, or an average of $31,170 per mile of track controlled. The net earnings
						of the road in 1890 were $1,954.80 per mile, and this is 6 per cent. earnings on an
						invested capital of $32,530 per mile, 7 per cent. on $27,883 per mile, or 8 per cent. on
						$24397 per mile. It may be urged with some justice that the fair cash value of a
						railroad is not always equal to its original cost. It may in fact be more or less. It
						may be urged that a. railroad can fairly earn more than 7 per cent. net, but it will
						hardly be said that other "property in Indiana is assessed for  less than its 7 per cent. earning value. Certainly it can not be claimed that
						the fair cash value of a railroad is not what it is daily selling for, in cash, on the
						open market. And yet this road was assessed in 1890 (under the names of L., N. A. &
						C,, Bedford & Bloomfield, and Orleans, West Baden & French Lick) at $4,033,890
						for all its property of every description for the 51o 46 miles of track reported; or in
						other words, at an average of $7,900 per mile, or 29 per cent. of its present actual
						market value.
					In apportioning the value arrived at as above it would be just to estimate the value of
						the Bloomfield and the French Lick branches at less per mile than the main road, of
						which they are merely feeders, and place what is deducted from them on the main lines.
						The total assessment of $13,800,000 should be divided among the three divisions, and
						from the gross amount of each should be subtracted the amounts chargeable as "second
						main track," "side track," "rolling stock," and "improvements on right of way," which
						are required to be assessed separately. The remainder divided by the number of miles in
						the division will give the proper value for each mile of "main track."
					It may be claimed that this method is one of arbitrary assumption. To some extent it
						is, or perhaps more properly a matter of judgment, and so is any method of valuation
						that can be adopted. It has, however, the substantial merit of reaching the actual
						market value of the road, and it also locates the principal property value where it
						belongs, in the " main track." The corporate franchise can hardly be considered of great
						value in Indiana. It was probably obtained for the price of making out the papers, for
						under our laws a railroad could be built anywhere and by anybody. The side track,
						rolling stock and buildings are a comparatively small part of the value of the road. The
						main track is what cost most and is of most value. A railroad is a chain in which each
						mile of main track is a link equally indispensable to its existence, and presumptively
						of equal money value.
					There are two cases in which the method above set forth cannot properly be used. One is
						when a road or the stock -and securities of a road are being manipulated by speculators.
						In such case an approximate appraisement can be reached by comparison with the original
						cost of the road and its earnings and market value prior to its falling into the hands
						of those who appear hostile to its interests. This course would have  to be pursued as to a number of the leased lines in Indiana.
						Another case is when no stock is issued, or for some reason the stock is not quoted, as
						with the Indianapolis Union. In such cases the value can be approximated from the cost
						of the road and equipment, taking into consideration the probable appreciation in value
						from the time of construction.
					It will probably be urged against an assessment at fair cash value that railroads are
						poor, are not earning anything, and are objects of popular persecution. This plea may be
						taken with much allowance. There is no room for doubt that railroad property is a better
						paying investment than almost any legitimate business in the country. In reviewing the
						profits of railroads for 1883, Mr. H. V. Poor, the authoritative railroad statistician
						of the country, says: "The net earnings for the year were $336,911,884, a sum equaling
						about 9 per cent. on their cost. If the fictitious capital could be eliminated from
						their accounts, their success, as investments, would have no parallel." (Poor's Manual
						for 1884, p. 4). The year 1884 was considered a bad one for railroads, but as to it Mr.
						J. F. Hudson says: "In a year of great business failures and general depression, when
						business men were exceptionally fortunate if they were able to preserve their capital
						unimpaired; when the prices of agricultural products were so low that corn was burned
						for fuel in the West, and the market price of wheat in Europe would hardly pay the
						transportation charges from Kansas; when manufactories stood idle and artisans
						confronted starvation—in such a year as this the railway interest earned 6.7 per
						cent. on its actual cost, and, if its debt had been placed on a secure basis, would have
						yielded the shareholders 9.4 per cent. profit on their investment. Instead of railways
						being in distress they have been the most prosperous of the great investments of the
						time." (The Railways and the Republic, p. 253) It can be demonstrated mathematically
						that the railroads of Indiana are taking out of the State annually not less than
						$6,500,000 of profits to their real owners.
					The law fixes no mode of ascertaining railroad values. It simply provides that the
						State board" shall appraise and assess all property at its true cash value, as defined
						by this act, according to their best knowledge and judgment." The method set forth above
						is substantially what has been advocated to the old board for three years past by Dr.
						Van Vorhis, as attorney for the commissioners of Marion county, and, what was repeatedly
						asserted to be the intent of the law, during its passage, 
						by the Sentinel. It is, in fact, what was actually in contemplation by the Legislature
						at the time, as is witnessed by the fact that the law everywhere calls for the
						assessment of stocks at their fair cash value.*
					
					The Pennsylvania special tax commission of 1887 recommended the passage of a law
						requiring the value of railroad property to "be determined by adding the whole amount of
						their funded debt at par to their entire capital stock at its actual value." In this
						State it was deemed wiser not to hamper the State board because the rule could not be
						applied in some cases. The spirit of the law, and reason and justice provide that it
						shall be applied where practicable, and approximated where impracticable. The State
						board has shown a disposition to do its whole duty thus far, and presumably can be
						relied upon to do an act of long-deferred justice in this matter.
				
				
					IV. TAXATION OF INTERSTATE COMMERCE
					Aside from railway companies the principal corporations falling within the scope of the
						interstate commerce powers of the United States are express, telegraph, sleeping car,
						and, to some extent, telephone companies. For this reason these corporations may be
						considered together, and also for the reason that the provisions of the new law as to
						them form the sole basis for the charge that the last Legislature reduced the taxes of
						corporations on one hand while it increased the burdens of the people on the other. I
						fancy that nothing can be much more amusing to any person who followed the proceedings
						of the last Legislature than the charge that it showed undue favor to corporations. At
						least one-third of the members, both Republicans and Democrats, were members of farmers'
						organizations, and their chief aim appeared to be to "whack it to the corporations." The
						remaining members were more conservative, but the exigencies of political existence had
						impressed them with the feeling that they had better go with their more radical brethren
						to the extent of dealing * The system of
							valuation here advocated was used by the State Board of Equalization. (Report p. 213.)
							The practical results are shown in Appendix I, except that the actual values have been
							reduced about 30 per cent. to correspond with other values as indicated in Chap.
							6.
						 out even-handed justice to the corporations. This produced
						a happy concord of policy and propriety. There were more bills and resolutions aimed at
						corporations introduced in the last Legislature than in any two Legislatures that ever
						met in Indiana, but that is a fact of no great importance. What is important is that the
						Legislature accomplished some valuable results in this direction. Leaving everything
						else out of consideration, if the new law secures the assessment of railroad property at
						its fair cash value, it will be of greater benefit to the people of Indiana than all the
						corporation legislation of the last twenty years.
					It is one thing to believe that a certain result should be accomplished, but a very
						different thing to say how to accomplish it. This truism has special application to the
						taxation of the corporations now under consideration, for how to accomplish that is
						probably the most puzzling problem in American taxation. Almost anyone will concede that
						they should be taxed on more than the value of their tangible property, but no one has
						yet discovered a satisfactory way of doing it under the interstate commerce laws.
						Everything they own in the State that can be found by the assessor is taxed like any
						other property, but they are transacting a large business here while they own very
						little property. How are you going to reach that business? If you tax it directly the
						United States courts will hold your law invalid as an interference with interstate
						commerce. Can you reach it indirectly? That is what we have been trying in Indiana for
						ten years past, and other states have been doing the same, but it is still doubtful
						whether any valid law has been enacted that will produce any considerable returns.
					The Republican method of meeting the difficulty, if we may judge from the comments of
						the Republican press, is to increase the per cent. of taxation. At least the only
						objection they make to the law is that the per cent. is decreased. This mode seems
						plausible at first blush. Presumptively the way to increase is to increase. But this is
						exactly what the Legislature of 1889 tried and the results were not what had been
						anticipated. The history of the matter is as follows: The original law for the taxation
						of gross receipts of these companies was passed by the Republican Legislature of 1881
						and fixed exactly the same rates as the new tax law, that is to say, I per cent. for
						express and telegraph companies, 2 per cent. for sleeping car companies and one-fourth
						of I per cent. for  telephone companies, on their
						respective gross receipts. (Secs. 6,352-6,355, Rev. Stats. of 1881.) This law was
						resisted and was held unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. (State vs. Woodruff Car
						Company, 114 Ind., 155.) State Auditor Carr reported the facts to the Legislature, with
						the following ingenious and conservative recommendation: "I would suggest that the
						legislature enact a law by the provisions of which sleeping and parlor car companies and
						fast freight lines doing business within the borders of Indiana may be properly taxed."
						(Auditor's Report for 1888, p. 5.)
					 Toward the close of the Legislature of 1889 Attorney-General Michener prepared the
						bills which were introduced and passed for the purpose of reaching these companies. They
						increased the rates of express and telegraph companies to 2 per cent., telephone
						companies to i per cent., and sleeping car companies to Io per cent. The corporations
						prepared to resist these laws, and the Attorney-General compromised the matter, with the
						consent of Governor Hovey, for the following reasons, as stated by himself: "The
						collections made from the corporations last mentioned may be regarded as clear gain for
						the State, for it is little less than certain that all of the corporate taxation acts of
						1889 are unconstitutional. I am of this opinion because three of those acts originated
						in the Senate and not in the House; they all purport to be amendments of void acts, and
						some of them are open to the objection that it is not clear that it is the domestic
						privilege, and not interstate commerce, which is taxed. With reference to the express
						companies, it is proper to say that eminent counsel advised them that the law taxing
						them was unconstitutional. They professed a willingness, nevertheless, to pay a
						reasonable amount, but claimed that a tax of 2 per cent. on their gross receipts
						required them to maintain a disproportionate burden as compared with other corporations
						whose operating expenses were much less. On investigation I ascertained that 50 or 60
						per cent. of express earnings are paid to railroad companies, and being impressed with
						the justice of the view advanced, and being desirous of realizing something, at least,
						for the State's claim, I offered, with the consent of your excellency, to compromise the
						demand for I per cent. of the gross receipts and to make a recommendation that a new
						bill be passed which should, so far as possible, place such corporations on an equality
						with other corporations. I make the recommendation suggested above, believing that  express companies are now taxed more than other
						corporations." (Atty. Gen.'s report, p. 12, in Doc. Journal, 1890. Part I.)
					Under these circumstances it might naturally be expected that the Governor would make
						some recommendation on the subject to the Legislature. In his message he gave four pages
						to taxation, mainly devoted to a general claim that corporations should be taxed more
						and farmers less. He contrasts the returns of the State tax of Indiana on railroads with
						that of states in which the only railroad tax is state tax, but makes no explanation
						that the county and local taxes on railroads in Indiana amount to about twelve times the
						State tax. He asserts that our State tax is higher than that of other states, when in
						fact there were but two states in the Union lower (Massachusetts and Vermont) and two
						equal to us (Connecticut and Rhode Island.) It is but just to say that he arrives at
						this conclusion through an arithmetical error, as appears from the figures given in the
						message, by which he understood the rate in the states mentioned to be one-tenth of
						their actual rate. At the conclusion of this information he says : "Gentlemen, the
						problem is in your hands, and I trust you may find a way to solve it by just
						legislation." This is the condition in which the question came to the Legislature, and
						these were the suggestions from the officers who were supposed to advise the Legislature
						of the needs of the State.
					So far as I can learn the Legislature did not pay a great deal of attention to these
						four classes of corporations. The difficulties in the way of fair taxation appeared
						insuperable, and the revenue derived from them was of practically little importance. The
						total amount received from them all, in the ten years that the law was in force prior to
						1891, was $11,631.44, or an average of $1,163 per year. In considering the problem of
						raising an annual revenue of $2,000,000 a Legislature could not profitably devote many
						days to so small an item. To some members the only feasible thing appeared to be to
						accept the Attorney General's advice and take what these companies were willing to pay
						to avoid litigation. Others thought that an attempt should be made to reach the business
						* begun within and ending without the State, or beginning without and ending within the
						State, which the laws of 1889, prepared by the Attorney General, omitted altogether.
						This could do no harm, because if the courts held it invalid they could still hold the
						law valid as to business beginning and  ending within the
						State. The law was accordingly drawn in that form. The result of it, so far as the
						amount of money collected is concerned, will depend entirely on the decision of the
						courts, for some of the corporations, who are said by the Republican press to be favored
						by it, have announced their intention to resist its enforcement. If it is held valid the
						State will collect much more than it ever has collected before. If not; we simply drop
						back to the basis on which the Governor and Attorney-General compromised in 1890.
					This is the history of the whole matter, and if there is any political capital in it
						those who can find it are welcome to it. It would, perhaps, be more advantageous to the
						State, how- ever, to consider the matter as a business question. As to taxation we might
						profitably reverse a celebrated aphorism and say, the fewer politics you have in these
						men the better. Personally, I do not believe that any law has been passed in this State,
						or any other state, for taxing the gross receipts of these corporations, that is valid
						except as to the business beginning and ending within the state; and that is so small,
						whether considered with reference to the amount of taxes paid or the amount that ought
						to be paid, that it must always be unsatisfactory to every one but the companies. The
						question then arises, What are you going to do about it? In answer I submit the
						following questions: If it is right to tax these corporations on their business done
						wholly within the State, is it not wrong for them to escape taxation on the immensely
						more important portion of their business that is classified as interstate commerce? To
						this I think every one will answer, yes. Can interstate commerce be made taxable? Yes.
						Who can do it? Congress. Why has not Congress done so long ago? Because the people did
						not demand it.*
					
					This is the easy method of escape from the whole difficulty, and there is an excellent
						precedent for it. The national banks were just as completely protected from taxation as
						these corporations, by the fact that they were "instrumentalities of government" under
						the celebrated decision of Judge Marshall. (McCullough vs. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 451.)
						Congress, however, recognized the injustice of permitting them to go untaxed, and gave
						the States power to tax them, providing that such taxation "shall not be at a greater
						rate than is assessed *Note. The
							Democratic State platform demands that Indiana congressmen endeavor to procure such a
							law.
						 upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual
						citizens of such State." (Rev, Stats., Sec. 5,29.) There is no reason why it should not
						be provided by law that persons or corporations engaged in interstate commerce may be
						taxed on their gross receipts, as those engaged in domestic commerce or transportation
						are taxed, proportionately to the amount of such business transacted within the
						boundaries of the state. If there is any fear of injustice to the corporations a limit
						of the percentage allowable may be fixed by law.
					If the people of Indiana, without regard to party, will let their representatives know
						that they want this done, it will be done, for other states have had quite as much
						difficulty over this matter as we have had, and will be equally pleased to reach a
						satisfactory settlement. What is the use of cudgeling your brains for a method of
						evading a law when you can have the law changed? Why waste time trying to climb over an
						insuperable obstacle when you can have it removed? If we do not adopt this course we
						should at least quit abusing one another for not doing something that cannot be
						done.
				
				
					V. TAXATION OF MONEY
					The provisions of the old law as to the taxation of banks are not materially changed by
						the new law, except so far as the extensive powers of investigation conferred on tax
						officials by Secs. 34,114 and 129 are applicable to banks. The resistance of the bankers
						to the enforcement of these provisions and the relegation of the matter to the courts
						are occurrences of such recent date that any recital of them would be superfluous. The
						courts will either sustain the officials or the bankers. If the latter, it will be on
						the ground that the new law does not confer the power claimed by the officials, or that
						the Constitution will not permit the exercise of such powers, or both. In any event the
						struggle over this question will be renewed in the next Legislature. If the people
						desire to sustain the officials in the position they have taken it will be necessary for
						them to elect legislators who can not be controlled by the bankers. It may be taken as
						assured that the bankers will endeavor to secure the election of men they can control,
						and they have a great deal of power when the undertake anything of that kind.


					
					The position of the bankers is worthy of serious consideration. Their claim, as
						repeatedly made, and published in the daily press, is that a large amount of the money
						deposited in the banks is not returned for taxation by depositors; that it will be
						withdrawn if they disclose the names of the depositors, and that serious injury will
						result to business generally from their so doing. The first proposition is one that has
						been generally believed for some time, but it is probable that even the bankers will
						concede that they have not underrated the amount nor the evils that will result from its
						disclosure. It is commonly known in business circles that under the old law there was
						always a shrinkage of deposits during the two months preceding April I of each year.
						This represented the deposits of those whose consciences were too tender for perjury,
						but tough enough to allow evading the law in some other way. The bankers are doubtless
						right in their assertion that there are many others whose moral sensibilities are not so
						delicate, and who would, if detected now, resort to some other mode of concealment. If
						the courts sustain the officials, how will you reach that money hereafter? If the courts
						sustain the bankers, how will you reach that money hereafter? You are confronted by the
						same problem in either event.
					In honesty and justice, it is not consistent with the dignity of the State of Indiana
						that any class of property should be permitted to escape taxation through deficiency of
						the law, if there is any possible remedy. If the effect of our present system is, as the
						bankers claim and every one concedes, to throw the burden of taxation on honest
						taxpayers and exempt the dishonest, we ought to abandon the system and try some other.
						It cannot be successfully disputed that our system is unjust in its practical workings,
						or that our banking laws are crude and unwise. They have always been so, but we have
						grown accustomed to them and have been reconciled to them, as we have to many other
						evils in the past. Now, for the first time, the intrinsic defects of the system have
						been forcibly brought to the attention of the public by the controversy between the
						bankers and the tax commissioners. Now, if ever, the public mind is prepared for radical
						reform, as it was prepared for the abandonment of our old election system by the
						wholesale bribery of 1888.
					From a governmental standpoint the only sensible way of taxing bank deposits is to tax
						them to the bank and let the depositors go. The banks are the legal owners of the money
							 deposited with them (except special deposits), and
						receive the benefits of all profits accruing from it, except what they pay in interest
						to the time depositors. This money is all in 351 banks, where it can be easily and
						effectively reached. The State deliberately throws away this opportunity, and undertakes
						to reach the same money as credits in the hands of a half million depositors. Of course
						it fails. Is there any business judgment or statesmanship in such a course? Not a
						particle. If the people were awake to the advantages of conducting government on
						scientific economic principles, such a system would not be tolerated for a moment. If
						you suggest the remedy mentioned to the banker he will probably tell you that it is
						unjust and preposterous; it would ruin the banking business; no person who understands
						banking would dream of such a thing. At least that is what they say to me. But let us
						consider these objections.
					If this tax actually fell on the banks it would be no great burden. With property
						assessed at its fair cash value, the average taxation, for all State and local purposes,
						in Indiana will not be over I per cent. It should not exceed 1½ per cent. anywhere,
						unless there is some special tax levied. We all know that most banks pay from 2½ to 4
						per cent. interest on six months' deposits. If they did not make more than that amount
						out of the money thus deposited, they would not pay this interest. But on ordinary
						deposits they pay no interest at all, and some banks receive no other deposits. It is
						true that if a bank had but one depositor it could not afford to pay taxes on the
						deposit, because he could withdraw it at any time, but neither could it do business. The
						aggregate deposits form a comparatively fixed sum, which varies only with causes that
						affect the general business world. The principle is similar to that on which insurance
						is based. If only one man were insured, the company would be ruined if he died before
						his premiums and their earnings equaled his insurance, but with a large number of risks
						the profits of the business are absolutely safe. So the average deposits of a bank
						constitute a fund which it uses without interest. Do you believe it could not, without
						injury, pay 1 per cent. interest on that sum? Do you believe there is a bank in the
						State that would not gladly double its deposits at 1 per cent. interest?
					But as a matter of fact, the banks would not pay the tax at all. It is a generally
						understood principle that the direct payer of a tax always compensates himself when he
						can by  adding to the price for sale or use of the article
						taxed. The most familiar application of this is in a tariff on imports or exports. If
						the importers of this country actually paid the $220,000,000 annually which they put
						into the United States Treasury, without reimbursing themselves by adding to the price
						of the goods imported, the burden would be intolerable. There would be no importation of
						goods. But by adding the tax to the price of the goods, they reimburse themselves at the
						expense of the consumer. The burden being thus distributed it is not much felt by the
						consumer, and, if he believes in protection, he thinks he is enriching himself by paying
						it. This shifting of the burden of taxation is known technically as repercussion of
						taxes. It should always be considered in framing a tax law, and as Dr. Cossa truly says:
						"A good system of taxation should take care, as far as possible, that there should be
						only that repercussion that is desired and intended, and no other. For repercussion is
						often very hurtful, because it frequently is affected by concealed means (e.g., by
						deteriorating or adulterating the goods sold)." [Taxation, its Principles and Methods,
						p. 63.]
					In nothing is repercussion more complete than in the taxation of money, and I know of
						no more satisfactory evidence of this than the testimony of bankers. A dozen years ago
						the national bankers were protesting, and with some reason, on account of high taxation,
						they being taxed 'by the States as other moneyed capital, and also specially taxed by
						the national government at a rate estimated to be 295 per cent. on their capital. I will
						quote some of their statements made at that time. R. H. Thurman, cashier of the First
						National Bank of Troy, N. Y., said: And now I ask, who has paid
								this large sum for the use of money? In the first instance, the customers of the
								bank, the merchant, the manufacturer, the builder, the farmer, the borrower of
								whatever trade or occupation. * * * Whatever tax, therefore, is levied upon the
								capital, circulation and deposits of a bank is paid by the borrowers of money, and
								is a tax upon trade, industry and business. [Proceedings American Bankers'
								Association, 1877, p. 102.]
					W. E. Gould, cashier of the First National Bank of Portland, Me., said: Money, like water, finds its level. The people will suffer in the
								end more than banks. We can never be compelled to lend money without security, or
								upon a vagabond name, or below what money is worth. And if the banks are squeezed
								with taxes, as a rule, the people will pay the taxes in the end. [Proceedings
								American Bankers' Association, 1878, p. 117.]


					
					Mr. John Nollen, cashier of the Pella National Bank, Iowa, said: It is time the public mind should be disabused in this regard. However pleasant
								it may be to shift a large proportion of their taxes on their depositories of ready
								cash, the public should understand that they cannot " eat their cake and have it." A
								hundred or a thousand men may clique together and cause their taxes to be paid out
								of their common fund, each individual supposing that he thus evades the payment of
								his particular share; but sooner or later a division will demonstrate the falsity of
								the preposterous assumption. [Proceedings American Bankers' Association, 188b, p.
								82.]
					Quotations to the same effect might be multiplied, but they are unnecessary. Throughout
						the discussion of the matter, which continued for several years; no banker disputed this
						proposition, and it cannot be successfully controverted, because it is true. But if
						true, why tax money at all? That is another question ; but if you do tax money you
						should tax it so that there is not a discrimination against the honest taxpayer.
						Moreover, it must be borne in mind that it makes no difference in whose hands the money
						is taxed so far as the ultimate results on the business of the community are concerned.
						The repercussion will occur and will reach the same points in any case. There is,
						however, one feature to be considered here. "Evidently the entire immediate repercussion
						will not fall on the borrower. Part of it will fall on the depositor, who now receives
						interest on his deposit, for the banker will not pay the same rate of interest if he
						pays the taxes. To the taxpayer who returns his money on deposit truly this will make no
						difference. If he receives I per cent. less interest and pays I per cent. less taxes he
						is not affected. The tax-dodger, on the other hand, will be made to pay what is justly
						due from him.
					But will not this cause a withdrawal of deposits from banks? It possibly may to some
						extent, but this will be much more than compensated by increased deposits from other
						sources. Not only much of the money that is "hid in stockings," but also much that is
						concealed in safety deposit vaults, would be deposited in banks if it were known that
						the depositor was exempt from taxation on money in bank. One of the chief objects of
						such concealment would be removed, and large amounts that ought to be in circulation
						would thus be put in circulation. The exemption of the depositor is no injustice so long
						as the bank pays the taxes. There have been laws that have taxed both bank and
						depositor, and courts have  upheld them (7 Cal., 35; 20
						Kan., 596), but the injustice of such a rule is too apparent to need consideration. As
						the amount properly taxable is an average amount, it should not be determined by the
						deposits on any one day, but by the actual average. The system of the old United States
						law, which taxed the monthly average, was equitable and satisfactory.
					It would be foreign to the subject to discuss a reform of our State banking laws here.
						They could be much improved by additional safeguards, such as are provided in the
						National Bank law. I will offer one illustration of the looseness of the present system
						that has a direct bearing on taxation. The firm of Dwiggins, Starbuck & Co. does
						business in Chicago. Its stated capital is $350,000. It operates more than a dozen banks
						in Indiana. These banks report no capital here. They send all their spare funds to
						Chicago, or at least do not report them for taxation here. Their entire taxable property
						in some cases is reported at less than 5 per cent. of either their deposits or their
						loans. The reader may draw his own conclusions. This sort of business is unjust both to
						the taxpayers and to our banks, which, of course compete at a disadvantage if they
						return their property for taxation fairly.
					There is one other matter to be noticed in this connection. It is absolutely impossible
						to maintain an equitable system of taxation in this or any other State so long as the
						"greenback" currency is not taxable. It is the common refuge of the tax-dodger. I
						believe it can be safely said that the amount of "greenbacks" listed in this State on
						tax returns is equal to one-third of the entire issue of greenbacks, and that the amount
						claimed as exempt for that reason in the United States is equal to ten times the entire
						volume of greenbacks in existence. It is simply an outrage on the taxpayers of the whole
						country that Congress permits this portion of our currency to remain non-taxable. There
						is no excuse for it whatever. When the greenbacks were originally issued the exemption
						from taxation of course aided in keeping up their value, but it was not certain even
						then that Congress intended them to be untaxed. The Supreme Court, however, held that
						they were "U. S. securities," and therefore within the exemption law. (7 Wall., 26.)
						When the National Government resumed specie payments there remained no reason for their
						exemption, and they should have been made taxable. At the time the late Senator
						McDonald, whose sound financial views gave him a national reputation, twice introduced
						bills in the National  Senate to subject greenbacks to
						local taxation. (Congressional Record, 45th Cong., 3d sess., p. 341 ; 46th Cong., 1st
						sess., p. 16.) Both bills were smothered in committee, and presumably by the influence
						of the moneyed capital of the country. If the honest taxpayers of this country were
						alive to their interests they would demand that the greenback currency be made taxable
						at once.*
					I am aware that the suggestions made above would mean a very radical reform, but that
						is what is needed. I know they are calculated to startle the reader on first
						presentation, but I believe that, like Mr. Lincoln's rat-hole, they will "bear looking
						into." After long consideration I believe they are just and right. I disclaim any
						hostility to banks or bankers more than is necessarily involved in advocating a fair tax
						law. I have friends among the bankers of Indiana whose friendship I prize highly, and
						who I believe are willing to be just to the community as well as to themselves. I
						advocate nothing more than that.
				
				
					VI. THE EQUALIZATION REACHED
					As I have heretofore shown, the chief evil of our old tax system was in the failure to
						secure an enforcement of the law as to assessment at fair cash value, and the necessary
						result of inequality between counties of the State, townships of each county and
						individuals of each township. The rectification of this evil was the chief purpose of
						the new law. To that end every step in appraisement was guarded as carefully as
						possible. The taxpayer was required in addition to the former oath to swear that his
						valuation of his property was at "the usual selling price * * * at private sale, and not
						at forced or auction sale." (Sec. 53.) The assessor was no longer permitted to accept
						the taxpayer's valuation as under the old law (R. S., Sec. 6,330), but was required to
						determine the value, with privilege of examining "the party or any other person" under
						oath. (Sec. 48.) If a taxpayer refused to make a sworn statement the assessor was
						required to *Note. The Democratic State
							platform demands this reform. Several efforts have been made to secure it since
							Senator McDonald's. A bill for this purpose, introduced by Senator George, (Senate
							bill 1.699), is now pending in Congress, and has received the support of the Indiana
							Senators.
						 examine under oath any person whom he believed to have
						knowledge of the facts and fix any value he deemed proper (Sec. 51), and to this a
						penalty of 50 per cent. was added. (Sec. 56.) No return could be accepted without oath,
						and if the party claimed to have no property of any kind specified in the list he was
						required to write the word "none" after such specification. (Sec. 53)
					To insure system and equality in the original assessment, the office of county assessor
						was created, and this officer was required to make examination of the public records and
						revise the work of the township assessors, as well as to exercise general supervision of
						the work. (Sec. 113.) The old County Board of Equalization, which consisted of the
						County Commissioners and four free holders appointed by the Judge of the Circuit Court,
						was replaced by a Board of Review, consisting of the County Assessor, Auditor and
						Treasurer. (Sec. 114.) The old State Board of Equalization, which consisted of the
						Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Auditor, Secretary, Treasurer and Attorney General, was
						replaced by a board consisting of the Governor, Auditor and Secretary, with two members
						appointed by the Governor, of different political parties, who are required to devote
						their entire attention to the business of assessment and are paid salaries of $2,000 per
						year. (Secs. 117-122.) All officials are put under ironclad oaths to assess and equalize
						at fair cash value, and are made subject to fine and imprisonment for either
						under-valuation or over-valuation. (Sec. 256) They are all given full power to examine
						the books and papers of any person or corporation, and the boards are given power to
						fine and,imprison for contempt any person who refuses to answer or exhibit books and
						papers. No officer or board is bound by the assessment of any inferior officer or board,
						but is required to assess at true cash value throughout. The former absurd restrictions
						on the State Board are abolished and it is required, if necessary, to increase the
						assessed value of the entire State to the point required by the law.
					In brief synopsis these are the provisions of the new law to secure equal assessment,
						which are elaborated with great care in the body of the act. It is evident that they put
						assessment on a much better and more business-like basis than it was before, and is it
						difficult to see how the Legislature could have gone much further in this direction.
						Counteracting the effect of these provisions since the passage of the law there  have been two strong forces, (1) individual and local
						interest and (2) the clamor of a partisan press. The first is a constant force in all
						tax systems. It is always with us, and its effects are easily understood. No man desires
						to pay more than his just proportion of taxes, and none will be apt to resolve any
						doubts against his own interests. If a taxpayer thinks that others are evading the law,
						and he will always be safe in thinking so, he is tempted to evade it also in order to
						put himself on a basis of equality. We notice this most, perhaps, in the proportion of
						assessments between various counties. The State rate is fixed, and any county escapes
						taxation in exactly the proportion that it is assessed below other counties. The mode is
						so simple, so well understood, and has been so generally practiced in the past that it
						is very difficult to get rid of it, if indeed that is possible.
					The second counteracting force is largely peculiar to the present situation, and will
						probably not be in operation hereafter. Certainly it can never have as great weight
						again as it has had in the late assessments. As soon as the Legislature adjourned the
						Republican press began its attacks on the tax law, on the theory that it had "increased
						the taxes of the people and decreased the taxes of the corporations." The alleged mode
						of increasing the taxes was the increase of assessment. The temporary success of this
						system of attack was almost without parallel in the history of political hoaxes. In some
						parts of the State a large portion of the people became almost frenzied. Without reading
						the law, much less understanding it (the furor reached its height before the law was
						published), they proceeded to condemn it. Even now there are hundreds of persons who
						believe that their taxes have been increased exactly as the assessment has been
						increased, and many will, in all probability, continue to believe this until they pay
						their taxes. The great mass of the people now understand that the amount paid will be
						fixed by the local levies, and that the resort to fair cash valuation has had the effect
						of increasing the assessed value of corporate property much more than that of
						individuals. The assessments were made, however, while the delusion was strong, and,
						notwithstanding the efforts of the officials who understood and desired to enforce the
						law, there was a widespread disregard of the provisions of the new law, which has
						occasioned a great deal of revision and correction by the Reviewing Boards.


					
					I do not complain of this partisan clamor. Under our prevailing theories it would be
						childish to object to anything that savors of legitimacy in political warfare. I mention
						it as an important factor in our problem of taxation, in the solution of the question,
						why has not the law been enforced? For I believe it has not been enforced, and that
						under the circumstances it was impossible to enforce it in the present year. I do not
						understand how any person who has examined the subject can say that property in any
						county in the State is assessed at fair cash value. The best basis for estimate now
						available is the average value of lands and improvements as fixed by the State Board of
						Tax Commissioners. That Board, in order to equalize counties, found it necessary to
						order in thirteen counties an increase of 5 per cent., in seven counties an increase of
						10 per cent., in one county an increase of 40 per cent., in five counties a decrease of
						5 per cent., in seven counties a decrease of 10 per cent., and in one county a decrease
						of 20o per cent. In addition to these there were four counties in which changes were
						ordered as to parts of the counties, the remainder standing as reported. In other words,
						there were thirty-eight counties in which the law had not been enforced, in the opinion
						of the State Board, not considering individual appraisements, as to which there were
						changes made in nearly every county in the State.
					If the work of the State Board is correct there has been an immense stride made toward
						the equalization of property, as may be seen from comparing the average value per acre
						of the counties in 1890 and 1891. The least change was in Brown county, which the State
						Board left as valued by the County Board—the advance being from $5.19 to $5.23
						average value per acre, or less than I per cent. The greatest change was in Newton
						county, which was ordered reduced 5 per cent.—the advance being from $7.42 so
						$16.02, or 115 per cent. Between these extremes there are as many variations of increase
						as there are counties, and as to most of them there is no special reason for the change
						except that they were heretofore valued too low. (Of course the counties in the gas belt
						should generally have increased more than the rest.) Accepting this basis as correct,
						Brown county has been paying more than twice as much State tax as Newton, on the same
						amount of property, and more than any other county in proportion to the increase shown
						as to each.
					But can the work of the State Board be accepted as correct?  As to equalization it may be. The work was more intelligently prosecuted, and with
						better opportunity for reaching the truth, than ever before. Absolute perfection in such
						work is impossible, but it is probable that the result is approximately correct-and
						certainly it is much nearer correct than it has ever been before. But while there has
						been a substantial equalization, there is no evidence that the State is equalized at
						fair cash value. I submit that it is simply incredible that the local authorities of one
						county in this State assessed the property in the county one-fourth too high, seven
						counties one-ninth too high, and five counties one-nineteenth too high, when the
						standard is " fair cash value." What motive could have actuated them ? What object could
						these officers have in reporting the property of their neighbors and themselves for
						taxation at more than it was fairly worth? It would be contrary to every motive by which
						men are actuated. In my opinion the truth is that no county in the State was assessed at
						"fair cash value" except, possibly, Floyd county (in which the 20 per cent. reduction
						was ordered), and none is on that basis now. There is a very fair equalization, but it
						is at about 70 per cent. of fair cash value.
					But if this be true, why should not the entire State have been raised to the Floyd
						county level? There was an excellent reason. Presumably the personal property in each
						county was assessed on the same basis as the realty, but the State Board can not, under
						Section 136, increase the value of the personalty for the purpose of equalizing between
						counties. In every county, therefore, where the assessment is raised, real estate will
						bear just so much more of the burden of taxes than personalty. With this in view, the
						Board probably equalized on the basis which would make the least change, and that basis
						is in the neighborhood of 70 per cent. of fair cash value. The State Board of Illinois,
						operating under a statute similar to ours, has just made a similar decision. After
						investigation they decided that the assessment of the State had been made at about 25
						per cent. of "fair cash valuation," and although the law required them to assess
						railroads at fair cash value, they assessed them at the same rate. And this was just,
						because the most important thing in taxation is equality, and the very essence of the
						constitutional provisions concerning it is the preservation of equality. When you are
						obliged either to violate the principles of justice and the clear intent of the
						Constitution and the law, or to violate the letter  of the
						law, it is best that the latter should be sacrificed.
					And yet, although the State Board has probably done the best it could under the
						circumstances, and has attained something like justice, it is very unfortunate that an
						actual cash valuation was not reached. Of the two forces opposing the enforcement of the
						law that have been mentioned, one will pass away and the other will grow more formidable
						with time. As the people come to understand the working of the law, and to appreciate
						the fact that it is a protection to the masses, it will grow in popularity, and press
						criticism will cease or become of no effect. On the other hand, personal and local
						interest will remain, and, as public attention is 'diverted to other subjects, will make
						greater inroads on the equality that has been reached. Something must be done to
						neutralize this force or it will in a few years destroy equality of valuation. The
						principle of assessment at fair cash valuation is worth more to the honest taxpayer, and
						especially to the man of small property, than all the rest of this law or any other law.
						When you leave it you are practically without a guide. Assessment becomes like the old
						Kentucky method of weighing hogs—put the hog in one scale, and in the other enough
						bowlders to balance it; then guess how much the bowlders weigh. It is no exaggeration to
						say that if a county should succeed in getting its appraisements only half as high as
						that of the other counties, its small taxpayers would lose more by the increase of their
						portion of local taxes than they would gain by being released from half their just share
						of State taxes.
				

				
					VII. SEPARATION OF THE SOURCES OF STATE AND LOCAL REVENUES
					In considering what necessary means may be taken to retain the equality in assessment
						we have reached under the new tax law, and to add to it hereafter, it will be well to
						keep in mind the fundamental principle of modern reform legislation. It is always urged
						by the enemies of reform that you cannot make men honest by law. That is true; but you
						can sometimes prevent them from reaping the fruits of dishonesty. There is certainly
						nothing to be gained by framing laws so, that the citizen will be tempted to violate
						them. After centuries of experience, the best mode of preventing wrong-  doing that has been discovered is to take away, as far as
						possible, the motive for wrong-doing, which ordinarily consists of the profit or
						advantage derived from it. The Australian ballot law is based on this principle. You can
						not prevent one man from giving another money to vote in a certain way, but you can
						prevent him from knowing whether the other man carries out his contract. So as to the
						school-book law; you could not compel the publishers not to ask extortionate prices for
						the books, but you could cut them off from a market so far as the public schools were
						concerned, and the result was that they speedily reduced their prices to the point at
						which they formerly declared they could not afford to sell. The question now is, Can
						this principle in some way be applied to the tax law?
					In part, at least, it can. As we have seen, the greatest source of inequality lies in
						the effort of various municipalities to escape their just proportion of State taxes. As
						the State levy is fixed, they can accomplish this by reducing their appraisement below
						fair cash value, and at the same time raise needed funds for local purposes by
						increasing the local levies. It is evident that, to avoid this, either the State levy
						must be made variable or the sources of State and municipal revenue must be entirely
						separated; and it is of the highest importance to the honest taxpayer that it should be
						avoided,.because every departure from "fair cash valuation" is certain to recoil on him.
						The first method would probably be unconstitutional, but, under a proper amendment,
						might be effected by abolishing the State tax and requiring each county to pay to the
						State a certain percentage of its revenue from taxation—for example,
						one-tenth—for State revenue. This would be in effect a tax on the income of the
						counties, and the local taxation would have to be increased one-ninth above the local
						necessities to meet the demands of the State. In 1889 the average total levy for all
						purposes was $1.68 on $100. Of this amount the State levy for revenue was 12 cents, and
						for school purposes 16½ cents. The school tax, excepting the ½ cent which goes to the
						university, is redistributed to the counties, and the State government has nothing to do
						with it except as distributing agent. The various counties show great departures from
						the average mentioned, ranging from about $1 in Putnam county to more than $2 in several
						other counties. This variation is largely due to the rate of assessment, Putnam county,
						for instance, having undoubtedly been assessed higher than the average  under the old system. This variation will decrease under the
						new system, and the several counties will approach much more nearly to the common
						average. Of course there are other causes of variation, such as a large percentage of
						railroad property, which makes the average in Laporte County only $1/11, or the number
						and size of towns and cities, which always cause an increase of the total levy,
						notwithstanding the addition they make to the total amount of taxable property.
					There would be several advantages from the adoption of this system of deriving State
						revenues from a percentage contribution of county revenues. In the first place it would
						do away entirely with the temptation to undervalue for the purpose of escaping State
						taxes. There would remain no possible escape from State taxes except a decrease of local
						taxes, and this is usually an end devoutly to be wished for. It would put a premium on
						economy in local government, and yet this premium would not be large enough to beget
						miserly economy. In counties whose levies are above the average the burden of State
						taxes would of course be greater than in those below the average; but there is no
						injustice in that, because the levies will be higher in the wealthier and more populous
						counties, and those counties derive the most benefit from the institutions maintained by
						the State. On the other hand it may be urged that this would be a tax on progress,
						because every addition to county expenses would make an addition to State taxes. This is
						true, but for that very reason it would restrict extravagance in public expenditures.
						If, however, this objection should seem important, it could easily be avoided by
						exempting from the State's percentage all special taxes collected for new public
						buildings, or to meet debts created for such purpose.
					The other system for avoiding undervaluation by counties is the separation of the
						sources of State and county revenues; that is to say, by setting apart certain classes
						of property to be taxed for State purposes, abolishing all local taxes on such property,
						and abolishing State taxes on all other property. An effort was made to effect this in
						the last Legislature by setting aside railroad property for State taxation, but it
						failed. The plan then proposed, by what was commonly known as the Oppenheim bill (H. B.
						487), was that railroads should be assessed and taxed exactly as at present, but that
						the money Said by them should be set apart by the County Treasurer and  paid into the State Treasury, the State levy being
						abolished. Against this plan there were three arguments made that were worthy of
						consideration. The first was that it was unconstitutional, and as to this lawyers
						differed, though the reason of the matter would seem to be that the use to which money
						is put after it is collected does not affect the equality or uniformity of the taxation,
						which is not interfered with in any other respect. The second argument was that Brown,
						Ohio and Switzerland counties would be exempted from State taxation, because they had no
						railroads, and this is true, but there are necessarily some inequalities in any system
						of taxation. The third was that the municipalities in which railroads were located had
						given public aid to secure the location, in consideration of taxes thereafter to be paid
						by the railroads, and this plan would take away all that compensation. This is partially
						true, but in many cases no such aid was given, and in all cases there was an increase in
						value of lands, on account of the location of the railroad, which would ordinarily
						afford adequate compensation for all aid given. Moreover, the bill provided for a return
						of a portion of the taxes to any county in which the railroad tax exceeded the amount
						already paid for State tax.
					There were numerous other arguments offered, but none other worthy of a moment's
						consideration by any one of ordinary intelligence. I think any fair-minded person will
						concede that there would be some injustice in taking from the local governments all the
						proceeds of railroad taxation, but on the other hand there is an injustice in permitting
						them to have all the advantages of it. The railroad companies derive their existence
						from the State. Their tracks are laid where convenience dictates in reaching certain
						terminal points. The fact that they happen to cross the imaginary lines that bound a
						county is not a sufficient reason for giving the people of that county a monopoly of
						taxation of their franchises as well as their tangible property. There would certainly
						be no injustice in a division of the taxes, giving the State one-half, and possibly if
						this were done a system could be devised by which an adequate State revenue could be
						raised without a recourse to a general property tax. There would be no injustice in
						turning banks or saloons over for State taxation, and these, with the present special
						corporation taxes, and perhaps a collateral inheritance tax, would afford sufficient
						revenue for the current expenses of the State. It should be remembered  that no change of this kind will make any material change in
						the amount of taxes paid by any one. It is simply a shifting of a burden from one
						shoulder to another, so that it may be carried more safely and more comfortably. No one
						advocated the passage of the Oppenheim bill more earnestly than myself, and no one was
						more disgusted at its defeat, but I concede freely that it would not have increased the
						present burdens of the railroads to have passed it, and it would not have decreased the
						burdens of taxes on the people more than the present system. That was not the object of
						the measure. It was designed to aid in securing equality of assessment and in
						maintaining that equality after it had been secured. The railroads would not have paid a
						cent more of taxes if it had passed than they will under the present law.
					While the Legislature failed to pass this bill it recognized the necessity of some
						measure that would remove the temptation to undervaluation by counties. This recognition
						was given in two forms. The first was a joint resolution reciting a belief that no
						equitable assessment could be had "until the State and local taxes are separated and
						each assessed and collected independently of the other," and directing the State Tax
						Commissioners to prepare and present to the next Legislature a bill for this purpose.
						(Acts, p. 483.) The second was a joint resolution for an amendment to the Constitution,
						providing "that corporations may be taxed upon their net or gross earnings in such
						manner as may be prescribed by law." (Acts, p. 484.) The occasion for this proposed
						amendment is that such taxation would probably be in violation of our Constitutional
						requirements of uniformity and equality of taxation, and the probability is that it
						would be found desirable to resort to an earnings tax in order to secure a separation of
						the sources of State and local revenues. It is very questionable, however, whether there
						would be any necessity of resorting to such a tax, and it certainly would not be wise to
						do so in the case of railroads. We have found a system under which railroads can be
						assessed as other property, and public sentiment ought to demand its retention. There is
						no danger of any material reduction of railroad appraisements hereafter. The method by
						which these corporations will seek to escape will be the adoption of some new system of
						taxation, and that system will be a tax on gross or net receipts.
					It is safe to say that there is not such a system in any State in the country that does
						not operate to the interest of railroad  companies.
						Pennsylvania has had such a system for years, but the Pennsylvania Tax Commission of
						1889 reports that while other property has been paying from $1.20 to $1.50 on each $100
						of value, the railroads have been paying only 25 cents. Several of the states tax
						railroads on gross receipts in addition to the general tax on property value, and in
						some states there is added the future complication of a stock tax, or a dividend tax, or
						both. The evils of any of these systems are two-fold, for they remove railroad taxation
						from the basis of taxation of other property to a basis that admits of jugglery and
						misrepresentation, and they make assessment depend too largely on the bookkeeping of the
						companies. If a system is simple, easily understood and not different from that applied
						to other property, the people cannot be deceived as to railroad taxation; but as you
						complicate and obscure the system, you increase the probability of favoritism to
						railroads and safety of the tax officials in favoritism. Moreover, a fixed rule of
						ascertaining values cannot be applied to the railroads any more satisfactorily than to
						other property. Any rule imaginable could be taken advantage of, and the only safe plan
						is to allow officials to select their methods of determining values, and rely on public
						sentiment to make them do their duty, just as we do in assessing other property.
						Certainly no other State has found any system that would produce such equitable results
						as the new tax law of Indiana has secured for the present year, and it would be an act
						of folly to abandon a system that is clearly the best in existence. Of course, a part of
						the taxes now paid by railroads to the counties could be turned over to the State
						without interfering with our present system of assessment and taxation of railroad
						property.
					But whatever the system adopted, it is evident that some remedy must be found for the
						defect mentioned. It is the one weak spot in the new law that threatens the existence of
						the system. We got past it this year after a great deal of unseemly wrangling about
						"relative values" of different counties, and some vigorous alterations of county returns
						by the State Tax Commissioners, but there is no certainty of doing so hereafter. Indeed,
						we are confronted by a practical certainty that counties which imagine themselves
						overvalued —which, as they style it, have had "a penalty put on their
						honesty"—will resort to undervaluation at the next assessment. The burden of
						rectifying such intentional wrong-doing should not be needlessly put on the State Board.
						The local Boards  are more competent to fix local values,
						and doubtless would assess fairly if this temptation were removed. It would be well,
						however, for the State Board to retain supervisory and corrective power to assure
						equality of individual valuation, which, as we have seen, can be attained only by rigid
						adherence to fair cash valuation.
				
				
					VIII. EXEMPTION OF MORTGAQED PROPERTY
					It has been urged that the pew tax law is unjust and inadequate because it makes no
						change in the law concerning the taxation of mortgages, and this will probably have as
						much weight as any sin of omission charged against the law, though it is questionable
						whether it should have such weight. The question of mortgage taxation is a very
						perplexing one. It has been settled by a great many people, but unfortunately it has
						been settled in so many different ways that the anxious inquirer is very likely to adopt
						the conclusion of Mr. Horace White, "that the elements of the problem are too many and
						too variable for dogmatic treatment." The ordinary illustration of the argument against
						taxation of mortgages is exemplified by the following quotation from the Maine Tax
						Commission's report: A has apiece of land worth $1,000; B has
								nothing, but, wishing to buy A's land, A conveys it to him and receives B's note for
								$1,000 secured by a mortgage of the land. Under our system the land is taxable to B
								and the mortgage note to A, thus taxing $2,000 in value where but $1,000
							exists.
					
					On its face this appears to be a simple statement of fact which can not be
						controverted, but as ordinarily elaborated it will be found to contain four elements of
						falsehood which should always be borne in mind when this subject is considered, viz:
							
							This is said to be duplicate taxation, but it is not so. " Duplicate
								taxation" has a well settled meaning and is not lawful, but this taxation is lawful,
								as is universally maintained by the courts (Cooley on Taxation, pp. 2I9-226 ) In
								legal contemplation the land is property, and the note, or debt, is property. The
								effect of the credit system is that it enables a man to materialize and capitalize
								his presumptive future resources. In this case B, who has nothing, is made the  owner of a piece of land. True he owes for it, but he
								has the legal ownership and use of it. He takes the ownership subject to the burden
								of interest and taxes, as well as final payment of the debt, because he expects to
								profit more than the total amount of burden by owning it. A sells because he expects
								B to pay the debt with interest and taxes. In reality there are $2,000 of
								property—$1,000 of land and $1,000 of B's capitalized credit-but before the
								trade the -law took no cognizance of B's earning capacity as property.
							It is inferred that this situation is forced on the parties by the law,
								but it is not. If they had so desired, B might have taken a lease on the land at a
								rental equal to the interest, with a privilege of purchase at the termination of the
								lease, or sooner. In that case only $1,000 of property would have been taxed, B's
								credit not being capitalized, and he being a lessee instead of an owner. This form
								of contract is very frequently resorted to in some parts of the country, even in
								cases of loans, for which the borrower deeds the land to the lender, who leases it
								back with power to purchase. If a man prefers to capitalize his credit and make it
								taxable it is his own lookout.
							It is inferred that the law does not make any attempt to avoid the
								taxation of mortgage debt, which is not true. If B owns any annuities, bonds, notes,
								accounts, claims, deposits, or has anything due him in any shape, he is permitted to
								subtract from such property, in making his tax list, the amount of his mortgage
								indebtedness. If A owes anything in any shape he is permitted to deduct it from the
								amount of his mortgage note. (Sec. 53.) Between the two the amount of the debt
								usually disappears entirely and only the land is taxed-indeed, the injustice of the
								law is probably to other taxpayers, for the exemption for claimed indebtedness is a
								common mode of tax-dodging. The new law adds to the property, from which debts may
								be deducted, annuities, bonds and deposits (compare R. S. 1881, Sec. 6,336, with
								Sec. 53 of Tax Law), and, in my opinion, this was an unwise concession to an
								unjustifiable clamor.
							It is inferred that there is some distinction between mortgage debt and
								other debt, which is not true. Indeed, the reference to this question as mortgage
								taxation is misleading. The mortgage has nothing whatever to do with it. To
								illustrate this, let us draw a parallel to our original illustration: A has $1,000
								in money, B has nothing, but wishing to go into 
								business borrows A's $1,000 and gives his note for it (with or without security) ; B
								then buys goods with the $1,000 and begins business. Under our system the goods are
								taxable to B and the note to A, thus taxing $2,000 in value when but $1,000 exists.
								The same reasoning will apply to any kind of credit. The security for the debt has
								not the slightest effect on the merits of the question and has been introduced
								chiefly through demagogues who desire to make the mortgage debtors of the country
								believe they are in some way treated worse than other people. Properly the question
								should take one of two forms; either, should a taxpayer be allowed to subtract his
								debts from the value of his taxable property? or, should credits be taxed at
								all?
						
					The first form of the question is the one in which it is usually put by the mortgage
						debtor, and an affirmative answer is expected. He contends that he should pay taxes on
						only so much of his property as he has paid for. If the law permitted the deduction of
						debts from the value of real and personal property, the first effect would be to exempt
						railroads from taxation, for some of them are mortgaged to nearly their full value now,
						and all of them could be put in that condition by a few transfers of papers. It may be
						said that railroad property could be excepted, but under our constitutional requirements
						of equality and uniformity in taxation, and the prohibition of special legislation
						concerning taxation, they could not. Their mortgages could not be taxed, because they
						are held by non-residents.
					The next effect would be a general resort to foreign mortgages to escape taxation. From
						an extended investigation of the mortgage question I have been led to believe that the
						private mortgage indebtedness of Indiana is between three and four hundred millions of
						dollars, and that at least one-third of this is due to non-residents, and therefore not
						taxable here. The enterprising tax-dodger could easily cover his property with
						fictitious mortgages in favor of non-residents, and to escape taxation altogether. Aside
						from any prospective decrease of taxables, we should have immediately, from existing
						railroad mortgages and private foreign mortgages, a decrease of over $200,000,000 in the
						taxable property of the State, and all other property would have to be taxed about 15
						per cent. higher to compensate for this loss. If domestic mortgages were in fact fully
						listed, and were not offset by claimed debt, there would be an equal decrease of
						taxables from this source,  but there is little reason to
						believe that the decrease would be of much importance. It may be mentioned here that the
						new census returns will show much less mortgage indebtedness in Indiana than really
						exists. The census, as taken here, includes no mortgages except those on property
						occupied by the owners thereof, which is probably about one-half of the total.
					The leading example of mortgage exemption is furnished by the State of Massachusetts,
						which, in 1881, adopted a law taxing mortgaged real estate jointly to the mortgagor and
						mortgagee in proportion to the land less the mortgage and the mortgage respectively. It
						has frequently been claimed that this system operated satisfactorily, but the evidence
						of such result is not clear. In a report to the Boston Executive Business Association in
						October, 1889, made by a special committee on taxation, the system was extolled to the
						skies. It was conceded in the report that the mortgagor always paid the entire tax by
						agreement, but claimed that he paid less interest. It was claimed that this had
						increased the value of real estate, decreased the rate of interest, and was altogether
						so beneficial that "even the well to-do business man can hardly afford not to have a
						mortgage upon his home." This may be taken as the proclaimed view of moneyed capital. On
						the other hand, Mr. Thomas Hill, chairman of the assessors of Boston, in a reply to
						these claims in January, 189o, demonstrated that, although there had been a general
						decrease in the rate of interest in Massachusetts, the average rate of mortgage interest
						had decreased in the eight years the law had been in force, but little more
						than-one-half the tax rate. In other words, the money-lenders were getting. practically
						all the advantage of the exemption. He said: All the
								concession that lenders of money upon mortgages have made to their borrowers they
								have been compelled to make by the laws of trade, not by those of the State. I am
								satisfied that were the laws that sustain the present exemption of mortgages
								repealed by the Legislature, as mortgages fell due the lenders would take the rate
								fixed by the money markets of the world, and pay their own taxes; and if they
								refused to do so, foreign capital would give borrowers all they required at that
								rate.
					But however this law may have operated in Massachusetts, Indiana is not in the same
						condition as Massachusetts. The mortgage indebtedness of Massachusetts is almost wholly
						domestic, whereas that of Indiana, as we have seen, is largely foreign. Massachusetts
						can shift part of her real estate value to her resident mortgagees without loss of
						taxables, but Indiana  cannot. Unless some plan of reaching
						non-resident mortgagees can be devised, the Massachusetts system would never be
						satisfactory in Indiana.
					Should credits be exempted from taxation? In the earlier years of the State, when the
						credit system was universal, credits were not taxed. The kinds of personalty taxed were
						named in the law and at first taxed a specific amount, without regard to value. This
						gave way to a value tax on specified classes of property, and this to a general property
						tax, not including credits. As the lines between the debtor and creditor classes grew
						more distinct, an attempt was made to reach moneyed capital without injuring those who
						were creditors because they were so unfortunate as not to be able to collect what was
						due them. The law of 1836 included among taxables "moneys loaned at interest." The law
						of 1837 added a provision that notes, bills, checks, drafts, etc., which "have been
						purchased with money" should be treated as money loaned at interest. The law of 1843
						reached a general taxation of credits covering "all moneys at interest owing to the
						persons to be taxed, more than they pay interest for, and all other debts owing to them
						from solvent persons, more than they are indebted for." The evident intention of this
						provision, which with some modifications has been in force ever since, is to exempt
						credits of the debtor class and tax moneyed capital in the hands of the creditor class.
						The latter end has not usually, been reached, and, as it is impossible for tax officials
						to make minute investigation of every taxpayer's business, it never can be fully
						reached.
					If any change is to be made in the law on this subject, it seems to me that the most
						sensible plan would be to exempt credits altogether and permit no deductions for
						indebtedness. Of course, if this were done, every demagogue in the State would say that
						it was a favor to the creditor class, but I believe that investigation will satisfy any
						man that the present system is still more favorable to the creditor class, and that it
						takes more property off the tax duplicate than it puts on. The opportunities it offers
						to the tax-dodger are unbounded except by his conscience. If you tax credits at all, you
						should tax all of them. If the money in the State were reached, as has been suggested,
						by a tax on the average deposits of banks, there would be neither necessity nor policy
						for a tax on evidences of debt. There are some things called evidences of debt, however,
						such as stocks and bonds, that might more properly  be
						classed as evidences of ownership, and taxed accordingly. Aside from the opportunities
						it offers for concealment of property, the worst feature of the present system is its
						discrimination against domestic money lenders, who are taxed on their credits here,
						while foreign lenders, who are supposed to be taxed at their place of residence, are
						usually not taxed at all. Hence they can loan at lower interest. Indiana pays probably
						$7,000,000 annually in interest to foreign moneylenders. There is no very widespread
						sympathy for resident money-lenders, but it is certainly unwise to encourage such a
						large drain of ready money from the State, and thereby enable resident money-lenders to
						command higher interest. If the tax on credits were removed there should also be a
						decrease in the lawful rate of interest.
					In Maryland, where the advanced ideas of taxation so ably advocated by Prof. Ely seem
						to have taken firm hold on the public mind, credits have recently been exempted from
						taxation. The provision appears to give satisfaction in that State, but it is too early
						to pass judgment on it. Indeed, as has been stated, the subject is too complicated and
						the results of any tried or proposed system are too uncertain to admit of dogmatic
						treatment. The subject has received a great deal of consideration from theoretical
						points of view, and always will, but it is doubtful whether any satisfactory conclusion
						will ever be reached except through an accurate observation and record of the results of
						various systems in different states. We have not yet obtained the data upon which
						conclusions may be safely based. The question really before us is whether we should
						proceed to experiment on this subject or await the results elsewhere; and unless there
						should be some clear expression of public sentiment in favor of the former course, the
						more conservative policy will probably be followed. *
					*NOTE.The ablest opponent of exemption
							of mortgaged lands is Henry Winn, of Boston, at present identified with the Farmers
							Alliance or People's party. He maintains that the idea is worked up by capitalists for
							the purpose of exempting the money lender, and the attempts made at it in this country
							have certainly had that effect. Forty years ago Connecticut adopted a law providing
							that each taxpayer should have his bona fide indebtedness deducted
							from the total value of his property for taxation, and the debt should be assessed to
							the creditors. [Acts of 1851, p. 63; Acts of 1852, p. 83.] After ten years of trial
							the following was adopted: "No contract heretofore or hereafter made shall be deemed
							usurious by reason of the borrower paying, or agreeing to pay, the taxes assessed and
							paid upon the sum loaned or the insurance upon the estate mortgaged to  secure the loan." [Acts of 1862, p. 24.] The lender or
							mortgagee always requires this agreement, while the borrower receives no advantage
							whatever from the law.
						New Jersey provided in 1866 for the deduction of debts owing to "creditors residing
							within this State," and their assessment to the creditor. [Laws of 1866, p. 1,078.] In
							1876 provision was made that "no mortgage or debt secured thereby shall be assessed
							for taxation, unless a deduction therefor shall have been claimed by the owner of the
							land." [Laws of 1876, p. 16o ] At the same time a law was adopted as to a large part
							of the State (New Jersey permits special legislation), which not only legalized
							agreements not to apply for a deduction for mortgage debt, but also provided that a
							violation of such agreement should make the mortgage due and payable, and the taxes
							paid by the mortgagee should be added to the mortgage debt. [Laws of 1876, p.
							159.]
						In Massachusetts a similar scheme was worked. The law there provided that the lender
							should be assessed for the amount of the debt, and the borrower for the remainder of
							the value of the land held as security, but it denied the borrower the right to
							recover the taxes paid for the lender if he "agreed otherwise in writing." [Acts of
							1881, p. 646.] Of course the borrower always " agreed " before he received a loan, and
							the process of exempting the lender was simplified in the following year by a
							provision that the mortgage should not be assessed unless the deduction was claimed by
							the borrower. [Acts of 1882, p. 131.] The result is that the borrower is always taxed
							for the full value of his land, and the lender pays no tax on his mortgage.
						In Oregon a very radical law was adopted, making mortgages " real estate," and taxing
							them where the property was located, the borrower being entitled to deduct the debt.
							[Acts of 1882, p. 64 ] At the next regular session of the Legislature a law was
							passed, making valid all contracts by which the borrower agreed to pay the tax on the
							debt, even if the debt bore the full legal rate of interest. [Acts of 1885, p. 125.]
							This agreement is always exacted, and the lender pays no tax on his loaned money.
						In Michigan the same result has been attained without the usual supplemental
							legislation. The law recently passed there classed real estate mortgages as real
							estate, for purposes of taxation, assessed them to the mortgagees, and deducted the
							amount from the mortgagor's property, with provision that the borrower might recover
							if he paid the tax. [Acts of 1891, p. 288.] The Supreme Court of that State has
							recently decided that contracts by the borrower to pay any tax on the mortgage,
							whether existing or made in the future, are valid and binding, even if the mortgage
							debt bears the maximum of lawful interest. [Common Council of Detroit vs. Board of
							Assessors. Northwestern Reporter for April 16, 1892-vol. 51, p. 787.]
						If there is any State in the Union where the project of exempting mortgaged lands has
							been tried, and has had any effect beyond exempting the money lender, I have been
							unable to discover it.
					
				

				
					IX. THE FRANCHISE TAX
					In addition to the general tax law the last Legislature passed two acts so closely
						connected with it that they constitute  a part of the same
						general reform, and have, in fact, been treated by a large portion of the public as a
						part of the general law, The first of these is the act providing for fees to the State
						for articles of incorporation. (Acts, p. 84, Chap. 70.) It must be conceded that this
						act is more important for the principle it introduces into our economic system than for
						the immediate benefits to the State that will arise from it. To understand its real
						importance it must be borne in mind that while nominally this is a mode of taxation, it
						is, in fact, a system of sale of franchises, or perhaps more properly, a step toward
						such a system. A franchise is property, just as much as lands, or money, or goods. The
						law provides for its taxation as other property, but under the system that has
						heretofore existed in this State it is property that has been donated to the corporation
						that organized under our laws. The State received nothing whatever for the grant except
						the general benefit that was supposed to result to the public from the existence of the
						corporation. All that was paid was the fee given to the official for certifying,
						copying, or recording the necessary papers.
					It may be noted in this connection that the general public policy of this country is
						for the government to get rid of everything of value it owns except what is necessary
						for immediate purposes, and this policy, while professedly one of development of
						resources and aid to the whole people, is in truth maintained by those who profit by our
						delusion. Take for example our national land system. In the earlier years of the nation
						there was some reason for holding out inducements to settlers on our frontiers, but even
						then speculators reaped huge benefits from our public lands. We have now passed the
						stage when there is any excuse for forcing settlement by public sacrifice, and yet the
						system continues. We now see bodies of adventurers grouping about Indian reservations
						and by invasion and continued lawlessness inducing the government to force unwelcome
						treaties on the owners and open the lands for settlement. We see then a grand rally of
						reckless and often lawless people, and a wild rush for possession of lands, in which
						success is frequently attained by cunning, by fraud, or by violence. We see the better
						lands held for a few weeks and then sold for ten times what the government received for
						them to the actual settler who desires to pursue the useful occupation of cultivating
						the soil. If these lands were sold at auction the government would'receive the real
						value instead of the speculator,  and we would be relieved
						of much of the dishonor that to-day characterizes our Indian policy.
					In other countries there is a very much greater effort made to obtain compensation for
						property of the government, which belongs to the whole people and of which the profits
						should go to the whole people by lessening taxes. In this country our cities have
						usually given away their natural monopolies, such as the use of streets for railways,
						water-pipes, gas-pipes, etc., and the states have permitted the exercise of governmental
						powers, such as the issue of money and condemning land for use of railroads, without
						receiving any return. In Indiana, prior to the constitution Qf 1851, charters of
						corporations were granted by the Legislature and without compensation to the State, but
						there is reason to believe that a portion of the members were not wholly paid by the
						State for their services. Obtaining charters, especially for railroad companies, became
						so difficult and so expensive that the constitutional convention was persuaded to
						require a system of incorporation under general laws, and thereafter the thrifty
						legislator was obliged to seek other fields for the exercise of-financial genius, while
						the State continued to receive nothing as before.
					There was, prior to 1851, one exception that is worthy of remark. The charter of the
						Terre Haute & Richmond Railroad Company (now commonly known as the Vandalia)
						provided (Sec. 23) that after the dividends should have equaled the capital invested and
						io per cent. per annum thereon, any profits in excess of 15 per cent. per annum should
						be turned over to the school fund; and it was made the duty of the company "to furnish
						the Legislature, if required, with a correct statement of the amount of expenditures and
						the amount of profits after deducting all expenses." From the extraordinary liberality
						of these terms it is evident that the incorporators did not anticipate any payment to
						the State, and yet the profits of the company have been such that it is practically
						certain that it now owes the State a large sum of money. In some strange way the road
						has always succeeded in preventing the Legislature from demanding an account of profits,
						and by even more remarkable maneuvering it has prevented any final action on the subject
						in the courts. One trial on the merits of the case was secured in 1872 in Owen county,
						and the jury disagreed, standing II to I in favor of the State. The judge discharged the
						jury at 3 o'clock in the morning, in the absence  of all
						the attorneys, and subsequently the Attorney General, who had previously insisted on
						maintaining this action, dismissed the case without consulting his colleagues. Later
						another suit was brought in Marion county, and taken to the Supreme Court, but a part of
						the papers, for some mysterious reason, had not been copied into the record, and on this
						technicality the suit was lost. No person of common intelligence will question that this
						line of fighting is very expensive to the company. None will doubt that if the company
						was not largely indebted to the State it would much prefer to have a judicial settlement
						of the matter and so end it. This case stands at present as one in which a great
						commonwealth. has been wholly unable to compel common honesty from a Frankenstein of its
						own creation, and as the solitary and not very encouraging example of this State's
						endeavor to secure compensation for a franchise.
					Other states have done something in this line, but not as much as is sometimes
						supposed. One of the most commonly mentioned examples is the Illinois Central railway,
						which pays 7 per cent. of its gross receipts to the state annually. In thirty-three
						years (1855-1888) this road paid into the State treasury $11,419,052.50, or an average
						of $346,000 per year, but it must be borne in mind, that during all this time it was
						"exempted from all taxation of every kind," and that at usual tax rates it would have
						paid nearly as much to the public. Its dividends in the same period were
						$57,605,794.50— over five times as much as it paid the State, and the dividends
						did not exceed one-half of the net earnings, for this road has not only made
						extraordinary betterments, but also has made enormous investments in other railroad
						property. It is probable, therefore, that the amount paid to the state is about io per
						cent. of the net earnings, and this would not largely exceed the proportion paid in this
						State for ordinary taxes. But, further than this, the State of Illinois donated to this
						road 2,595,000 acres of land, which was exempted from taxation until sold by the
						company. Almost all this land has been sold, and the company has netted certainly not
						less than $5 per acre from it, so that this road has in fact received more from the
						state than it has paid into the treasury, in addition to being exempt from taxation.
					There is no reason why railroad corporations, and perhaps mining, manufacturing,
						banking and other corporations, should not pay annually 2 or 3 per cent. of their gross
						receipts in addition  to ordinary taxes, as compensation
						for the franchises granted them by the State. Unquestionably they receive from the state
						property of actual money value in their incorporation, and the best method of measuring
						that value is the profit arising from the business transacted. The present law, however,
						undertakes a percentage contribution on the capital stock at the time of organization.
						In the first seven months of its operation (March 7-Oct. 7, 1891) it has brought into
						the State treasury the sum of $13,409. This is a good start. It is just that much more
						than was ever derived from these sources in the past. But it is not adequate. It is the
						compensation for corporate capitalization to the amount of $17,324,950, classified as
						follows under our various corporation laws : Building and savings companies, $7,699,000
						; railways, etc., $1,800,000; mining and manufacturing, $6,692,450; banking, $303,000;
						voluntary miscellaneous, $830,500. On its face it seems evident that the compensation is
						too small and that the basis on which it is fixed is not just.
					The smallness of the receipts, however, is not due entirely to the small percentage
						charged. The law as framed admits of evasions, which have already been resorted to by
						ingenious incorporators. One class of these is illustrated by the case of the Chicago,
						Indianapolis & Chattanooga Southern Railway Company, which is now surveying its line
						from Chicago to Rockport, Indiana, by way of Indianapolis. This road can hardly locate
						less than three hundred miles of its line in Indiana, and if capitalized at anything
						near the cost of construction its stock would not have been less than $3,000,000, and
						the State's fee not less than $3,000. Instead of that, its capital stock was made
						$50,000, and it paid $50 for incorporation. It is absurd to speak of this as
						compensation for the franchise, but how can such a result be avoided under the law? You
						can not compel a corporation to have a certain amount of capital stock. In the case of
						railroads the charge might be based on mileage, as done in Mississippi in the ordinary
						taxation of railroads, but this could not be applied to other classes of corporations.
						Of all modes that have been suggested thus far, the best is a percentage of gross
						receipts.
					The second important form of evasion is illustrated by the case of a large loan and
						investment company, whose capital stock is $1,000,000. The incorporators intending to
						carry on their business in Indiana, prepared to incorporate here, but on learning that
						the cost of doing so would be $390 if incorporated  as a
						building and loan association, or $1,000 if incorporated otherwise, they organized in
						Kentucky, paid $3 for their papers, and proceeded to the transaction of their business
						in Indiana. This is an example that can and will be followed in many cases, and the only
						way of preventing it is to place some equal charge on foreign corporations doing
						business in this State. But this remedy may be open to serious.objection on account of
						the effect it would have on Indiana corporations doing business in other states, for the
						common statutory provision is that foreign corporations may do business in a state on
						the same terms that are imposed by the incorporating state on foreign corporations; i.
						e., whatever law we make for foreign corporations here we make in a number of the states
						for our corporations doing business in those states.
					It will be seen from these facts that the subject is one that can not be adjusted
						without some difficulty, and one of the chief difficulties will be found in the popular
						ideas concerning the organization of corporations. There are a great many persons who
						recognize and lament the appalling growth of power of corporations, but very few seem to
						consider the partial remedy of restricting their future increase and placing greater
						safeguards about them through the laws of incorporation. We have grown to regard
						incorporation as a sort of inherent and inalienable right, and to consider the free
						exercise of it as putting every one on an equality. Theoretically this may be true, but
						practically the power of incorporation is the weapon of wealth, rfot of poverty. The
						paupers, A, B and C, may incorporate to the extent of millions, but they will be no
						wealthier or stronger than before. The owners of millions, X, Y and Z, may incorporate
						and vastly increase the power of their capital. We have too many corporations. We have
						too high an opinion of their public utility. We underestimate their danger. Already we
						have realized the truth that the State must rule the corporations or the corporations
						will rule the State. We are confronted by the possibility that it may be too late to
						turn back. Certainly there must be a general awakening before adequate reforms can be
						obtained in the laws regulating the organization and regulation of corporations.
				

				
				
					X. THE PRACTICAL RESULTS
					In conclusion of the subject of Indiana's new tax system, there remains to be
						considered the law providing for a special tax of 6 cents on $100 for the support of the
						benevolent and reformatory institutions of .the State (laws of 1891, Chap. 123, P. 334),
						and it has been necessary to defer this considera- tion until the returns of the tax
						duplicates had been made from the counties, in order to ascertain the exact results of
						the assessments and levies. The fact that the State was not rais- ing enough revenue to
						pay its current expenses when the last Legislature met was generally known, but the
						extent and character of the deficit were not so well understood. In his message to the
						Legislature, at the opening of the session, Governor Hovey said of the financial
						condition of the State: Taking the above figures, not including specific appropriations that may be passed by the Legislature,
								as a basis, the deficit over and above the net receipts for the year 1891 would be
								$757,080.88. The estimated necessary expenses of the State government for the year
								1892 are $1,873,000, and for 1893, $1,998,090, which would leave a deficit at the
								end of each year, re- spectively, of $424,939 and $549,939, to which deficiencies
									should be added any additional appropriations that may be made by the
									Legislature for those years. Immediate provisions, in my opinion, should be
								made for the relief of the treasury, the importance of which can readily be seen, as
								a continuation of the increase of the State debt becomes a necessity, unless your
								honorable body enacts such laws as may increase the receipts of the State equal to
								the necessary expenditures and appropriations. * * *
						Since 1877 a sufficient revenue has not been raised to pay the expenses of the State,
							and every year has added to our indebtedness, until to-day the State debt has reached
							the enormous sum of $8,540,615.12, with a still increasing indebtedness, unless some
							relief can be obtained by legislation. With the same system that has heretofore
							prevailed, we will still have to borrow money to sustain our institutions and expenses
							of the State, with an annual deficit of about $500,000. Surely the day of borrowing
							for such purposes should cease. We have no right to mortgage our future revenue to be
							paid by those who may come after us.
					
					This statement is fair enough, so far as it goes, with the exception that the stated
						probable deficit of "about $500,000" per annum is obviously an underestimate. The
						average of the three years mentioned—1890, 1891 and 1892—is $577,319, and to
						this, as the Governor says, "should be added any additional appropriations that may be
						made by the Legislature." These additional appropriations will average at least $300,000
						per annum, with a reasonably economical Legislature, and it was therefore evident that
						if there was to be made any reduction of the State debt, which began to fall due in
						1892, the revenues must be increased at least $1,000,000 per annum. 

					
					There is also an inference in this statement that the growth of the State debt was due
						to ordinary expenditures, which is misleading. In 1877 the State levy was fixed with a
						view to meeting expenses as the State was then conditioned, and it had not been
						increased afterward; but since that time the State had made large additions to its
						permanent property, for the cost of which no special revenue was raised. The principal
						of these were the new Insane Hospitals at Evansville, Logansport and Richmond and the
						Women's Hospital at Indianapolis, the Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home at
						Knightstown, the new buildings at the institutions for the blind and deaf and dumb, and
						at Purdue and the State Universities, and the State Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument.
					In addition to these should be mentioned the equipment of the State House, for though a
						special tax was levied for the construction of the building, it was held that this did
						not include furnishing the building after it was constructed, and the sum of $707,500
						was expended on this account from the ordinary revenues, and, of necessity, so much was
						added to the debt.
					As to the necessity for these buildings there can be no question. No political party
						has ever questioned the propriety of the expenditures for any one of them, and no party
						will ever question it. As. a State increases in population there is necessarily an
						increase in the number of unfortunates and criminals to be cared for, and if the State
						is increasing in civilization there will also be a continual improvement in the care
						given to these classes. In this case, on account of the provisions of the State
						Constitution concerning state debt, the whole matter was submitted to the courts, and
						the Supreme Court (composed at the time of four Republican judges and one Democrat),
						decided as follows: "The court has knowledge that the State has been engaged for
							several years in providing public buildings and necessary State institutions, and that
							unusual and unforeseen expenditures have been required, calling for appropriations of
							public money. We also take notice that a public law has been enacted under which a
							suitable memorial to the valor and patriotism of Indiana soldiers is in process of
							erection at the capital of the State. All these are subjects which pertain to the
							public welfare of the people and are within ordinary legislative
								discretion."—Hovey, governor, vs. Foster, 118 Ind., 502, (at .p.
								510.)


					
					It is also to be borne in mind that the increase in State institutions necessitates an
						increase in operating expenses. In 1877 the total expenditure on this behalf for the
						benevolent and reformatory institutions was only $440,000 per annum (Auditor's Report
						1878, p. 13), but at present it has increased to $1,111,400 per annum (Auditor's Report
						1890, pp. 11-12.) In the same period the earnings have increased $90,000 per annum, so
						that the net annual expenditure is $570,400 more than it was when the levy of 12 cents
						on $100 was fixed in 1877. At the same time there had been no increase of valuation such
						as might ordinarily be expected. The total assessment in 1877 was $855,190,125, but it
						has never been so great since then except in the one year 1879. On the contrary, it went
						down to $728,944,231 in 1880, and in its gradual recovery it had reached only
						$843,483,466 in 1889. That is to say, for fourteen years the State of Indiana had been
						maintaining a fixed tax rate of 12 cents on $100, notwithstanding her expenses were
						continually increasing and her tax valuation had suffered a serious shrinkage. The only
						wonder is that the financial condition of the State is so good as it is, and this is in
						truth due to skillful financiering. It is a notable fact that in 1877 the annual
						interest charge of the State was $298,026.99, while at present it is only $284,325,
						notwithstanding the increase of the debt; and the ability to refund at lower rates of
						interest has demonstrated that the credit of the State is excellent. There has not, in
						reality been any material carelessness or profligacy in the management of the State's
						affairs. It has simply been a matter of going into debt instead of "paying as you
						go."
					In fixing the .State levies the Legislature of 1891 was hampered by an uncertainty as
						to the amount of the assessment under the new law. Ordinarily, the assessment can be
						approximated within a few thousand dollars, but with the provisions of the new law for
						bringing assessments to the basis of true valuation, for the purpose of equalizing
						taxes, no one could say what the result would be. It was reasonably certain that actual
						true valuation would not be reached the first year, on account of the common supposition
						that increased valuation meant increased taxation, and the impossibility of making
						people understand, without experience and education in the subject, that the true
						valuation basis is the fairest, and in every way best, system. As has been shown
						heretofore, the actual increase has been about 50 per cent. instead of over 100 per  cent., as it should have been, and the valuation now is
						about 70 per cent of true valuation. But no one could know that this would be the
						result, and all that could be done was to guess at it. The additional rate was therefore
						fixed at 6 cents on $100, at a venture, and the results demonstrate that this was a
						remarkably good piece of guess work.
					The total assessment of Indiana for the current year, as shown by the duplicates, is
						$1,255,256,038. The total tax levied is $17,510,428 64, of which the amount credited to
						the .State, including the benevolent and reformatory institution tax, is $2,439,556.91.
						Deducting from this the ordinary delinquency, and adding the ordinary collected
						delinquent tax of past years, we have a probable State revenue from taxation for the
						current year of $2,166,612.30. The actual receipts for the last fiscal year were
						$1,096,839.07, and the probable increase is therefore $1,069,872.23, or nearly o00 per
						cent. This is a large increase, but it is about what was expected, and it is not in
						excess of the needs of the State if there is to be any reduction of the debt. On the
						basis of the actual expenditures of 1891, the annual account of the State would stand as
						follows: 
							
								Income from taxation
								$2,166,612.30
							
							
								Income from other sources
								400,000.00
							
							
								Total income
								$2,566,612.30
							
							
								Net disbursements 1891
								2,520,934.60
							
							
								Balance
								$ 45,678.70
							
						
					
					Of the disbursements of 1891, $20,355.63 was a payment of outstanding debt, and
						therefore the surplus above current expenses would be about $66,000.
					It has been assumed by opponents of the new tax law that this increase of State taxes
						falls on the private property-owners of the State. I affirm that not one
							cent of the increase of State taxes, taken as a whole, falls on private property, but
							that it is all borne by the corporations of the State. This is a rather startling
						proposition, but it can be demonstrated conclusively. The theory of the committee which
						brought in the new tax law was that, if an assessment of corporate property could be had
						on the same basis as other property, the increased revenue would supply all the needs of
						the State, and as the existing revenue from taxation of railroads was about equal to the
						total existing State revenue from taxation, it was proposed to give the proceeds of
						railroad taxation to the State in  lieu of the general
						property tax. When this measure was defeated the result was that the State could receive
						from the taxation of corporations only the same percentage of taxes that it received
						from other property, but, on a fair assessment, the same increase of taxes would occur
						and the proceeds would go into the local treasuries, thus permitting a reduction of
						local taxes on the people which would compensate for the increase of State taxation. The
						result, therefore, would be the same, though under the original proposed system it would
						be reached directly and under the adopted system it would be reached indirectly.
					Now, how did this work out in fact? In 1890 the total valuation was $857,674,387, and
						the total taxes levied, State and local, were $14,511,146.38. The average rate for the
						year was, therefore, $1.70 on $100. In 1891 the total valuation is $1,255,256,038, and
						the total taxes levied, $17,510,428.64. The average rate for the year is $1.40 on $100.
						The average railroad taxes for the two years would therefore be as follows: 
							
								
								Assessment
								Rate
								Taxes
							
							
								1891
								$160,809,575
								$1.40
								$2,251,333.95
							
							
								1890
								69,762,667
								1.70
								1,185,955.60
							
							
								Increase of railroad taxes 
								
								
								$1,065,378.85
							
							
								Total increase State taxes
								
								
								1,069,772.23
							
							
								Excess of State increase over railroad increase
								
								
								$4,393.88
							
						
					This average will not probably hold good for the reason that the heavy increase of
						railroad assessment in counties having a large percentage of railroad property will
						cause a reduction of the local levies in those counties, and therefore a decrease in the
						taxes realized.* Allowing Io per cent. for
						this probable shrinkage, we will have left only about $115,000 of the increase in State
						taxes collected, to be covered by the increase of the general property tax on banks,
						telegraph and telephone companies, express companies, manufacturing and mining
						companies, and all other corporations. The exact amount of the increase on these cannot
						be definitely shown because they are not classified separately, but it very largely
						exceeds this sum. The State Board of Tax Commissioners *NOTE. The actual increase in railroad taxes-is $987,203.28
							(See Appendix 2). The total taxes paid by railroads for 1890 was $1,093,936.78. The
							amount assessed for 1891 is $2,081,140.06. The amount necessary to be increased on
							other corporations to equal the State tax increase is $82,568.95.
						 increased the assessment of corporations other than
						railroads $2,993,861, and the tax on this at $1.40 would be $41,914.05, but this is only
						the increase above what had already been made by the local boards, which, as is well
						known, was very much greater. It is clear, therefore, that the entire burden of the
						increase of State taxes fell on the corporations.
					It may be replied that this averaging of taxes will not hold good with the actual
						results in detail. It certainly will not in some cases, and for good reason. Consider
						the returns given above. 
							
								Total taxes assessed in 1891
								$17,510,428.64
							
							
								Total taxes assessed in 1890 
								14,511,146.38
							
							
								Total increase 
								$ 2,999,282.26
							
							
								Deduct total increase of State taxes assessed
								1,230,547.73
							
							
								Increased local taxes
								$ 1,768,734.53
							
						
					
					That accounts for most of the increase. The new tax law did not contemplate any
						increase of local taxes at all. Its objects were only to supply necessary State revenue
						and equalize taxation. But here is an increase of local taxes far in excess of the
						increase in State taxes. Why? Either there has been a necessary increase in local
						expenses, or local officers have made higher levies than they ought. They have done like
						the Indianapolis School Board, which increased its levy from 20 to 23 cents,
						notwithstanding the assessment in the city had been increased 45 per cent. The blame for
						this must rest on the local officers. The law is in nowise responsible for it. If local
						taxes had been left as they were last yea;, the total taxes levied would be $1,768,734
						53 less than they are. Again, there are some counties in which there is an increase of
						taxes because they were not bearing their just burden under the old system. This has
						been considered at length heretofore, and the injustice of it has been pointed out.
						These counties have no reason to complain because they are put on a footing with other
						counties which have been bearing their burdens in the past. They might more reasonably
						congratulate themselves that they are not required to make up what they have unjustly
						escaped in the past. Of course there will be counties in which the prevailing sentiment
						will be that the property is assessed too high as compared with other counties. There is
						but one way to escape that complaint, and that, as has been shown, is to separate the
						sources of State and local revenue.


					
					There will also be several counties in which the compensation will not occur because
						they have very little corporation property. In three counties there is no railroad
						property at all, and but little corporation property of any kind. On the other hand
						there are counties in which the increase on corporation property will be largely in
						excess of the total increase for State purposes.
					This notable increase of tax on corporations is the cause of the almost universal
						resistance to the law by corporations. How successful they may be in their efforts to
						overthrow it in the courts remains to be seen, but there has certainly been no material
						flaw in the law pointed out thus far. Whether it succeeds or not the law has at least
						educated the people to the fact that corporations have been escaping their just share of
						taxes in the past, and that they can be reached. In some sections the demagogical
						pretenses of politicians, aided by an increase of local taxes—which in many cases
						has apparently been made intentionally, for political effect—will create a
						prejudice against the law. But the great majority of the people will understand its
						benefits, and in its main features it will be retained for many years, bettered and
						strengthened, but with no change in the fundamental principles upon which it is
						based.
				
			
		
		
			
			
				APPENDIX I
				The following table shows the total assessment, and the railroad assessment by counties
					for 1890 under the old law, and for 1891 under the new law. The names of Republican
					counties (i.e., those having Republican county commissioners) are in italics; Democratic
					counties in Roman type. Brown, Ohio and Switzerland counties have no railroads. 
						
							COUNTIES
							TOTAL ASSESSMENT
							RAILROAD ASSESSMENT
						

						
							
							1890
							1891
							1890
							1891
						
						
							Adams
							$ 5,590,520
							$ 9,757,915
							$ 471,505
							$1,281,550
						
						
							Allen
							28,501,685
							40,318.120
							2,857,485
							5,335,275
						
						
							Bartholomew
							11,373,784
							14,965,220
							570,835
							1,830,345
						
						
							Benton
							5,904,914
							10,528,156
							624,423
							1,731,651
						
						
							Blackford
							3,115,000
							5,303,430
							272,150
							720,645
						
						
							Boone
							9,792,060
							14,648,680
							590,405
							1,388,950
						
						
							Brown
							1,606,805
							1,801,657
							---------
							---------
						
						
							Carroll 
							8,380,380
							12,184,299
							572,840
							1,211,035
						
						
							Cass
							10,953,665
							19,189,500
							1,287,170
							2,794,820
						
						
							Clark
							9,135,135
							12,708,630
							938,504
							2,440,090
						
						
							Clay
							7,169,609
							11,251,457
							693,043
							1,442,693
						
						
							Clinton
							10,133,340
							16,257,330
							781,785
							1,787,935
						
						
							Crawford
							1,384,358
							2,478,777
							194,170
							463,062
						
						
							Daviess
							6,486,960
							11,013,148
							550,820
							1,215,720
						
						
							Dearborn
							8,312,590
							10,691,935
							647,390
							1,355,980
						
						
							Decatur
							9,557,150
							12,292,735
							590,745
							1,265,500
						
						
							DeKalb
							7,115,900
							14,059,595
							1,313,470
							2,752 250
						
						
							Delaware
							11,259,230
							17,369,790
							635,745
							1,482,665
						
						
							Dubois
							3,872,480
							5,501,435
							300,130
							698,975
						
						
							Elkhart
							13,897,361
							19,809,425
							1,252,820
							2,168,355
						
						
							Fayette
							7,321,498
							10,134,786
							315,658
							1,029,628
						
						
							Floyd
							11,203,130
							15,236,970
							298,885
							954,215
						
						
							Fountain
							7,584,540
							11,598,250
							751,235
							1,939,250
						
						
							Franklin
							7,767,210
							8,280.035
							169,250
							358,775
						
						
							Fulton
							5,465,385
							9,982,980
							577,990
							1,506,685
						
						
							Gibson
							10,111,925
							13,683,445
							700,095
							1,503,405
						
						
							Grant
							10,468,715
							20,122,055
							688,130
							1,514,185
						
						
							Greene
							5,944.360
							9,621,590
							376,119
							1,232,272
						
						
							Hamilton
							9,653,205
							15,518,485
							395,675
							843,565
						
						
							Hancock
							8,718,863
							12,161,757
							631,547
							1,745,200
						
						
							Harrison
							4,371,275
							5,620,655
							167,475
							391,880
						
						
							Hendricks
							11,246,698
							14,422,702
							942,804
							2,227,648
						
						
							Henry
							13,389,670
							17,657,790
							966,630
							2,719,640
						
						
							Howard
							8,223,365
							13 910,790
							480,885
							1,088,250
						
						
							Huntington
							9,202,145
							14,053,480
							726,150
							1,464,230
						
						
							Jackson
							6,932,185
							10,054,570
							789,615
							1,826,275
						
						
							Jasper
							3,838,925
							6,807,250
							487,950
							1,425,566
						
						
							Jay
							7,678,650
							10,131,765
							538,465
							1,154,475
						
						
							Jefferson
							7,461,175
							10,462,985
							191,455
							707,285
						
						
							Jennings
							3,529,895
							5,948,547
							637,890
							1,751,377
						
						
							Johnson
							10,346,245
							12,879,965
							451,475
							972,055
						
						
							Knox
							11,564,530
							15,085,155
							715,645
							1,780,765
						
						
							Kosciusko
							11,576,009
							17,780,460
							1,535,314
							3,013,940
						
					
					
					
						
							COUNTIES
							TOTAL ASSESSMENT
							RAILROAD ASSESSMENT
						
						
							
							1890
							1891
							1890
							1891
						
						
							Laqrange
							6,463 815
							9,557,940
							261,750
							469,385
						
						
							Lake
							11,084,270
							23,004 615
							4,558,025
							8,053,260
						
						
							LaPorte
							16,436,597
							22,741,587
							3,351,996
							6,444,587
						
						
							Lawrence
							5,690,585
							8,321,455
							663,420
							1,691,710
						
						
							Madison
							11,337,010
							22,451,890
							931,415
							2,157,570
						
						
							Marion
							78,148,190
							124,665,220
							3,385,745
							11,230,520
						
						
							Marshall
							8,959,550
							13,887,450
							1,774,660
							3,703,685
						
						
							Martin
							2,456 025
							3,578,220
							298,170
							666,620
						
						
							Miami
							8,677,155
							14,409,475
							893,595
							1,867,065
						
						
							Monroe
							5,751,035
							7,283,800
							268,150
							669,590
						
						
							Montgomery
							15,862,649
							20,099,805
							799,374
							2,139,665
						
						
							Morgan
							7,745,890
							9,356,337
							261,430
							720,657
						
						
							Newton
							3,633,769
							7,583,121
							616,057
							1,786,601
						
						
							Noble
							8,714,642
							15,320,218
							1,254,346
							2,462,651
						
						
							Ohio
							1,456,445
							1,953,690
							---------
							---------
						
						
							Orange
							3,599,717
							4,131,014
							174,510
							384,693
						
						
							Owen
							4,876,536
							6,204,360
							275,258
							830,930
						
						
							Parke
							9,887,040
							11,805,065
							587,385
							1,668,115
						
						
							Perry
							2,438,465
							3,385,590
							63,610
							151,350
						
						
							Pike
							3,922,535
							5,669,386
							173,010
							446,708
						
						
							Porter
							9,134,565
							13,824,510
							2,851,185
							5,450,470
						
						
							Posey
							8,414,715
							10,116,765
							727,000
							1,486,170
						
						
							Pulaski
							2,964,075
							5,052,040
							492,015
							1,246,520
						
						
							Putnam
							13,225,075
							16,359,075
							1,071,310
							2,347,735
						
						
							Randolph
							12,626,460
							16,925,540
							910,610
							2,365,535
						
						
							Ripley
							4,277,450
							7,110,085
							417,710
							902,165
						
						
							Rush
							12,357,675
							16,809,440
							509,325
							1,847,175
						
						
							Scott
							1,819,035
							2,647,615
							286,630
							660,155
						
						
							Shelby
							12,811,335
							17,833,585
							600,995
							1,857,435
						
						
							Spencer
							4,993,355
							6,534,490
							310,645
							739,670
						
						
							Stark
							2,370,581
							4,254,590
							1,140,075
							2,557,316
						
						
							St. Joseph
							16,175,560
							24,964,150
							1,406,230
							2,860,340
						
						
							Steuben
							4,237,070
							7,341,250
							186,685
							396,045
						
						
							Sullivan
							6,867,520
							10,444,605
							532,760
							1,204,970
						
						
							Switzerland
							2,915,735
							4,363,580
							----------
							----------
						
						
							Tippecanoe
							20,721,430
							25,976,690
							1,243,320
							2,466,850
						
						
							Tipton
							4,686,630
							8,057,110
							456,550
							974,530
						
						
							Union
							4,671,575
							5,511,640
							181,445
							563,980
						
						
							Vanderburgh
							22,727,590
							34,969,120
							972,950
							2,042,955
						
						
							Vermillion
							5,549,370
							7,170,985
							463,910
							1,225,275
						
						
							Vigo
							25,722,255
							30,812,780
							1,207,825
							2,511,815
						
						
							Wabash
							12,440,410
							17,168,495
							861,820
							1,631,095
						
						
							Warren
							5,591,905
							8,574,670
							467,045
							1,043,511
						
						
							Warriek
							4,977,600
							6,643,960
							207,965
							526,630
						
						
							Washington
							5,807,535
							7,090,240
							229,835
							570,115
						
						
							Wayne
							23,967,162
							26,387,194
							901,821
							2,358,753
						
						
							Wells
							7,121,115
							10,884,375
							422,840
							1,145,190
						
						
							White
							5,893,715
							10,483,575
							719,830
							1,801,900
						
						
							Whitley
							7,344,440
							11,679,025
							1,095,665
							2,191,445
						
						
							TOTAL
							$857,674,387
							$1,255,256,038
							$69,762,676
							$161,039,169
						
					
				
				
				It will be seen from the table that while the general increase of assessed values was
					$397,581,651, or an advance of 46 per cent. over 1890, the increase in railroad valuation
					was $91,276,493, or an advance of 130 per cent. Over last year. As all property taxes are
					levied at equal rates on all property, the burdens of various classes of property will be
					in proportion to their assessed value. Classing railroad property separately, the relative
					burden borne by it and by other property for the two years is as follows: 
						
							1890—
							
							
							
						
						
							Real Estate
							$ 553,937,744
							=
							64.6 per cent.
						
						
							Personalty
							233,973,967
							=
							27.3 per cent.
						
						
							Railroad
							69,762,676
							=
							8.1 per cent.
						
						
							Total
							$ 857,674,387
							=
							100.0 per cent.
						
					
					
						
							1891—
							
							
							
						
						
							Real Estate
							$ 798,600,323
							=
							63.6 per cent.
						
						
							Personalty
							295,616,546
							=
							23.6 per cent.
						
						
							Railroad
							161,039,169
							=
							12.8 per cent.
						
						
							Total
							$ 1,255,256,038
							=
							100.0 percent.
						
					
				
				That is to say, the new equalization takes I per cent. from the burden of real estate,
					and 3.7 per cent. from the burden of personalty, and adds 4.7 per cent. of the total taxes
					to railroad property. The law aimed to reach money concealed in banks, but under the
					recent decision of the Supreme Court it fails to accomplish that result. The personalty
					listed is chiefly visible property, such as merchandise, household goods, cattle, tools,
					etc. If money could be reached the percentage of personalty would be materially increased
					and the burdens of other property proportionately decreased.
				The total assessment in the forty-six Republican counties increased from $439 252,270 to
					$630,198,313, or $190,946,043, being an advance of 43 per cent. The total assessment in
					the forty-six Democratic counties increased from $418,422,117 to $625,057,725, or
					$206,635,608, being an advance of 49 per cent.
			


			
			
				APPENDIX 2

				The following table shows the total taxes levied for 189o and 1891, the total increase or
					decrease, the increase of State taxes, and the increase of railroad taxes, by counties.
					Counties having Republican Commissioners are in italics: 
						
							COUNTIES
							Total taxlevied 1890
							Total taxlevied 1891
							Total increase*decrease
							Increase ofState tax,incl. benev.& reform fund
							Increase ofRailroad taxes
						

						
							Adams
							$ 109,818.48
							$ 138,423.46
							$ 28,604.98
							$ 10,666.56
							$ 6,623.18
						

						
							Allen
							418,995.78
							461,330.68
							42,334.90
							38,408.09
							14,076.02
						

						
							Bartholomew
							230,782.84
							240,999.37
							10,216.53
							14,147.01
							16,371.02
						
						
							Benton
							108,609.26
							156,734.73
							48,125.47
							11,897.16
							13,648.12
						

						
							Blackford
							60,226.67
							80,423.51
							20,196.84
							5,913.88
							4,852.90
						

						
							Boone
							151,015.12
							185,479.62
							34,464.50
							14,530.02
							8,812.40
						

						
							Brown
							28,628.95
							31,741.98
							3,113.03
							1,307.82
							---------
						
						
							Carroll
							139,721.68
							169,979.16
							37,257.48
							11,828.77
							4,998.44
						

						
							Cass
							211,900.97
							191,249.37
							*20,651.60
							21,363.19
							5,439.43
						

						
							Clark
							194,037.12
							148,911.43
							*45,125.69
							11,901.58
							7,999.95
						

						
							Clay
							116,373.37
							146,928.76
							30,555.39
							11,777.81
							5,581.97
						

						
							Clinton
							201,836.90
							259,008.05
							57,171.09
							17,026.21
							12,099.69
						

						
							Crawford
							41,780.82
							48,537.33
							6,756.81
							2,810.39
							2,473.69
						

						
							Daviess
							95,298.95
							151,523.56
							56,224.61
							11,981.85
							9,457.57
						

						
							Dearborn
							115,977.45
							145,738.68
							29,761.23
							9,109.58
							9,589.36
						

						
							Decatur
							151,001.35
							186,890.40
							35,889.05
							8,955.93
							9,344.54
						

						
							DeKalb
							157,787.55
							182,155.13
							24,367.58
							16,688.01
							4,949.18
						

						
							Delaware
							186,573.61
							267,787.87
							81,214.26
							18,659.70
							12,850.58
						

						
							Dubois
							67,421.89
							66,719.22
							*702.67
							5,260.07
							2,880.37
						

						
							Elkhart
							239,126.58
							276,817.88
							37,691.30
							18,977.58
							9,682.89
						

						
							Fayette
							98,803.26
							114,815.36
							16,012.10
							7,614.83
							9,022.90
						

						
							Floyd
							117,660.72
							152,026.56
							34,365.84
							14,178.42
							6,410.79
						

						
							Fountain
							162,669.24
							194,954.38
							32,285.14
							13,489.34
							16,515.93
						

						
							Franklin
							115,297.99
							113,365.84
							*1,932.15
							5,519.83
							2,145.59
						

						
							Fulton
							93,771.74
							106,579.22
							12,607.48
							11,413.60
							5,715.09
						

						
							Gibson
							170,615.78
							206,483.85
							35,868.07
							12,474.90
							10,247.04
						

						
							Grant
							212,052.02
							278,706.42
							66,654.40
							23,717.16
							6,081.97
						

						
							Greene
							112,092.22
							141,881.80
							29,789.58
							10,203.64
							9,377.22
						

						
							Hamilton
							192,604.42
							230,595.80
							37,991.38
							15,936.81
							5,755.76
						

						
							Hancock
							154,032.09
							163,504.14
							9,472.05
							11,424.22
							10,979.14
						

						
							Harrison
							75,789.10
							80,010.92
							4,221.82
							4,819.57
							2,406.19
						

						
							Hendricks
							165,483.05
							213,112.19
							47,629.14
							12,440.83
							18,505.51
						

						
							Henry
							207,764.75
							253,593.79
							45,829.04
							15,600.09
							22,049.05
						

						
							Howard
							151,083.05
							172,971.21
							21,888.16
							15,248.39
							4,465.22
						

						
							Huntington
							172,375.14
							204,872.30
							32,496.16
							14,261.40
							8,282.29
						

						
							Jackson
							153,764.15
							152,031.43
							*1,732.72
							9,853.57
							9,512.11
						

						
							Jasper
							81,334.30
							107,419.29
							26,084.99
							7,620.84
							11,077.91
						

						
							Jay
							139,255.01
							182,679.63
							43,424.62
							8,880.86
							11,507.99
						

						
							Jefferson
							114,244.49
							136,605.92
							22,361.43
							9,915.47
							6,279.67
						

						
							Jennings
							72,675.52
							94,370.23
							21,694.71
							6,473.37
							11,942.68
						

						
							Johnson
							162,820.57
							180,350.02
							17,529.45
							10,788.38
							5,867.05
						

						
							Knox
							146,948.41
							170,083.74
							23,135.43
							13,193.01
							9,597.71
						

						
							Kosciusko
							201,082.85
							267,552.55
							66,469.70
							18,066.31
							19,101.10
						

						
							Lagrange
							97,001.47
							143,799.12
							46,797.65
							9,428.71
							1,893.98
						

						
							Lake
							172,625.29
							306,701.17
							134,075.88
							28,976.09
							40,309.53
						

						
							LaPorte
							192,355.16
							240,215.97
							47,860.81
							21,157.36
							27,332.33
						

						
							Lawrence
							98,182.40
							132,865.61
							34,683.21
							8,218.74
							15,087.51
						

						
							Madison
							219,828.08
							284,339.82
							64,511.74
							26,957.65
							10,843.55
						

						
							Marion
							1,463,735.80
							1,891,502.68
							427,766.88
							130,609.96
							95,344.02
						

						
							Marshall
							146,928.39
							175,841.20
							28,912.81
							14,203.36
							17,028.50
						

						
							Martin
							60,735.50
							60,976.90
							241.40
							3,372.89
							3,507.40
						

						
							Miami
							181,769.89
							181,208.19
							*561.70
							15,571.04
							2,720.43
						

						
							Monroe
							85,158.53
							112,079.99
							26,921.46
							6,089.59
							5,775.51
						

						
							Montgomery
							223,377.42
							224,913.56
							1,536.14
							17,134.19
							12,453.25
						

						
							Morgan
							149,318.78
							166,281.84
							16,963.06
							7,536.42
							7,800.59
						

						
							Newton
							71,651.74
							97,376.93
							25,725.19
							9,312.55
							12,404.30
						

						
							Noble
							146,720.06
							168,365.57
							21,645.51
							17,217.72
							6,119.75
						
					
					
					
						
							COUNTIES
							Total taxlevied 1890
							Total taxlevied 1891
							Total increase*decrease
							Increase ofState tax,incl. benev.& reform fund
							Increase ofRailroad taxes
						
						
							Ohio
							22,349.14
							28,331.08
							5,981.94
							1,778.07
							----------
						
						
							Orange
							58,232.89
							71,941.54
							13,708.65
							3,112.53
							3,185.82
						
						
							Owen
							79,193.34
							90,627.30
							11,433.96
							5,313.52
							6,356.08
						
						
							Parke
							151,576.01
							168,152.01
							16,576.00
							10,040.07
							12,203.57
						
						
							Perry
							55,489.92
							78,419.45
							22,929.53
							3,142.43
							2,139.29
						
						
							Pike
							82,708.94
							77,883.14
							*4,825.80
							5,583.36
							2,227.67
						
						
							Porter
							143,964.28
							207,502.73
							63,538.45
							13,857.67
							35,723.16
						
						
							Posey 
							139,797.36
							163,037.47
							23,240.11
							8,168.05
							11,130.04
						
						
							Pulaski
							66,875.59
							79,910.78
							13,035.19
							5,499.93
							7,544.47
						
						
							Putnam
							145,325.33
							169,013.43
							23,688.10
							13,469.27
							11,663.88
						
						
							Randolph
							208,243.67
							258,594.45
							50,350.78
							15,263.70
							20,804.91
						
						
							Ripley
							75,615.88
							102,981.09
							27,365.21
							7,750.34
							5,149.69
						
						
							Rush
							186,806.43
							234,708.43
							47,902.00
							14,922.21
							17,653.99
						
						
							Scott
							38,939.47
							35,453.47
							*3,486.00
							2,578.95
							2,421.78
						
						
							Shelby
							191,870.80
							216,416.46
							24,545.66
							16,542.99
							12,652.53
						
						
							Spencer
							101,488.87
							107,121.76
							5,632.89
							5,738.76
							5,515.61
						
						
							Starke
							54,286.86
							72,542.27
							18,255.41
							4,807.74
							17,631.41
						
						
							St. Joseph
							241,146.69
							322,923.68
							81,776.99
							25,686.27
							10,006.81
						
						
							Steuben
							100,789.51
							99,976.57
							*892.94
							8,146.83
							1,763.25
						
						
							Sullivan
							126,862.46
							135,506.78
							8,644.32
							10,581.23
							4,677.85
						
						
							Switzerland
							52,021.02
							52,443.04
							422.02
							4,317.06
							----------
						
						
							Tippecanoe
							385,633.72
							448,832.03
							63,198.31
							21,932.81
							23,826.03
						
						
							Tipton
							88,909.62
							92,386.02
							3,476.40
							8,917.09
							2,259.48
						
						
							Union
							89,815.24
							127,391.75
							37,576.51
							3,913.55
							9,507.98
						
						
							Vanderburgh
							374,898.85
							501,323.31
							126,424.46
							35,703.38
							17,734.69
						
						
							Vermillion
							85,604.02
							110,547.72
							24,943.70
							6,223.04
							10,591.39
						
						
							Vigo
							343,546.80
							389,790.98
							46,244.18
							24,501.26
							16,251.39
						
						
							Wabash
							177,100.69
							228,015.50
							50,914.81
							16,879.00
							9,209.99
						
						
							Warren
							107,827.76
							146,733.69
							38,905.93
							8,581.60
							11,661.94
						
						
							Warrick
							104,381.08
							107,657.02
							3,275.94
							5,977.80
							3,769.46
						
						
							Washington
							99,736.21
							114,037.81
							14,301.60
							5,813.83
							4,544.75
						
						
							Wayne
							336,819.06
							405,159.23
							68,340.17
							18,774.35
							22,602.24
						
						
							Wells
							133,902.53
							130,005.39
							*3,897.14
							11,040.03
							4,739.95
						
						
							White
							118,283.83
							126,547.71
							8,263.88
							11,804.21
							6,768.95
						
						
							Whitney
							132,525.08
							166,098.22
							33,573.14
							12,068.48
							10,192.25
						
						
							Total
							$14,511,146.38
							$17,510,428.64
							$2,999,282.26
							$1,230,547.73
							$987,203.28
						
					
				
				The increase of the State tax shown in preceding table includes the 12 cents levied for
					State purposes and the 6 cents levied for the maintenance of the benevolent institutions,
					these being the only taxes that go to the current expenses of the State government. The
					State school tax (16 cents) is all apportioned back to the counties for common school
					tuition, and is properly a local tax. The increase of the State school tax in 1891 is
					$752,027.17, and as the enumeration will be substantially the same as last year, (763,207)
					there will be 95 cents per school child distributed to the counties. The local school
					taxes should have been decreased to this extent. As the total increase of taxes is
					$2,999,282.26, and the total increase of State taxes is $1,230,547.73, there has been an
					increase of $1,768,734.53 of local taxes, which is distributed as follows: 
					
						
							FORTY-SIX REPUBLICAN COUNTIES
							
						

						
							Total increase of taxes
							$1,865,030.84
						
						
							State taxes increase 
							606,755.13
						
						
							Local taxes increase
							$1,258,265.13
						
					
					
						
							FORTY-SIX DEMOCRATIC COUNTIES
							
						
						
							Total increase of taxes
							$1,134,251.42
						
						
							State taxes increase
							623,792.60
						
						
							Local taxes increase
							$ 510,458.82
						
					
				
				Of the increase of local taxes in Democratic counties it will be seen that $297,156.92
					occurs in Marion county, and $213,291.90 in the remaining forty-five counties. This is
					largely due to increases by Republican trustees, town boards and school boards in those
					counties; thus, in Marion county the Republican school board levies $113,014.86 more taxes
					than last year, besides receiving about $32,000 more from the State school tax—which
					is the same as increasing local taxes $145,000 in the city of Indianapolis alone.
				As shown in Appendix I, the valuation has increased more in the Democratic counties than
					in the Republican counties, and if the whole increase of taxes were due to the law the
					taxes would increase in the same proportion. It will be observed that the State taxes,
					which are at the same rate everywhere, increase in that proportion. But the increase of
					taxes in the Republican counties is actually $747,806.31 greater than in the Democratic
					counties, which shows conclusively that the law was not responsible for it.
				Taking the counties separately, it will be observed that in ten of them (nine Democratic
					and one Republican) there has been a decrease of the total taxes paid. In five of them
					(four Democratic and one Republican) the increase on railroads alone is greater than the
					total increase of taxes paid. In these fifteen counties individuals pay less taxes, in the
					aggregate, than formerly. In thirty counties (seven Democratic and twenty-three
					Republican) the increase of railroad taxes is greater than the State increase, and in
					these, if there had been no increase of local taxes, individuals would certainly have paid
					less taxes than before. This shows the effects of the increase on railroads alone, there
					being no convenient mode of ascertaining the increase on other corporations. If the.
					increase on banks, street railroads, mining and manufacturing corporations, etc., could be
					shown, a number of the other counties would probably present the same result.
			
		



	

