
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Cubberley, Ellwood Patterson, 1868-1941.. Rural life and education. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2013).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0873
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			

			
				RIVERSIDE TEXTBOOKS IN EDUCATION
				EDITED BY ELLWOOD P. CUBBERLEY
					PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR
					UNIVERSITY
			

			
			
				ADVERTISEMENT
				RIVERSIDE TEXTBOOKSIN EDUCATION

				EDITED BY ELLWOOD P. CUBBERLEY
				
					RURAL LIFE AND EDUCATION. By E. P. CUBBERLEY, Professor of Education,
						Leland Stanford Junior University. $1.50 net. Postpaid.
					THE HYGIENE OF THE SCHOOL CHILD. By L. M. TERMAN, Associate
						Professor of Education, Leland Stanford Junior University. $1.65 net.
						Postpaid.
					THE EVOLUTION OF THE EDUCATIONAL IDEAL. By MABEL I. EMERSON, First
						Assistant in Charge of the George Bancroft School, Boston. $1.00 net.
						Postpaid.
					HEALTH WORK IN THE SCHOOLS. By E. B. HOAG, M.D., Medical Director,
						Long Beach City Schools, Cal., and L. M. TERMAN. $1.60 net.
						Postpaid.
					DISCIPLINE AS A SCHOOL PROBLEM. By A. C. PERRY, JR., District
						Superintendent of Schools, New York City. $1.25 net. Postpaid.
					HOW TO TEACH THE FUNDAMENTAL SUBJECTS. By C. N. KENDALL, Commissioner
						of Education for New Jersey, and G. A. MIRICK, formerly Deputy Commissioner of Education
						for New Jersey. $1.25 net. Postpaid.
					TEACHING LITERATURE IN THE GRAMMAR GRADES AND HIGH SCHOOL. By EMMA M.
						BOLENIUS, formerly Instructor in English, Central Commercial and Manual Training High
						School, Newark, N. J. $1.25 net. Postpaid.
					PUBLIC SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION. By E. P. CUBBERLEY. $1.75 net. Postpaid.
				
			
			
			
				
					RURAL LIFEAND EDUCATION
					
					A Study of the Rural-School Problem as
						aPhase of the Rural-Life Problem
				
				
				BY
					ELLWOOD P. CUBBERLEY
					PROFESSOR OF EDUCATION, LELANDSTANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY
				
					HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
					
					BOSTON:
					NEW YORK:
					CHICAGO:
					
					The Riverside Press
					Cambridge
				
			
			
			
				VERSO
				COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY ELLWOOD P. CUBBERLEY
				ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
				FOURTH IMPRESSSION
				The Riverside Press
				CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS
				U.S.A.
			

			
			
				INTRODUCTION
				A
					RECENT writer has stated that the rural-school problem would be much
					easier of solution if some writer on the subject would clearly set forth the nature of the
					problem. The suggestion was a good one, as most writers on the subject do not seem to see
					clearly the nature of the problem they are considering.
				The rural-school problem of to-day is a social, even more than an educational problem,
					and is the result of a long national evolution, coupled with recent profound changes in
					rural life itself. The rural-school problem is inseparable from the rural-life problem,
					and of which it is but a phase. Those who do most toward its solution will be those who
					see the problem clearly in its historical and sociological setting, and who have some
					grasp of American rural history.
				To give the problem such a setting has been the purpose of the first part of the book.
					The rural-life problem is there set forth in its historical development, and the origin
					and present status of the rural-school problem shown. With this as a basis the student is
					ready to pass to the second part of the book, which sets forth specifically the present
					rural-school problem, and points out the fundamental nature of the remedies which must be
					applied for its solution. The many plates and figures in the
					text have been introduced to give greater concreteness to the discussion.
				Such a presentation of the rural-life and rural-educational problems as is set forth in
					the following pages might well form the basis, as a textbook, for normal-school classes in
					Rural-Life Problems, Rural-School Problems, or Rural Sociology, and ought to be of
					particular value to such students in properly orienting them for intelligent work in rural
					education. Those studying the problem in normal-school or college classes in School
					Administration ought also to find the presentation helpful, from an administrative point
					of view. To teachers and supervisory officers in service the presentation ought to prove
					instructive and useful, as they are dealing with the problem at first hand. It is also
					hoped that the work will prove interesting and instructive to farmers, ministers, rural
					librarians, rural social-workers, and other students of the rural-life problem. The book
					has been prepared with a view of meeting the needs of these different classes of students
					and citizens.
			
			

			
				ANALYSIS OF CONTENTS
				
					
						PART I. THE RURAL-LIFE PROBLEM
						
					

					
						INTRODUCTION
						3
						
					

					CHAPTER I. CHANGES IN THE NATURE OF RURAL LIFE
						6 Four periods of development:— I. The first
						period, up to 1830:—Early pioneer
						life—Markets—Trading—Subsistence farming. II. The second period,
						1830-1860:—A period of transformation—Rise of commerce and
						manufacturing—Home and school. III. The third period,
						1860-1890:—Homestead laws—Inventions and developments—The home-builder
						farmer—Expansion and overdevelopment—The cityward migration—Saving in
						farm labor—The result. 
					

					CHAPTER II. NEW RURAL-LIFE CONDITIONS
						29IV. The fourth-period development:—Fourth-period
						characteristics—Importance of the changes.I. The urbanization of rural
						life:—Changes in rural living—New rural conveniences—Better
						homes—The new rural life—The town movement.II. Reorganization and
						commercialization of agriculture:—The U.S. Department of Agriculture—New
						agricultural development—New markets—Agricultural expansion—The
						future—Commercialized large-scale farming—Intensive small-scale
						farming—Decreasing rural population.III. Farm tenantry:—Recent
						increase—Recent change in character—New tenants—The Southern Negro
						tenant—The intermittent farm laborer—The fourth-period
						changes—Significance of the changes. 
					
					

					CHAPTER III. EFFECTS OF THESE CHANGES ON RURAL
								SOCIETY AND RURAL INSTITUTIONS
						63 I. New rural social life:—Early social
						life—New and larger interests—City connections—Enjoyment of
						life—Tenantry and social life—Degenerate rural life.II. Local
						government—Loss of interest in—The new tenants and government.—Effects
						of the change.III. The church:—The rural church—The New England
						influence—Large influence of the early church—Early religious
						intensity—The intellectual revolution—Social nature of the old Sunday
						meeting—The process of church decline—Dying churches—Problems which
						the church faces to-day—Great potential usefulness, nevertheless—Social
						mission of the rural church—The teacher and the church problem. 
					

					CHAPTER IV. EFFECTS OF THESE CHANGES ON THERURAL
								SCHOOL
						83Origin of the district school—At first a purely local
						undertaking—The demand for state schools—The second-period school—The
						early schoolmaster—Efficiency of the education for the time.Changes in rural
						education after about 1870—The change in direction—The city-school
						influence—Decline in efficiency—The rural school and the fourth-period
						changes—New fourth-period demands—Gradual desertion of the rural
						school.Present inadequacy of the old education—Breakdown of the old
						administrative machinery—Increasing needs and costs—The burden of
						taxation—Present plight of the rural school. 
					

					CHAPTER V. RURAL LIFE AND NEEDS OF TO-DAY
						104Reconstruction and reorganization necessary—The
						educational deficiency—The great rural social problem—Ownership vs. tenantry—Important rural economic interests—Great rural
						interests are human interests.Fundamental rural needs:—1. Better
						schools—Retention of personality—The school and personality—2. Larger
						life and outlook—3. Better homes—Better kitchens—4. A community
						center. Early centers for the community life—Can the church become such
						now—Need of a program for social work—Need for coöperation—Rural
						organizations—The rural library—The school—5. Community
						life—Constructive rural service—The call for rural service—Meaning of
						the country-life movement. 
					
					

					CHAPTER VI. SOME WORTHY EXAMPLES OF
								RURALSERVICE
						131I. Church organizations:—1. A rural church—2.
						A village church—3. District nursing.II. Organizations for young
						people:—1. Y.M.C.A.—2. Y.W.C.A.—3. Boy Scouts, and Camp-fire
						Girls—4. Agricultural Clubs.III. The rural library—Examples of such
						service.IV. Farmers' organizations:—The Grange—The Hesperia
						movement.V. Organizations for agricultural improvement—The farmers'
						institute—The county farm expert. 
					
				
			

			
				ANALYSIS OF CONTENTS
				
					
						PART II. THE RURAL-SCHOOL PROBLEM
						
					

					CHAPTER VII. FUNDAMENTAL NEEDS IN
								RURALEDUCATION
						163The school and democracy—The decline of the district
						school—The result of recent changes—Rural school still of large
						importance—Poor rural schools not necessary—The recent criticism from
						without—The recent rural-life movement—The away-from-the-farm influence in
						rural education—Need of redirecting the school—Difficulties to be
						encountered—Commission had to say—Revitalizing the school—Legitimate
						functions of the redirected school—A group of problems involved. 
					
					CHAPTER VIII. ORGANIZATION AND MAINTENANCE
						177I. Types of organization:—1. The district
						system—Its essential features—Evolution of district
						organization—District powers and duties—Curtailing the powers in the
						interests of efficiency—Where the district system rendered service—Chief
						objections to the district system—Excessive number of school officers—2. The
						town or township system—The New England town system—Town vs. district
						control—The Western township system—3. The county system—The county
						unit in evolution—Advantages of the county system—4. The state unit.II.
						Types of maintenance:—General taxation for education—1. District
						taxation—Changes in wealth and education—2. Town or township
						taxation—Town and township inequalities—3. County taxation—Equalizing
						effect of a county school tax—4. State taxation—General vs. local
						effort—Systems of distribution—Fundamental needs for rural-school progress.
							
					
					

					CHAPTER IX. THE TEACHING EQUIPMENT
						206The need for better equipment:—1. The
						building—The type—Why they persist—A common
						condition—Limitations to instruction—The cheap building—Fundamental
						needs in a school building—Library, science, and work rooms—2. The
						site—The site for instruction purposes—The site and aesthetic
						training—3. Teaching equipment—Needed teaching apparatus—4. School
						library.City and country compared—Better equipment
						essential—Difficulties in the way—The need of educational reorganization.
							
					

					CHAPTER X. THE REORGANIZATION OF
							RURALEDUCATION
						226The multiplication of districts—The present
						result—Recent attempts to improve conditions—The root of the
						difficulty—Equal rights for the country child. The consolidation
						movement—Beginnings—The plan in Ohio—The essentials of the
						plan—Advantages of the plan—Disadvantages of the plan—Inaugurating the
						movement—The common plan—Township unit; stranded districts—The
						county-unit plan—The county-survey plan—Advantages of the county
						unit.The need for such reorganizations—Such schools natural community
						centers—A community school illustrated—A state reorganization. 
					

					CHAPTER XI. A NEW CURRICULUM
						256The old curriculum—Why such instruction
						continues—Recent attempts to change these conditions—The old traditional
						curriculum—Arithmetic—Grammar and language—Geography—Physiology
						and hygiene—History.Redirecting the school—New instructional
						needs—Nature study and agriculture—What can be taught—How such
						instruction works—Domestic science—Manual training—Organized
						play—The new and the old compared—Possible correlations—How far is
						such redirection possible—The rural high school—Redirecting the high
						school—The country boy who goes to the city. 
					
					

					CHAPTER XII. A NEW TEACHER
						283A new teacher needed—Training and wages
						compared—The natural result—The remedy—Importance of the wage
						question—Present status of teacher training—New attention to the
						rural-teacher problem.Teachers' training classes—Nature of the instruction
						offered—Why such courses are inadequate—Probable future development—A
						suggested one-year course—Explanations of—What such a course prepares
						for—The rural high-school teacher—The call for rural
						leadership—Possibilities for usefulness—Personal attitude; steps in the
						process. 
					

					CHAPTER XIII. A NEW TYPE OF SUPERVISION
						306Larger rural leadership—The county unit in
						evolution—.The evolution of the school superintendency—New conception of the
						office—Our present supervision—The system to blame—Present conditions
						in the county office—Why the cities draw the best—Where the fault
						lies—Stock arguments—The way out—What democracy should mean.A
						reorganized county system—The county board—The plan applied—The gain
						in supervision—Bad features it would eliminate. 
					

					CHAPTER XIV. NOTEWORTHY EXAMPLES INRURAL
								EDUCATION
						328I: A one-room rural school—Its building and
						equipment.II. A consolidated school—Its building, equipment, and work. III. A
						county-unit school system—The county board—The slow development, and the
						present conditions—The work of the county superintendent—The present
						excellent county system—The five reasons for it. 
					
					

					
						BIBLIOGRAPHY
						349
						
						
					

					
						INDEX
						363
						
						
					
				
			

			
				LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
				
				Facing
				

					
						Primitive Conditions—Subsistence Farming
						12
						
					
					
						A Farmhouse of the Home-Builder Period
						13
						
					
					
						Per Cent Land in Farms forms of Total Land Area, byCounties:
							1910
						30
						
					
					
						Per Cent Improved Land in Farms forms of Total Land Area,by
							Counties: 1910
						31
						
					
					
						University Extension in Agriculture
						58
						
					
					
						New Farm Workers and Owners
						59
						
					
					
						The District School—Primitive Conditions
						92
						
					
					
						Satisfying the Social Instincts of Youth
						112
						
					
					
						Lads from the Farms at a College Lecture on Corn
						148
						
					
					
						An Automobile that has taught a County to read
						149
						
					
					
						One of the Local Meetings for Community Improvement
						149
						
					
					
						Where the District System Rendered Service
						184
						
					
					
						A Common Type of Schoolhouse Site
						216
						
					
					
						School Ground Decoration
						217
						
					
					
						Different Means for transporting Pupils
						236
						
					
					
						New Forms of Instruction, I
						268
						
					
					
						New Forms of Instruction, II
						269
						
					
					
						Rural High-School Instruction, I
						280
						
					
					
						Rural High-School Instruction, II
						281
						
					
					
						Teaching Country Children in Terms of Country Life
						290
						
					
					
						A Rural School Exhibit
						304
						
					
					
						Boys' Session of the Farmers' Institute
						305
						
					
					
						The Model Rural School at the Kirksville, Missouri, Normal School
						328
						
					
					
						The Harlem Consolidated School, Winnebago County, Ill. I
						334
						
					
					
						The Harlem Consolidated School, II
						335
						
					
					
						The Harlem Consolidated School, III
						338
						
					
					
						The Harlem Consolidated School, IV
						339
						
					
				
			
			

			
				FIGURES, DIAGRAMS, AND MAPS
				
					Showing Recent Rapid Growth of Urban Population8
						
					
					An Early Home11
						
					
					The United States in 185017
						
					
					Development of Farms. East North-central Division19
						
					
					Development of Farms. West North-central Division20
						
					
					Value per Acre of Farm Property23
						
					
					Development of Farms24
						
					
					Distribution of Population by Decades25
						
					
					Relative Rates of Increase in Population and Production27
						
					
					Per Cent Land in Farms forms of Total Land Area, by Counties: 1910
							facing 30
						
					
					Per Cent Improved Land in Farms forms of Total Land Area, by Counties: 1910
							facing 31
						
					
					Farm Property Values per Acre43
						
					
					Black Counties in Georgia48
						
					
					Per Cent of Increase in Rural Population, by States, 1900-191049
						
					
					Changes in the Rural Population in Eight Important Agricultural States50
						
					
					Acreage of all Land in Farms classified by Character of Tenure of Operator, 191053
						
					
					Percentage of Foreign-born Whites, and Native Whites of Foreign or Mixed Parentage
						combined, in the Total Population, 191057
						
					
					Average Value per Acre of Farm Property67
						
					
					The Polish Farmers'-Day Poster70
						
					
					Typical One-Room Rural Churches73
						
					
					An Overchurched Indiana Township78
						
					
					A Typical Early School Interior, I84
						
					
					A Typical Early School Interior, II86
						
					
					A Schoolmaster of the Old Type87
						
					
					Decreasing Percentage of Men Teachers91
						
					
					Increasing Cost of Education, per Pupil, in Average Daily Attendance99
						
					
					Increasing Length of Term, in Days101
						
					
					Results shown by the Census of 1910109
						
					
					Percentage of Total Population in Rural Districts, 1910112
						
					
					A Community Center of Large Influence, in the Wrong Direction118
						
					
					Diagram of a Country Community-Center119
						
					
					Union Church, Proctor, Vermont121
						
					
					The Original Church132
						
					
					The New Institutional Church135
						
					
					Y.M.C.A.—City and Rural Development140
						
					
					
					Y.M.C.A. County Work143
						
					
					A Traveling Library in a Farmhouse147
						
					
					The Clinton Plan for Agricultural Betterment157
						
					
					The School by the Wayside164
						
					
					A One-Pupil Class165
						
					
					A Typical Run-down Schoolhouse167
						
					
					A Typical Rural School of the Better Class171
						
					
					Forms of School Organization179
						
					
					Early Organization of School Districts181
						
					
					Later Organization and Reorganization182
						
					
					New England Towns and Western Townships compared187
						
					
					A Typical Present-Day Interior208
						
					
					A Typical Weather-boarded Box209
						
					
					A More Attractive Exterior210
						
					
					A Rearranged Interior211
						
					
					A Suggested Exterior213
						
					
					A Model Interior for a One-Teacher Rural Schoolhouse214
						
					
					An Ohio School Site216
						
					
					Progress of Consolidation in Indiana by 1908231
						
					
					Diagram of Gustavus Township, Trumbull County, Ohio, showing Transportation
							Routes232
						
					
					Central Public School, Trumbull County, Ohio234
						
					
					The Ordinary Road to Learning236
						
					
					One of the Landmarks240
						
					
					Where Consolidation started in Ohio241
						
					
					Map showing Extent of School Consolidation in Delaware County, Indiana, 1908242
						
					
					Stranded Districts244
						
					
					Map showing Consolidated Districts and Location of Consolidated Schoolhouses in
						Duval County, Florida245
						
					
					Douglas County, Minnesota246
						
					
					Douglas County, Minnesota, reorganized247
						
					
					Details for District XIV248
						
					
					Map of Ada County, Idaho, showing the Boundaries of the School Districts and the
						Location of Rural District Schools and High Schools, 1908249
						
					
					Same County, illustrating a Tentative Plan of Consolidation250
						
					
					A Community-Center School252
						
					
					First-Floor Plan of a Community-Center School253
						
					
					A Reading Chart for Rural Schools266
						
					
					Township Supervision in Ohio312
						
					
					Basement Plan of Model Rural School330
						
					
					First-Floor Plan of Model Rural School332
						
					
					Attic Plan of Model Rural School333
						
					
					The Harlem Consolidated School Grounds, Winnebago County, Illinois337
						
					
				
			

		
		
			
			
				RURAL LIFE AND EDUCATION: A STUDY OF THE RURAL-SCHOOL PROBLEM AS A
					PHASE OF THE RURAL-LIFE PROBLEM

				
					RURAL LIFE AND EDUCATIONPART ITHE RURAL-LIFE
						PROBLEM
					
					
					
						RURAL LIFE AND EDUCATIONINTRODUCTION
						To one who has given little or no attention to the subject, it is hard to appreciate
							the great revolution in rural life which has taken place during the past three
							quarters of a century. The changes which have been accomplished have been of
							far-reaching importance, and they have touched every phase of rural life. Almost
							nothing is now as it used to be; almost nothing is done now as it was three quarters
							of a century ago. We of to-day live in a new world—a world of which our
							grandfathers scarcely dreamed. Life everywhere to-day is far more complex, intricate,
							difficult, and fruitful of both pleasure and profit than was that of which our
							grandfathers formed a part. The great changes which have taken place in living and
							industry have affected all of our people, rural and urban, but perhaps nowhere has the
							revolution in living and industry been of more far-reaching importance than to those
							of our people who live on the farms and in the little villages of our nation.
						This social and industrial revolution has profoundly changed the whole nature of
							rural life. Some rural communities naturally have experienced a greater change than
							others, but no community has wholly escaped. The
							revolution, too, has been so rapid, so extensive, and so far-reaching in its
							consequences that both rural people and rural institutions have not changed rapidly
							enough to keep pace with the demands of the new civilization. The result has been the
							development of a rural-life problem of great social and economic consequence, and one
							which involves most of the cherished institutions of rural society. It has become
							particularly acute, as it relates to the character and elements of the rural
							population itself, the conditions of land-ownership and farm-tenancy, rural home life,
							rural society, the rural church, and rural education. Taken altogether and as a whole,
							we call this collection of problems the rural-life problem. While of necessity
							referring to each of these phases of the rural-life problem, as they are in a way all
							tied up together, this book will have special reference to the problem as it relates
							to the rural and the village school. It may accordingly be considered as a treatise on
							that phase of the rural-life problem commonly known as the rural-school problem,
							concerning which much has been said and written within recent years.
						Like all social problems, the rural-school problem has had a gradual evolution and is
							closely related to the other rural-community problems, and this it will be our purpose
							first to trace and to explain. Almost any social problem is more understandable if we
							can see it in its historical setting, and grasp it in its relations to other community
							forces and problems. After giving the problem this
							setting, the rural-school problem as such will be examined in some detail, the
							relation of teachers and supervisory officers to it pointed out, and the remedies
							which must be applied to it explained.
					
					
					
						CHAPTER ICHANGES IN THE NATURE OF RURAL LIFE
						Four periods of development. The development of rural life in the
							United States, since the beginning of our Republic, may be divided into four great
							periods, each, with the exception of the first, covering about the life of a single
							generation. Each of these periods has been characterized by important movements in the
							population, by important changes in the nature and methods of agriculture, and by
							marked changes in almost all of the conditions and surroundings of rural life. Each
							period, too, has been characterized by more fundamental and more far-reaching changes
							than the one which preceded it, until to-day the changes have become so great and so
							profound that they partake of the nature of an agricultural revolution. New methods in
							farming have been employed, entirely new markets have been found, inter-communication
							has been established in ways before undreamed of, machinery and labor-saving devices
							have tremendously simplified and cheapened production, the old rural institutions are
							dying out, the home and its management are no longer the same, and opportunities for
							leisure and a taste for higher pursuits have been developed to a degree which would
							have seemed impossible even half a century ago. It is
							certainly no exaggeration to say that, in all of the time from the crusades to the
							beginning of the second quarter of the nineteenth century, no such profound and
							far-reaching changes in the methods of agriculture or the conditions of rural life
							were accomplished as have been accomplished in the United States during the last
							seventy-five to one hundred years.
						The rural-school problem, which is to be the special theme of this book, has arisen
							as a result of these many and far-reaching changes, and the difficulties which now
							confront the rural school will be understood much better if we first trace these great
							historical changes in rural life, and show the relation of these changes to the
							problem in hand. Accordingly we shall first sketch this development, state the chief
							characteristics of each of the four great periods which we have said that rural life
							in the United States may be divided into, and then state the conditions which confront
							rural society to-day.
						
							I. UP TO 1830
							
							The first period of development. The first period in our
								agricultural development may be said to have extended up to about 1830 or 1835. In a
								way it was an extension of the colonial period, and of the system of farming and of
								rural life then in vogue. Nearly all life at the time our National Government was
								established was rural, and nearly every one lived on farms or in little villages. But 3.35 per cent of the total population, or but one
								person in thirty, lived in a city of 8000 inhabitants or over in 1790, and but 3.97
								per cent 
									FIG. 1. SHOWING RECENT RAPID GROWTH OF URBAN
										POPULATION
								 in 1800. Still more, there were but six such cities in the whole of the
								thirteen original states until 1810, and the largest city in the United States had
								less than 75,000 inhabitants. Even in such a city all life was far simpler then than
								in a small Western county-seat town to-day.
							Almost everywhere then the people lived on little farms, and their chief object was
								to clear the tract, develop the land, and obtain a
								living from the soil. There were few markets, and these were local to a high degree.
								A little wheat was sold in the Middle Colonies for shipment to England, as was
								tobacco in the Southern. Rice and indigo were also raised for export in the
								Carolinas and in Georgia. Even these, though, could not be sold except when raised
								near to the seacoast, as the almost complete absence of roads and the difficulties
								of transportation made a market elsewhere impossible. The division of labor had not
								as yet made much headway, either in industry or in agriculture. Families lived off
								of the land, and produced by hand nearly all that they ate or wore. If near a
								village or a crossroads store, a part of the surplus of certain crops was exchanged,
								by barter, for certain manufactured articles. Life was exceedingly simple, and
								difficult as well.
							Almost immediately after the establishment of peace with Great Britain, a strong
								westward movement of the population began. New England people had already settled
								New York and northeastern Pennsylvania, and men from Virginia and the Carolinas had
								moved westward into Kentucky and Tennessee. Soon this movement extended farther
								westward. First Ohio, then northern Indiana and Illinois, southern Michigan and
								Wisconsin, and, still later, Iowa were settled by people of New England stock.
								Kentucky, Tennessee, southern Indiana and Illinois, and Missouri were settled by
								people from Virginia and the Carolinas, while Alabama
								and Mississippi were a result of southern migrations, chiefly from Georgia. The
								beginnings of the national land policy after 1785, after which time farms in the
								wilderness were sold to settlers at low prices,1 greatly stimulated migration and helped to settle the
								new territory. After 1820 a constant stream of wagons poured into the wilderness,
								and by 1821 nine new states had been added to the Union, all carved from these
								Western lands, while the frontier had been pushed out to and beyond the Mississippi.
								Four more states were added from this Western domain by 1848, completing the Union
								out to and including the first tier of states west of the Mississippi, with the
								single exception of Minnesota.
							Early pioneer life. Life in the new land was full of hardships,
								and one of unremitting toil. Forests had to be cut down, stumps burned out, swamps
								drained, and, to the westward, the thick sod of the prairies broken. Farm life west
								of the Alleghanies became a repetition of colonial life to the east of the
								mountains. It was a period of intense struggle with the untamed forces of nature,
								and the pressing demands on the new settlers for food and shelter for the family and
								stock left little time for any leisure employment. Every member of the family had to
								work and work hard, and every member was made useful from a very early age. The
								agriculture was largely experimental, and was carried on by the primitive methods
								and with the primitive1At first fixed at $2 per acre, but after 1821 fixed at $1.25 per
									acre.
								 implements of the times. The ox and a rude form of
								plow were about all of the labor-saving devices at hand. The home was of the
								simplest kind, and the furnishings exceedingly primitive. A log cabin, chinked with
								mud; an open fireplace, with a stick-and-clay chimney; homemade furniture and simple
								equipment were the characteristics of the times. Of fuel and food there
									FIG. 2. AN EARLY HOME
								 was plenty, and the family raised and prepared almost all that was eaten
								or worn. Corn was the chief crop at first, and cattle and hogs the chief animals
								raised. The people laid by corn for winter; smoked their own meats; preserved such
								few poor fruits of the time as they cared for or had the means to keep; made their
								own lard, butter, candles, and clothing; manufactured sugar and syrup from the
								forest maples; evaporated salt from the salt springs or "licks"; and ground their
								corn in rude hand-operated mills. Of intercommunication there was little; of
								comforts and pleasures, very few; of doctors and nurses, almost none. It was the
								rude and primitive existence of the sturdy pioneer; and the hard work, the
								difficulties of the struggle with the untamed forces of
								nature in a new land, the lack of outlook, and the loneliness and isolation of the
								life must have borne hard on many a man and woman.
							Markets. Of markets there were practically none, except near the
								seaboard, and agriculture everywhere was in what has been termed the self-sufficing
								stage of its development. A farmer could raise enough for his own needs, but there
								was little chance to dispose of any surplus. Cotton in the South, due to the
								perfection of the cotton-gin, was an exception, and had become a staple crop; and
								the numerous rivers of the South made the marketing of cotton relatively easy for
								plantations not too far removed from the seaboard. Little, though, could be sent
								from the Northwest over the Alleghanies. In Kentucky and southern Ohio some cattle
								were raised for market, but to drive them to Baltimore or Philadelphia was something
								of an undertaking, and consumed nearly all of the profits. The building of the
								National Turnpike to St. Louis, through Zanesville and Columbus, Ohio; Richmond,
								Indianapolis, and Terre Haute, Indiana; and Vandalia, Illinois, opened up somewhat a
								new territory, while the opening of the Erie Canal through New York State, in 1825,
								provided a new and easier route for the transportation of grains from the West.
								Wheat from the interior could now be shipped, via Lake Erie and the canal to New
								York, for sale in the Eastern and European markets. Wheat now displaced corn as
									the
								
									PRIMITIVE CONDITIONS—SUBSISTENCE
										FARMINGA cabin in the clearing. No neighbors, no machinery, no
										conveniences, and no markets.
								
								
								
									(From Card's Farm Management. Courtesy, Doubleday, Page &
										Co.)
									
									A FARMHOUSE OF THE HOME—BUILDER PERIOD"Now closed and the
										owner gone, and the farm let out to tenantry."
								
								 chief money crop on farms not too far removed from
								connecting navigable water.
							Trading. Even up to 1830 there were but twenty-six cities in the
								United States of over 8000 inhabitants, and fourteen of these had less than 12,000
								of population. A number of small towns were developing in the new West, however, and
								these were rapidly becoming centers for local trade. The crossroads store was also
								becoming common, and in it were beginning to be found a number of the new
								manufactured articles. There was little money as yet in circulation, especially in
								the West, and business was carried on chiefly by barter. Salt, bears' grease, pelts,
								and corn possessed fixed values. Even taxes were paid in produce; such units as half
								of a beef, a quarter of venison, a peck of corn, and a half-peck of salt were legal
								tender. Gristmills and sawmills, run by water-power, were beginning to supersede
								hand mills, where grinding and sawing were now done "on shares." Shoes were soon
								substituted for moccasins, and woolen and linen cloth for buckskin. The tanning of
								hides became an industry, and harnessmakers, wagonmakers, wheelwrights, and
								carpenters began to be in demand. Better barns and better farmhouses began to be
								erected, especially by the New England people, and life in the wilderness, by the
								end of the first agricultural period, began to lose something of its harshness and
								forbidding aspect. The rich farms of Ohio began to replace the heavily timbered
								wilderness which met the early pioneers.
						
						
						
							II. 1830-1860
							
							The second period of development. The second period in the
								development of American rural life may be said to have begun about 1830 to 1835, and
								to have extended up to the beginning of the Civil War, though to the westward the
								story of the settling of Ohio and Kentucky was repeated during this second period.
								During this period farming passed from the local and self-sufficing to the
								commercial stage; cities and manufacturing began to develop rapidly; labor-saving
								devices began to be used on the farms; new peoples came; and the coming of the
								railroads changed the whole character of farming. Intercommunication began to take
								the place of the former isolation; civilization began to go with subsistence; and
								intelligent farming began to supersede an unintelligent dependence upon luck.
								Products now began to be grown for the market; the steam railroad and the steamboat
								provided an easy and cheap means of transportation; and the flood of farm products
								from the great interior now, for the first time, began seriously to disturb the
								economic equilibrium of the East and of the Old World. Agricultural societies were
								organized; agricultural fairs began to be held; agriculture as a subject began to be
								discussed; a substantial effort began to be made to improve the breeds of live
								stock; and new fruits and orchard stock began to be introduced. New migratory
								movements from the worked-out farms of the East to the
								richer lands of the West now began. This movement soon carried population far out
								onto the prairies.
							A period of transformation. The period was one of rapid expansion
								and transformation. At its beginning nearly everything done on the farm was done by
								hand labor. Plowing, harrowing, and the drawing of loads formed almost the only
								exceptions. Crops were sown and harvested only with the greatest of effort. At the
								end of the period most of the epoch-making inventions in agricultural machinery had
								been perfected and were being introduced. The mower was patented as early as 1831,
								the reaper in 1833, the thresher by 1840, the separator in 1850, and the
								steam-thresher by 1860. The machine drill superseded hand-sowing; the two-horse
								cultivator superseded the hoe; and the faster horse superseded the slow ox. By 1865
								every process in the raising of wheat, and every process in the raising of corn,
								except husking, was done by machinery.
							Specialization in crops now began to supersede general subsistence farming. Cotton
								rapidly jumped to a place of first importance in the South. As this crop demands a
								quantity of cheap labor at certain seasons only, and is best handled on large
								plantations, there was a large exodus of the poorer Southern whites to Kentucky,
								Missouri, and still farther west. The repeal of the English Corn Laws in 1846, by
								which the tariff was removed from imported foodstuffs, still further stimulated
								agricultural development in the United States. The coming of thousands of educated
									Germans, who took up farms and settled in the upper
								Mississippi Valley after 1848, also further stimulated agricultural production.
								Butter- and cheese-making were added to the list of agricultural industries after
								about 1850, as was also truck-farming in certain regions. Prices for all kinds of
								farm products increased rapidly, making farming a much more profitable industry than
								it had been before.
							Rise of commerce and manufacturing. The development of cities and
								manufacturing now began. At the beginning of the period there were no railways, and
								all transportation was by pack-train, horse and wagon, or canal-boat. By 1850 the
								steam roads offered continuous rail travel from North Carolina to Maine along the
								coast, had reached into the heart of the cotton belt of the South, to Buffalo on
								Lake Erie, and from the western end of Lake Erie to Cincinnati and Chicago. By 1860
								the steam railways had been built west into Iowa, Missouri, and Arkansas, and thirty
								thousand miles of rails were carrying agricultural products from the interior, and
								manufactured products from the seaboard cities back to the interior. Cotton was king
								in the South, corn and winter wheat in the North, and commerce and manufacturing in
								the East. The telegraph had been perfected in 1844, and fifty thousand miles of wire
								were carrying messages by 1860. Edge tools were now made in this country. The
								platform scale and the sewing-machine were coming into use. Kerosene lamps were in
								their beginning.
								
									FIG. 3. THE UNITED STATES IN 1850
								
								Improved cookstoves were beginning to be used, and
								friction matches superseded the flint. The coal measures west of the Alleghanies had
								been opened, and anthracite in the East had been put to use. The great work of steam
								had begun, and the chimneys of factories were rising over the land.
							Home and school. A little more leisure had come into the home as well, and the
								school of books began, in part, to supersede the school of practical experience for
								the children. Farmhouses and barns were better built, homes were made more
								attractive, farms were better tilled and more valuable, gravel roads began to
								supersede the corduroy, and rural life generally began to reflect the changes and
								improvements in the methods of living. Numerous little towns, the nuclei of future
								cities, were springing up all through the upper Mississippi Valley, as they had done
								a generation earlier in the Middle Atlantic States. Notwithstanding these changes,
								though, rural life was still simple, and travel to any distance was the exception
								rather than the rule. 
						
						
							III. 1860-1890
							Third period of development. The third period in the development
								of American rural life began about 1860, and extended up to about 1890 or 1895. It
								was characterized by the greatest agricultural expansion the world had ever known.
								The Government homestead laws of 1862 and 1864, under which a farm of one hundred and sixty acres was given to any person who
								would actually settle on the land and live there for five years, greatly stimulated
								the development. Up to 1890, quarter-section farms to the extent of 233,043,939
								acres, an area six times as large as New England, six and one half times as large as
								Illinois, and
									FIG. 4. DEVELOPMENT OF FARMS
								 more than a half larger than the German Empire, were claimed as homesteads
								by new settlers. The opportunity to get a cleared farm of rich land and without
								price soon attracted great numbers of the more intelligent and hardy peasants from
								other lands, and a great influx of Canadians, English, Irish, Germans, and
								Scandinavians came into the new states of the upper Mississippi Valley. Many of
								those who had settled earlier east of the Mississippi also sold their farms and went to the West, while the sons of many
								others went, leaving their parents behind. The effect of this movement on the
								development of farms is seen from the charts on this and the preceding page. East of
								the Mississippi the settlement and improvement now proceeded more slowly, while west
								of the river the 
									FIG. 5. DEVELOPMENT OF FARMS
								 settlement and improvement of the land were very rapid. It was also seen
								in the development of new states. Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado, the two Dakotas,
								Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, and Washington were added as states by 1890,—all
								essentially agricultural states and all, with the exception of Colorado and
								Washington, without a large city in them.
							Inventions and developments. The first transcontinental railway
								was completed in 1869, and by 1890 five additional
								railway lines linked the West to the East. These, with their branches and feeders,
								gathered up the wheat, corn, and cattle of the West and carried it to Chicago, New
								York, Philadelphia, and Boston for shipment to other lands. The United States soon
								became the granary of Europe, and agriculture became a large and an important
								business. By 1880 the United States was the greatest shipper of grains and meats in
								the world. The invention of the twine-binder, about 1880, settled the labor problem
								involved in harvesting and made wheat-growing easier and more profitable; while the
								patenting of the rollerprocess of making flour made spring wheat useful, and settled
								and developed the great Northwest. Great cattle ranges also were developed in the
								then new West, and the perfecting of the refrigerator car in 1869 made the shipment
								of dressed beef both possible and profitable. The beginning of the export of dressed
								meats, in 1870, further developed the cattle industry. The perfection of the Babcock
								milk-tester and the centrifugal cream-separator, about 1880, gave a new, impetus to
								the dairy industry, and the application of the cold-storage principle shortly after
								added materially to the farmer's range of markets. Fruit-growing also became an
								important branch of agriculture during this third period. New attention was now
								given to the securing of better breeds of stock, and we also note the beginnings of
								an extension of the principle of selection to both seeds and trees. 
							
							The home-builder farmer. The many labor-saving inventions
								introduced not only made farm life easier and more profitable, but the great
								increase in the ease of communication made it less isolated and more attractive.
								Turnpikes and bridges were built by the counties, better houses and barns were built
								by the farmers, and many improvements to the land were made. Farm land began to
								increase rapidly in value, after the depression of the early eighties due to
								over-development, and the successful farmer began to accumulate a bank account, and
								to cultivate relations with the adjoining town or with the growing city which formed
								the county seat. He and his wife dressed better, gave their children more
								advantages, and began to enjoy some of the luxuries as well as the necessities of
								life. He remained, however, essentially a home-builder, loyal to his country
								neighborhood, and treasuring his rural friendships. His pride was in his broad and
								well-kept acres, his horses and stock, his home, his barns and machinery, and his
								family. He was strong, virile, conscious of his personal worth, opinionated, and
								with a keen sense for values, politics, and often for religion. Such he continues
								to-day, in many parts of our land.
							Expansion and overdevelopment. The result of these many inventions and developments
								was a tremendous expansion of agriculture, not only in the new lands to the West,
								but in the older states to the East as well. Almost simultaneously there was a great
									 development of wheat-growing in California and
								Washington, in Russia, and in Argentine, as well as other important agricultural
								developments elsewhere. The steam-train and the steamship gathered up the products
								and delivered them quickly in the world's great markets. The result was a great
								disturbance in
									FIG. 6. VALUE OF FARM PROPERTY
								 economic conditions: for a time an overproduction, a fall in prices of
								both products and lands, and, for a period, much discontent among the farming class.
								This was most marked in the decade of the eighties. Gradually, however, these
								conditions changed. With the exhaustion of the free Government lands, the great
								increase in population, both at home and abroad, a readjustment of vocations and
								methods of distribution, and an increasing consumption of foodstuffs per capita, due to better living, the prices for both lands
								and foodstuffs have recently experienced a remarkable rise in values, and farming
								has recently become a very profitable undertaking.
							The cityward migration. Along with these many changes during this third period,
								another of the most
									FIG. 7. DEVELOPMENT OF FARMS
								 far-reaching significance for country life now began to manifest itself
								strongly. It had its beginnings much earlier, but became marked now for the first
								time. This was the tendency of country boys to leave the farm and go to the rising
								cities. The fascination of the city and the large prizes which might be won there
								began to attract the strong and the self-reliant among the young men of the country.
								This tendency grew with time, and finally resulted in a great migration cityward. In some states, particularly in New York and
								New England, it led to the abandonment of many farms, while to the West it led to
								the draining-off of many of the most promising young men of the farming class. The
								lack of opportunity and the lack of social 
									FIG. 8. DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION BY
										DECADES
									
									Percentage of the total population of the United States at each
										census in cities, towns, and rural districts. Note the growth of the city after
										about 1850.
								 prestige in the country also sent many of the best of the country girls to
								the city as well. By 1890 the rural conditions were such, due in part to a temporary
								over-development of agriculture throughout the world, and in part to the tendency of
								the education provided by the rural school, that boys and girls of energy and ambition left the farm for the city at the first
									opportunity.1 Farming as a
								life career at that time appealed strongly to but few. The result was manifested in
								the rapid growth of the cities after 1890, and in the partial depletion of many
								rural communities.
							Another class of country people now began to leave the rural districts for the
								cities. With the rapid introduction of machinery and labor-saving devices during
								this third period, the farmer was able to dispense with many of his former "hands."
								Fewer laborers were needed to do the work which once required the labor of many,
								while the introduction of complicated and expensive machinery demanded that the man
								who ran it should have a good operative head. Many of these former "hands" belonged
								to that class of less intelligent and less progressive rural people, who neither
								owned nor leased land, but were content to work for others. These now had to go to
								the city to find a market for their labor. The result was to send from the country
								to the city most of its poor, improvident, and shiftless people, as well as many of
								its stronger personalities.
							Saving in farm labor. The saving in human labor by machinery was very great. In the
								case of nine important farm crops, the increase in efficiency of a single man,
								between 1830 and 1895, has been estimated1The census of 1890 showed that 66 per cent of the area of
									Illinois was then diminishing in population, 43 per cent of the area of Iowa, 61
									per cent of Ohio, and 83 per cent of New York.
								 at 500 per cent, while in the case of barley it has
								been estimated at 2240 per cent. From 1840 to 1900 in the case of eight important
								cereals, the increase in the rate of production was twice as fast as the rate of
								increase in the total population. Harvesting, under the old methods, required more
								than eight times the number of laborers now required, while threshing required
									FIG. 9. RELATIVE RATES OF INCREASE IN
										POPULATION AND PRODUCTION
								 from fifteen to thirty times the present number. Figures from the United
								States Department of Agriculture show that in 1855 the amount of labor expended in
								producing a bushel of corn in the United States was four hours and thirty-five
								minutes. Under modern conditions the amount of time required is only forty-one
								minutes. With wheat the difference is even more marked. In 1855 three hours of labor
								were expended on each bushel of wheat; at present a bushel of wheat requires only
								ten minutes of labor. In the case of a farm worker it has been estimated that his
									 efficiency was still further increased 86 per cent
								by machinery between 1870 and 1900.
							The result. All of these changes have meant not only an increase
								in the profitableness of farming, but a great amelioration in the conditions
								surrounding farm life as well. They have also created a demand for larger
								intelligence, wider knowledge, and larger ability on the part of the farmer. He has
								been able to make farming a business instead of merely a means of subsistence, and
								to purchase many of the more desirable modern conveniences and comforts to replace
								the primitive pioneer conditions.
							
								QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
								Explain what is meant by the self-sufficing stage of agricultural
									development.
								Where was the Erie Canal?
								Why did wheat supersede corn as the money crop after the opening of the Erie
									Canal?
								Explain what is meant by the statement that during this period farming passed
									from the self-sufficing to the commercial stage.
								Explain why the coming of the railroads changed the whole character of
									farming.
								Contrast farm life in 1830 with that of 1860.
								Contrast these conditions again with conditions in 1890.
								Contrast the market facilities of 1850 and 1890, and show the effect of these
									on farming as an industry.
								Contrast the home-life conditions of 1850 and 1890, and point out how such
									changes naturally lead to a demand for more and for better educational
									facilities.
								Why would the cityward migration naturally draw off both the best and the
									poorest of rural people?
								 What effect would this have on rural life and progress?
								Without machinery could farming ever have developed into a business
									undertaking?
								What per cent of your state is in farms? Improved farms?
							
						
					
					
						
						CHAPTER IINEW RURAL-LIFE CONDITIONS
						The fourth-period development. The changes which mark the fourth
							period in the agricultural development of the United States began about 1890, and are
							still in process of evolution. These changes are not by any means universal as yet, as
							in many rural communities the conditions which marked the third period still prevail.
							Sometimes even the second-period conditions are still found in isolated localities.
							Each year, though, sees new regions invaded by the changes which have marked what we
							call the fourth period of our agricultural development, and an intensification of
							these changes. The change to the fourth-period conditions has been most marked in
							regions of one-crop farming, in the vicinity of large cities, and particularly in the
							states of the upper Mississippi Valley. These changes are not confined to any one
							locality, though, for one finds such conditions manifesting themselves from Maine to
							California, and from Minnesota to Florida. The chief reason why the upper Mississippi
							Valley has been most affected is that it is the center of the agricultural life of the
							nation. This is well shown by the two maps which face pages 30 and 31 of this chapter,
							and by the table inserted below. All of the great staple farm crops, except rice,
							tobacco, and cotton,
							
								TABLE, SHOWING FARMING CONDITIONS IN FIFTEENLEADING
									AGRICULTURAL STATES
								
									STATE
									Per cent of total population in rural districts
									Per cent of lands in farms
									Average size of farms, in acres
									Average value of farm land, per acre
								
								
									New York
									21.2
									72.2
									102.2
									$32.13
								
								
									Ohio
									44.1
									92.5
									88.6
									53.34
								
								
									Indiana
									57.6
									92.3
									98.8
									62.86
								
								
									Illinois
									38.3
									90.7
									129.1
									95.02
								
								
									Iowa
									69.4
									95.4
									156.3
									82.58
								
								
									
								
								
									Michigan
									52.8
									51.5
									91.5
									32.48
								
								
									Wisconsin
									57.0
									59.6
									118.9
									43.30
								
								
									Minnesota
									59.0
									53.5
									177.3
									36.82
								
								
									
								
								
									Missouri
									57.5
									78.6
									124.8
									41.8
								
								
									Nebraska
									73.9
									78.6
									297.8
									41.8
								
								
									Kansas
									70.8
									82.9
									244.0
									35.45
								
								
									Oklahoma
									80.7
									65.0
									151.7
									22.49
								
								
									
								
								
									Georgia
									79.4
									71.7
									92.6
									13.74
								
								
									Alabama
									82.7
									63.2
									78.9
									10.46
								
								
									Texas
									75.9
									67.0
									269.1
									14.53
								
							 are raised chiefly in the upper Mississippi Valley States. The central points
							for the number of farms, for improved farm acreage, for farm-land values, for the
							production of corn, and for gross farm income are all located in the State of
							Illinois; while the centers for wheat and oat production are across the river in Iowa.
							New York, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Iowa are the largest dairy-products producers;
							Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri are the greatest swine and 
							
								FIG. 10. PER CENT LAND IN FARMS FORMS OF TOTAL
									LAND AREA, BY COUNTIES: 1910 Per cent for the United States, 46.2.
							
							
							
								FIG. 11. PER CENT IMPROVED LAND IN FARMS FORMS
									OF TOTAL LAND AREA, BY COUNTIES: 1910 Per cent for the United States,
									25.1.
							
							domestic-fowl states; and Illinois, Iowa, and Missouri
							are the center of the draft-animal industry. As a recent writer has put it, this
							central region is fairly dripping agricultural fatness.1 Excepting cotton in the South and cattle in Texas, no
							other agricultural region in the United States approaches it in wealth. Because this
							is the case, the changes to the fourth-period conditions have been rendered easier
							here.
						Fourth-period characteristics. The most prominent characteristics
							of the fourth period in the agricultural development of the United States have been
							three: (1) the gradual urbanization of rural life; (2) the reorganization and
							commercializing of the agricultural industry; and (3) the partial, and in some
							districts the complete, substitution of a system of farm tenantry for farm management
							by the native owner. Farming has become so profitable in the richer agricultural
							regions that it has now become a commercial business, to be managed along strictly
							business lines. We will consider each of these fourth-period characteristics in
							order.
						
							I. THE GRADUAL URBANIZATION OF RURAL LIFE
							Changes in rural living. During the past two decades very
								important changes have taken place in the conditions surrounding rural life itself.
								Except in sparsely settled regions, or where primitive conditions 1"The Heart of the United
									States," by James P. Monroe, in Atlantic Monthly, September,
									1908.
								 still persist, the old isolation has practically
								ended, and many of the conveniences and comforts enjoyed by city people are now
								found in the better farm homes. This change in the conditions of living has taken
								place chiefly since 1890, and has been particularly marked during the past five to
								ten years. Everywhere there has been a marked softening of the harsh conditions and
								limitations which once surrounded rural life. As a result, in the wealthier and more
								progressive farming regions, the well-to-do farmer of to-day can provide in his home
								almost all of the comforts and conveniences enjoyed by his city relations.
							New rural conveniences. The telephone, twenty years ago but little used, has
								recently come to be almost one of the necessities of a farmer's life and work. A
								generation ago, if he broke part of a piece of machinery, needed information as to
								markets, or had sickness in the family, there was nothing to do but hitch up a horse
								and drive to town. To-day with the local-exchange and long-distance telephone, he
								may order the piece of machinery by catalogue number, find out about the markets or
								the loading of cars, or summon a doctor or nurse. If he needs to telegraph to Boston
								or Chicago on business, or to his relatives in Dakota or California, he can
								telephone his message, have a night letter sent, and have a reply telephoned back to
								him when received, and have it all charged to him on his monthly telephone bill. The
								rural-mail delivery and the parcels post have also come to his assistance. Instead of getting mail or a package or posting a letter only
								when the work or the weather would permit of his going to town, the rural-mail
								delivery wagon comes to his gate each day to bring letters, papers, and packages,
								and to take them away. With a Sears-Roebuck or a Wanamaker catalogue and a bank
								check, he and his wife can supply their needs without leaving the house, and have
								the goods delivered by parcels post at their door. Instead of, or to supplement, the
								local weekly newspaper, its inside filled with "boiler-plate" and its outside with
								local advertisements and news, the farmer now receives his daily metropolitan
								newspaper, with its news of the world, national and state politics, and market
								reports. The monthly magazines, with their club rates and premiums, have also found
								their way into the farmer's home, and serve to create new interests for the family
								and to weaken the old local attachments.
							Better homes. The farmer's home, too, has greatly changed in the past two decades.
								New and better farmhouses everywhere meet the eye. The railroads, during the last
								fifteen years, have done a large business in carrying lumber for building purposes
								from Washington and Oregon to the farming sections of the western half of the upper
								Mississippi Valley, while the eastern half has obtained its supply from sources
								farther east. This lumber has gone into new farmhouses, barns, and fences. The
								perfection of the long-distance transmission line for electric current and the  building of power lines through the country, have
								introduced electricity into the homes for lighting and for power, and the electric
								light has become so cheap, so convenient, and so desirable that farmers are making
								connections whenever they can be had. Long-distance high-pressure gas lines are also
								to be found in an increasing number of the more thickly populated regions, and in
								places gas is being introduced for cooking. A furnace in the house is now becoming a
								common convenience. With a water tank, a gasoline engine or an electric pump, or
								even a windmill, running water and bathroom conveniences are possible and are now
								found in many of the newer farm homes, while the perfection of the septic tank has
								settled the problem of sewage disposal.
							As a rule, the newer farmhouses are much more attractive and are much better
								arranged than the farmhouses of a generation ago. Better furniture, better table
								appointments, and better equipment generally have been felt necessary, even where
								the house itself has not been improved. Grand Rapids upholstered furniture, white
								table-linen, Rogers Brothers silverware, and "hangings" have displaced the simpler
								furniture, red tablecloth, Sheffield knives, and lace curtains of a generation ago;
								pianos and gramophones have taken the place of the earlier organs and accordions;
								and the latest rag-time or the opera by Caruso or Calvé now take the place of the
								Gospel Hymns, once so commonly played and sung. The
								work done in the farmhouse has also greatly decreased. Both under and outer clothing
								are bought now, and not made. Coöperative creameries make the butter and the cheese.
								Laundry wagons not uncommonly call for part of the washing. Even fruits, jellies,
								and canned goods are frequently bought at the town store.
							The new rural life. The farmer's life, too, has materially
								changed. The old isolation and the narrow provincialism are rapidly ending. He and
								his wife are no longer so markedly "of the country." They, and particularly their
								children, dress much better than formerly. The family is no longer limited in motion
								by the traveling ability of its horse. The interurban trolley will now take them to
								town almost any hour. The automobile, too, which is found in greatest relative
								numbers in the farming states,1 has further extended the farmer's ability to travel. A trip to town,
								which once consumed the better part of a day, is now only a matter of an hour or so.
								It is easy to go in in the evening, after the day's work is done. The moving-picture
								show and the theater, once unknown, now offer their attractions.

							1 At the close of 1912
								the number of automobiles registered in the different states showed the following
								ratios to the total population:— 
									
										Massachusetts
										1 to 69
										Ohio
										1 to 75
										Wisconsin
										1 to 96
									
									
										Connecticut
										1 to 64
										Indiana
										1 to 52
										Minnesota
										1 to 74
									
									
										New Jersey
										1 to 50
										Illinois
										1 to 83
										North Dakota
										1 in 65
									
									
										New York
										1 to 89
										Iowa
										1 to 50
										South Dakota
										1 to 39
									
									
										Pennsylvania
										1 to 130
										Nebraska
										1 to 37
										California
										1 to 28
									
									
										Michigan
										1 to 72
										Kansas
										1 to 91
										Texas
										1 to 156
									
								
							

							
							The town movement. The most immediate effect of these many and
								almost revolutionary changes in the nature of life on the farm is that the farmer
								soon loses the home feeling, and begins to spend his income in the enjoyment of
								life. The economic success of the farmer too often proves to be his undoing. Soon
								the attractions and still greater advantages of the city attract him, and his family
								urge it, to such an extent, that he rents his farm to tenants, often closing his
								farmhouse entirely, and the whole family moves to town to enjoy its social and its
								educational advantages. The earlier movement, in the third period, was chiefly one
								of individuals; now, in the fourth period, it is chiefly one of whole families. In
								the upper part of the Mississippi Valley, in the richest of our farming regions,
								this cityward movement has become so marked that in some portions of it entire
								townships have been deserted by the old farming stock. This family movement first
								began about 1890, but within the past ten years it has gone on at a rapidly
								increasing rate.
						
						
							THE REORGANIZATION AND COMMERCIALIZING OF
								AGRICULTURE
							A new type of agriculture. This began much earlier, but did not
								become a strongly marked tendency until after about 1890. Since 1900 the change has
								become very marked. It has been caused by the general introduction of scientific
								machinery, methods, and processes; by the development
								of farm managers, capable of handling farm business on a large scale; and by a
								world-wide increase in the demand for foodstuffs, which has materially increased the
								value of all farm products. These influences have recently combined to make farming
								very profitable.
							The introduction of scientific methods and processes is due chiefly to the great
								work of our state agricultural colleges. These were first provided for by the famous
								Morrill Land-Grant Bill, passed by Congress in 1862.1 A number had begun instruction by 1870, and by 1885 many
								of these had become effective educational institutions. In 1887 Congress granted
								further national aid2 to
								establish an agricultural experiment station in connection with each of these state
								institutions, and in 18903
								the National Government granted still further additional aid to each state for the
								maintenance of these colleges. The results of these grants have been the creation of
									fifty4such institutions for
								the instruction 1 Each
									state was given 30,000 acres of public land for each Senator and Representative in
									Congress, to be used to endow a college of agriculture and mechanical arts. The
									grants varied from 90,000 acres to Delaware, to 990,000 acres to New York. In all,
									counting other recent land grants to new states for the same purpose, 11,367,832
									acres, an area one half as large as the State of Indiana, have been given to found
									and endow the agricultural colleges.
								2 The sum of $15,000 a
									year to each state, since increased to $30,000 a year, to maintain an agricultural
									experiment station in connection with the college of agriculture. 
								3The sum of $15,000 a
									year to each state, since increased to $50,000, to help maintain the agricultural
									college.
								4 One in Hawaii and one
									in Porto Rico, as well as one in each of the states.
								 of white students, and sixteen, in the South, for the
								instruction of colored students as well. Such institutions as Cornell University,
								and the state universities of Illinois, Wisconsin, and California stand as types of
								the best of these institutions, and these have been worth to these states hundreds
								of times what they have cost.

							The Department of Agriculture. Another influence of fundamental
								importance in the development of scientific methods and processes and in improving
								farm life has been the great work of the United States Department of Agriculture.
								This was established as a bureau in 1862, and created a department, with a secretary
								in the Cabinet of the President, in 1889. Its real development dates from about this
								time, while under the administration of Secretary Wilson, who was appointed in 1897
								and continued in office until 1913, the development was very rapid. From a
								department of 488 employees and costing $1,134,481 in 1889, it grew to one of 12,704
								employees and costing $21,537,781 in 1912. The work of this department has been
								far-reaching, and it has rendered greater service in advancing the public welfare
								than any other department of the National Government. The agricultural colleges have
								been stimulated into new activity; crops of all kinds have been improved; new
								methods of farming have been pointed out; new varieties of grain, trees, and stock
								have been introduced; diseases have been eradicated; and by means of experiments,
									demonstrations, publications, and lectures, a new
								interest in agricultural improvement and development has been awakened. The
								department has also been a training school in which hundreds of agricultural experts
								have been prepared for service elsewhere.
							New agricultural development. Largely as a result of the labors
								of the agricultural colleges, and of the National Department of Agriculture at
								Washington, agricultural education has been placed on a firm foundation, and
								practical and helpful assistance has been extended to farmers all over the United
								States, and in thousands of ways. Stock and seed breeding and testing have been
								developed to such an extent as to greatly increase productiveness and profits,1 while disease eradication
								among plants and animals has greatly reduced the former heavy mortality. The
								fruit-growing and dairy industries have been developed into great businesses in
								themselves. New agricultural regions have been opened; new grains and fruits
								introduced into old regions; new methods of marketing and preserving demonstrated;
								and new bookkeeping methods have been employed. Free printed matter, farmers'
								institutes, and agricultural demonstration trains have carried practical
									information1 A
									splendid illustration of this has been the development of a new seed barley, which
									has standardized the grain and doubled the yield. This was done during the past
									ten years at the University of Wisconsin, and is described in the World's Work for December, 1912. The financial gain from this new grain is
									estimated at $12,000,000 a year in Wisconsin alone. direct to the homes, and a new interest in agricultural education, both
								for adults and for children, has everywhere become prominent.
							New markets. Improvements in marketing have also contributed much
								to the changes noted in this fourth-period development. No longer, in most sections,
								do small loads have to be taken long distances to town over a muddy road to be sold
								or exchanged. Good wagon roads, branch steam roads, the interurban trolley, and the
								automobile truck have greatly changed the nature of the haul; while express trains,
								refrigerator cars, and the telegraph enable the farmer to reach the distant markets.
								The trolley car or the freight car on the farmer's siding in the afternoon is in the
								distant city in the morning. The peach-grower of western Michigan sends his peaches
								to Pittsburg and Buffalo; the garden-truck-grower of the South can market his
								products in every Northern city; the grower of watermelons in Oklahoma finds his
								markets in St. Louis, St. Paul, and Chicago; the butter-maker of Wisconsin and
								Minnesota reaches the markets of the North Central States; the orchardist and
								vineyardist of California finds his markets in the Eastern cities and in Europe; and
								the grower of apples in Oregon and Washington supplies the hotels of New York and
								Chicago with fruit. Specialization, standardization, and coöperative marketing have
								in a generation created new markets and greatly changed the nature of agricultural
								life. Farm products are no longer bartered in the village, but are sold wholesale to regular dealers in exchange for bank checks. In
								some branches of farm work the farmer has little marketing to do, he being able to
								sell his products "standing," or on the hoof or tree, to the packer or shipper,
								while elsewhere coöperative exchanges or associations, managed by the farmers
								themselves, undertake the shipping and marketing process. The old-type farmer, with
								a few fruit trees, two or three cows, and a few acres of grain, is being crowded
								more and more to the wall by the new-type farmer, of either the farm-specialist or
								the intensive-farmer type. Agriculture has progressed from the self-sufficing and
								the barter stage to that of a well-organized business undertaking, requiring
								capital, scientific knowledge, and business foresight and energy. Instead of a
								miner, getting a more or less precarious existence from the soil, the farmer has
								evolved into a manufacturer of farm products, and one employing the best machinery
								and the most approved scientific processes.
							Agricultural expansion. The remarkable development of agriculture
								in the United States during the past two decades may be seen from the table on page
								42.
							Since 1890 we have about reached the end of our good free agricultural land for
								homes, and the efforts to secure new lands have led to the proposal and development
								of large irrigation and drainage schemes, in the South and West, and under both
								state and federal
								
									TABLE, SHOWING THE RECENT DEVELOPMENT  OF AGRICULTURE
										IN THE UNITED STATES
									
										YEAR
										Yearly value per acre of ten chief crops
										Total value of farm products, at farm
										Export value of agricultural exports (at U.S. port)
									
									
										1895
										$8.12
										
										$574,398,264
									
									
										1896
										7.94
										
										689,755,193
									
									
										1897
										9.07
										$3,961,000,000
										859,018,946
									
									
										1898
										9.00
										4,339,000,000
										792,811,733
									
									
										
									
									
										1899
										9.13
										4,717,000,000
										844,616,530
									
									
										1900
										10.31
										5,017,000,000
										951,628,331
									
									
										1901
										11.43
										5,317,000,000
										857,113,533
									
									
										1902
										12.07
										5,617,000,000
										878,480,557
									
									
										
									
									
										1903
										12.62
										5,887,000,000
										859,160,264
									
									
										1904
										13.26
										6,122,000,000
										826,904,777
									
									
										1905
										13.28
										6,274,000,000
										976,047,104
									
									
										1906
										13.46
										6,764,000,000
										1,054,405,416
									
									
										
									
									
										1907
										14.74
										7,488,000,000
										1,017,396,404
									
									
										1908
										15.32
										7,891,000,000
										903,238,122
									
									
										1909
										16.00
										8,498,000,000
										871,158,425
									
									
										1910
										15.53
										9,037,000,000
										1,030,794,402
									
									
										
									
									
										1911
										15.51
										8,819,000,000
										1,050,111,604
									
									
										1912
										c. 16.10(?)
										9,299,000,000
										1,050,627,131
									
								control. The great world-wide increase in city population and in the number
								engaged in the manufacturing industries, all of whom are food and clothing consumers
								but not producers, coupled with a world-wide increase in the standard of living and
								the per capita food and clothing consumption of people, have created much greater
								demands for fruits, grains, meats, hides, cotton, and wool than heretofore. The result has been that we, as a nation, are already
								experiencing the beginnings of a time when, as the political economist states it,
								"the increase in population begins to press on the means of subsistence," and we see
								this evidenced in the constantly rising values of agricultural land and of all
								agricultural products, as well as 
									FIG. 12. FARM PROPERTY VALUES
								 shoes and clothing. Since 1900 but little new agricultural or grazing land
								has been opened, while, on the contrary, the percentage of unimproved farm lands has
								been greatly decreased. These changes are shown in the accompanying chart.
							The future. These conditions will not be temporary or transient,
								but have come to stay, and will become more pronounced with time. In the mean time
								our  population is increasing very rapidly, and this
								increase must be fed and clothed. At the present rate of increase we shall have a
								population of 150,000,000 by 1935, and 200,000,000 by 1960. How to feed such a
								population as is just ahead of us is one of the big problems for the future to
								solve. In all probability, within the lifetime of children now born, all export of
								foodstuffs will have ceased, and even the rich United States will experience a
								serious shortage of bread. In beef to eat and hides for shoes we are already
								beginning to experience such a shortage. From now on we may look upon farming as
								being a capitalized industry, calling for knowledge and executive ability, and
								attracting men of capital and brains. The man of small energy or capacity, the
								novice, the man lacking in scientific knowledge, and the man of little or no capital
								will find it increasingly difficult to avoid being pushed to the wall in the new
								agricultural business which the past quarter of a century has seen developed in our
								land.
							The reorganization and commercialization of American agriculture has been
								accompanied by two developments, each of which is causing some concern to those
								interested in the preservation of rural institutions. The first is farming as a
								business and with farms under the control of a scientific farm manager; the other is
								the marked increase in farm tenantry. Of the two, the latter is the more common and,
								from a social point of view, far the more serious.
							
							Commercial large-scale farming. Nineteen per cent of the farm
								land of the United States is to-day in farm tracts of one thousand acres or more.
								The acreage in such tracts naturally is greater in the West than in the East. Many
								of these tracts are held for speculation, and will be subdivided and sold in small
								parcels later on. This will naturally tend to increase the number of farms and
								farmers, and to decrease the average size of the farms. This subdivision of large
								estates and the creation of small farms is a good thing for the state, and may be
								expected to go on as population increases in density and farm lands increase in
								value. In places, however, the opposite tendency frequently manifests itself, and
								large areas are being bought up by companies of large capital, to be farmed under
								farm managers and according to thorough business methods. A seventeen-thousand-acre
								tract is reported near Little Rock, Arkansas; a one-hundred-thousand-acre farm, in
								southern Texas, managed along careful financial lines, has recently been
									described;1 a Chicago
								company recently drained a million acres of swamp land for rice farming in
								Louisiana; a number of British individuals and companies have recently bought up
								large areas in the South and West, for purely business farming; the Solano Irrigated
								Farms Company has recently been organized in California to farm, by scientific
								methods and as a business proposition, a tract of thirty-three thousand acres of
								rich delta land.1 See
										World's Work for January, 1913.
								Similar business farming companies now exist and are
								being organized in many parts of the country, for the purpose of farming large
								tracts of land, and according to department-store methods. In the South this means
								farming with Negro day labor; in the North and West, often with cheap foreign labor.
								It frequently results in a marked development of the acres cultivated,—new
								towns, railroads, industries, and business; but it creates new social conditions in
								rural society which call for different social, religious, and educational treatment
								from that which satisfied the needs of an earlier and simpler agricultural
								situation.
							
								PER CENT OF TOTAL ACREAGE UNDER FARMMANAGERS
								
									DIVISIONS
									1900
									1910
								

								
									1. New England States
									3.9%
									5.5%
								

								
									2. Middle Atlantic States
									3.3
									4.0
								

								
									3. East North Central States
									2.0
									2.0
								

								
									4. West North Central States
									3.3
									2.2
								

								
									5. South Atlantic States
									3.3
									3.2
								

								
									6. East South Central States
									2.0
									2.0
								

								
									7. West South Central States
									26.2
									11.6
								

								
									8. Mountain States
									35.6
									18.5
								

								
									9. Pacific States
									18.0
									15.4
								
							
							Intensive small-scale farming. On the smaller farms in the
								eastern part of the country, and in the vicinity of large cities generally, the
								intensive and diversified farming of small tracts for profit is becoming very
								common, and it is in these states that farming under a
								scientific manager is on the increase. Due to the nearness to a constantly expanding
								city market, an easily available supply of cheap labor, the short haul, and the good
								prices obtained, a small farm of twenty to forty acres there has become a good
								commercial business and a well-paying investment. Such farms are being bought up by
								investors, and in the southern New England States there are many such which pay
								well. Such farms, themselves well tilled and put to diversified market farming,
								often possess greenhouse, fruit, model dairy, piggery, and poultry departments, as
								well as vegetables and some grains. Not infrequently, however, such farms are also
								business propositions, run in connection with a city hotel, catering company, or
								group of stores, or as an investment by some well-to-do city owner. Careful accounts
								of all operations are kept. The owner, in such cases, seldom lives on the farm, and
								visits it only occasionally to inspect it or to confer with the resident manager. If
								run in connection with a hotel or catering company, waste from the kitchens is sold
								to the piggery or poultry departments of the farm, while flowers, vegetables,
								chickens, eggs, milk, and pork are sold to the catering end of the business. The
								farm on the one hand and the hotel or catering company on the other are run in
								coöperation, and each helps to make the other pay. This kind of farming, while
								excellent as a business proposition, has also resulted in social changes of great
								and far-reaching consequences for rural life. 
							
							Decreasing rural population. The decrease in the number of
								resident farm laborers actually needed, due to the use of improved machinery, or
								one-crop specialization, or both; the increased capital required to buy farm land
								and to conduct farming operations; and the buying-up of farms as an investment, to
								be managed
									FIG. 13. BLACK COUNTIES IN GEORGIA
									
									(From a bulletin of "The Georgia Club" of the State Normal
											School.) Due largely to the substitution of a Negro for a white farming
										population, due to farm tenantry.
								
								
								
									FIG. 14. PER CENT OF INCREASE IN RURAL
										POPULATION, BY STATES, 1900-1910 Note that four of the richest of the
										agricultural states lost in population
								
								in a scientific manner by a farm superintendent,
								employing cheap labor and as needed, have all alike tended to make farming more and
								more of an intensive business and less of a home-providing industry, and,
								accordingly, to both a decrease in the rural population itself and to a change in
								its character. In the South it has resulted in the substitution of a Negro for a
								white population in many counties, while in the Northern States, where the farms are
								the most valuable and where the use of improved machinery is most common, we find
								this decrease in population and change in character most pronounced. As shown by the full-page
									FIG. 15. CHANGES IN THE RURAL POPULATION
										IN EIGHT IMPORTANT AGRICULTURAL STATES
									(Nebraska, Kansas, Iowa, Missouri, Illinois, Michigan,
											Indiana, and Ohio.)On this map the counties in which the population
										decreased during the past ten years are black. Those marked with a cross show a
										population increase, but contained cities of 10,000 or more inhabitants by the
										census of 1900. In the counties left white the population also increased.
								
								 page map on page 49, giving the increase or decrease
								in the rural population by states for the decade from 1900 to 1910, four of our
								richest and most important agricultural states have actually lost in rural
								population, while the smaller map shows that many counties in the central
								agricultural belt have fewer people in the rural districts than they had ten years
									ago.1This loss in
								population is largely due to the changes which we have described as characterizing
								the fourth period of our agricultural development. From an agricultural point of
								view the loss may not be of any serious significance, and may even be a-good thing,
								but the effect of this loss on such rural institutions as the church and the school
								has been most pronounced. 
						
						
							III. FARM TENANTRY
							Recent increase. The leasing of farms to tenants is nearly
								everywhere on the increase, and is everywhere attracting the attention of thoughtful
								men. Over one third of the farms of the United States are to-day 
									TENANT FARMS IN THE UNITED STATES
									1880
										25.6%
									1890
										28.4
									1900
										35.3
									1910
										37.0%
								
								1 In Iowa the rural
									sections lost approximately 120,000 inhabitants. Rural Indiana lost 87,123, or 5.1
									per cent; and rural Missouri lost 68,716, or 3.5 per cent. In Illinois, 1113 out
									of 1592 townships i having less than 2500 inhabitants, lost in population during
									the decade 1900-1910.
								 cultivated by tenants. In the Southern States the
								percentage is higher than in the Northern States, and it is higher in the older
								Northern States than in the new states of the West. The recent increase in farm
								tenancy in fifteen of the most important agricultural states may be seen from the
								following table:—

							
								PERCENTAGE OF TENANT FARMERS
								
									STATES
									1880
									1890
									1900
									1910
								

								
									New York
									16.5
									20.2
									23.9
									20.8
								

								
									Ohio
									19.3
									22.9
									27.4
									28.4
								

								
									Indiana
									23.7
									25.4
									28.7
									30.0
								


								
									Illinois
									31.4
									34.0
									39.3
									41.4
								


								
									Iowa
									23.8
									28.1
									34.9
									37.8
								

								
									
								

								
									Michigan
									10.0
									14.0
									15.9
									15.8
								

								
									Wisconsin
									9.1
									11.4
									13.5
									13.9
								

								
									Minnesota
									9.1
									12.9
									17.3
									21.0
								

								
									
								

								
									Nebraska
									18.0
									28.2
									35.2
									36.8
								

								
									Kansas
									16.3
									24.7
									36.9
									38.1
								

								
									Missouri
									27.3
									26.8
									30.5
									29.9
								

								
									Oklahoma
									
									
									43.8
									54.8
								

								
									Georgia
									44.9
									53.6
									59.9
									65.6
								

								
									Alabama
									46.8
									48.6
									57.7
									60.2
								

								
									Texas
									37.6
									41.9
									49.7
									52.6
								

							
							The chart on the opposite page shows the same thing graphically, for each of the
								states, but by acreage instead of by the number of farms.
							Recent change in character. Not only is the percentage of tenancy
								increasing, but a significant change in the character of the tenants has also
								recently begun
								
									FIG. 16. ACREAGE OF ALL LAND IN FARMS
										CLASSIFIED BY CHARACTER OF TENURE OF OPERATOR, 1910
								
								 to manifest itself in certain states and regions. This
								change in the character of the farm tenants is likely to become one of the marked
								features of the fourth period of our agricultural development, and needs to be
								described somewhat fully.
							The migrations of foreign-born to the United States before about 1882 were chiefly
								from the north and west of Europe,—English, Irish, Germans, and Scandinavians.
								Many of these settled in the states of the then Northwest, and contributed much to
								their development and strength. About 1882 the character of our immigration began to
								change in a very remarkable manner, and, after about 1890, this change became very
								marked. The Germans practically stopped, the Irish and Scandinavians decreased, and
								the English and Scotch turned to Canada. In their place came a rapidly increasing
								number of people from the south and east of Europe,—southern Italians,
								Sicilians, Huns, Poles, Russians, Slovenians, Bulgarians, Servians, Croatians,
								Dalmatians, and Roumanians. Japanese, also, came for a time in numbers to the states
								of the Pacific Coast. After about 1900, educated Finns from the north and poor
								Russian Jews from the east of Europe, alike driven out by Russian persecutions; and
								Greeks, Syrians, and Armenians from the south and east, have come to us in rapidly
								increasing numbers.
							The effect of this change, during the past decade, is shown by the following
								table:—
							
							
								TABLE, SHOWING THE CHANGES IN TEN YEARS INTHE
									DISTRIBUTION OF THE FOREIGN-BORN
								
									COUNTRY OF BIRTH
									Per center of the total
								
								
									1900
									1910
								

								
									Northwestern Europe
									67.8
									49.9
								

								
									England and Wales
									9.0
									7.1
								

								
									Scotland
									2.3
									1.9
								

								
									Ireland
									15.6
									10.0
								

								
									Germany
									27.2
									18.5
								

								
									Scandinavian States
									10.4
									9.3
								

								
									Netherlands
									1.2
									1.3
								

								
									France
									1.0
									0.9
								

								
									Switzerland
									1.1
									0.9
								

								
									Southern and Eastern Europe
									17.7
									37.4
								

								
									Spain and Portugal
									0.4
									0.6
								

								
									Italy
									4.7
									9.9
								

								
									Greece
									0.1
									0.7
								

								
									Russia and Finland
									6.2
									12.8
								

								
									Austria-Hungary
									6.2
									12.4
								

								
									Balkan States
									0.1
									0.7
								

								
									Turkey
									0.1
									0.6
								

								
									Canada
									11.4
									9.0
								

								
									Mexico
									1.0
									1.6
								

								
									China and Japan
									1.0
									0.9
								

							

							The southern and eastern Europeans are of a very different type from the Germans,
								English, Scotch, and Scandinavians who preceded them. These earlier peoples were
								from lands where general education and a relatively high degree of civilization
								prevailed. They were intelligent, thrifty, and law-abiding. The later migrations do
								not manifest these characteristics so strongly. They are thrifty but ignorant, and
								usually wretchedly poor; they come from countries where
								popular education and popular government have as yet made but little headway; they
								are often lacking in initiative and self-reliance; and they lack the Anglo-Teutonic
								conceptions of law and order, and the Anglo-Saxon conception of government by
								popular will. The poorest and least foresighted of them have settled in our cities
								and in the mining and manufacturing districts, and form the cheap labor of the land.
								The more intelligent and progressive have pushed on to the westward, and have turned
								to agricultural employment. This has been particularly the case with the Italians,
								the Slavs, and those from Turkish territory. The Japanese and the Chinese in the
								West have also largely turned to agriculture. The map of the United States on the
								opposite page shows the distribution of the foreign-born. The heavy percentage of
								foreign-born in the strictly agricultural and rural states of the West, as well as
								in the manufacturing states of the East, is worthy of note.
							New tenants. It is these more recent arrivals — south
								Italians, Austro-Huns, Poles, Slavs, Bulgars, Armenians, and Japanese — who
								are now beginning to take the place as farm tenants, in the Northern States, of the
								well-to-do farmer previously described. In all of the Northern States we find them,
								though not in all counties or regions. The movement of these peoples to the farms is
								probably as yet only in its beginnings. These same people are also pushing on to the
								new lands of the West, where they are helping to
								
									FIG. 17. PERCENTAGE OF FOREIGN-BORN WHITES, AND NATIVE WHITES
										OF FOREIGN OR MIXED PARENTAGE COMBINED, IN THE TOTAL POPULATION. 1910
								
								 open up farms, often on a large scale.1 The Italians are rapidly
								pushing into the agricultural states of the South, where they are beginning to
								displace the less energetic Negro farmer. Many of these new people have been peasant
								farmers in Europe, they know how to handle farm work, they are used to a much lower
								standard of living than the American farmer or farm hand will endure, and frequently
								live in wretched poverty that they may rear their families and save enough to buy,
								eventually, a farm of their own.
							At first these people are employed as farm laborers, little shacks on the corners
								of the farm being constructed for them to live in. The next step is the tenant
								stage, the owner leasing the farm to them to manage. Sometimes the owner remains in
								the farmhouse and enjoys the leisure; very often, though, he closes the farm home
								and moves to town with his family. There he lives on his income and enjoys the
								pleasures of city life. The new tenants are at first too poor to furnish machinery
								or much equipment, so they lease a furnished farm at a share or a fixed-cash rental.
								Share tenantry soon changes to cash tenantry, for the reason that the owner, who has
								moved to town, is unable to1In California, for example, 29.7 per cent of the farmers are
									foreign-born whites, and 3.5 per cent are foreign-born non-whites. Of the
									foreign-born whites, all of the above-mentioned nationalities are found, there
									being in 1910, for example, 2457 Italian farmers, 1816 Japanese, and about 9000
									from countries to the south and east of Europe. The climate and agriculture of the
									South and of the west coast of the United States are so suited to Mediterranean
									peoples that we may expect to see them come in increasing numbers.
								
								
									(Courtesy, Rural Manhood.)
									
									One of four trolleys in a Massachusetts train
								
								
									(Courtesy, Sunset Magazine.)
									
									The lecture car in a California demonstration train.
									
									UNIVERSITY EXTENSION IN AGRICULTURE
								
								
								
									When the colonists first came.
								
								
									The first house.
								
								
									One of the later dwellings.
									
									NEW FARM WORKERS AND OWNERS
									
									An Italian agricultural settlement in Arkansas. The picture below was taken
										fourteen years after the two above. This shows well the way in which South
										Europeans slowly evolve into American farmers of the home-builder type. For all
										such, rural education of a very practical kind is needed.
								
								oversee the work of a share tenant. As the farmer and
								his family find their wants expanding and the cost of living moving upward, the
								tendency is to re-lease the farm only to the highest bidder, and to make as few
								improvements as possible. During the growing season the tenant has little or
								nothing, and the increasing cash rental frequently leaves him with little surplus
								after the crops are sold and the debts have been paid. If the lease is not renewed
								on what the tenant considers good terms, he takes his tools and such family as he
								may have, and moves on. This condition creates a transient tenantry, who have but a
								passing interest in the local institutions of rural society, and the social and
								educational consequences of this change, as will be pointed out in the following
								chapters, are very great.
							The Southern Negro tenant. In the Southern States the
								introduction of Negro tenantry has followed largely as a result of unintelligent
								farming, which has in turn resulted in soil exhaustion. Due to decreasing crops the
								former owners have lost their lands to money-lenders, and tenantry farming has
								resulted. Cotton becomes the one crop, and the economic and social results are
								pathetic. The crop is mortgaged to obtain seed and means to live on during the
								growing period, the yield and profits are small, the tenants move from farm to farm
								in the hope of better luck, and society becomes stratified into landlord, tenant,
								and money-lending merchant. In the exclusive wheat and
								corn regions of the Northern States, and in the hay regions of the Northeastern
								States, we find similar conditions beginning to manifest themselves.
							The intermittent farm laborer. With the development of intensive
								agriculture near the large labor markets, or with farm specialization as a business
								undertaking elsewhere, the Negroes in the South and these new peoples in the North
								and Far West form the cheap farm labor which is "taken on" and "let off," as needed.
								If the farm is a business investment of some non-resident owner, he not infrequently
								employs a manager with an agricultural education and an automobile, who manages the
								farm on a salary, and by the intermittent employment of such cheap labor as may be
								necessary. Not infrequently the owner is himself the manager, and conducts his farm
								on some such plan.
							The fourth-period changes. Omitting remote and sparsely settled
								regions, and omitting the small, partially self-sufficing, and somewhat independent
								farmer who lives in the country largely from choice, the third or commercial and
								home-building stage has now everywhere been reached in the development of our
								American agriculture. Somewhere, in practically every agricultural state, these
								third-period conditions are in turn giving way to the fourth-period conditions,
								though the latter naturally have not, as yet, been fully evolved in all sections.
								The commercialization of agriculture has come in all except the remote regions, or
								regions inhabited by poor, unintelligent, and provident
								people. In such regions and among such people the self-sufficing stage may, as yet
								in part, prevail. The urbanization of rural life has also come, to a greater or less
								degree, to all except the remote or sparsely settled regions. In some states and in
								many counties, the tenantry problem, and especially foreign tenantry, has not as yet
								arrived; in others the beginnings only are to be found, and may be scarcely
								recognized as yet; in others the change is in full swing, and the original farmers
								of entire neighborhoods have been replaced by the new tenant class. The agricultural
								consequences of these changes may not be very significant; the educational and
								social consequences, however, are very important and far-reaching.
							With the increasing values for good farm lands, and the increasing use of expensive
								farm machinery, each decade it becomes harder for a man without capital to engage in
								farming as an owner. Values, wages, and the conditions of farming now favor the
								property-owning class of farmers, and the farm-laboring class tends to become more
								and more like the factory laborer in the city. This brings the old question of the
								relations of capital and labor into rural life, to be worked out in agriculture as
								well as in the manufacturing industries.
							Having now described, at some length, the historical development of American
								agriculture, and the vast changes in rural life which have come as a consequence of
								this development, we shall, in succeeding chapters, point out the great and
								far-reaching social consequences of these changed
								conditions, and then show the relation of these changes to the problems surrounding
								the improvement of the rural school.
							
								QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
								What is meant by the old isolation practically ending?
								Estimate the time- and labor-saving effect of the introduction of the new
									rural conveniences, described on pp. 32-33.
								How rapidly are the homes in your neighborhood being transformed in the manner
									described on pp. 33-34?
								Explain the change, in the cityward movement, from an individual movement in
									the second and third periods to a family movement in the fourth period.
								How far has the commercialization of agriculture progressed in your community
									or county?
								Where do your farmers find their markets?
								About how much capital would be required to buy a good farm in your
									neighborhood? how much capital would it take to run it a year; and about what
									would be the value of its output?
								Is the rural population in your county increasing or decreasing? If so,
									why?
								Is it changing in character? If so, how?
								Have southern Europeans begun to come into the county, as farmers? If so, what
									races? How do they live and farm?
								How far have the fourth-period changes evolved in your county?
								Have you different communities in the county which typify second-, third-, and
									fourth-period conditions? Have you also intermediate types?
								Have specialization, standardization, and coöperative marketing become common
									in your county as yet? In what lines?
							
						
					
					
						
						CHAPTER IIIEFFECTS OF THESE CHANGES ON RURAL SOCIETYAND
							RURAL INSTITUTIONS
						UP to very recently rural social life and institutions have always
							possessed certain marked and very definite characteristics, but where the changes
							which have characterized the fourth period in the development of American agriculture,
							as described in the preceding chapter, have taken place, they have materially changed
							the nature of rural society and have undermined the old rural social institutions. The
							effects of these changes have been most marked with reference to (1) rural social
							life, (2) local government, (3) the rural church, and (4) the rural school. These we
							shall next consider, in order.

						
							I. RURAL SOCIAL LIFE
							Early social life. During the early pioneer period this was very
								limited. Isolation and loneliness were the rule, except where a little settlement
								existed. With the coming of more people and the development of roads and villages,
								local intercourse became easier and more common, and this soon developed into what
								may be termed rural society. There were barn-raisings, husking- and quilting-bees,
								sugaring-offs, spelling-matches, singing-schools, literary societies, weddings, funerals, dances, parties, and church "socials," as well
								as prayer-meetings, and Sunday school and Sunday church, to which farmers and their
								families came from miles around. Generally speaking, all were admitted to these
								local social gatherings. The people knew one another, formed a homogeneous group,
								and often maintained close social relationships. Their children attended the same
								district school, grew up together, and intermarried. It was not uncommon, a score of
								years ago, to find most of the people of an old established community related to one
								another. This is still the case in those older communities which have not as yet
								experienced many of the fourth-period changes, but it is much less common than it
								used to be. 

							New and larger interests. With the urbanization of rural life, as
								described in the preceding chapter, there has been a marked breaking-up of this
								close social relationship in the rural communities. The barn-raisings, husking- and
								quilting-bees, spelling-matches, and singing and literary societies have all
								disappeared, and the church social has declined in importance. The urbanization
								process has also greatly changed the farmer himself. He is no longer so peculiar in
								his dress, his manners, or his speech, and the newspapers have largely ceased to
								make fun of him or to caricature him. The daily metropolitan newspaper, the
								illustrated monthly magazine, public education, the steam train, the interurban
								trolley, and the automobile, as well as the many inventions and discoveries of
								science, have opened up a new world to the farmer, his
								wife, and his children. New and larger interests now occupy their minds; local
								social relationships interest them less; larger and more distant matters interest
								them more. Their range of acquaintances has increased; they cannot know the many so
								well as they once knew the few. The farmer comes to feel himself a part of a larger
								society,—a county, a state, or the nation, rather than of a district or a
								township,—and he takes an interest in the affairs of the larger unit. Farm
								specialization, scientific management, and improved machinery have given him more
								time to read and to think, and more time for personal enjoyment, and he travels
								farther and more. The result has been a great widening of personal relationships and
								a marked weakening of the old local personal ties.
							City connections. The literary and social clubs and the fraternal
								orders of the towns now count many farmers and their wives as members. City
								connections—financial, professional, social, political, and
								religious—are established. The children attend the high school in the
								neighboring town or city, copy town ways and dress, and form new friendships there.
								The young farmer, with his automobile, begins to call on the city girls, and the
								farmer's daughters establish city social connections. The social horizon is soon
								greatly enlarged. The increasing wealth of the farmer and the better education of
								his children have made both his son and his daughter acceptable socially where they
									would not have been received a generation ago.
								Marriages are accordingly made at a much greater distance than formerly, and with
								new social classes.

							Enjoyment of life. As prosperity comes to the farmer, he begins
								to enjoy life more. He goes on a cheap excursion somewhere, and soon establishes the
								vacation habit. We next find him spending the winter with his son or daughter "in
								town" or in some distant city, leaving the farm in the care of a hired man. Soon a
								trip to Florida, Texas, or California during the "off season" is not considered too
								far. From the middle of December to the middle of March, many of the boarding-houses
								and cheaper-rate hotels of Los Angeles and vicinity are crowded with farmers and
								their wives from the Middle West, who have gone to California to spend the winter
								season. They crowd the sight-seeing trolleys, visit the orchards and the beaches,
								and travel on the day trains to see and comment on the farms and ranches they pass.
								The great increase in land and produce values, together with the increase in acreage
								production due to scientific methods and management, make the farmer feel that he
								can afford these pleasures. Not infrequently he goes home, sells out, and moves to
								some new place he has seen in his travels. In any case he returns from his trips a
								broader-minded man, with new thoughts and new interests, and more a citizen of the
								world than of a county.

							Tenantry and social life. In communities where there has been an
								introduction of foreign farm tenantry the old rural
								social life still more rapidly disintegrates. The old families retain their
								friendships and maintain social relationships with one another, but there are few
								social relations established with the new tenants. The old families frequently
								resent their intrusion into the neighborhood. "Calls" are limited
									FIG. 18. AVERAGE VALUE OF FARM PROPERTY>
								almost entirely to cases of sickness or death, and both parties to the
								employing or leasing contract understand that it is to be a business and not a
								social relationship. Those who remain on the neighboring farms lose their old
								loyalty to the rural neighborhood and to rural institutions, and one by one follow
								their neighbors to town, or practically withdraw from the neighborhood social life.
								In the Southern States, as the blacks come in the whites move out, and the
									complexion of the country changes rapidly to black.
								By the migration of whole families the country is drained alike of the energy of
								youth and the experience of age, and the rural districts, in consequence, experience
								a social, political, and religious degeneration. One of the most important social
								questions now facing those interested in rural welfare is how to prevent this change
								and preserve the old life standards.
						

						
							II. LOCAL GOVERNMENT
							Loss of interest. The effect of these fourth-period changes on
								local government is also marked. With the development of new and larger interests in
								things beyond the rural community, the rural resident gradually loses interest in
								the things at home. As he becomes a citizen of the world rather than of a school
								district or township, the world's work interests him much more, and the government
								and the petty questions of the school district and the township interest him much
								less. Questions and elections which once seemed all-important to him now too often
								seem of such small significance that he is unwilling to take the time to go to the
								meeting or to the polls. The larger and more important his farm business, the more
								he reads and travels, and the broader his interests become, the less he is likely to
								take any real interest in the small affairs of local government. The effects of this
								change in rural outlook are seen in the decline in importance of and attendance at,
								and often the entire abolition of the annual
								school-district meeting; the decline in attendance at and interest in the annual
								town and township meetings; the difficulty in securing good men to serve as local
								school or township officials; and the small percentage of voters who take the
								trouble to vote at these local elections, unless there is some local fight
								involved.
							The new tenants and government. As foreign farm tenantry is
								introduced, the effect on local self-government becomes even more marked. The
								movement of the older home-builder type of families to town, leaving the farms in
								the hands of the newer class of tenants, results in a great dearth of personality in
								many rural districts. In marked contrast with the farmer he displaces,—
								strong, opinionated, virile, deeply conscious of his personal worth, and deeply
								interested in political affairs,—the newcomer is too often docile,
								subservient, and without decided opinions on any question. If the new tenant is of
								south European stock, he is almost devoid of the Anglo-Saxon conceptions of the
								importance of local self-government, and he is naturally but little interested in
								our forms of government or our political life. The lack of ownership of any
								property, and often the expectation of but a transient residence, naturally
								contribute to the lack of interest. These conditions are far from universal, yet in
								many rural communities the change has progressed so far that there is now no longer
								enough of the older residential class remaining to carry on the work of local
								
									FIG. 19. THE POLISH FARMERS'-DAY POSTER
								self-government, and these newer tenants are, in such communities, being
								elected to fill offices in local government for which at best they are but poorly
									prepared. José Cardoza, Francesco Bertolini, and
								Petar Petarovich are elected as school directors; Nels Peterson as township clerk;
								and Alexis Lodowsky as township trustee. The process is of course educative to these
								newcomers, though a little hard on local government. The wonder is that they do as
								well as they do.
						

						
							III. THE CHURCH
							The rural church. The rural church, perhaps more than any other
								rural institution, has felt the effects of these recent social changes. Everywhere
								we read of the decline in influence and of the dying-out of the rural church, and
								everywhere thoughtful men look almost hopelessly at the problem, wondering what the
								future will be. The church, so long secure in its position as the very center of the
								community life, is now awakening, Rip Van Winkle like, to a realization that its
								whole world has changed and that the old conditions, under which it once held almost
								undisputed sway, are now gone, perhaps forever.
							The New England influence. The early settlers in all of the New
								England and Middle Colonies were deeply religious by nature. Most of them had come
								to this country because of religious motives; religion and learning were to them
								very vital matters, and a deep religious interest has always been one of their
								marked characteristics. While religion was not so vital a matter with the settlers
								in the Southern Colonies, it nevertheless played an important part. Practically all
								of the early settlers, too, were adherents of some one
								of the branches of the Protestant faith.

							As these people pushed westward after the close of the Revolutionary War, they
								carried their native institutions with them, and the Northern people, in particular,
								gave a religious impress to all of the new states in which they settled. The
								settlement of northern Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa, as well as of southern
								Michigan and Wisconsin, was but a repetition of the earlier New England migrations
								into New York. Trains of wagons carrying families from some town in the East, and
								taking their minister with them, poured into the then wilderness or on out onto the
								prairies. New settlements in the West were the children of old settlements, often of
								the same name, in the East. Everywhere they created anew their New England
								institutions, chief among which were the town meeting, the church, and the school.
								In the course of time, meeting-houses were built all over the territory settled by
								these people. Sometimes their churches were built in the little villages which
								formed the trading center for a rural neighborhood, and sometimes they were located
								at the crossing of roads in the country. Methodist, Christian, Presbyterian,
								Baptist, and Congregational were among the chief denominations established. These
								churches became prominent rural institutions, and once exercised a very important
								social and religious influence.
							Large influence of the early church. During this period of our
								early development the church was a much more powerful
								factor in the lives of both old and young than it is to-day. The minister was
								everywhere respected and looked up to. The young were trained to go to church and to
								Sunday school, and Sunday was observed generally as a day of rest and religious
								service. A religious sanction for acts of conduct was frequently
									FIG. 20. TYPICAL ONE-ROOM RURAL CHURCHES
								set forth, and wrong actions by members of the community were severely
								frowned upon by the older members. The communities were small and homogeneous, and
								every one's actions were made a matter for community discussion and reproof, and to
								a degree almost unknown to-day. The home, too, was more strict, and exercised a
								greater directing and restraining influence over the children than is the case
								to-day. Courtesy, respect, proper demeanor, obedience, and honesty were inculcated.
								All of this was highly educative, and served to regulate the actions of both old and
								young.
							Early religious intensity. Under such conditions there was,
								naturally, no rural-church problem of any consequence.
								Church membership was the rule, and both men and women not only had pronounced
								convictions as to the importance of religion, but also as to the relative worth of
								the churches of the village or of the rural community to which they belonged. Each
								was a defender of his or her church; there was much said about the only sure way to
								salvation; and ministers not infrequently proved, to the satisfaction of themselves
								as well as of most of their congregation, that the members of other sects were lost
								souls. The natural combative nature of men drew them into the contest, while the
								struggle for leadership among the different denominations awakened much interest and
								gave the members engaged in it much personal satisfaction. The strong individualism
								and emotionalism of the time, the limited interests, and the common conception of
								the church as the dispenser of individual salvation, made it appeal strongly to the
								majority of rural and village people during the earlier periods of our agricultural
								development. The few to whom the sectarian strife and the strong emotionalism of the
								time did not appeal of course belonged to the "non-elect" or the "totally depraved,"
								and were dismissed with but little concern. The failure was of course with them; it
								could not be with the church.
							The intellectual revolution. Since those simple earlier days the
								whole spirit of our life has changed, and the changes have come so rapidly and have
								been of such a fundamental nature that they have shaken
								the church to its very foundations. Power-machinery has changed industry from an
								individual to a social undertaking; steam and electricity have revolutionized
								thinking, as well as industrial life; the restless questioning spirit of science has
								entered into all phases of intellectual life, and the old theological security of
								the church has been swept aside; and the change from guesswork and luck farming to
								scientific farming has had its counterpart in the change from emotional enthusiasm
								to intellectual calculation. The new science of psychology, too, has come in to
								destroy the old conception of the soul, to show the interdependence of body, mind,
								and spirit, and to point out that to save a man's soul you must first save the man;
								while the new education has emphasized guidance and helpfulness rather than
								repression in dealing with the young. The old talk of the "only church" has
								vanished, carrying with it the old theological debates. The old zeal to get converts
								to build up "our church" is also almost gone, as it is realized now that one may
								lead a helpful religious life in connection with any church. Still more, it is now
								fully realized that church membership and a religious life are no longer necessarily
								synonymous terms. Personal character and the general level of our moral life are
								high to-day among the typical American farming class, but the moral strength is no
								longer coupled with a theological interest, and church relationship is no longer
								considered as a necessary prerequisite to it. Religion is now felt by many to be less vital than formerly, while economic life and
								success on earth are now worth more to them. The urbanization of rural life has
								created new interests, particularly for the young people, and the great expansion of
								world interests has given the farmer new points of view.
							Social nature of the old Sunday meeting. The old-time Sunday
								meeting was an important social as well as a religious affair. After the service a
								form of social reception was commonly held, the sermon was discussed, and social
								amenities exchanged. The old families had their regular seats, and there was a
								family loyalty to the church, as an important neighborhood institution. There was a
								pride in the church edifice, too, on the part of the people, analogous to that which
								the farmer of the home-building type took in his home, his barn, and his acres. With
								the dying-out of the old theological and denominational zeal, and with the
								ushering-in of the changes in living which have marked the fourth period of our
								agricultural development, these conditions have rapidly changed. The theological
								abstractions have ceased to interest; the moralizing to attract. The telephone, the
								rural-mail delivery, the trolley, and better roads have destroyed the old isolation,
								which made the meeting-house a social center as well as a place of worship.
							Dying churches. During the past thirty years thousands of
								churches have died from exhaustion. Some have died because the old families which
								once supported them have left; many others because, due
								to a decline in religious interest, there was no longer sufficient attendance or
								support to maintain them. No one section has a monopoly of this mortality.
								Everywhere, from Maine to California, it is the same story. It has been asserted
								that to-day half the population of a dozen states almost never goes to church; while
								of Illinois, the very center of the agricultural life of the northern part of the
								nation, it has been asserted that there are more communities without the gospel than
								in any other state in the Union. Studies of the rural-church problem have been made
								in the New England States, New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Georgia, and
								other states. Everywhere the results are about the same. At the Michigan Rural-Life
								Conference in 1911, it was stated that there were 10,000 dead rural churches in
								Illinois; 10,000 more about to die; and 500 already abandoned. One of the important
								denominations of the Southern States recently reported 1032 out of 3500 rural
								churches as without pastors, while 1600 of the 3500 churches had had no additions
								during the year by confession of faith. In the Methodist Church, for example, which
								is perhaps the most widely spread rural denomination, there has been a great
								consolidation of churches and circuits in the Northern States, since 1900, made
								necessary by these new conditions. A number of causes for this state of affairs
								exist. In part they are related to the great changes in the nature of rural life
								which we have previously traced; in part they are also
								due to a change in attitude toward the old religious problems.
							Problems which the church faces to-day. The church, in the mean
								time, has done little to meet these 
									FIG. 21. AN OVER-CHURCHED INDIANA
										TOWNSHIP
									
									Total population about 1300, half of whom are in the central village. Ten
										churches, seven different denominations. This is a rather typical condition;
										much worse conditions can be found in many counties.
								new life conditions. Piety has remained largely an isolated thing,
								instead of being made an expression of earnest human life; creed has been exalted
								above character and good works; while denominationalism has divided the people and prevented a united fight against the real devils
								of our modern days,—drunkenness, vulgarity, licentiousness, ignorance, and the
								devils within one's self. The false conceptions of the world as one of sin and
								corruption; the attempt at repression instead of guidance in dealing with the young;
								of religion as something external and apart from daily life; and the exaltation of
								the clergy,—these have all alike tended to isolate the church and to divorce
								religion from the people.
							The church finds itself in an even worse predicament in those regions where farm
								laborers or tenants of the newer type of immigrants are found. These newcomers,
								nearly all of whom are, nominally, at least, members of the Roman or Greek Catholic
								churches, find little or nothing in these old Protestant churches which appeals to
								them. They know nothing of their history, and neither understand nor care for their
								service. Their needs are essentially social and not religious, and the old
								Protestant churches, face to face with new peoples and new problems in an altered
								world, and with no program for social service worthy of the name, know not how to
								minister to this poor, ignorant, and landless class.
							Great potential usefulness, nevertheless. It is well for us to
								understand that the great changes in living which have taken place have had their
								effect on the churches as well as on other social institutions. It is especially
								important that the plight in which the church finds
								itself be understood, because the church is entirely too important an institution to
								lose. The day when it stood first is perhaps past, but it still remains one of our
								greatest social institutions, and with a possible usefulness far beyond its present
								rather limited service. Other institutions lack the permanence and the historic past
								of the church, as well as its spirit of sacrifice and its consecration to service.
								When the church can be awakened to a realization of its opportunities, as has been
								done in a few places, it stands almost first among the institutions of society for
								the upbuilding of the community and for the improving of its moral tone. Once the
								church held such a position by natural right; to-day it can hold it only by
								successful competition.
							The social mission of the rural church. If the church is to be
								strong and wield much influence, it must labor to build up the community rather than
								itself; it must look into the future, as well as into the past; and must first make
								of itself an efficient earthly institution if it is to render a real spiritual
								service. The rural minister needs economic and agricultural knowledge more than
								theological, that he may use the economic and agricultural experiences of his people
								as a basis for the building-up of their ethical life; he needs educational
								knowledge, that he may direct his efforts with the young along good pedagogical
								lines; and the church as an institution needs to study carefully the rural-life
								problem, and to plan a program of useful service along
								good educational and sociological lines. Unless this is done, the church will bear
								but little relationship to a living community; its influence on the young will be
								small; and its mission of moral and religious leadership will be forgotten by the
								people. In a succeeding chapter (v) a few noteworthy examples of such reconstructed
								churches will be described.
							The teacher and the church problem. It is important, too, that
								the rural or village teacher recognize the critical nature of the rural-church
								problem, and see it as a part of the community educational problem. Because of the
								importance of this, the greatly changed conditions which face the rural and village
								churches to-day have been described at some length. The decline in influence of
								these churches serves to modify the whole rural educational problem, and
								consequently to throw a much greater burden upon the rural and small village
								schools. In proportion as the church declines in social, moral, and religious
								influence, other community forces must take its place and do its work.
							Chief among these stands the school. It, too, has been hard-pressed by the great
								economic and social changes which have marked the third and fourth periods of our
								agricultural development, and the social and educational demands now made upon it
								are very much greater than they were a generation or two ago. It, too, generally
								speaking, has responded but little to the changed conditions, and with the result
								that it, too, has been left behind in the progress of our civilization. Once an important rural-community institution, it has
								to-day, in part, lost its former hold, and, like the church, too often fails to
								serve because it has not changed to meet new rural-life conditions.
							In the next chapter we shall consider the effects of these great economic and
								social changes on the rural school, and set forth something of the condition in
								which it finds itself to-day.

							
								QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
								What changes in social relationships are noticeable in the rural communities
									you know best?
								How much do the farmers of your community travel?
								What has been the general effect of town life on the families which have left
									the farm and moved to town to obtain the educational and social advantages found
									there?
								What has been the general effect on the rural life of the replacement of these
									families by tenants?
								What is the moral level of the villages and rural communities you know best?
									Has there been a change recently for the better or the worse?
								How much importance do the people of your community now attach to:—
									(a) The annual school-disctrict meeting, or election?
									(b) The annual town or township meeting, or election?
								Under what circumstances has either had a large attendance recently?
								How many churches per family or per adult male are there in your
									community?
								What percentage of the community attend them?
								Judging them as community social institutions, what grade in social efficiency
									would you give them?
								In how far is the social aspect of the Sunday meeting still retained in your
									community?
								Calculate the number of families to each church in the Indiana township shown
									in Figure 21, and the cost per family for anything like proper maintenance.
								Are the churches gaining or losing? Why?
								What changes in church methods are required to meet present conditions?
							
						
					

					
						
						CHAPTER IVEFFECTS OF THESE CHANGES ON THE RURAL SCHOOL
						Origin of the district school.The rural or district school arose
							originally as essentially a local community undertaking. In New England it arose as a
							part of the struggle for district rights, as opposed to the control of the old central
							town. The unity of the town was broken, and local district schools, with full local
							rights in the matter of taxation and control, followed as a consequence. Everywhere to
							the westward, where the plan of district organization was carried by New England
							people, the district system and the district school arose in response to community
							needs. The simplicity and adaptability of the district system to community interests
							and to the needs of the pioneer settlements were strong features of it. Wherever half
							a dozen families were located near enough to one another to make coöperation for the
							purpose possible, and where an interest in the maintenance of a school existed, the
							district-organization law permitted such to meet together, to vote to organize a
							district school, to elect three trustees or school directors to manage it in the
							interests of the community, and to vote a tax on themselves or their property to
							maintain the school for the length of time decided upon. The organization
								proceedings were simple and easy. Communities which
							desired schools could organize them; communities which did not could let them
							alone.
						At first a purely local undertaking. When a school had once been
							decided upon, it became, to a marked degree, a community undertaking. The parents met
							and helped to build the schoolhouse, and hew out and install the furniture; they
							determined how long they would maintain the school; they frequently decided whom they
							desired as teacher, 
								FIG. 22. A TYPICAL EARLY SCHOOL INTERIOR,
									I.
							and how much they would pay the teacher in wages; and they all helped to
							provide the teacher with board and lodging by means of the now obsolete "boarding-
							around" arrangements. In these earlier days there was no body of school law of any
							consequence; no county school authorities to supervise the instruction of the teacher
							or the acts of the school trustees; almost no state educational authorities; no body
							of educational theory to serve as a guide; and no conception of education as an
							important function of the state. Schools were essentially
							local affairs, directly related to local needs and local conceptions; and the extreme
							simplicity and democracy of the district system, and its adaptability to pioneer
							conditions, made it the natural system of the early pioneer period of our
							development.
						The demand for state schools.With the beginning of the second
							period of our agricultural development, we find a new interest in education beginning
							to manifest itself in all of the Northern States. By 1835 the ferment was working; in
							some states it had begun to work still earlier. With the passing of the pioneer
							period; the general full attainment of manhood suffrage; the introduction of machinery
							and new methods on the farms which had been rescued from the wilderness; the
							beginnings of intercommunication; the introduction of the newspaper and new political
							discussion; the growth and influence of the cities; and, a little later, the coming of
							the steam train, a new need for education began to be felt. Public men began to urge
							general education as a duty of the state, and the right to a common-school education
							began to be asserted as the natural birthright of every American boy and girl. With
							the coming of great numbers of Irish and Germans, after 1846, public education began
							also to be urged as a necessity for the protection of the Government.
						By 1835 the battle for the general taxation of every man's property for the free
							education of every man's children was on in every
							Northern State; by 1850 it was an accomplished fact in most of our states. By 1870 the
							movement had extended into the South, and free common-school systems, with state and
							county school officers to guide and direct them, were everywhere to be found. Since
							then, school districts and schoolhouses have been multiplied to such an extent that
							schools are now found everywhere, while the principle of general taxation for common
							schools has been extended to many other additional forms of public education.
						
							FIG. 23. A TYPICAL EARLY SCHOOLINTERIOR,
								II.
						
						The second-period school. The rural and the village school, as we
							find it at the close of the second period of our agricultural development, was still
							one of quite meager proportions. The district system was almost everywhere supreme,
							and the school still answered closely to the community needs and feelings. Frame
							schoolhouses were replacing the log ones, and homemade seats in rows in the room had
							displaced the bench around the walls; but otherwise there
							was no great change. In an effort to meet the needs of new population and to carry the
							school nearer and nearer to the people, the proceedings for creating new districts by
							dividing old ones were made simple and easy, and new school districts and new
							schoolhouses were rapidly multiplied. The schools established were often poor schools,
							measured by our modern standards, but the people believed in them and were satisfied
							with them. The exceedingly democratic nature of the district organization made the
							school seem "of the people, by the people, and for the people." In the annual and
							special school-district meetings the people guided their representatives, and had an
							immediate voice in the management of the school. The district organization also became
							a training school for the people in civil government, and a means for awakening in all
							a conception of the needs and benefits of public education. 
								FIG. 24. A SCHOOLMASTER OF THE OLD
									TYPE
								(After a photograph in Clifton Johnson's Old Time Schools and School
										Books.—By permission of The Macmillan Co.)
							The people enjoyed the expression of their
							wishes and opinions in the district meeting, and district organization, in those early
							days, doubtless rendered a very useful service.
						The early schoolmaster. In still other ways the early rural school
							endeared itself to the people. The earlier school-teachers were nearly all men, and
							they taught the community in which they worked, as well as the children. The teacher
							was commonly a student, thoughtful, judicious in his conduct, and devoted to his work.
							He may not have really known very much, judged by our present-day standards, but to
							the community he seemed very learned. The pupils who came to him were of all ages,
							from four or five to twenty or twenty-one. Grading, state or county courses of study,
							and uniform textbooks had not as yet been introduced. Each pupil studied about what he
							chose, and from the book he happened to have. Reading and recitations were individual;
							sums were worked on the slate and shown to the teacher. The teacher's work was to
							maintain order and to direct effort, rather than to hear pupils recite, and he strove
							to stimulate the children to make the best use of the short time they could attend the
							school. By means of the "boarding-around" arrangement, under which the teacher lived
							with each family for from one to three weeks each winter, the family came to know him
							and he them in a way not now possible, and both learned much by the contact. The
							weekly meetings of the literary society and the spelling
							contests, which were held at the school and to which the people came for miles around,
							made the old-time school a social center for the community life.
						Efficiency of the education for the time. One of the best evidences
							as to the hold these old-time district schools had on a community is the bitterness
							with which members of the older generation everywhere have opposed all attempts at a
							change in the conditions. The school, in the days of limited outlook and limited
							knowledge, was a center of the community life, and provided instruction which was then
							deemed of much value. Considering the limited needs of the time, the early rural
							school was remarkably efficient, and the recollection of this past efficiency has been
							a strong force in leading older men to oppose a change in conditions. The rural school
							has become endeared by age and by sentiment, and those who experienced its benefits
							have been most vigorous in opposing any changes in its organization. Regardless of the
							fact that practically all of the life conditions surrounding the rural school have
							since materially changed, these members of the older generation are hardest to
							convince that there is any need of a change in the school.
						Changes in rural education after about 1870. During the third
							period, and especially after about 1870, the old conditions surrounding rural and
							village education materially changed. The years following the Civil War were a period
							of great national, industrial, and agricultural
							development. Cities began to grow rapidly, and to drain off the best blood from the
							country; manufacturing of all kinds experienced wonderful development; the old trades
							and small industries of the villages began to disappear; the frontier was pushed out
							to and beyond the mountains; immigration from the north of Europe reached a maximum;
							new lands and new markets were opened up, and new crops introduced; and a wonderful
							agricultural expansion took place. Labor-saving machinery so decreased the need for
							farm labor as to cause, in many places, an actual shrinkage in the rural population.
							Life conditions also greatly changed, and the old educative influence of the home, the
							church, and the farm began rapidly to decline. New methods of procedure were
							introduced so rapidly that the old father-to-son form of instruction, which had for so
							long prevailed, gradually became inadequate. New methods of farming, calling now for
							the application of scientific knowledge, began to be introduced. All of these changes
							naturally tended to make the instruction offered in the rural school less vital than
							it had previously been.
						The change in direction. The rural and village school, too, now
							began to receive a marked change in direction. The school was gradually graded and
							reorganized. A course of study, moulded after city lines, was introduced for the
							guidance and direction of the teacher. Uniform textbooks were provided. New studies and new methods of instruction began to change the
							old emphasis. The old literary societies and spelling-bees gradually died out. The new
							normal-trained female teacher now began to make her appearance, and, after 1880, the
							displacement of the men rural teachers was rapid in all parts of the country.
						
							FIG. 25. DECREASING PERCENTAGE OF MEN
								TEACHERS
						
						This new teacher brought with her a new and a minute methodology, and the psychology
							of instruction for a time outweighed all other educational interests. In the mean time
							the division of districts went on in an effort to carry the school nearer to the
							child, and small and inefficient schools, lacking in money, equipment, and numbers,
							were everywhere multiplied to such an extent that a small one-room rural school was,
							before extent that a small one-room rural school was, before long, to be found every mile or two apart in any fairly well-settled rural
							community.
						The city-school influence. The marked development of city schools
							now began to exert an important influence. The concentration of wealth had made it
							possible, and the concentration of people of many different types had made it
							necessary, that the cities should develop a class of schools capable of meeting the
							changed conditions of life. The cities accordingly began to provide much more
							liberally for their children; high schools and supervision were added; kindergartens
							were organized; laboratory and other forms of teaching equipment were provided; and
							many of the newer branches of instruction were added, with a view to making their
							schools attractive to parents and useful to the community supporting them. The city
							schools, in consequence, soon became remarkably efficient, began to attract the
							attention of parents, and soon drew to them the best teachers and the best educational
							leaders. The larger towns also developed graded schools and a high school, secured
							good teachers, provided a good building and teaching equipment, and did what they
							could to make their schools useful and attractive as well.
						City-school ideals soon began to dominate all educational aims and practices. The
							textbooks were written more for them, and their commercial and cultural aims became of
							first importance. Education began to lean markedly toward preparation for clerical and
								professional
							
								THE DISTRICT SCHOOL—PRIMITIVE CONDITIONS
							
							
							 employments, and rural education began to lead away from
							farm life. The agricultural depression of the eighties, due largely to temporary
							overdevelopment, only stimulated this cityward tendency in education. The teacher,
							too, trained on methods in the city, came to look upon country life as a life of
							hardship and country service as a period of probation, and naturally did little or
							nothing to make the rural school minister to the needs of rural life. The poor wages
							paid rural teachers, and often the poor living conditions, only added emphasis to this
							tendency. The teacher developed little interest in the rural community, and the
							community lost interest in both teacher and school. Families so situated as to make it
							possible sent their children to the town or the city for their education, while others
							leased their farms and moved to town that they might secure better educational
							advantages for their children.
						Decline in efficiency. By the close of the third period in our
							agricultural development, the shrinkage in the rural population also began to have its
							effect on the schools. In many places there were fewer families on the farms than a
							generation before; and the families not infrequently had fewer children. The
							attendance, too, came to be limited to the younger children, the older boys and girls
							who once attended either going now to the high school in town or dropping out of
							school altogether. Schools in the rural districts began to lose materially in numbers,
							and the increasing number of small and inefficient
							schools in the different states began to attract attention. It was clearly evident to
							most observers that the rural school had lost its early importance, and that country
							people were losing their former interest in it. Soon the "rural-school problem" began
							to attract the attention of thoughtful persons, and to be discussed on the platform
							and in the educational press. The problem was early recognized, but just what to do
							about it was not so clear.
						 The rural school and the fourth-period changes. The still greater
							changes which have characterized the fourth period in our agricultural development
							have made the problem of the rural school still more acute. Had it not been for the
							state aid which has been received, and the state laws which have required the
							maintenance and support of the schools and the attendance of the children, it is
							doubtful if the condition of the rural schools to-day would be any better than the
							present condition of the rural churches. The great changes in the whole nature of
							rural life, and the reorganization and commercializing of agriculture, which have
							taken place largely since 1890, have created entirely new demands on rural education
							even in the best of communities; while the decline of rural industries and the
							decadence of the rural population in some places, and in other places the introduction
							of a poor and an uneducated foreign tenant class, have created a social problem which
							it is difficult for the rural school, organized as it is at present, to solve.  The result of these many changes is that the rural-school
							problem has become so complex that the average teacher scarcely knows what to do, or
							how to deal with the situation which confronts her; while the absolute inadequacy of
							the rural school of to-day to meet the new educational and social needs of to-morrow
							is evident to any one who has studied the problem. The situation calls for educational
							insight and leadership of a high order, and for a reorganization of rural education
							under some authority of larger jurisdiction and knowledge than that of the
							district-school trustee.
						New fourth-period demands. The many changes which have
							characterized the fourth period of our agricultural development have also created new
							demands on rural education which the rural schools have been very slow to meet. The
							great change in agricultural methods and the great increase in scientific knowledge
							relating to simple agricultural processes have created a new body of knowledge of
							fundamental importance to country people. The old traditional knowledge and methods in
							agriculture are each year being relegated to the rear, and the boy of to-day
							frequently knows more about agricultural processes than his father. New standards in
							education have been created, and new demands have been made upon the school. With the
							passing of the old home conditions, too, when the home and the farm were places where
							nearly all of the simple arts of life were practiced, the  demand for practical instruction relating to home life, to meet the changed
							conditions of living, has also come to be heard. The old limited education, based on a
							drill on the so-called fundamentals of knowledge, no longer suffices. It does not meet
							the needs of the new situation which has been created, nor is it extensive enough to
							meet modern needs. The farmer now wants high-school as well as elementary-school
							advantages for his children.
						Gradual desertion of the rural school. With the increasing ease
							with which rural people can now send their children to the town or city, generally to
							a better teacher and a better school, the competition of better education elsewhere
							has also contributed to the weakening of the old rural school. The more intelligent
							and the more commercially and agriculturally progressive the rural community, the more
							the dissatisfaction with the little district school expresses itself, and the more the
							school suffers as a consequence. The cumulative effect of these many changes has been
							manifest not only in a decline in attendance and importance of the rural school, but
							also in an increasing demand that rural education should execute a right-about-face
							and begin seriously to minister to these new needs of country life. The old subjects
							of instruction need to be reorganized and redirected, new subjects of instruction
							added, and teachers with an understanding of rural needs found and trained.
						"The strong, virile, rural school of a generation ago,"
							says a recent writer on the subject,1 "has gone, and in its place is a primary school weak in numbers and lacking
							in efficiency. School buildings are poor, unsanitary, and ill-equipped. The school
							enrollment is constantly decreasing. The supervision is wholly inadequate. The cost of
							instruction is higher than in the cities. The terms are short. The teaching body is
							immature and lacks proper training. Of the 12,000,000 rural-school children,
							constituting a clear majority of the youth of school age, less than 25 per cent are
							completing the work of the grades."
						Present inadequacy of the old education. The great changes of the
							past twenty years which have marked the urbanization of rural life have also had their
							effect on the little country school. With the hundreds of new interests which have
							been brought home to country people, and the wider contact with people and with life,
							the old type of rural-school education has ceased to satisfy as it once did. With the
							new interests entering the home, and the decline in importance of the church, new
							problems in moral as well as intellectual education have come to the front. The
							inadequacy of the old book education is gradually becoming apparent, and it is seen
							that the education of children must involve the moral and physical, as well as a new
							type of the intellectual.
						The introduction of commercialized agriculture, on 1 E. T. Fairchild, President of the
								Agricultural College of New Hampshire, and formerly State Superintendent of Public
								Instruction of Kansas.
							 the one hand, and the introduction of farm tenantry, on
							the other, have alike further complicated the problem of the rural school. Neither the
							owner nor the tenant has the same interest in the little rural school as had the
							farmer of the home-builder type, and neither is now interested in its support. As a
							result the schools have in many places declined in attendance or been closed, while in
							others the former complexion of the school population has been largely or entirely
							changed. With the changing tenantry, from one third to one half of the children are
							new to the school each year. The children change, the trustees change, and the
							interest in the maintenance of a good school declines. As the newer type of farm
							tenants comes in, the homogeneous character of the school population is broken, and a
							social problem is created which tends further to the disintegration of the rural
							school.
						Breakdown of the old administrative system. Under the stress of the
							new conditions, the old supervision of the school by district authorities has also
							completely broken down. A half-century ago it was possible for the locally-elected
							trustees or school directors to direct the teacher and to supervise the instruction
							fairly well. Aside from the discipline and the material environment there was little
							to supervise. To-day, with the newer conceptions of educational work, and the new
							social, industrial, and educational problems facing the rural school, the need for
							intelligent direction and leadership is far beyond what any but the most intelligent
								communities can supply. The rural-life problem is now
							far too complex and far too difficult to be solved by isolated local effort. Inexpert
							local authority does not have the grasp of the newer problem necessary to contribute
							much toward its solution.
						
							FIG. 26. INCREASING COST OF EDUCATION, PER
								PUPIL, INAVERAGE DAILY ATTENDANCE
						
						Increasing needs and cost. Perhaps the most serious difficulty
							which the rural schools have had to face within the past two decades has been the
							financial one. The many changes in the character of public education, which have been
							marked features of our recent development, have all tended to increase its cost, and
							this increasing cost has borne heavily on the rural
							school. Everywhere the demands of the state have increased, and parallel to this has
							been the constantly increasing cost of all living. Since about 1895 these two forces
							have united, and the effect in all parts of the United States is shown in the
							accompanying chart. The state, on its part, has been insistent that the character of
							the school should be improved, and to that end has demanded longer school terms,
							better schoolhouses and sanitary appliances, better-trained and better-educated
							teachers, and higher taxation for schools. On the other hand, the cities have rapidly
							increased their wages and other educational expenses, thus enabling them to draw off
							the best teachers from the rural districts. The teachers, too, have experienced the
							increasing cost of living, and with the possibilities open of going to the city or of
							changing to other forms of better-paid employment, have demanded and obtained better
							yearly salaries. New schoolhouses and supplies of all kinds have also cost more than
							formerly. Longer terms have been provided, and the laws of a number of states have
							recently fixed a minimum wage for teachers, and have required that rural districts
							shall also pay the tuition of such of their pupils as attend the neighboring high
							schools.
						 The burden of taxation. All of these increases in cost have meant
							increased taxation. In rural communities where the third-period conditions still
							prevail, and where the sturdy home-builder type of farmer is the rule, the increased
							prices received for farm products have made it possible
							to meet the increased rate without serious effort. On the other hand, where farm
							tenantry has come to be the rule, the burden naturally falls upon the non-resident
							owners, who are now but little interested either in maintaining or in improving the 
								FIG. 27. INCREASING LENGTH OF TERM, IN
									DAYS
							rural school. In such cases the increases have naturally been resisted. In
							regions where intensive market gardening as a business, conducted by a non-resident
							owner, or where the large corporation farm, managed as a business undertaking, has
							been created, the owners of the land are naturally not vitally interested in the
							maintenance of what often seems to them an unnecessary number of small and inefficient
							rural schools.
						
						Present plight of the rural school. The result of these many
							changes in rural-life conditions, brought about by the changing economic and social
							conditions which we have previously described more or less in detail, is that the
							rural school has lost its earlier importance and finds itself to-day in a somewhat
							sorry plight. It is no longer, generally speaking, the important community institution
							which it was forty or fifty years ago. It has largely ceased to minister, as it once
							did, to community needs; its teacher no longer plays the important part in
							neighborhood affairs that he used to play; it has lost much of its earlier importance
							as a community center; its attendance has frequently shrunk to a small fraction of
							what it once was; it finds itself in a serious financial condition; and it has been
							left far behind, educationally, by the progress which the schools of the neighboring
							towns and cities have made. Managed as it has been by rural people, themselves largely
							lacking in educational insight, penurious, and with no comprehensive grasp of their
							own problems, the rural school, except in a few places, has practically stood still.
							The increased standards for certification have, very properly, prevented the untrained
							and relatively uneducated country girl from serving as a teacher, while the
							city-trained and too often city-sick teacher, with little comprehension of rural life
							or interest in rural people, and with no training to fit her to minister to the real
							community needs, has not contributed anything of importance to the solution of the rural-school problem. This problem, tied up as it is with
							the whole rural-life problem, has now become too complex to be solved by local effort
							alone, and nothing short of a reorganization of rural education, along good
							educational and administrative lines, will meet the needs of the present and of the
							future. This reorganization it shall be our purpose, in the second part, to outline
							somewhat in detail.
						
							QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
							About when, so far as you can learn, did the schools of your community
								experience the change in direction described on pp. 90-91?
							Assuming that no state or county aid for schools had been granted, and no laws
								requiring the maintenance of schools had existed, during the past half-century, in
								what condition would the rural schools of your district be to-day? How would they
								compare in efficiency with the churches?
							How strong are your rural schools in the affections of the more intelligent
								rural people? 
							How do the number and size of the rural schools of your community compare with
								conditions ten years ago?
							Explain what are some of the new demands on rural education brought about by the
								changes of the fourth period of our agricultural development.
							Why has farm tenantry tended to prevent increased support for rural
								schools?
							In what ways has the district system of school administration broken down under
								the stress of the new conditions?
							The educational demands of the state should increase rather than decrease. If
								they do, what will be the effect on rural education? 
							Are the people of your community satisfactorily solving the rural-school
								problem, or not?
							Have you any examples in your county of revitalized and redirected rural
								schools?
							Are your rural schools centers for the community life?
						
					


					
						
						CHAPTER VRURAL LIFE AND NEEDS OF TO-DAY
						Reconstruction and reorganization necessary. The great changes
							which have taken place during the past half-century in practically all of the
							conditions surrounding rural life have created a rural-life problem of large
							dimensions, which we are now beginning to recognize and to try to solve. The mere
							enumeration of the changes which have taken place, and the statement of the condition
							in which almost all of the old-established institutions of rural society find
							themselves to-day, as given in the preceding chapters, are sufficient to show the need
							of a remodeling and a redirecting of these old institutions if they are to continue to
							render useful service. Their reconstruction and reorganization are necessary if rural
							society is to meet successfully the changed conditions of modern rural life. Temporary
							palliatives and expedients may be applied, and temporary defense work may be employed,
							and perhaps with some temporary success; but only a fundamental reorganization will
							place rural social institutions and rural life in a condition to meet effectively the
							needs of the future. Such reconstruction and reorganization ought to be comprehensive
							and fundamental, and because of this, naturally will require time for
							accomplishment.
						
						The educational deficiency. The main single deficiency in rural
							life to-day is the lack of enough of the right kind of education. The general lack of
							scientific knowledge relating to farming and to the needs of rural home life, on the
							part of rural people, has long been a common observation. Conversely, the main single
							remedy which must be applied to the rural-life problem is educational, and consists
							largely in a redirection of rural education itself. By means of a redirected
							education, we may hope to disseminate new knowledge relating to rural-life needs and
							problems; to teach young people simple agricultural facts and processes; to awaken a
							deep love for the open country on the part of those born there and a desire to live
							there; to develop better standards of taste for estimating pleasures and attractions
							outside the farm; to stir into action community forces which are now dormant; and to
							make of the rural school a strong and efficient social center, working for the
							upbuilding of all the varied interests of a healthy rural life. Because the rural
							school is to-day in a state of arrested development, burdened by educational
							traditions, lacking in effective supervision, controlled largely by rural people, who,
							too often, do not realize either their own needs or the possibilities of rural
							education, and taught by teachers who, generally speaking, have but little
							comprehension of the rural-life problem or of the possibilities of a reorganized and
							redirected rural school, the task of reorganizing and redirecting rural education is
								 difficult, and will necessarily be slow. This
							reorganization and redirection of rural education, is, however, the main key to the
							solution of the rural-life problem, and the sooner it can be accomplished the better
							it will be for rural life. The lines along which this must be carried out are given in
							some detail in the second part of this volume, and we accordingly postpone further
							consideration of this need until we reach the second part.
						The great rural social problem. The real underlying social problem,
							though, which faces us in a consideration of the rural-life problem of to-day, is that
							of how to maintain a satisfactory American civilization on the farms of our nation.
							Large-tract commercial farming by individuals or by companies, on the one hand, and
							farm tenantry on the other, are not conducive to such an end, and are not best for
							rural life or for the state. Farm-ownership by the many rather than by the few, and
							farm ownership rather than farm tenantry, are what are most desired. The typical
							American farmer of the past has been essentially a man of the intelligent middle
							class, owning a medium-sized farm, maintaining a good standard of living, educating
							his children well, and he himself interested in the neighborhood and in local affairs.
							Such he still is in the great majority of places. How to preserve this standard, and
							how to develop such standards in the new farmers, is a very important social and
							educational question. As much as possible, we want to retain on the farm, as farmers,
							a class which represents the best type of American
							manhood and womanhood, and to whom the farm is, before all else, a home.
						Ownership vs. tenantry. The upward evolution from laborer to
							tenant, and from tenant to owner, needs to be encouraged as much as possible.
							Conversely, the change from ownership to tenantry is unfortunate, and can be
							prevented, in part, by better education and by better laws. The ownership of land is
							the poor man's rock of defense. With free lands practically at an end, and with land
							values rising rapidly, the power of the laborer to save and to accumulate enough to
							buy a small farm is becoming harder each decade. While land is still cheap, the poor
							man should be educated to thrift and helped to ultimate land-ownership; and the man of
							small means who owns a farm should be prevented from losing it by reason of poor
							farming methods. The struggle, in the near future, for land and the food it will
							produce will be severe indeed,
						The foreign tenant understands the importance of land-ownership much better than does
							the native American. The Italian, in particular, seems to have a genius for saving and
							obtaining the possession of land. The Slav, the Armenian, and the Japanese have also
							much ability in this direction, as has also the better-educated Negro in the South.
							Among the earlier immigrants, this was a marked characteristic of the Scotch, Germans,
							and Scandinavians. These newly arrived tenants and evolving landowners, white or
							black, are everywhere in need of educational assistance
							and guidance. They need, in particular, such education as will enable them to rise
							gradually to the best American' farming standards, and to create a good type of
							American home. With such help it is surprising how rapidly the Italian, Bulgar,
							Russian Slav, American Indian, or Southern Negro develops into a good type of home-
							owning American farmer.
						Important rural economic interests. Up to very recently the one
							effort of the National Department of Agriculture and of the state colleges of
							agriculture has been to increase the yield of farm crops, to eliminate pests and
							diseases, and to improve the breeds of seeds, trees, and farm animals. This has been
							very valuable, and was essentially the right thing to do in the beginning. Still more,
							such scientific work ought to be continued with energy. Our national food-needs in the
							near future make the promotion of national safety in the matter of a food-supply an
							important function of both state and national governments. All this, too, tends to
							make farming more profitable, and unless agriculture can first be made remunerative to
							men and women of energy and capacity, farm life will never prove satisfying to the
							class we most desire to retain on the farms. Economic betterment must come first, and
							without this all attempts at educational, social, and moral betterment are to a large
							degree superficial and transitory. Better farming and better business methods must
							precede better living.
						
						Great rural interests human interests. The great rural interests,
							however, are the essentially human interests, and the really important questions in
							the rural-life problem are how to improve the conditions surrounding human life in the
							open country, so as to make farm life less solitary, freer from sheer drudgery, 
								FIG. 28. RESULTS SHOWN BY THE CENSUS OF
									1910
							fuller of opportunity, and more comfortable and attractive to the best
							farming people. We hope ultimately to double the yield of corn and wheat and cotton,
							which would, indeed, be a great achievement; but an even more important undertaking
							would be that which would double the comfort, happiness, and attractiveness of life on
							the farm to the farmer, his wife, and his children. After all, the farmer and his  family are more important than his crops, and the
							conditions which surround rural family life are more important than those which
							surround the raising of cows and pigs.
						The magnitude and the national importance of such a problem in rural improvement will
							be appreciated better if we remember that nearly one half of the people of the United
							States still live on farms, and nearly one half of the children of our country are
							still educated in the rural schools. This is well shown in Figure 28, for the United
							States as a whole; while the map on page 112 shows the percentages of the total
							population living in the rural districts in each of the states of the Union. The high
							percentage of rural population in the important agricultural states of the North
							Central and the Southern groups, as shown by this map, reveals how largely the problem
							of rural and agricultural improvement is there a problem of rural education.

						
							FUNDAMENTAL RURAL NEEDS
							
							To make agriculture remunerative and family life in the country attractive and
								satisfying to intelligent and progressive people, both of which are necessary if we
								are to make much headway in improving rural life, certain fundamental rural needs
								should be met. In addition to a redirection of rural education, which will be dealt
								with in detail in the second part of this book, these may be briefly summarized, as
								follows:—
							
							
								1. Retention of Personality
								The great economic success of the farmer has tended, in certain regions, to
									eliminate him from the rural community, and the disintegration of many rural
									communities is traceable in large part to this economic success, to the poor
									education provided, and to a lack of standards by which to measure the value of
									the city pleasures and attractions. The removal of the more successful farmers to
									town, as well as the desertion of the farm by the more enterprising and more
									energetic children, have alike tended to rob many rural regions of those men and
									women of forceful personality who alone give tone and character to a community.
									The result has been to produce, in many rural regions, that flat level of equality
									where little or no progress is possible. The same has been true of little towns,
									many of which to-day are stagnant because all the boys of ability and all the
									girls who could get away have deserted them for the greater opportunities and
									attractions of the city. In the upper part of the Mississippi Valley one may find
									hundreds of such little towns, where leadership seems to have disappeared, and
									where the people seem to have quarantined against progress. One does not find such
									conditions in the newer agricultural communities of the West or the Southwest,
									chiefly because the initiative and spirit of the pioneer are still there. In the
									older agricultural communities of the Mississippi
									
										FIG. 29. PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL POPULATION IN
											RURAL DISTRICTS: 1910 This classification includes all villages having
											less than 2500 inhabitants. 
									
									
									
										SATISFYING THE SOCIAL INSTINCTS OF YOUTH
										"Putting the shot" at a County Grange picnic. The white dot in the trees is
											the shot, which has just been hurled. Such affairs as this do much toward
											satisfying the social instincts of both old and young.
									
									
									Valley, though, this spirit is too often entirely
									lacking, and for the reason that the stronger and the more capable have gone. The
									community life, such as it is, no longer appeals to the best; the fundamental
									social instincts remain unsatisfied; and the higher intellectual and spiritual
									life is not ministered unto. The country seems lonely, monotonous, and
									common-place; it lacks personality and leadership; and its lack of sociability
									seems depressing to the young. Poor roads; poor residences; poor schools; decaying
									churches; low aesthetic standards; low intellectual ideals; lack of coöperation
									and harmony; soil-depletion by unwise farming; often almost a contempt of
									scientific agriculture; lack of good business methods; and a disregard of hygienic
									laws;—all alike tend to reduce the remuneration from farming, and to
									obscure, to old and young alike, the many advantages of rural life to those
									adapted to it.
								The school and personality. To change this condition is the
									problem before us. That the schools, managed as they have been mainly by country
									people, are largely responsible for the condition in which country communities
									find themselves to-day, there can be little question. The away-from-the-farm
									influence of rural education in the past and its lack of adaptability to rural
									needs have been its marked characteristics. That the schools must be the chief
									agent in turning the current in the other direction, there also can be but little
									question. The farming industry represents a large
									element in our civilization, and schools in the country, if they are to be
									effective rural institutions, must represent the civilization of their time and
									location.
								A fundamental need of rural life of to-day is local institutions which will
									select and train virile men and women, men and women of personality and force, for
									effective living in the open country. This must be accomplished chiefly by
									appealing to country people themselves, and by offering an education for country
									living which will reveal to young men and young women the opportunities and
									possibilities of life on the farm. The movement of city people to the open country
									is not likely to accomplish much in improving conditions, except in the case of
									little towns, and where such people come as suburban residents rather than as
									farmers.
							
							
								2. Larger Life and Outlook
								Another fundamental need is the broadening of rural life and the giving to it a
									larger outlook. The fundamental social instincts of youth—recreation, play,
									friendships, social life—must be provided for and allowed to satisfy
									themselves. Many a boy and girl have been driven from the farm by reason of the
									life there being all work and no play. In many rural communities there is no
									community life,—no body of accumulated common experience, no common
									meeting-ground and no meetings throughout the year,
									no church, no store, no society,—and the young people early form a distaste
									for the life this represents. This needs changing. Sports and games should be
									provided, time for recreation allowed, and the play instinct guided. Social
									meetings for the young people, under proper conditions, are needed. Rural clubs of
									various kinds, for both boys and girls, should be organized and directed. The
									fundamental pedagogical principle of guidance rather than repression needs to be
									kept in mind in dealing with the young. The elders, too, need to be brought
									together in friendly social meeting, that the rural outlook may be enlarged and
									some sort of social coöperation established. The need for one or more social
									centers for every rural community to satisfy these needs will be apparent.
							
							
								3. Better Homes 
								For the girls and the women, too, life in the country is too often most
									unattractive, and too often unnecessarily harsh and exhausting. Generally
									speaking, they have a much harder time than the men and boys. Successful farming,
									though, is essentially a partnership business between a man and a woman, and much
									of the success of the undertaking depends upon the woman. Whatever can be done to
									make her work simpler and easier to do, and to enable her to develop some other
									interests than mere housework, ought to be done for the sake of farming
										efficiency, if not for humane reasons. A farmer
									ought to take as good care of his chief human burden-bearer as he does of his
									brood-mare or his prize fat-producing cow. Too often the man takes all the
									advantages, and gives the woman few or none. He buys the best of machinery, drives
									good horses to his buggy or drives an automobile, and builds good barns for his
									grain and his stock. Often machinery for pumping water and doing other labor is
									installed, to save the labor of hired men. Yet, notwithstanding his clear
									perception of the importance of labor-saving machinery when applied to farm work,
									and of proper housing for his stock, the residence, where the women do the work
									and the children grow up and have their tastes formed, is often almost entirely
									devoid of labor-saving conveniences. Often it is inconveniently arranged, small,
									crowded, and ugly as well. There is little doubt but that the desire of the women
									to escape from the hard labor and the unattractive surroundings by moving to the
									city, to secure city conveniences and better residences, has been a strong
									influence in the cityward movement of farmers' families during the past
									decade.
								Better kitchens.The narrow life of the women, with its drudgery
									and lack of outlook, is seriously in need of improvement. Domestic labor on the
									farm is hard to get, so that the woman's part should be simplified as much as
									possible. As new farmhouses are constructed, or old ones repaired, they should be
									constructed with a view to making the housework easy
									to do, and labor-saving devices, to make easier the lot of women, ought to be
									installed. It has been calculated that for from $500 to $1500, varying with the
									extent and size of the equipment, there can be installed in any farmhouse
									practically all of the conveniences which city people to-day enjoy. The gasoline
									engine and the electric motor have made it possible greatly to simplify housework
									on the farm. Running water, within and without the house; washing and ironing by
									machinery; vacuum cleaning; and, where electric current is available, lighting and
									cooking by electricity, are now within the reach of the farm home. A little money
									put into homes in which it is easy to do housework, and which are easy to keep
									clean, will do much toward making rural life more attractive to both women and
									children. Add to this a comfortable, well-planned, and an architecturally
									attractive house, with lawn, flowers, and long-lived trees about it, and we have a
									combination which is of fundamental importance in instilling a love for home-life
									in the country.
							
							
								4. A Community Center 
								Perhaps the greatest social need of rural communities is some kind of a community
									center, where men, women, and children may meet frequently, for various
									educational and social purposes. Life, once narrowly individualistic, is to-day
									essentially social and coöperative, and the relations of man to man, and the
									responsibility of man for his neighbor and his neighbor's child, were never so strongly emphasized as they are to-day. Education
									has given a new importance to youth, and life to-day holds new and enlarged values
									for both old and young. In a city, by reason of the many means of social contact
									and the closeness of man to man, coöperative efforts for the common good and the
									public welfare are easy to start and to carry along. 
										FIG. 30. A COMMUNITY CENTER OF LARGE INFLUENCE, IN
											THE WRONG DIRECTION
									In the country, though, where people are so separated by mere distance,
									and so strongly individualistic, it is much more difficult to secure effective
									coöperation, and the need of a common meeting-place and of a community center to
									develop a community life and spirit is more important than in the towns and
									cities.
								Early centers for the community life. In the earlier days the
									barn-raisings, huskings and quilting-bees, and singing-schools afforded
									opportunity for such contact, but these have long since passed away. The earlier
									school, with its spelling-matches and literary societies, also once contributed
									much to this end. But
										 FIG. 31. DIAGRAM OF A COUNTRY
											COMMUNITY-CENTER 
										Including school, church, town hall, and industrial plant. Reproduced here
											from Circular 84, Office of Experiment Stations, U.S. Department of
											Agriculture.
									
									 the spelling-matches and the literary societies
									have now ceased to exist. The church once answered the need, but to-day
									sectarianism, the dying-out of the old kind of faith, the lack of a social
									program, and the immigration of new peoples have destroyed its former hold, while
									new interests and new knowledge have carried the community in other directions. In
									most rural communities to-day there is no community center worthy of the name, and
									as a result the increasing social needs of the people remain unsatisfied. There is
									no common community experience or interest; the community does not meet together
									from one year's end to another, and it is never united in any worthy coöperative
									effort. In such communities narrow attitudes are common; there is no community
									interest in progress; the children lack social intercourse under good conditions,
									and do not learn the value of coöperative effort; the intellectual life is
									stagnant, the moral and religious life frequently ebbs; while drunkenness,
									vulgarity, and licentiousness increase.
								The need of a rural community-center, in which the community life may find
									itself, and then express itself, and of vitalized rural institutions which will
									make for progress and tend to attach men and women to the soil, are fundamental
									needs for rural progress to-day. Social coöperation is needed even more than
									economic coöperation, and the means of securing it must be found. It may be that a
									rural social center may be created at the church, the Grange hall, the town hall,
										 the rural library, or the rural school, or by
									combining all at some central place; but somewhere and somehow community centers
									need to be established in each rural community. The women and children need such a
									meeting-place even more than do the men.
								(a) Can the church become such a center now? The possibilities
									of the church meeting this need and becoming a center for the community life are,
									in most communities, relatively small. Before it can do so the church must be
									reorganized along entirely new lines. One of the first needs of our rural and
									village churches, if they are to serve, is the great curtailment and, if possible,
									the abolition of denominationalism. 
										FIG. 32. UNION CHURCH, PROCTOR,
											VT.
										A $35,000 marble "many-roomed" church erected and used by twelve different
											denominations. These include Catholic, Episcopalian, Friends, Reformed
											Hungarian, Unitarian, Universalists, Presbyterians, Christians, Methodists,
											Congregationalists, Baptists, and Free Baptists. All unite in maintaining one
											efficient and serving church.
									The small number of farmers, the changed rural class, the new life
									interests and conditions, and the rising cost of church maintenance all alike call
									for a uniting of forces for religious work and service. The present system of
									little struggling churches involves great financial
									and moral waste, divides rural people instead of uniting them, and destroys the
									opportunity of the church for large institutional usefulness.
								The problem is no longer one of getting more churches, but rather of uniting the
									ones we now have into stronger and more effective working bodies. This, though, is
									very difficult of accomplishment, as rural people are preëminently hard to unify
									or to organize. The nature of their vocation emphasizes individuality and
									independence, and new proposals are usually received by them with anything but
									enthusiasm. Denominationalism, too, is very strong with many people, particularly
									those of the older generation, and not much can be expected at present along this
									much-needed line of unification. Still, federation and coöperation embody the
									dominant spirit of the age we are now entering, and the church must fall in line
									or be left behind.
								Need of a program for social work. If the church is to play any
									important part in rural reorganization, it must evolve a program for social
									betterment and make its ministrations such as will enable it to render effective
									social service. Only a giving church is a growing church. There are many real
									needs of rural people which to-day call for ministration, and the church should
									set itself the task of finding these and then trying to serve them. Then only will
									its religion become vital and effective. The old one-room meeting-house,used for a few hours a week by a few people, and
									solely for religious service, is an economic waste, and needs gradually to give
									way to a many-roomed social church,1 with tentacles reaching out in many directions and
									seeking for new points of contact with the community life.
								Need for coöperation. The church must also unite in coöperative
									effort with all of the other great forces working for the upbuilding of rural
									life, such as the Grange, the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A., boys' and girls' clubs,
									farmers' institutes, district nurses, the library, and the school, and these in
									turn should coöperate with every living and serving church. The home, the school,
									the vocation, and the social life of the community are all important forces in
									moulding the thoughts and aspirations of men, and ought not to be neglected. One
									great difficulty in trying to aid the rural church is that so many churches and so
									many ministers have not as yet learned that we live to-day in a new world, and
									that people of to-day have more than one fundamental interest in life. In a few
									places, however, the church has accomplished such an internal reform, and is
									to-day rendering social and religious service of fundamental importance in the
									improvement and redirection of rural life. In the next chapter we shall describe a
									few examples of such worthy religious service.1 For a description of such a many-roomed
										church, see chapter vi, p. 135.
								
								
								(b) Rural organizations. The Grange hall has been suggested as
									a possible community center, and has been so employed in some places. The town
									hall has also been so used in a few places. The rural Y.M.C.A. has also been made
									effective here and there. All of these may prove useful community forces in
									certain places, and all should be encouraged to extend their usefulness. All rural
									residents, however, may not belong to the Grange; the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A.
									appeal especially to the young; and the town hall possesses certain rather obvious
									limitations. All such organizations, as well as boys' and girls' clubs, farmers'
									institutes, lecture courses, and extension centers, while an important part of
									rural social life, are much more in the nature of adjuncts to, than centers for,
									the community life. The Grange hall, perhaps, comes nearer to providing a center
									for the community life than any of the other organizations mentioned above. In the
									next chapter the work of the Grange will be described more in detail.
								(c) The rural library. The rural district library, where such
									an institution exists, comes nearer to providing a center for the community life
									than any of the other rural institutions, so far mentioned. It is a common
									property of all, is supported by all, and hence has a democracy about it which the
									church and the Grange do not as a rule have. The greatest difficulty met with is
									that the rural library in so many states is non-existent, while in states where it
									does exist, it is too often without a home of
									sufficient size or attractiveness to meet the needs of a community center. The
									rural library, too, is usually a purely passive agent, the librarian merely
									keeping the books neatly arranged on the shelves and handing them out, on demand;
									whereas it ought instead to be an active, energetic agent for the improvement of
									rural community life. The women, in particular, ought to be brought to use the
									rural library, and a rural librarian ought not to feel satisfied if the mothers
									and the young people do not come frequently to use the room and the books. They
									will do this, though, only if the library ministers to a vital community need.
									Perhaps it is when connected with the school that the library will reach its
									greatest degree of usefulness.
								(d) The school. If the school can be reorganized and
									redirected, as described in Part II of this book, it is possible to create, in
									every rural community, an admirable center for the fullest expression of the
									community life. It is the one rural institution, excepting the library, which is
									supported by all and equally open to all. It represents no church, no party, no
									organization, no lodge, and no single group or interest, but rather all such
									organizations united together for the common welfare. It possesses a great
									advantage over all the other institutions so far mentioned in that its labors are
									directed to the education and improvement of the children of all the people, and
									this can be used as a great unifying idea. Without attempting to go into detail here, it may be said that it is possible
									so to change and so to redirect the rural school that the building will become the
									community meeting-place, with the other community interests centering about it,
									and the school itself will become a center for the improvement of the community
									life. In Part II we shall describe, in some detail, how this
									may be done. 
							
							
								5. Community Life 
								The rural-life problem, as we stated at the beginning of this chapter, is one
									calling for a reconstruction and a reorganization of rural social institutions.
									The old institutions need to be reorganized, redirected, and quickened into new
									life. The place (or places) where this new life may find itself and express itself
									we have called the community center. Whether this center for the community life
									shall be at the church, at the Grange, at the library, or at the school, depends
									upon which one of the number first discovers its opportunity and renders that
									service to the rural community which will make of it a center for the community
									life.
								Constructive rural service. The need is for some unifying rural
									institution which will quicken the community life and focus its efforts along
									worthy lines of action. The improvement of roads and roadsides; the abatement of
									eyesores and nuisances; the carrying-through of a community plan for health and
									sanitary improvement; the formation of civic organizations; the improvement of schools; the development of recreation
									centers; the holding of contests and fêtes; inspection trips; the organization of
									boys' and girls' clubs; meeting in school and farmers' institutes; the
									organization of hospital associations; the holding of lectures; reading and
									extension courses; grain-and stock-judging exhibits; fruit and poultry
									shows;—these are some of the results which follow a quickened rural
									community life, and nearly all of which may take place at a properly arranged
									rural community-center.
								The moral life of country people needs to be dealt with, too, though by
									constructive service, and not by repression and prohibition. The play instinct of
									young people needs to be ministered unto and guided. Playgrounds, dramatic and
									literary activities, and boy-scouts' and camp-fire girls' movements should be
									encouraged. The life of the farm-hand, the working-girl, and the poor tenant
									farmer offer a challenge to the activity and effectiveness of the church. The
									Grange should lead in the matter of coöperative organization and civic
									improvement. The school and the library should meet the needs of the community for
									knowledge, and energetically stimulate the intellectual life. The community
									center, wherever it may be developed, should serve as a rallying-point for all of
									these forces for the improvement of rural life.
								The call for rural service. The development of a new and a
									better country life is largely a question of education and guidance. New
									knowledge, new ideals, wise counsel and advice, new
									stimuli, and guidance and direction are needed. The call for young men and women
									of personality, energy, capacity, convictions, and aspirations, who like the open
									country and will live there and work for agricultural and community advancement,
									is a call which is long and loud. To ministers, educated farmers, physicians,
									editors, librarians, and teachers, the call comes with especial clearness and
									force. Nothing less than the creation of a new rural life, the creation of new
									standards and values with reference to life on the farm, and the creation of new
									rural institutions which will better minister to the needs of rural people, is
									what is aimed to be accomplished.
								Meaning of the country-life movement. To awaken a new
									appreciation of the beauties of sky and field and wood; to create new standards
									for the appreciation of rural life and freedom; to reveal farming as the
									application of the subtlest laws of nature, as revealed by science; to ameliorate
									the harsh conditions, the loneliness, and the isolation of rural life; to make it
									a remunerative undertaking; to conserve the home and to develop a happy,
									intelligent, and resourceful people; to secure social, as well as economic,
									coöperation; to improve the educational and spiritual advantages provided for
									country people and country children; and, withal, to make life in the small
									village and in the open country more productive of health, pleasure, and
									profit,—these are some of the important
									objects of the rural-life movement of to-day. All fundamental improvement of
									rural-life conditions, while it may be aided by wise legislation and stimulated
									into activity by others, must, after all, be carried through by the rural people
									themselves. To guide and to aid them in their efforts ought to be the great
									mission of the church, the library, and the school, and of these the school easily
									stands first, if it can rise to meet the opportunities which confront it.
								
									QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
									Indicate means whereby the rural school may teach and inculcate the
										different items enumerated on page 105.
									In what way is the rural school burdened by traditions?
									Would the improvement of agriculture by national and state agencies be
										desirable, if no human interests were involved?
									Would the improvement of the human side of rural life by the state and the
										nation be a legitimate undertaking, if no agricultural interests were
										involved?
									Explain the reason for the difference between the average attendance figures
										and those for aggregate attendance, in Fig. 28.
									Is it the poor or the high-priced lands of your community which have come
										under tenancy?
									How far is strong personality retained in your community? In what direction,
										if any, is the change taking place?
									What is the character of the villages of your county in the matter of
										personality?
									Why must the chief work in improving rural society be accomplished by
										appealing to country people themselves?
									How can the improvement of rural social life for the young be made to
										contribute to the improvement of adult rural society?
									What percentage of the farmhouses of the community you know best would you
										say have good working kitchens?
									What future effect on home and kitchen designing and equipment do you think
										would be the result of introducing instruction in domestic science, using good
										equipment, in all of the rural schools?
									
									Of what do your community centers consist, and what is the nature of their
										influence?
									What is the character of the villages in your county, in the matter of
										helpfulness to rural life?
									Have you known of any unions of churches?
									Explain why the nature of the farmer's vocation emphasizes individuality and
										independence, and makes it difficult to interest farmers in coöperative
										undertakings.
									To what extent does the school occupy the place of a center for the
										community life?
									To what extent is the play instinct, the literary instinct, the domestic
										instinct, and the social instinct ministered unto by the rural community life in
										your community?
									 How much of the program for constructive rural service, given on pages
										126-127, is carried out in your community? By whom, and with what degree of
										effectiveness?
									How far does the school reveal to the young people in it the deeper meanings
										of rural life, as indicated on page 128?
									Explain what is meant by the statement that "federation and coöperation
										embody the dominant spirit of the age we are entering?"
									Why is only a giving church a growing church? Would the same principle apply
										to school work?
									What limitation does the Grange possess as a community center, which does
										not attach to the school or the library?
									What is meant (page 126) by the statement that the rural-life problem calls
										for a reconstruction and a reorganization of rural social institutions?
									How many of the community efforts enumerated on pages 126-127 take place in
										your rural community? Have you known communities where such took place?
									Why does the call for constructive rural service come to teachers with
										especial clearness and force?
									Would the "meaning of the country-life movement," as stated on page 128,
										form a good creed for country-workers?
								
							
						
					



					
						
						CHAPTER VISOME WORTHY EXAMPLES OF RURAL SERVICE
						THIS chapter will be merely descriptive and illustrative, its
							purpose being to give concreteness to the preceding chapters by describing some worthy
							efforts at rural service which have been carried out in different parts of the United
							States. Obviously no attempt can be made to describe here more than a very few typical
							examples of conspicuous rural service, and it is not even claimed that the ones cited
							are the best of their kind. They are typical, however, and serve to illustrate what
							was meant in the discussion of the preceding chapter.
						We shall classify these various efforts under the headings of (1) Church
							Organizations; (2) Young People's Organizations; (3) Library Organizations; (4)
							Farmers' Organizations; and (5) Agricultural Improvement Organizations. These five
							represent the main forms of rural social service, though others, of more limited scope
							but of nevertheless worthy service, might be added if space would permit. It is hoped,
							however, that the few examples here described may serve to illustrate the
							possibilities and the form of such rural community service, and to show how centers
							for the rural community life may be created.
						
						
							I. CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS
							
								I. A rural church. One of the most notable examples of
									rural-church community-service we have seen described in print1 is one near Plainfield, in Du Page
									County, Illinois. Under the leadership of a young minister of insight and
									capacity, a poorly supported country church of the old type was, in ten years,
									transformed into a strong rural-community institution; a new community-center type
									of church building erected; and the church was gradually transformed into a social
									center for the country people for miles around
								
									FIG. 33. THE ORIGINAL CHURCH
								
								The original church, established in 1833, was located in the country, six miles
									from a railroad, and in a rich farming area some thirty-five miles west of
									Chicago. The farms surrounding it were very rich, the farm homes of the best, and
									the country very prosperous. The church, however, had fallen into decay. The
									meeting-house, built fifty years before, was old, the fences had fallen down, and
									the horse-sheds were an eyesore. No one had united with the church for five years;
									there were few services; and a1 "Ten Years in a Country Church," by Matthew B. McNutt; in
											World's Work, December, 1910 (vol. XXI).
									 dancing club in the neighborhood attracted the
									young people much more.
								The new minister was fresh from a theological school, and had no training
									whatever for rural service. The people, too, were full of preconceived notions as
									to the church service and country life, which for a time prevented progress. The
									church awakened but little community interest; many had grown indifferent as to
									its services; others had grown indifferent as to its fate. It was soon evident
									that the only hope for progress lay in working with the young; but how to interest
									them in the work of the church was not so easily seen.
								The first effort to interest the young people was by the organization of an
									old-fashioned singing-school, in which the young people were taught to read music
									and to sing. Quartets were formed, musical instruments were secured, and finally
									an orchestra was organized. Choruses were also formed, and special choral services
									rendered. This led to a great personal and home development of music in the
									community. Public speaking was also made a feature, and societies for debating and
									literary work were organized. Extemporaneous speaking on public questions soon
									became a feature, and debates with town teams were held. Plays were given at the
									church, and home-talent entertainments organized. These have proved very popular
									with the farmers and their families, and have done much to educate the people away
									from the cheap amusements of the neighboring towns and cities.
								
								Much was also made of athletics. A number of teams—baseball, basketball,
									tennis, etc.—were organized, and competitive matches arranged. Moot-courts,
									spelling-bees, story-telling clubs, reading-circles, and sewing-clubs were also
									formed. A printing-press was secured, and all of the church printing was soon done
									on it by the boys. Celebrations and public holidays were made patriotic and
									inspiring. The greatest day of the year is the "Annual Meeting" day, held each
									year on the third Saturday in March. This has been made into a great event. An
									all-day meeting is held; a banquet is served at noon; addresses are made; good
									music is rendered; letters from absent members are read, etc. The day is, in a
									way, a round-up of the year's work of the community. Sociability and fellowship
									are emphasized, and an effort is made to develop a new social feeling in the
									community.
								Such means as these were employed to awaken the community interest and to create
									a community feeling. To awaken the interest of both old and young and to develop a
									community life that should be strong and vigorous were the first essentials. These
									ends had to be accomplished through social efforts and service, instead of through
									religious services and zeal. A Bible class of young men was formed, with social
									meetings once a month, and Bible-study work on Sunday mornings. This class in time
									reached a membership of fifty rural young men, who not only held social meetings
									of much personal value and studied the  Bible on
									Sundays, but in time became the pastor's chief assistants in religious and
									community service. A young women's sewing- and reading-circle rendered a somewhat
									analogous service.
								
									FIG. 34. THE NEW INSTITUTIONAL CHURCH
								
								As a result of ten years of work along such lines, the rural community has been
									almost completely transformed. In the place of the old-type one-room church, a new
									institutional church has been erected. This contains an auditorium, with a seating
									capacity of five hundred ; a separate Sunday-school wing, containing a number of
									classrooms; a pastor's study; a choir-room; a mothers' room; cloak-rooms; and a
									vestibule,—all on the first floor. In the basement are a large dining-room,
									a kitchen, toilets, and a furnace-room. The building has its own lighting,
									heating, and water plants, and is well equipped with supplies and apparatus for
									entertainment and instruction. The cost of the new institutional church was
									$10,000; all of this sum was subscribed before building was begun; and the
									subscription lists included Catholics, German Lutherans, other Protestants, and
									men of no church, as well as members of the particular Protestant denomination. No
									collection for building or furnishings was needed at the time of its
									dedication.
								
								The people, as a result of these many social efforts, have not grown less
									reverent or less religious. In ten years the church membership, which had
									previously been declining, increased from 80 to 163, and the Sunday-school
									membership from 100 to 300. The manse connected with the church was also
									remodeled, to make it a more comfortable home for the pastor; the pastor's salary
									was very materially increased; and $5270 was contributed to benevolences of
									various kinds during the decade as against $6407 during the preceding fifty
									years.
								The effect on the people has been marked. Whole families, that formerly had no
									interest in the church or in the uplift of the community, have since become active
									church members. The community conception of life itself has materially widened.
									The people are buying books, pictures, and musical instruments; they are
									installing modern conveniences and comforts in their homes; they are friendlier,
									and more generous than before; a new desire for education has developed among the
									young; and a new community spirit and interest has been awakened. The people are
									orderly, peace-loving, and enterprising; and the young people clean, sturdy, and
									ambitious. Land values are rising, farms are in greatest demand, the farm-tenant
									tendency has been checked, and people who live outside this rural community now
									express the wish that they lived nearer to this church. In competition with social
									clubs, Grange, school, and town, this church, with a
									program of social betterment and service, has been successful in winning and
									holding the affections of these rural people. It has become distinctively the
									community center for both old and young in this rural agricultural community, and
									offers a worthy example of church effort for community betterment and community
									service.
							
							
								2. A village church. Another example of church service might be
									cited, this one from a community where all phases of the rural life were
										decadent.1 The church,
									agriculture, religion and morals, local government, the economic welfare, the
									physical man, the social and recreative life, and the community life itself were
									all backward and stagnant. The pastor, having studied sociology as well as
									theology, sought out such a community, instead of its seeking him. His object in
									going to such a place had to be kept secret, as otherwise he would have met with
									opposition too strong to be overcome. His story is also the story of ten years of
									effort.
								He began to strengthen the church and the Sunday school by building up the social
									life of the community, which as a whole received much attention. The good
									economic, social, and religious results of good roads were pointed out. Better
									schools, township supervision, and a township high school were also urged and
										1 "The Rural Pastor
										a Community Builder," by Charles O. Bernies, pastor of the Presbyterian Church
										at McClellandstown, Pennsylvania. In Rural Manhood, February,
										1913 (vol. IV, no. 2).
									 later secured, and still later an agricultural
									course was introduced into the high school. Scientific agriculture was continually
									preached in the pulpit and without, and, in order to demonstrate improved methods,
									the minister finally became advisory manager of a 330-acre farm in the community.
									This was organized into departments, and scientific methods were introduced and
									their advantages demonstrated. Some improvement in civic righteousness has also
									been made, though the presence of coal and coke towns in the township has made the
									progress in this particular less noticeable than in other directions.
								After much effort a new institutional church building was also secured here. It
									has a basement, over fourteen feet high in the clear, divided into a large
									gymnasium, bath- and locker-rooms, dressing-rooms, and a kitchen. Here games,
									socials, festivals, and banquets are held. The main floor has a large auditorium,
									with a platform with rooms on each side, and adaptable for use as a stage for
									amateur plays, entertainments, and concerts. The room is also used for meetings of
									the farmers' institutes, mining institutes, conferences for foreigners,
									Sunday-school conferences, high-school graduations, corn shows, and special
									occasion programs, as well as for the regular religious services. This building
									has done more than any one thing, except the work of the pastor himself, to make
									of this church an important community center, and during the ten years of social
									and religious effort more members have been added to
									the church than during the preceding sixty-three years of its history. It is
									another illustration of the statement that only a serving church is a growing
									church.
							
							
								3. District nursing. Another form of church service, not
									included in either of the above, and yet one which might well be included in the
									work of an active living church, is the provision of a community nurse, and the
									enlistment of the community in an effort to improve sanitary conditions and to
									care better for the babies and the sick. A community nurse, acting in connection
									with a community-center church, would be of much service in advancing the
									community welfare.
							
						
						
							II. ORGANIZATIONS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
							Three organizations of this kind have recently begun active work, and each is
								worthy of mention.
							
								I. The Young Men's Christian Association, County-Work Division.
									This division was first founded in 1889, but it is only recently that any marked
									development of the work has been effected. Within the past five years a strong
									effort to extend the work has been made, with a view to organizing, ultimately,
									such counties as are rural and organizable in each of the states. The comparative
									development of city and county work, during the past two years, is shown in the
									next diagram. This organization has in the past been essentially a city
									organization, but recognizing the fact that more than one half of the young men
									and boys in America live in small towns and in rural
									districts, the Association has recently turned its attention to this field as
									well. Recognizing that, with the decline in influence of the church and the great
									change in rural-life conditions, the youth of such communities stand in particular
									need of the character-building services of such an organization, this Association
									has begun the development of county work in an effort to improve rural and village
									manhood. Instead of the school district or school affairs, the county is made the
									unit of organization and administration. The county is subdivided, as may seem
									desirable, and with rural communities as units. A county secretary is in charge of
									the work of each county, thus providing a trained specialist in all-round work for
									the young men and boys.
								
									FIG. 35. Y.M.C.A.—CITY AND
										RURALDEVELOPMENT
								
								Unlike the city organizations, little or no equipment is needed or desired.
									Membership is based upon what men give in service, rather than upon what they get
									in privileges. The chief work of the county secretary is the discovery,
									enlistment, training, and direction of the volunteer leaders for the social,
										educational, physical, and religious work of the
									Association. The work in the different counties naturally varies with the needs.
									In general, the organization work includes athletic meets, summer camps,
									recreative and competitive games, debates, educational tours, exhibits and
									contests, receptions, suppers, and social visitation, as well as Bible-study, the
									chief purpose of it all being to bring young men and boys of different communities
									together in such a way as to develop their character, increase their social power,
									and enlarge their mental horizon. This means not only physical exercise, but
									higher ideals for the development and care of the body. It also means mental
									growth, stimulated by club and group work; evening classes; plans for enriching
									rural life where it is poorest; ministering to the social hunger of the country
									boy with wholesome recreation and social contact; and religious work of a sensible
									and manly type. The Association also coöperates with churches, Sunday schools,
									young-people's societies, Granges, fraternal organizations, and schools, with a
									view to making the work of all such organizations more effective. Naturally the
									needs of boy life in rural districts and small towns receive the chief attention
									of the Association.
								Though naturally an ally of the church, and working for the building-up of rural
									manhood and the moral life of rural communities, the movement itself is
									essentially a lay movement, financed by business men. Half of the members enrolled
									in its Bible-study classes are not church members,
									but one out of ten of such students is won each year to a Christian life, and
									largely as the result of the personal touch of strong men. It is also
									non-denominational and inter-denominational, thus serving as an ally of all the
									churches, and bringing rival, competing, and jealous churches together for
									constructive work. The county secretary is usually a college graduate, with some
									special training for the work, and one who knows the country, believes in the
									country, and has faith in the future of rural life. Up to the close of 1912,
									county work was in successful operation in 54 counties in 24 states, 80
									secretaries were giving their time to the work, 400 local organizations within the
									counties were at work, 1200 volunteer leaders were directing community activities,
									25,000 young men and boys were enlisted in the work of the organization, and 800
									business men were giving careful administrative oversight to the work of the
									county associations. The movement, as yet, is only in its beginnings, and in a
									short time is certain to exert a tremendous influence for good with the youth of
									rural and village communities. No other organization now gives promise of such
									large results in the elimination of vulgarity, profanity, licentiousness and
									misdirected living, and in the conservation of rural manhood.
							
							
								2. The Young Women's Christian Association, County-Work
										Division. This is an even more recent development of this organization, and
									as yet has
									
										FIG. 36. Y.M.C.A. COUNTRY WORK
										Black sections indicate 43 counties where secretariesare employed under
											the state secretaries.There are over 1600 counties where this work is
											feasible. 
									
									scarcely begun to serve. It is patterned after
									somewhat the same lines as the Y.M.C.A. county work, and its aim is to do for the
									young women and girls in rural communities and villages a service similar to that
									so well begun for the young men and boys. This organization could add district
									nursing to its field of usefulness with advantage.
							
							
								3. Rural Boy-Scouts and Camp-Fire Girls. Provision for "the
									lone scout" is made in the Boy Scouts organization, and the idea is capable of
									development by teachers in rural schools, and others interested in rural welfare.
									A similar idea could be carried out by organizing rural girls, under the Camp-Fire
									Girls' plan of organization. Both of these organizations are so very recent, and
									have found such a field in the towns and smaller cities, that as yet they have had
									no opportunity to render any distinctively rural service.
							
							
								4. Boys' and girls' agricultural clubs. A number of boys' and
									girls' clubs, of different kinds, have been organized in the rural communities of
									different states, but the most common, as well as by far the most important, are
									the Boys' and Girls' Agricultural Clubs. There have been few developments within
									recent years of greater educational significance for rural-life improvement than
									these clubs. They have usually arisen as a result of some competitive contest, and
									clubs of various kinds have been formed,—clubs for corn-growing,
									cotton-growing, potato-growing, fruit-growing, live-stock study, bird-study, home
										culture, sewing-clubs, cooking-clubs, and
									camera-clubs are the main kinds which have been formed. Prizes have been offered
									for successful competition, schools, churches, Granges, commercial organizations,
									rural Y.M.C.A.'s, and citizens assisting and providing the funds.
								The good results of such club and competitive work are already apparent. The boys
									and girls have been trained to observe more closely; to recognize good and bad
									qualities in their products; they have met and learned to solve problems; they
									have learned something as to the cost of production and the keeping of simple
									accounts; they have learned to read agricultural literature bearing on their work;
									and personal initiative has been strongly developed. The importance of organized
									effort, coöperation, and compromise—matters of much importance in rural
									districts—have been developed. The influence on the parents, the homes, and
									on agriculture on the home farms has been most excellent. Agricultural and home-
									making literature has been popularized; new facts and processes have been
									introduced; and parents and children have found growing contests and farmers'
									institutes interesting and profitable. In some of the more important agricultural
									states, both in the North and in the South, the prizes offered for successful
									competition have included trips to the state agricultural college, and a short
									course of instruction there.
								The schools have found these clubs of great value,
									not only in developing agricultural and domestic-science instruction, but in
									awakening both school and community interest as well. The exhibits have often
									proved among the most attractive of all exhibits at the local and state fairs, and
									have done much to make the people feel that the schools are rendering a useful
									service.
							
						
						
							III. THE RURAL LIBRARY
							Another great service for rural and village life, which has been begun almost
								entirely within the past twenty years, and largely within the past five or six
								years, is the introduction of the traveling and branch libraries for the benefit of
								rural and village people. This movement has developed so rapidly within the past
								five years that, in the near future, we may expect to see library facilities carried
								to every rural home. The city library, with its branch libraries and stations, has
								for some time carried library facilities to all of the people of the city. It is now
								proposed to render the same service to rural and village communities, using the
								county (or township) as a unit, and with branches and sub-stations in the village
								schoolhouses and farm homes.
							The movement may be said to have begun with the appropriation made by the New York
								Legislature, in 1892, under which the New York State Library began to send out
								traveling libraries to organizations or associations of citizens in the villages and
								rural districts of the state. A box of fifty to sixty
								books was sent, and this could be retained for six months. This plan was gradually
								followed by other states, and at the end of fifteen years (1907) twenty-two states
								had adopted the idea, and had a total of over five thousand boxes in circulation.
								After about 1905, and especially since 1909, state after state has adopted the
								library-extension idea, and in a few years it may be expected that every state in
								the Union will have made some provision for carrying library facilities to the
								people of the rural districts. Instead of waiting for the people to apply for the
								libraries, state organizers have been sent among the people to explain to them the
								advantages, select deposit stations, and help them arrange for the first box of
								books. The expenses of transportation have usually been paid by the state, from
								legislative appropriations for the purpose.
							
								FIG. 37. A TRAVELING LIBRARY IN
									AFARMHOUSE
							
							The state traveling library, however, may be regarded as only a beginning, and as
								an initiatory step leading to the establishment of
								county (or town-ship) libraries. The county is the natural unit, with township
								libraries as branches. The state then deals only with the county libraries. These
								then establish branches throughout the county, as needed, using schools, stores,
								post-offices, and homes as branches and depositories. The existing libraries,
								including school libraries, are frequently incorporated into the county library
								plan, and the books are indexed and catalogued according to a uniform county system.
								Every one in the county, including children, may then become borrowers from the
								county or a branch library, and boxes of books, or single books to meet individual
								needs, are sent out as called for. Pictures are included by some states, while a
								few, notably New York, supply sets of lantern slides for lectures. The ultimate end
								in view is that any citizen of the state may be able to borrow books to meet his
								needs. The establishment of a low rate for books sent by parcels post would greatly
								aid the movement. 
							The plate opposite shows how the librarian of Washington County, Maryland, not
								content to wait for the people to come after the books, has taken the books and gone
								to the people. This library was one of the first in the United States to begin
								extension work within the county, having opened twenty-three branches in 1901. By
								1903 there were fifty-five branches and two village libraries in coöperation. In
								1905 a horse and wagon were purchased, in order to reach the homes,
								
									(Courtesy, World's Work.)
									
									LADS FROM THE FARMS AT A COLLEGE LECTURE ON CORN
									
									A short course at the University of Wisconsin as a prize to the boys who won
										the seed-corn contestsof the Wisconsin Better-Farming Association
								
								
								
									AN AUTOMOBILE THAT HAS TAUGHT A COUNTY TO READ
									In the first six months of 1912, this motor truck circulated 23,000 books in
										Washington County, Maryland, of which more than two thousand were delivered to
										the homes of remote families in the rural districts.
								
								
									ONE OF THE LOCAL MEETINGS FOR COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT
									This is one of the local community meetings described on page 158.
								
								 and when this proved too slow it was discarded for
								the automobile shown in the picture.
						
						
							IV. FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS
							
								I. The Grange. The largest and most important of the
									distinctively farmers' organizations is the Grange, the official title of which is
									the Patrons of Husbandry. The members are called Patrons; the local organizations,
									Granges. This association dates back to 1849, it having been founded in that year
									by a Minnesota farmer by the name of Kelley, for the purpose of better educating
									farmers for their business, and for cultivating a better spirit of brotherhood
									between the North and the South. The movement grew, and, by 1873, when the
									National Grange was organized, there were 20,000 Granges, in 28 states, with a
									membership of three quarters of a million persons. Many at first entered the
									organization for financial gain alone. A kindred organization was established for
									political agitation, but this soon died, and in its downfall seriously injured the
									Grange. During the decade of agricultural depression, following 1880, the Granges
									declined greatly in membership and influence, but, with the coming of the
									fourth-period conditions in our agricultural development, the Grange has rapidly
									increased in both particulars.
								Local lodges, or Granges, exist in the agricultural townships, or communities.
									The area of local jurisdiction is about five or six miles in diameter, and
										usually corresponds closely with that of a rural
									community. The membership consists of both men and women. In addition, every boy
									and girl over fifteen years of age may attain full membership, while those over
									fourteen may be admitted by vote. Only those whose interests are with agriculture
									are eligible, though rural ministers and teachers are here included. Women are
									placed on a plane of equality with the men, and every delegate to the State Grange
									is a double delegate—man and wife. Women are eligible to any office in the
									order, and some of the most effective state workers have been women. Members must
									also be persons of good repute. An educational program is a part of each regular
									meeting of the Grange. Many Granges have built their own halls, which are equipped
									with dining-room and kitchen, as well as lecture- or assembly-hall.
								This organization has accomplished much for the improvement of agricultural
									conditions and the life of rural people. The legislation it has won has been
									important. In national legislation, the creation of the Department of Agriculture,
									the establishment of the Interstate Commerce Commission, larger national grants
									for the agricultural colleges, the establishment of rural free mail delivery, laws
									preventing the extension of patents on sewing-machines, and pure-food laws are
									among the chief measures to its credit. In the different states it has also been
									influential. Even more important than these measures has been the local influence
									of the order. As an organization it has done more
									than any other agency to drive isolation out of the farming communities, to extend
									social opportunities, and to further fellowship and coöperation among farmers and
									their wives. It has stood for intelligent and intensive farming, coöperative
									purchasing and selling, mutual insurance, and the amelioration of influences
									injurious to the farm and farm life. It has given a great impetus to agricultural
									education and to the study of domestic science, has stood for better schools, and
									has done much to assist the movement for the consolidation of schools. It has also
									emphasized the need for scientific knowledge, now being so well met by the
									farmers' institutes. The Grange hall has been made an educational center, and its
									debating clubs, lecture courses, exhibitions, and circulating libraries have done
									much to educate the farmer.
								The work of the organization in improving the ethical life of rural communities
									has been one of its marked features. While avoiding all sectarian discussions, it
									has emphasized real religion and a moral and religious life. Being distinctively a
									family organization, its influence in improving and conserving the home has been
									very large. The church has not been more influential or helpful in conserving
									family life, and, with the decline in influence of the rural church, the Grange
									has in many places practically taken its place as the conserver and improver of
									the moral life of the community.
								The Grange is an important rural institution, and has within itself the
									possibility of great rural service. Organization,
									coöperation, and education are the basic principles of the order. It includes the
									entire family, and its chief work is moral and educational. With the school and
									the church, the Grange seems destined to be one of the great forces for the
									moulding and improving of rural life. By avoiding sectarian and political
									questions, which might destroy its usefulness, it is able to concentrate the
									energies of its members on rural welfare. It is an organization with which
									teachers and school officers should connect themselves, and with which they should
									work heartily.
							
							
								2. The Hesperia Movement. This is described here as one of the
									best of a type of community improvement clubs, of which many have been formed in
									different parts of the United States. Hesperia is a little agricultural community
									of about seven hundred people, the center of which is twelve miles from a
									railroad. It is located in Oceana County, Michigan, about forty miles north and
									west of Grand Rapids. The region consists of fertile farms, and a good class of
									the homebuilder type of farmer. They are noted as progressive, successful, and
									intelligent. Being somewhat isolated, they started to develop their own local
									community institutions for local improvement.
								The movement started there by a transformation of the teachers' institute into a
									coöperative organization of teachers and farmers. Starting at first with
									neighborhood meetings and local speakers, it soon developed into a coöperative
									association of farmers, homemakers, teachers, and
									pupils, all working for the improvement of the local schools and the advancement
									of the community welfare. To give wholesome entertainments for rural people, to
									create a taste for good books, to develop higher ideals of citizenship, and to
									improve the rural-school surroundings were also features of the work. Acting on
									the principle that the real forces which socialize rural life must spring from
									within the community itself rather than from without, these people have succeeded
									in developing a movement which has become known all over the United States. Its
									purpose is not to supplant other organizations, but rather to draw all together in
									closer union and sympathy. The "big meeting," held at Hesperia once each year, is
									a great event, and to this some of the best speakers in the United States have
									been drawn to speak to the people on topics relating to the school, the church,
									the farm, the home, and civic life. On Sunday, a union service emphasizes the
									place of the church as a spiritual factor in rural life. The resulting benefits to
									this small rural community have been large, and the lives of the people have been
									made happier, more influential, and more hopeful, and the intellectual, moral, and
									social tone of the community has been greatly improved. The movement has been
									copied in other parts of Michigan, and in a few neighboring states, while
									"improvement clubs" and similar "federations," having a similar purpose, have
									sprung up in a number of states.
							
						
						

						
							V. ORGANIZATIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL IMPROVEMENT
							
								I. The farmers' institute. This is indirectly a product of the
									work of the Grange. As the farmers of the different communities met together to
									discuss affairs relating to their life and work, it became usual for them to send
									to the state agricultural college for men to come and speak to them on various
									agricultural and social topics. So useful were such services found, and so
									frequent did the calls become, that the state colleges organized bureaus for
									supplying speakers and managing the meetings, or institutes, as they soon came to
									be called. As an outcome of this activity, the state legislatures began to make
									specific appropriations to the agricultural colleges to enable them to secure
									additional instructors and to organize and manage the work properly. The farmers'
									institute has now become a regular feature of the work of our agricultural
									colleges, and nearly every state in the Union now provides for such instruction.
									In reality it is nothing more nor less than a university-extension movement in
									agriculture, originating with the farmers themselves.
								These institutes have now developed into real short-course schools for the
									instruction of the farmers. Lectures and demonstrations continue often for a week,
									the superintendent of farmers' institutes from the agricultural college and his
									assistants going to the institute and remaining there for the whole time.
										Recently sanitation, domestic science, home
									economics, and social welfare have been added to the former instruction in
									agriculture and business management, and the women have come to find the institute
									as valuable as do the men. An effort has also been made to bring together in these
									institutes all of the various forces now working for the betterment of rural life.
									Farmers' clubs, the Grange, the church, the library, and the school are now
									frequently asked to coöperate in the county and state institutes, and in a few of
									the recent meetings the theme for the session was how better to unify the
									different forces working for the amelioration of rural life. The value of these
									farmers' institutes in advancing agriculture and in improving the life and social
									welfare of the farmer and his family is not likely to be overestimated.
								The good effects of this work with the farmers has become so evident that a few
									of our agricultural colleges are now organizing institutes and short courses for
									rural ministers, with a view to acquainting the ministers with agricultural
									practices, advances, and needs, and interesting them in the upbuilding of rural
									communities by means of intelligent rural service.
							
							
								2. The county farm expert. This is a recent development of the
									work of the United States Department of Agriculture, working in connection with
									the state agricultural colleges and city or county boards of trade or commercial
									clubs. Thirty such coöperative undertakings in a dozen different states had
										been established by the close of 1912, while
									twenty more such were in process of organization. As fast as Congress appropriates
									funds for the purpose, it is the intention of the Department to effect
									organizations in other counties, with a view to covering, ultimately, the entire
									United States. Of the expenses for salary, travel, and office, the United States
									Department of Agriculture pays from one fourth to one third, the state or county
									often a portion, and commercial organizations or individuals the remainder. The
									possibilities for educational and social usefulness of the plan may be shown by
									describing one such undertaking, as put into effect by the Clinton City Commercial
									Club.
								This was the first county in Iowa to employ an agricultural expert. The effort
									began in the Commercial Club, and a director of the club was placed in charge of
									an effort to bring the farmers and the city into closer coöperation. Out of this
									beginning a unique plan was evolved, whereby representative farmers from all parts
									of the county, as is shown in the diagram opposite, were brought into
									communication and into membership in the club. A committee on agriculture of the
									club was next constituted, to consist of one third city members and two thirds
									farmers, and local township organizations were provided for in each of the twenty
									townships of the county. The membership of these township organizations was to
									include every farmer in the township who would pay the small yearly dues, and the
									directors of these were
									
										FIG. 38. THE CLINTON PLAN FOR
												AGRICULTURAL BETTERMENT Combining city and country as a single
											unit.
									 given membership in the city club. Each township was further divided
									into a number of neighborhood clubs, of twelve families each, with provision for a
									meeting of each club once a month, at the home of one of the members.
								Each township agreed to contribute at least $100 a year from its dues to the
									work, and for each $10 in dues one farmer was given membership in the Clinton
									Commercial Club. The United States Department of Agriculture added $1200 a year,
									and the Crop Improvement Committee of the Council of Grain Exchanges, in Chicago,
									added $1000 a year. The club stood sponsor for the success of the idea, and made a
									three-year contract with an agricultural adviser, obtained from the state
									agricultural college. His duties, as outlined in his contract, were to direct
										demonstration and experimental work within the
									county; to ascertain the varieties of grains best adapted to Clinton County
									conditions; to direct the selection and distribution of seeds; to assist the
									County Superintendent of Schools in the introduction of agriculture into the
									schools; to organize and help conduct short-course schools, for Clinton County
									farmers and their families, in stock- and grain-judging, and in domestic science;
									to assist in the organization of coöperative clubs, Granges, lecture and
									demonstration courses, etc.; to visit farmers, and advise with them as to the care
									and improvement of their farms, stock, and homes; to organize and direct the dairy
									tests; to establish regular office hours, when he might be consulted, either in
									person or by telephone; and to coöperate with the schools, farmers' institutes,
									county-fair associations, rural churches, and other organizations, with a view to
									promoting the agricultural, social, educational, and religious interests of
									Clinton County. He became, in reality, a local agricultural expert, serving the
									people on call and without fees.
								The meetings of the neighborhood clubs are important features of the Clinton
									plan. Consisting of twelve families, one meeting a year is held at each home.
									During the forenoon, the men and older boys look over the farm and farm-buildings,
									and discuss the methods employed and the results obtained. While the men and boys
									are so engaged, the women and girls are looking over the house and garden, and discussing domestic problems. At noon a picnic dinner
									is served, each family bringing a basket. After this a short program of some kind
									is given, in which the children frequently take part. At each meeting some
									particular subject—such as roads, social life, educational conditions and
									needs, improved kitchens, etc.—is made the special topic for the afternoon.
									Sometimes round-table meetings are held on the topics, sometimes there is a
									debate, and sometimes outsiders are invited in to talk on the subject for the day,
									or to demonstrate a new method of doing some particular thing. After the formal
									dinner-table program is completed, the young people play games, while the older
									ones visit together.
								The value of such organizations in breaking up the old rural isolation, in
									promoting neighborhood acquaintance and solidarity, and in disseminating
									agricultural and educational ideas will undoubtedly be very large, while the
									monetary value to the farmers of having a disinterested county agricultural
									adviser, ready to visit them and to prescribe, is likely to be under- rather than
									overestimated. Another value of great social as well as business significance is
									the uniting of the city and the country in constructive work. Such coöperative
									efforts as this will contribute much toward promoting community and county
									solidarity, and in improving the conditions surrounding rural life.
								
							
						
					
				
				
				
					PART IITHE RURAL-SCHOOL PROBLEM
					
					
					
						CHAPTER VIIFUNDAMENTAL NEEDS IN RURAL EDUCATION
						The school and democracy. The provision of free elementary
							education for all of our people has long been a noteworthy feature of our American
							life. As rapidly as new agricultural areas have been opened to settlement, the little
							district school has been created and has opened its doors to the children of the new
							settlers. Here fundamentals of English learning have been taught to all who came.
							Within recent years the struggle to eliminate illiteracy in our country, by insisting
							on the fundamentals of learning for all, has been marked in both the Northern and
							Southern States. The little country schoolhouse at the crossroads or by the wayside,
							with its handful of pupils and its American flag, has become a marked feature of our
							landscape. The establishment of such schools has no doubt contributed much to the
							creation and preservation of a democratic spirit among us, and their establishment has
							also done much to weld the different elements in our population into a homogeneous
							whole. The creation of new schools has been made easy of accomplishment under the
							laws, and schools have been multiplied in such numbers as to bring a school near to
							the home of every child.
						
						 Until very recently about the only progress made in rural education was in the
							multiplication of schools and schoolhouses. While the cities were expending much
							thought on their school systems, and were increasing the efficiency of them by
							adjusting them to the new and more complex life conditions which they faced, the rural
							school, as an institution, not only
								FIG. 39. THE SCHOOL BY THE WAYSIDE 
							 stood still, but in many cases actually slid backward. There can be little
							doubt but that the average rural school gradually declined in efficiency, and came to
							render a much less useful community service than did the earlier type of country
							school.
						The decline of the district school. The changes which have marked
							the third and fourth periods in our agricultural development have brought forcibly to
							the front the need of a fundamental change in the nature and purpose of our rural
							education. In many country schools the number of pupils
							has greatly declined within the past quarter of a century. Other schools have been
							entirely closed. Some districts have been depleted by the removal of farmers to the
							cities or to other farming regions, and, due to an introduction of machinery, the
							elimination of small farms, or to new farming conditions; while other districts, where
							no such changes have taken place, have suffered a loss by reason of the growing-up of
							the children and by the decreasing size of families in the district. 
								FIG. 40. A ONE-PUPIL CLASSMany such exist
									in every county.
							In still other districts the school has been depleted because many of the
							farmers now send their children to town, to obtain better educational advantages for
							them. The elimination of the small children at the bottom and the older ones at the
							top, due to grading and the development of high schools, has also served to deplete
							still further the rural school.
						
						The result of recent changes. As a result of these changes it has
							come about that there is an increasing number of rural schools which have so few
							pupils and so many classes that there is little chance for mind to wrestle with mind.
							Such schools lack interest, enthusiasm, and impulses to action, and usually have poor
							attendance and a short term. For such schools the financial support is usually small
							and the moral support weak. The frequent changes in teachers; the inadequate
							supervision; the lack of proper direction; and the poor, inadequate, and too often
							run-down school building, make the school almost wholly lacking in the elements which
							are necessary to make it an important factor in the lives of country children.
							Compared with a good town school, the little rural school is often miserably poor, and
							the mere handful of pupils, the overburdened program, and the lack of ideas or
							impulses to effective action on the part of either teacher or school authorities
							create heavy odds against a life in the open country. While better off in many
							respects, the small village school often suffers from many of these same
							influences.
						Rural school still of large importance. Yet about one half of the
							school children of the United States are enrolled in the rural schools,1 and perhaps ninety per cent of
							the children of the rural population receive no other education. That the education
							provided for such children1 If small town schools are added, about three fifths are enrolled in
								non-urban schools.
							 is what it ought to be, or might easily be made to be,
							few will maintain. Rural children are entitled to something better, and the interests
							of the state demand that there be a better equalization of the opportunities and
							advantages of education, as between the city boy or girl on the one hand and the boy
							and girl in the small villages and the rural districts on the other. 
						Poor rural schools not necessary. That it is possible to provide,
							in most cases, as good an education for rural as for city children, and that this
							ought to be done in the interests of rural and national efficiency, we believe will be
							evident to any one who will carefully study the question. 
								FIG. 41. A TYPICAL RUN-DOWN
										SCHOOL-HOUSE
							The chief reason why this has not been done before now, and the chief
							difficulty encountered in trying to provide such advantages to-day, is the
							conservatism and low educational ideals of the people in the rural communities
							themselves. Too many farmers have no proper conception as to the possibilities of
							education, or what is possible for country children. Lacking this, they naturally fail
							to see the necessity of new forms of organization, or of increased expenditures for
							teachers, equipment, or supervision. This lack is due
							largely to the fact that they are themselves products of the present system,—a
							system which has been hallowed by age and endeared by sentiment, and this age and
							sentiment blind them to the greater possibilities which are easily within their reach.
							Tremendously impressed with the results accomplished in the past under the old system,
							the short-comings of the present schools have not been seen. The comparative isolation
							of the rural home and of the rural school renders both somewhat immune from the
							criticism and the contagion for improvement which continually stir the city and compel
							progressive action there.
						The recent criticism from without. The past twenty-five years have
							been a period of criticism and reconstruction in public education, and within the past
							decade the rural school has come in for its share of discussion and criticism. Unlike
							the schools of the city, the criticism has come largely from without, instead of from
							within. During the past ten years probably no part of our public-school system has
							come in for more thought and attention than have our rural schools, yet no part,
							generally speaking, has shown so little improvement. Hundreds of articles have been
							written on the subject, hundreds of addresses have been made, and numbers of carefully
							prepared reports have been submitted. Legislators, citizens, teachers,
							Grangers,—all have considered the problem and have offered suggestions for
							improvement. Despite many recent advances, and despite a
							number of examples of reorganized and redirected rural schools, the problem, generally
							speaking, remains largely with us, and is as yet largely unsolved. Only a small
							percentage of our rural people have as yet grasped the significance for rural life and
							education of the changes which have been proposed.
						The recent rural-life movement. Within very recent years, one might
							say in the past five or six, a very significant movement for the conservation and
							improvement of all rural life and institutions has sprung up in this country. This has
							for its purpose nothing less than that of so reshaping and so redirecting the
							institutions of rural society that rural civilization will become as effective and
							satisfying for country people as that of the town and city now is for city people. The
							appointment, by President Roosevelt in 1908, of a National Commission on Country Life
							was a formal recognition of the movement, and the report of this commission, in 1909,
							stated the needs and deficiencies of the rural life of to-day, and pointed out
							possible remedies and lines for future action. The movement is not a back-to-the-land
							movement," in the newspaper sense of the term, which is a doubtful propaganda, but
							rather a movement to even up educational advantages, institutional life, and social
							opportunities as between the country and the city. Its immediate impulse has been a
							desire to improve farming and to make it a more satisfying life career, but this also
								involves an improvement of rural social institutions,
							chief among which are the church, the school, the home, and rural social life. For the
							next quarter of a century, at least, we shall in all probability witness a further
							marked development and expansion of this rural-life movement. It will be economic,
							social, religious, educational, and, in all probability, political as well. The
							beginnings of the movement go back some distance, but it is only recently that the
							movement has begun to express itself with sufficient clearness to attract general
							attention.
						The expression of this new country-life movement with which we are here most
							interested is that phase. of it which aims to reshape and redirect the rural school,
							and it is this phase of the movement which we shall consider in the succeeding pages
							of this book.
						Away-from-the-farm influence of the rural school. The fundamental
							needs of the rural and small village schools of to-day are that they be redirected and
							revitalized. Since the change in direction of the rural and village school in the late
							seventies and early eighties, as described in chapter IV, these
							schools have departed further and further from the old rural type, and the
							away-from-the-farm influence in rural education has been marked. The uniform
							textbooks, which have been introduced by law, were books written primarily for the
							city child; the graded course of study, which was superimposed from above, was a city
							course of study; the ideals of the school became, in large part, city and professional in type; and the city-educated and city-trained
							teachers have talked of the city, over-emphasized the affairs of the city, and sighed
							to get back to the city to teach. The subjects of instruction 
								FIG. 42. A TYPICAL RURAL SCHOOL OF THE BETTER CLASS
								
								This is a good example of from one third to one half of the 212,000 rural schools
									of the United States.
							 have been formal and traditional, and the course of instruction has been
							designed more to prepare for entrance to a city or town high school than for life in
							the open country. So far as the school has been vocational in spirit, it has been the
							city vocations and professions for which it has tended to prepare its pupils, and not
							the vocations of the farm and the home. The natural result of this change in direction
							has been that the rural school has lost its former vitality, and country people have so thoroughly lost interest in it that it is
							now usually difficult to interest them in the shortcomings of their school or to
							secure their coöperation for its improvement.
						Need of redirecting the school. The expression of this new
							country-life movement, as it relates to education, is in the form of a proposal to
							redirect and revitalize the rural and village schools; to relate them directly to
							their environment; and to interest rural people again in their schools by creating
							schools which will make a direct appeal to them. It is also proposed to create a new
							type of school to meet modern educational needs. The present marked interest in
							agricultural education and in the general improvement of rural life offers to the
							school an opportunity to begin a reorganization which will change the direction of its
							efforts, and give to it new vitality as a rural institution. The accomplishment of
							such a result will reëstablish the school as an important rural social institution,
							and will be of much more importance than the mere introduction of agriculture as a new
							subject of study.
						Difficulties to be encountered. The problem of how to redirect the
							rural schools and make them efficient rural social institutions is not a simple one,
							and the difficulties in the way of such an accomplishment must not be underestimated.
							The decreasing attendance at the rural schools; the increasing farm tenantry; the
							peculiar attitude of mind of the farming population, due to the lack of social contact
							and coöperation; the inadequate school equipment; the
							poorly trained teachers, and the temporary nature of the employment; the low salaries,
							and the meager financial support; the small and irregular attendance, and the short
							term; the almost total absence of supervision of a constructive and helpful type; and
							the lack of a unity of effort and of a definite program for helpful
							service—these are the chief difficulties which beset the path of those who would
							improve and transform the rural schools of our land. The mere enumeration of the
							principal difficulties to be encountered makes the problem of redirection seem
							formidable enough.
						The great rural-life interests. Yet these difficulties are not
							insurmountable, though time, more money, and some changes in organization will be
							required. As the school begins to redirect its efforts so as to emphasize in its
							instruction the vital home and community interests of the region, and to give
							expression in its work to the interests and common experiences of the community in
							which it is located, these difficulties will begin to fade away. The redirection of
							rural education means that the school is to abandon its city ideals and standards,
							except as these are adaptable to rural as well as to city schools, and to develop its
							instruction with reference to its environment and the local interests and needs. The
							main effort of its instruction should be to put its pupils into sympathetic touch with
							the rural life about them, in which the great majority of them ought to find their
							future homes. Just as the better city schools definitely
							recognize and emphasize in their instruction the needs and the vocations incident to
							city life, so our rural schools should be so redirected as to emphasize in their
							instruction the vocations of the home and the farm, for which the great majority of
							their pupils are destined. In the open country the soil and the home will ever remain
							the great prime interests, and the instruction provided, while including whatever of
							city instruction is adapted to country needs, should nevertheless keep these prime
							rural interests clearly in the foreground.
						Legitimate functions of the redirected school. Merely to educate
							the young ought to be but a part of the mission of the school. This is important, of
							course, and it should be done much better than it is now done. The school, though,
							ought to reach out into the community life and influence it positively for good. The
							great and fundamental interests of the home and the vocation should be touched and
							quickened by it. A new sense of responsibility on the part of rural people for
							agricultural improvement and for the conservation of the soil should be awakened. The
							village, which is the center for an agricultural community, also should be awakened to
							a sense of its relationship to the problem of rural welfare. The conservation of soil
							fertility; the improvement of farming methods; the preservation of the natural scenery
							of the community; the dissemination of agricultural and general knowledge; the
							preparation for the intelligent use of leisure time; the
							improvement of home life; the conservation of child-life, girlhood, and motherhood;
							the stimulating of social organizations to useful activity; and, in general, the
							development of a better rural society;—all of these are as much legitimate
							functions of the redirected school as is the teaching to read and write and cipher.
							When teachers and school officials come to see this as so, then will the school be on
							the way to becoming a useful center for the community life.
						A group of problems involved. To accomplish such a fundamental
							change in an old established institution, controlled as it now is by the rural people
							themselves, is by no means a simple or an easy task, and naturally cannot be
							accomplished in a day or a year. To reach the average farmer and to secure his active
							coöperation for the improvement of the rural school, especially if it is going to cost
							materially more, is a proverbially difficult undertaking. The problem, too, is not a
							single one, but is in reality composed of a number of related problems in educational
							organization and. administration which will have to be met and solved. These relate
							to: (1) the plans of organization; (2) the system of maintenance; (3) the teaching
							equipment; (4) the instruction imparted; (5) the training and work of the teacher; (6)
							possible reorganizations; (7) the supervision of instruction; and (8) the extension of
							educational advantages and opportunities. These separate problems it will now be our
							purpose to consider, in order.
						
						
							QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
							Explain how it is that the average rural school, while perhaps a better school
								than it was fifty years ago, is still less efficient than it was then.
							Enumerate the different influences which have contributed to the depletion of
								the district school.
							How many of these influences have been in operation in your community during
								recent years?
							How many small schools exist in your state? In your county?
							Excluding town schools, what is the average enrollment and attendance in the
								schools of your county?
							What is the average recitation period (a) in such schools? (b) In the same grade
								in town or city schools?
							Compare the city and the country in the matter of constructive criticism of
								their own institutions and life.
							Why have the criticism and constructive proposals for rural education, which
								have characterized the past decade, come almost entirely from other sources than the
								country people themselves?
							Distinguish between the "back-to-the-land movement" and the rural-life movement.
								Why is the former a doubtful propaganda?
							Explain how the rural school has prepared for the city vocations, rather than
								for rural life.
							What is meant by the statement that the rural school should "develop its
								instruction with reference to its local environment and needs"?
							Is the statement, "As the home is the center of civilization, so the home
								subjects should be the center of every school," good educational doctrine?
								Why?
							How can we adapt instruction in the old fundamental subjects to " the needs of
								the soil and the home"?
							Explain, as well as can be done at this point in the discussion, what is meant
								by saying that "the school must be fundamentally redirected."
							Discuss possible ways in which the legitimate functions of the redirected
								school, as enumerated on pages 174-175, might be undertaken. 
						
					

					
					
						CHAPTER VIIIORGANIZATION AND MAINTENANCE
						As some understanding of the different type plans for organization and maintenance,
							as found in the different American states, is essential for a proper grasp of the
							rural-school problem of to-day, we shall devote the present chapter to a brief
							consideration of these different type plans, in so far as they relate to the
							management and support of the rural and small village schools of our land.
						Early schools community undertakings. Schools and the means of
							education, with us, arose as distinctly community undertakings, and not as state
							systems of education. With us, historically, the development has been from the
							community outward, and the organization of county and state school systems has come by
							a gradual grouping together of these community efforts. While a few of the early
							colonies, notably Massachusetts and Connecticut, early ordered the maintenance of a
							school by the towns, in most of the other states schools preceded laws, and the early
							legislation merely authorized and permitted, as public undertakings, what had already
							begun as private affairs. The first schools, generally, knew no higher authority than
							the will of the people creating them. Even after general legislation had begun to
							express the state feeling of a need for education, the
							laws for a long time related almost entirely to permission to tax, the building of
							schoolhouses, the length of the term, and the rights of the community in guiding and
							directing the school. Such supervision as was given was that directed by local needs
							and local opinion, rather than by the needs of any larger whole.
						School systems a product of evolution. As the several states have
							gradually formulated their school laws and organized their school systems, they have
							in nearly all cases at first merely gathered up into a state school system the local
							organizations existing at the time. It has naturally followed that marked differences
							obtain in methods of organization, support, and administration, as between the
							different states, and that the educational conditions existing to-day in any one
							state, as a result of this long popular evolution, may not be those which are most
							desirable from the point of view of present-day educational ideas and ideals as to
							organization and administration. In some cases, though, the existing organization is
							capable of being adapted to meet the new needs; in others, no substantial progress is
							possible without some fundamental change.

						
							I. TYPES OF ORGANIZATION
							

								1. The District System
								The most common and, as it is often stated, the most democratic type of school
									organization and administration
									
										FORM OF SCHOOLORGANIZATION
										
										District SystemTown or TownshipCounty SystemDates on states
											are dates of theabolition of the District System(Iowa, South
											Carolina and Nebraska are mixed systems.)
									
									 which we have in the United States to-day is what
									is known as the district system. The extent of its use is shown by the map on the
									preceding page. The system of district control originated in Massachusetts in
									response to a local need, and was carried rapidly to the westward by New England
									settlers. In its essential features the district system of school organization has
									changed but little since its first establishment, though the different states have
									since found it necessary, due to changing economic and educational conditions,
									greatly to curtail its power and its privileges, and in some cases to abandon its
									use altogether.

								Its essential features. Wherever half a dozen families lived
									near enough together to make organization possible, they were permitted to meet
									together and to form a school district. They then elected a board of school
									directors or school trustees to represent them, voted to erect a schoolhouse, to
									employ a teacher, and to levy a school tax on the property of the people within
									the district. The districts, as organized, varied in shape as the necessities
									required, and in size from two or three to twelve, fifteen, or more square miles
									in area. The process of district formation, subdivision of districts, and
									alteration of district boundaries was all made easy of accomplishment under the
									early laws, and, as new families moved into the districts, the process of
									multiplication and division of districts went on until a little district school
									was finally found within walking distance of the children of every farm home. As
										one recent writer has put it, "the measure for
									district organization came to be the length of a child's legs."
								Evolution of district organization. Organized at first only
									where there were settlements, finally all of the area of each county came to be
									included in some school district. The evolution of districts is well shown in the
									illustrations on this and the following page.
										1835 
										 1860
										
										FIG. 44. EARLY ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL
											DISTRICTS
									These show the process of district formation within a county. At first,
									during its period of settlement, only a portion of the county was organized into
									school districts; later on, all was so organized, and the towns, with their graded
									school systems, began to develop; still later the increase of population led to
									the development of a city and two towns along the new railway, and to the
									subdivision of a number of the larger rural districts; and, still later, the
									changes in rural population, due to the changes in
									our agricultural development traced in the first part of this book, have led to
									the depopulation of the rural districts and to the abandonment of some of the
									schools. In one part of the county eight districts have united to form a
									consolidated school.
								District powers and duties. Each school district, once legally
									created, becomes a body politic and corporate, is assigned a certain name or
									number, and possesses certain important legal powers. 
										1885 
										 1910
										
										FIG. 45. LATER ORGANIZATION AND
											REORGANIZATION
									 These include the right to make contracts, to sue and to be sued, and to
									purchase and hold property for school purposes. For its government, trustees or
									school directors, quite generally three in number, are elected by the people to
									represent them. At first the elections were for one-year terms, but later
									three-year terms, with one elected each year, was substituted as likely to give
										 better results. At first these district trustees
									managed the schools about as they or the people wished, and in many states these
									little local boards still retain large and important powers.
								Curtailing the powers in the interests of efficiency. In all
									parts of the United States there has been a tendency within the past quarter of a
									century, and more clearly marked and expressed in some states than in others, to
									limit the powers of the district and of the district-school authorities, in the
									interests of a more efficient administration of our rural schools. Many of the
									duties and functions once exercised by the district authorities, such as the
									certification of teachers, selection of textbooks, and the outlining of the course
									of study, have been taken from them; while their powers of making contracts,
									fixing tax rates, terms, and wages, and directing the teacher have been greatly
									curtailed. Most questions of educational policy, procedure, and finance, it has
									been found, are better settled if removed entirely from the control of these
									district officers, and given either to county or state educational authorities for
									determination or settled once for all by general state law. So clearly have the
									defects and limitations of the district system been revealed, as a system for the
									administration of a series of rural schools, that a number of states (see dates on
									the map on page 179) have entirely abolished the system, while others have
									retained it only in part, and have superimposed over it county and state systems
									of school administration of more or less strength and authority.
								
								Where the district system rendered service. As a simple and
									democratic means for providing schools for the children of people under somewhat
									pioneer conditions, the district system has rendered, and in some of our Western
									States is still rendering, a useful service. Where population is sparse,
									communication difficult, educational ideas rather primitive, supervision lacking,
									and economic conditions somewhat uniform and undeveloped, the system is naturally
									of most importance. Under the earlier economic conditions, in the days of
									boarding-around arrangements, and before the evolution of our present-day ideas as
									to the nature and progress of education, the district system undoubtedly rendered
									its most useful service. The system, though, has become hallowed by age and
									endeared by sentiment; in a number of states few men living there have known any
									other; and the proposal now to substitute a system better adapted to the needs of
									rural people, under our complex modern conditions of life, at once meets with most
									determined opposition.
								Chief objections to the district system. The chief objections
									to the district system of school organization are that it is no longer so well
									adapted to meet present conditions and needs as are other systems of larger scope;
									that the district authorities but seldom see the real needs of their schools or
									the possibilities of rural education; that as a system of school administration it
									is expensive, short-sighted, inefficient, inconsistent, and unprogressive; that it
									leads to great and unnecessary
									
										 A prairie sod schoolhouse.
									
									
										A Southern mountaineer schoolhouse.
									
									
									 inequalities in schools, terms, educational
									advantages, and to an unwise multiplication of schools; that the taxing unit is
									too small, and the trustees too penurious; that trustees, because they hold the
									purse-strings, frequently assume authority over many matters which they are not
									competent to manage; and that most of the progress in rural-school improvement has
									been made without the support and often against the opposition of the trustees and
									of the people they represent.
								Excessive number of school officers. The excessive number of
									school officers required to manage the schools under the district system is one of
									its greatest sources of weakness. From 150 to 500 school officials, which is an
									absurdly large number, are required under the system to manage the rural-school
									affairs of an average county, employing from 50 to 175 teachers, and costing from
									$20,000 to $100,000 a year for maintenance. There is no educational or business
									reason for the election of such an absurdly large number of school officials. In
									one of our most important states, about 45,000 school directors and township
									officers are required to manage the business of the rural and ungraded schools of
									the state. This is about one for every thirteen males residing in the rural
									districts, about three for each teacher employed, and about one for every hundred
									dollars of rural expenditure. Another large state requires about 25,000 school
									directors for its ungraded schools. Another requires about 28,000 directors for
									its rural schools, and still another about 27,000 directors for its rural schools. To expect to find this number of
									capable school officers is to expect what cannot be found, and this large number
									of school officers stands to-day as one of the most serious blocks in the way of
									progressive educational action. To have a fully organized school board in every
									little school district in a county, a board endowed by law with important
									financial and educational powers, is wholly unnecessary from any business or
									educational point of view, and is more likely to prevent progressive action than
									to secure it.
								As shown by the map on page 179, a number of states have abandoned the district
									system (the dates on the states are the dates of such abandonment) for a larger
									and a better form of educational organization. As a system of educational
									organization the district system has been condemned by educators for forty years,
									and the educational conditions existing in any state to-day, so far as they relate
									to rural education, are in large part to be determined by how far the state has
									proceeded along the line of curtailing the powers of the district-school
									officials, or of abandoning the district system of school administration. The
									advantages of a larger unit will be brought out more in detail as we proceed.
							
							

								2. The Town or Township System
								The next type of organization, as we proceed upward, is that of the town in New
									England and the township in the North Central States. A New England town is
									irregular in shape, following hills, watercourses, or old roads, and in size contains from twenty to forty square miles. A
									Western township is regular in shape, except in southern Ohio, and contains
									thirty-six square miles. The exceptions to this are in northeastern Ohio, where
									the townships contain but twenty-five square miles, and in the case of a few
									fractional townships, which may exist in any state. 
										FIG. 46. NEW ENGLAND TOWNS AND WESTERN
											TOWNSHIPS COMPARED
										
										Essex County, Mass. Area 497 sq. miles. 34 towns 
											Huntington County, Ind. Area 386 sq. miles. 12
												townships.
									 The New England town thus has natural geographic boundaries, and is
									much more likely to form a center for local government and community life than is
									the very regular Western township, with its lines drawn straight across the
									county, with no reference to geographical features or community possibilities.
								The New England town system. Under the town system of
									management, as we find it in New England, the educational affairs of each town are
									managed by one school board, known as the "Town School Committee." The schools of
									the central village, town, or city, which forms the
									community center, as well as all of the outlying schools, are managed as a unit by
									this one school board. Each town now forms a single school district, instead of
									being split up into a number of little school districts, as was for so long the
									case. District lines still remain, but only for purposes of classification and of
									regulating attendance, and these may be changed by the town school authorities at
									will. The town school committee must provide adequately for the education of all
									the children of the town and for an equal length of time each year; may close
									unnecessary schools and transport the children to some central school; makes all
									contracts, orders all repairs, and employs and pays all teachers; maintains a
									central high school, as well as graded schools; and determines the tax necessary
									for the proper maintenance of all the schools. The schools of a New England town
									are thus managed as a unit, and just as all of the schools of a city are managed
									by one city board of education.
								Town vs. district school control. The struggle to restore the
									town as a unit in New England was a long and bitter one, and was only accomplished
									after a struggle with the champions of district rights and district-school
									control. The result of the reëstablishment of the town as the school unit has
									everywhere been good. Taxes and educational advantages have been equalized
									throughout the towns; better teachers have been employed, and at higher wages;
									better and more sanitary school buildings have been erected; the consolidation of schools has been greatly promoted; close and
									effective town supervision has been instituted; free tuition at the central town
									high school has been provided; special instruction in music, drawing, etc., has
									been introduced into the outlying schools, as well as in the central town school;
									and one small board of representative citizens, responsible to the people for
									results, has taken the place of the many small district school-boards and the
									small army of school officials which existed under the old regime.
								The Western township system. In the Western States we find the
									purest type of township school control in Indiana and Ohio. In Indiana, one
									township trustee, elected by the people, manages all the schools of the township,
									except the schools of any incorporated village or town, which here are under
									separate control. In Ohio, a township school-board of five have about the same
									functions as the one township trustee in Indiana. The fact that in both
									states—and for that matter in all the states of the North Central group
									where the township is used as a unit for school organization and
									maintenance—schools in incorporated villages, towns, or cities are under
									separate control instead of under one township organization, constitutes the most
									important difference between the Western township form of organization and that
									provided for the New England town. In this respect the New England town
									organization is superior. Like the New England town system, however, the Western
									township form of school organization attempts to
									provide for the systematic organization of the educational affairs of the whole
									township under one responsible board, and by so doing to secure some of the same
									efficiency which characterizes the educational administration of a New England
									town. For this purpose it is greatly superior to the district system. It not only
									provides for a much better equalization of the opportunities and advantages of
									education, but it is more economical and efficient as well. The chief
									disadvantages of the township as a unit for school organization are that it is too
									large for some purposes and too small for others, and frequently the township
									lines and community boundaries do not coincide. This is well shown by figure 46,
									on page 187. In many respects the county offers a still better unit of
									organization.
							
							

								3. The County System
								In a few of our American states both the district and the township units have
									been completely subordinated to the county, and what is known as the county system
									of school organization has been instituted. Maryland, Louisiana, and Utah offer
									excellent types of this form of educational organization, and the Maryland form is
									described somewhat in detail in chapter XIV.
								The county unit in evolution. The county as a unit for
									educational organization is found in some stage in the process of evolution in all
									states west of New England, except Nevada. All other states, except Ohio, have superimposed some form of school
									superintendent to look after, correlate, and in part subordinate the district or
									township school authorities beneath. In some states the county superintendent has
									as yet but few and relatively unimportant powers; in a number of states his powers
									are important, but chiefly clerical and financial; while in a few states he has
									been evolved into an important educational officer. County boards of education
									have also been established in a number of states. In some, they are largely
									rudimentary, and have few important functions; in others, they exercise a number
									of important powers. A county system of school organization may be said to be
									slowly, though sometimes hardly consciously, in process of evolution in most of
									our states, and may be looked to in the future as one of our important educational
									developments.
								Advantages of the county system. The county system of school
									organization, a description of which we defer to chapters XIII
									and XIV, is merely an attempt to apply to our educational
									affairs the same common-sense principles of business administration which have
									been put into practice, in whole or in part, in other departments of our
									governmental service, and which have been found to give such excellent results
									everywhere in the business world. Under the system as best developed, the people
									elect a county board of education of five, who are analogous to a city board of
									education for a city. This board then selects and appoints a county superintendent
									of schools, and such deputy supervisors as are
									needed; determines the educational policy for the county, and sets financial
									limitations; manages the schools of the county, outside of cities having a city
									superintendent, as a unit and after much the same method of organization and
									management as has been found so effective in city school organization; alters,
									consolidates, or abolishes the school districts, as the best interests of
									education require; oversees the work of its executive officers; determines the
									county school tax; appropriates all funds; employs teachers, fixes, and pays them
									their salaries; provides equal educational advantages and length of term for all
									schools in the county, and free high-school advantages for all children; acts as a
									board of control for any county high-school, teachers' training-school, or
									parental school which may be established; looks after the building and repair of
									all school buildings, and the purchase of all books and school supplies; and, in
									general, manages the scattered schools of the county as though they were a compact
									city school system. Under such a system of school organization educational
									progress can be made in a year which it would take a decade or more to obtain
									under the district system.
							
							
								4. The State Unit
								Superimposed above all of these units for educational organization are the state
									educational authorities, usually consisting of a commissioner of education or a
									state superintendent of public instruction, and a
									small number of deputies and assistants, to whom are given certain powers of
									inspection and supervision of the schools of the state. These officers usually
									render a valuable service in the way of inspiration and advice and in directing
									legislation, but they are of necessity too far removed and have too many other
									functions to enable them to render more than general service in the solution of
									the rural-school problem. The real working-out of this problem must be done by the
									county and local school authorities, the teachers, and the interested people of
									the communities concerned.
							
						

						
							II. TYPES OF MAINTENANCEGeneral Taxation for
									Education
							This is an attempt to equalize both the burdens and advantages of what, after
								careful consideration, has been conceived to be for the common good of all, and the
								value and importance of any plan for taxation must be measured, in large part, by
								how far the idea of equalizing burdens and advancing the common good of all
								underlies the plan. If education were purely a local matter, such as the maintenance
								of street lamps or pavements, the equalization of opportunities and advantages would
								be a matter of no state concern; but since nothing more fundamentally influences the
								future welfare of a state than the maintenance of good schools, the matter is not
								one that ought to be left entirely or even largely to local initiative and effort.
								Some form of general taxation is not only desirable, but necessary as well.
							
							Just as there are four main types of school organization and control, the district,
								town or township, county, and state,—rising in an ascending series of
								values,—so there are four main types of school maintenance employed by our
								American states. These are based on each of the four units used for organization and
								control, and also rise in an ascending series as to values. As the question of
								adequate finance underlies almost every attempt at the improvement of our rural and
								village schools, a brief consideration of the different types of school maintenance
								will also prove of value in understanding the problem we are considering.

							
								1. District Taxation
								When the people of a little geographical area, known as a school district, first
									voted to tax themselves to maintain, either wholly or in part, a school for the
									education of the children of the district, the first step toward the public-school
									idea was made. Each resident of the district paid in proportion to the value of
									his property, and shared in the benefits in proportion to the number of children
									he had to be sent to school. Some would share who did not pay, and some would pay
									who did not share. It was a coöperative effort to maintain what had been decided
									to be for the common good of the local community, and marked the first step in the
									establishment of the principle that the wealth of the state must educate the
									children of the state. Further progress was made when the tax was changed from permissive to mandatory, and each school
									district in the state was compelled to levy an annual district tax for the
									maintenance of a district school. Under the earlier agricultural conditions, when
									the need for education was small and when wealth was somewhat evenly distributed,
									district taxation had its greatest period of usefulness.
								Change in wealth and education. Since those earlier days great
									changes have taken place in the distribution of wealth and in the kind of
									education demanded to meet the needs of the future. Then one man's farm was worth
									about as much as another's; there were few cities, and but little surplus wealth;
									the railroads of the country were just beginning to be built; there were no
									telegraph, telephone, or power-transmission lines; no express companies or trolley
									lines; but few corporations, and those of small size; no invisible wealth; but few
									persons who were classed as rich; and the natural resources of the
									country—coal, oil, iron, stone, minerals—were as yet practically
									unworked; wealth and property were somewhat evenly distributed; undertakings of
									all kinds were small; life was simple, and required but little to satisfy its
									needs; education was a local rather than a state interest; and the pooling of
									effort on a large scale was not then necessary.
								The social, industrial, and agricultural changes which have taken place during
									the half-century since the beginning of the third period in our agricultural development have changed the whole face of the
									taxation problem. If good schools are to be maintained generally to-day there is
									need for the use of some larger taxing unit than the school district, and good
									schools generally are practically impossible if any large dependence is placed on
									district taxation. 
										TABLE OF ASSESSED VALUATIONS OF A SERIES OF RURAL SCHOOL
											DISTRICTS IN A MISSOURI COUNTY
										
											District
											Assessed Valuation
											What the maximum tax of 60 cts. on the $100
												would produce
										
										
											1
											$71,035
											$426
										
										
											2
											43,095
											258
										
										
											3
											16,410
											98
										
										
											4
											22,847
											137
										
										
											5
											127,440
											764
										
										
											6
											37,160
											222
										
										
											7
											26,246
											158
										
										
											8
											45,275
											460
										
										
											9
											28,168
											168
										
										
											10
											22,424
											134
										
										
											11
											51,215
											306
										
										
											12
											87,185
											522
										
										
											13
											32,450
											194
										
										
											14
											17,216
											103
										
										
											15
											21,005
											126
										
									 With the increases and decreases in population, the development of the
									natural resources of a state, and the shifting economic conditions, the
									inequalities in taxing power, as between districts, counties, and sections of a
									state, tend to become more and more pronounced. As a result, the maintenance of
									schools by district taxation comes to involve but slight burdens on some, and very
									great burdens on others. Short terms, poor teachers, poor buildings, poor schools,
									and high tax rates comes to mark one locality, while excellent schools on a medium
									rate mark others.1 What one
									community 1
									 Not infrequently we also find a low tax rate, and relatively poor schools
									in districts which can well afford to raise more money, but the district spirit
									and tradition are such that the trustees and the people will not do so until
									compelled to by law. This is considered further in the next chapter. can do with ease, another finds impossible even to
									attempt. Yet children grow up in each, and are in need of about the same
									educational opportunities and advantages.
							

							
								2. Town or Township Taxation
								This marks a slightly larger conception of the need and purpose of education than
									does district taxation, as here all the people of the township agree to pool their
									efforts for the maintenance of a system of schools for the town or township. A
									number of states have advanced to this conception, and have substituted for the
									district the town or the township unit in the matter of school support. The
									schools maintained become town or township schools instead of district schools,
									just as the schools of a city are city schools rather than ward schools.
								Town and township inequalities. While this plan is a distinct
									advance over district taxation, because the unit for support and the educational
									consciousness expressed are both larger, as a plan it is open to much the same
									objections as the district unit of taxation. As a supplement to some larger unit
									for general taxation it is very useful, but as the sole or even the chief unit for
									school taxation, it is so small that any serious attempt at the equalization of
									either the burdens or the advantages of education is impossible under it.
									Excellent school systems will be found in certain towns and townships, while in
									others, often adjoining, very poor schools must
									continue to exist, and often with no visible hope of improvement. Within the town
									or township there is a desirable equalization of tax rates and opportunities for
									education, the wealthier portions helping the poorer portions to maintain a
									uniformly good system for the common good of all; but as between town and town, or
									township and township, there is no equalization whatever. The differences become
									especially marked when applied to pairs of towns or townships, located in
									different portions of a state.1
								
							

							
								3. County Taxation
								The next step in the evolution of a broader conception of the need and purpose of
									public education, though not necessarily the next step historically, is when the
									people of a county agree to pool their educational efforts, in whole or in part,
									to maintain all of the schools of their county, the wealthier districts or towns
									or townships helping the poorer ones to maintain a good system of schools, now
									believed to be for the general good of the county as a whole. General county
									taxation for education represents a marked advance in the equalization of both the
									advantages and the burdens of education over district or even town or township
									taxation. This plan of coöperation for the support of schools is common throughout
									the West and1
									 As, for example, eastern and western Massachusetts, or northern and
									southern Indiana or Illinois. South, but is not
									found in the North Atlantic, and scarcely in the North Central group of states. It
									results in the maintenance of good county systems of schools, as opposed to
									district or town systems, and in the equalization of tax rates throughout the
									county, thus enabling many a poor district to provide a much better school than
									could be done under a system of district taxation. Under a county system of school
									administration, as described in chapters XIII and XIV, a county school tax attains its greatest usefulness.
								Equalizing effect of a county school tax. A statistical study
									of the district valuations and tax rates in any county in any state will at once
									reveal the equalizing effect of a county system of taxation, as opposed to
									district or even town or township taxation. Instead of extremes of one to two
									mills for good schools at one end, and twelve to fifteen mills for short and often
									poor schools at the other, a general county tax of three to four mills will
									provide good schools for all, and without unduly increasing the burden of support
									on any one. The main reason why California, for example, has uniformly good rural
									and village schools throughout the whole state,—in the mountains, in the
									valleys, on the fruit farms, on the edge of the desert, and near the
									cities,—with good teachers and good salaries everywhere, is that state and
									county taxation are relied upon to maintain the rural schools, district taxation
									being seldom resorted to except for building purposes. While the district-unit
									form of organization is still retained, in a limited
									form, a series of county school-systems has been created, as opposed to district
									school-systems.
							

							
								4. State Taxation
								A still further step in the evolution of a broader conception of the need and
									purpose of a system of public education is taken when the people of a whole state
									agree to pool their efforts, in whole or in part, in the maintenance of what the
									people of the whole state have come to recognize as for the common good of all,
									the wealthier counties and cities helping the poorer ones to carry the burden of
									maintaining the better quality of schools now required of all and for the common
									good of all. In the present age of railways, trolleys, power lines, mines,
									manufacturing establishments, and large corporations, the need of some form of
									general taxation, in part to overcome the unequal distribution of wealth, will be
									apparent.
								The great equalizing effect of a substantial general state tax, or appropriation
									from corporate revenue, and especially if coupled with a system of distribution
									which places an emphasis on units of cost and effort and need, will be evident if
									the reader considers the conditions in his own state. Nowhere is wealth even
									approximately evenly distributed, yet everywhere future citizens of the state are
									in need of training and guidance. The best schools of to-day are in the cities,
									and partly because the cities can do with ease what rural communities cannot even
									attempt. Rural taxpayers probably pay more than an
									average rate for education to-day, as the burden of support is much greater when
									six or eight taxpayers maintain a $300 school than when forty or sixty taxpayers
									support a $1000 school.
								General vs. local effort. It is from state and county taxation,
									then, rather than from local effort, that the greater part of the necessary funds
									with which to maintain the type of school needed ought, in the future, to be
									derived. From $800 to $1000 a year ought to be spent on the maintenance of a rural
									school, and this amount, or any great portion of it, is too large to be expected
									from district taxation. Many districts cannot to-day produce even one fourth of
									such a sum, and short terms, third-grade certificates, poor teachers, and weak
									schools are the inevitable results of the attempt to make each district pay its
									own way. It is only by a state- and county-wide pooling of effort, supplemented by
									local taxation for buildings and extra advantages, that good schools can be
									maintained uniformly throughout a state.
								Systems of distribution. After adequate taxation has been
									provided for, a wise system for its distribution needs next to be devised. To
									apportion money to school districts on the basis of the number of children
									reported as between certain ages (school census), and without regard to local
									needs or educational efforts made, is almost the poorest plan that could be
									devised. The real unit of cost in the maintenance of a school, whether it have 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50 children, is the teacher needed
									to teach the children, and the chief items which should interest the state in the
									apportionment of its funds, after the unit of cost for the teacher has been set
									aside, are length of term and average daily attendance. In California, where an
									eight-months school is required of all districts, and where one of the best plans
									for taxation and apportionment to be found in any state is in use, $550 is first
									set aside by the county superintendent for each teacher, and the remainder, which
									is somewhere near $10 per child per year, is then apportioned to the districts on
									the basis of their average daily attendance the preceding year. Such a plan for
									distributing the taxes raised, supplemented by a small reserve fund, for use in
									helping those communities which have raised a certain high rate of local tax and
									still cannot meet the minimum demands of the state, as is done in Indiana and
									Missouri, will come about as near placing a premium on every desirable effort
									which communities should be encouraged and forced to make as any which can be
									devised. If sufficient general taxation, state and county, is provided, good
									schools are possible throughout a whole state, and some such plan as is indicated
									above for the distribution of the funds will come as near to an equalization of
									both the burdens and the opportunities of education throughout the state as it is
									desirable to do.1

								1 For a much more
									detailed consideration of this subject, see the author's School Funds
										and their Apportionment, Tr. Col. Contrib. to Educ., no. 2. New York,
									1906.
								
								Fundamental needs for rural-school progress. The substitution
									of some larger unit for school management than the district, adequate financing,
									and a wise system for the apportionment of the proceeds of taxation, lie at the
									basis of any marked improvement in the educational conditions surrounding our
									rural schools. There must be, in most of our states, a doubling of funds and a
									wiser distribution of the funds which are raised, if anything approaching
									satisfactory results are to be obtained. The attempt to conduct rural schools on a
									mere fraction of what the cities spend for similar educational advantages will
									never give good results. More money for education is an absolute essential, and
									until this can be obtained, either from larger local or general taxation, or both,
									or from some form of reorganization of rural education which will make better use
									of the funds now at hand, no very satisfactory results in providing the kind of
									rural education needed can be expected. Until one or the other, or both, of these
									desirable results can be obtained, which may take time in certain states, the best
									that can be done is to see that the districts provide as much money as they can
									afford, and then spend it as wisely as possible.
								In this chapter we have emphasized organization and financial support, because
									both are of such fundamental importance in dealing with the rural-school
										problem. In succeeding chapters we shall point out
									how larger sums can be advantageously spent in the improvement of the rural and
									village schools, and, still more important, how, by a reorganization of rural
									education, a much better system of organization and finance could be provided.

								
									QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
									What form of school organization is in use in your state?
									If the district system, what are the chief powers of the district officers?
										Is it a strong or a weak district system?

									How may new districts be created?
									What has been the chief curtailment of the powers of the district in the
										past quarter of a century in your state?

									Are there parts of your state in which the district system is still a
										necessity?

									If your state has the township or the county system, does the sub-district
										system exist? If so, is it so managed as to be a point of strength or
										weakness?

									Are the district-school authorities in your county liberal, fair, or
										penurious in the matter of school expenses?

									How many school officers are there in your county?

									Suppose the county unit of organization were to be applied to your county,
										what advantages in it can you see?

									What plan for the support of its schools does your state employ?

									What are the sources of school moneys in your county, township, or district?
										What percentage comes from each source? What sources are increasing or
										decreasing?

									Are the schools of your state, from a financial point of view, state
										schools, county schools, or district schools?

									How have the changes of half a century "changed the whole face of the
										taxation problem"? (Page 196.)

									Do you know of two school districts or communities, near one another, where
										the burdens vary greatly?

									What extremes of taxation exist among the districts of your township or
										county? Among the counties of your state?
									How evenly, or unevenly, is the wealth of your state distributed? Of your
										county? 
									
									How are the proceeds of taxation for education, and the income from
										permanent funds, apportioned in your state? In your county? 
									Is the system of apportionment a wise one? Could you suggest any
										improvements?
									Does the apportionment system place a premium on community effort?
									If the state or county school funds in your state were doubled, or trebled,
										would that alone solve your rural-school problem?
									Is there any financial premium placed, in your state, on consolidating the
										schools? If so, what?
								
							
						
					


					
					
						CHAPTER IXTHE TEACHING EQUIPMENT
						The need for better equipment. It is of course true that an
							unusually capable teacher occasionally accomplishes rather wonderful results under
							very discouraging educational conditions and with an almost entire absence of teaching
							equipment. On the other hand, it is also true that hundreds of other teachers, who are
							not unusually capable, obtain only very unsatisfactory results in our rural schools
							to-day, and in part because of the poor quality of the teaching equipment provided.
							Despite our recent advances our rural and village schools are still greatly inferior
							to city schools in this respect, and one of their needs which must be supplied, if
							they are to be redirected and made educationally efficient, is that they be given
							buildings and teaching equipment adequate for doing what it may reasonably be expected
							rural and village schools ought to do. As the provision of improved teaching equipment
							for our rural schools may be said to be almost a prerequisite to rural educational
							progress, we wish to devote this chapter to a consideration of such needs, conceiving
							teaching equipment to mean building, site, teaching apparatus and material, and
							library facilities.
						
						
							1. The Building
							In the old days of rural and village education, when instruction was confined
								chiefly to the three Rs, the main equipment need was for a building where the
								teacher and pupils could meet together for study and recitation. Almost any kind of
								a building would do, so long as it had benches and could be kept warm. The log
								schoolhouse of the East and the South, and the sod schoolhouse of the prairie
								states, alike answered these early educational needs. The weather-boarded
								rectangular boxes, with a door at one end and a chimney at the other, three evenly
								spaced windows on each side, the whole somewhat resembling a box car in appearance,
								were the successors of these early schoolhouses. Still later, brick took the place
								of timber, but the style of house remained the same.
							The type. Thousands upon thousands of such little district
								schoolhouses were built all over the United States, and are being built to-day. The
								interiors were everywhere the same. A teacher's desk at one end; an unjacketed stove
								in the middle; blackboards around the walls; sometimes single, but usually double
								school desks in the room; a manikin or a planetarium, bought by some trustee on whom
								they had made a deep impression; perhaps a globe, or a map case; a few books; and a
								water pail;—these constituted the usual material equipment. The interior was
								severely plain; the exterior was crude and unattractive; the site, usually a corner by the wayside, was bare and unimproved. Once
								created, the type has persisted, and thousands of such schools still exist in almost
								every agricultural state in the Union. Only very recently have we seen the
								beginnings of any improvement in the type.

							
								FIG. 47. A TYPICAL PRESENT-DAY INTERIOR
								
							

							Why they persist. Such school buildings once answered the needs
								of education fairly well, and it is hard for district trustees to see the need of
								anything better to-day. Because they themselves received their early education in
								such a temple of learning, they cannot under—enough for their children. The
								farmers who do understand lease their farms to tenants and move to town, to secure
								better educational advantages for their children. In many rural communities this
								process has been going on for so long that it has selected out and drained off all
								who would have stood for better conditions, leaving behind an unprogressive rural
								population, to whom almost any kind of a school or school building is good
								enough.
							A common condition. Despite recent improvements, the rural school building of to-day is too often an
								ugly and an unsanitary box, cheap in its construction, often in a poor state of
								repair, and with no facilities for instruction worth mentioning. The room is merely
								a meeting-place for hearing lessons in the old book subjects.
									FIG. 48. A TYPICAL WEATHER-BOARDED BOX
									
								The room is unattractive, often dingy and forlorn, with nothing about it to
								awaken any of the finer human feelings. When the hard white plaster walls have
								become so dirty that the teacher is almost in rebellion over them, instead of
								tinting them with good soft colors, the best that the average trustee knows is to
								cover them with that most unsanitary of coverings, known as wall-paper. In its
								unsanitary possibilities it is a fit accompaniment of the common drinking-pail.
								Usually, too, the pattern selected is loud and gaudy in color. The exterior is
								frequently a picture of dilapidation, and its outhouses are often filthy and lacking
								in privacy. Many rural school buildings are of such a nature that the development of
								artistic tastes is impossible in them, and many are positively immoral in their
								influence on the young. The lack of respect shown for such public property, as
								evidenced by broken windows and weather-boarding, the marking of walls, and the presence of shutters for protection, is not to be
								wondered at.
							
								FIG. 49. A MORE ATTRACTIVE EXTERIOR
							
							Limitations to instruction. A school, if it is to be vital and to
								exercise much influence, must relate itself to, and in a large part express, the
								needs of the community of which it forms a part. It should be a community
								institution, adapted to the peculiar needs of that community. There is nothing about
								the usual rural school building to suggest that such an idea was in any one's mind
								during its construction and equipment, and it is with difficulty that it can be
								adapted to such a purpose. In rural schools in agricultural communities, instruction
								in agriculture and in the needs of agricultural life should permeate the school and
								its work. Such would give vitality to the work of the school and make it attractive
								to the children of country people. The conditions which surround the district
								school, as it is usually found, are not such as to be
								favorable to such instruction. For good work in such subjects something more is
								needed in teaching equipment than the usual rectangular box. Neither the building
								nor the site is arranged for working purposes, and in most rural schools little
								beyond book-work instruction is possible.

							
								FIG. 50. A REARRANGED INTERIOR
								
								Remodeled along good educational and hygienic lines, and new equipment and some
									conveniences added. The three windows on the left have been made into doors, and
									the frames and sash moved to the right side. Compare with Fig. 47.
							

							The cheap building. The usual rural school-building is built
								entirely too cheaply, and no attempt is made to make it attractive or sanitary, or
								to provide it with the necessary facilities for wholesome school life and good
								instruction. The needs of the past, rather than of the present or the future, have
								decided its plan. Its cost has been very small, and the idea of the school-district
								authorities too often seems to be to provide as little as possible, and to provide
								this little as cheaply as can be done. No basement is provided; the attic is
									unused; no cloak or other rooms are divided off; the
								heating and ventilation are primitive, or at best only as good as the law compels;
								the lighting is bad; no plumbing or artificial lighting fixtures are installed;
								picture molding is omitted; the walls are left untinted; and the woodwork and floor
								finish are cheaply done. From $600 to $1000 has been a common cost for such schools,
								while perhaps $1500 represents the cost for the best of the type to-day. No wonder
								so many rural homes are poor and inhospitable, when the owners have been educated to
								nothing better by the school. Once provided, repairs and additions are usually made
								by the district authorities only after much pressure has been applied. The cities,
								on the other hand, spend from $3000 to $8000 for each classroom provided, with
								between $4000 and $5000 as a common cost, and in such buildings one finds not only
								the best of heating, lighting, and sanitary arrangements, but assembly hall,
								library, science room, rooms for manual training and domestic science, and closets
								and rooms for the storage of school supplies as well. In such places the conditions
								favor excellent instruction and the formation of good tastes, while in the average
								rural building the conditions do not.
							Fundamental needs in a school building. In many rural districts
								there are no reasons, other than the parsimony and the short-sightedness of the
								district-school authorities, for a continuance of these poor educational conditions.
								Old buildings should be remodeled to adapt them better
								to modern educational needs, and when new ones are constructed they should be of a
								different type. There is much need, in many of our states, for some state or county
								oversight of all repairs and new construction, with a view to compelling the
								district authorities to erect buildings of a type called for by modern educational
								conditions and needs.
									FIG. 51. A SUGGESTED EXTERIOR FOR THE
										SCHOOLHOUSE ON PAGE 214
								 Cloak- and hat-rooms, separate from the main school-room, should be
								supplied. The central unjacketed stove should disappear, and, where at all feasible,
								a basement furnace should be installed. The walls should be tinted, and a few good,
								well-framed pictures should adorn them. A good water supply should be provided, and,
								by means of a pressure tank or a wind, gasoline, or electric motor, water under
								pressure should be
								
									FIG. 52. A MODEL INTERIOR FOR A
										ONE-TEACHER RURAL SCHOOLHOUSE
									Still another and a better plan would be to use the attic for the manual
										training and domestic science and the basement for the gymnasium. See Figs. 72,
										73, and 74 for such a plan. A curtain or slatted door can be used to close off
										the plant room, if the light is too bright. Lavatory rooms for both boys and
										girls contain drinking fountains, wash basins, and toilets.
								
								 supplied for lavatories, toilets, and drinking
								fountains within the building. With a coil of pipe in the furnace and a hot-water
								boiler, such as is used in a kitchen, attached, an economical supply of hot water
								can be had in winter for the lavatories. Figures 52, 72, and 73 give types of what
								might be provided.
							Library, science, and work rooms. A library room should be
								attached, as should also a collection and science room. Both are provided for in the
								remodeling shown in Figure 50. In Figure 52 a library room is omitted, but cases are
								provided for books. The case and table in the back corner are for specimens, while
								the front corner is for flowers, plants, and growing material. The basement forms an
								admirable scientific work room. Such rooms will prove to be very important additions
								for every rural school. In the science or work room should be kept the teaching
								collections and illustrative material of the school. These should include scientific
								specimens, agricultural specimens and implements, cooking specimens and implements,
								pattern and sewing materials, models of all kinds, illustrative pictures and plans,
								and trophies won. Tables with benches or stools should be placed in such a room
								instead of desks. Such a room, connected with any rural or village school, would be
								a constant challenge to teacher, pupils, and parents, and would do much to stimulate
								intellectual activity along nature study, agricultural, and home-keeping lines. In
								the basement or in the attic, teaching equipment for instruction in manual training, domestic science, and sewing should
								also be provided. Figures 47 and 50 show how old buildings may be remodeled, and
								Figure 52 the lines along which new ones should be built. In chapter XIV a model one-teacher rural-school building is pictured, and the floor
								plans shown. In the chapter following this one a number of modern buildings for
								schools having more than one teacher are pictured, and their floor plans shown. It
								is in such newer-type buildings that a redirected and a revitalized rural school
								becomes possible.
						
						
							2. The Site
							Just as the older-type rural-school building is too often not adapted to modern
								educational needs, so too often the site on which the school is located is also
								unsuited to modern instructional needs. Thrift has ever been a rural virtue, and
								rural schools have usually been located on small corners of land which were not
								useful for any other purpose. 
									FIG. 53. AN OHIO SCHOOL SITE
									
									Fronting on a railroad track, and twenty feet from a hog-chute and pen. (From a
										picture by Graham.)
								 When rural learning was all book learning, such sites sufficed fairly
								well, but
								
								
									SCHOOL GROUND DECORATION
									A district school in Winnebago County, Ill. An example of what can be done in
										beautifying the grounds, and the result after a long hot summer. Picture taken
										the middle of September.
								
								 a rural school of the type we now need can no longer
								use such a site. A rocky hillside, bleak and wind-swept; a streak of clayey soil,
								where nothing can be raised; a piece of low-lying ground, where the drainage is
								poor; a corner by the wayside, neglected and forlorn; or a small lot bounded by a
								highroad or a railroad;—these have been choice spots which rural thrift has
								dedicated to the cause of learning. Small in size, unfenced, often unsanitary, bare
								of trees or adornment, and wholly unattractive, describes many a school-house site.
								Such sites will not meet modern needs, and the sooner they are abandoned the better
								it will be for the rural school.
							The site for instruction purposes. Laboratory instruction for
								rural-life needs—that is, out-of-door instruction in nature study and
								agricultural subjects—ought to form an important part of the work of our rural
								schools. For this good land is needed, with good drainage and a good subsoil. The
								school site should be used for school gardens, experimental plats, grouping of trees
								and shrubs, and for the study of the wild life of the neighborhood, as well as for a
								building site and a playground. An important part of the work of the rural school
								should be work out of doors. Our school work is altogether too formal and bookish,
								and the farm child has too often grown up, at least so far as the school could
								direct his training, a stranger to the life of nature about him.
							 The site and aesthetic training. The school site, too, should be made to contribute to moral and aesthetic
								training, as well as to intellectual and physical education. Walks and drives should
								be laid out, and grass and long-lived shade trees planted. Playgrounds, with
								facilities for gymnastic work and games, should be provided. Where possible, beds of
								flowers, climbing vines, bulbs, shrubs, and roses should be added for the education
								of the children and the adornment of the grounds. Bird houses should be made and
								placed. By a little effort and judgment on the part of the teacher much can be done
								in this direction, though the common lack of a water supply and the long summer
								vacation naturally interfere greatly with such artistic development. Still such
								difficulties are not insurmountable, as is shown by the picture opposite page 217.
								Where rural schools have been consolidated and a central school provided, with
								running water and janitor service, many things then become easily possible which are
								difficult for the little district schools.
						
						
							3. Teaching Equipment
							In teaching equipment the district schools, too, are much behind city schools, and
								often such teaching equipment as does exist is in large part unsuited to the needs
								of the rural school. District trustees have for long been an easy mark for the
								apparatus agent, and they have usually purchased as liberally as their very limited
								funds allowed. Their purchases, though, have frequently borne little reference to
								real educational needs, and the advice of the teacher
								and the superintendent has too frequently gone unheeded. Elaborate planetariums,
								charts showing the progress of civilization, expensive relief and dissection maps,
								manikins, geometrical blocks, encyclopaedias, and unsuitable books and
								pictures,—such as these have been bought by district trustees in every state
								in the Union where they possessed the purchasing power. Usually no closet or cabinet
								has been provided to keep them in, with the result that they have soon become
								covered with dust and injured by being knocked about. In the city, on the other
								hand, such teaching equipment is usually bought on the recommendation of the
								educational authorities, and with a view to meeting real educational needs. It is
								also bought much more intelligently than is the case with rural village districts,
								is stored in closets or apparatus rooms, and is properly cared for.
							Needed teaching apparatus. The rural school, as well as the city
								school, needs teaching apparatus. Good blackboards, good illustrative material for
								primary work, a good globe, good plain maps, good charts, a work-bench for
								constructive work, molding clay and color material, simple illustrative chemical and
								physical apparatus, supplies for nature-study work, bench tools and garden tools, a
								Babcock milk-tester, a number of magnifying glasses and a fairly good microscope,
								sand boards, germinating trays, flower-pots, a glass aquarium, plenty of good
									books, some playground equipment for individual and
								for group games,—these are the important equipment needs of the rural school
								of to-day. A coal or gasoline stove, dishes and cooking utensils, table equipment, a
								sewing-machine, and a porte lumière lantern are also very
								desirable additions to the teaching equipment, and may even be said to be necessary
								if teaching of the best type is to be done. For all such equipment good cases and
								closets should be provided, so that it may be properly cared for.
						
						
							4. School Library

							Plenty of good books, adapted to the needs of instruction, are a very necessary
								part of the teaching equipment,—city, town, or rural. Nearly all schools have
								a small library fund, but it is frequently so small as to be wholly inadequate. In
								most states this fund is spent by the district trustee, and too often according to
								his own sweet will. The writer has seen Gibbon's Rome, Mark
								Twain's works, Dickens and Scott, Carlyle and Emerson, Macaulay and Hume, and books
								on exploration and phrenology in rural-school district libraries, these having been
								purchased from the school library fund by some one trustee. The purchase of such
								works may be somewhat unusual, and perhaps is less common now than was the case a
								decade ago. Better standards as to what should be bought, and greater oversight of
								the purchase by the county superintendent, have recently done much to prevent such a waste of funds. After all, though, the amount
								spent for books is small, and the selections by trustees are often unwisely made.
								More supplemental reading books and supplemental textbooks are needed, and more
								reference works, dealing with natural phenomena, home life and farm life, and the
								application of science to modern life, should be available for use by rural pupils.
								Each school needs a good working equipment of books of a kind adapted to its
								peculiar needs. A library of 250 to 350 well-selected volumes, with cases for
								additional pamphlets and pictures, and with provision for yearly additions and
								replacements, is not too much to expect for a one-teacher rural school. In addition,
								the library of the school should be supplemented by traveling libraries, sent out
								from the office of the county superintendent, or from a county or state library.
							City and country compared. It is when we compare the teaching
								equipment of the rural school with that of the city, or even of a good town school,
								that the deficiencies in rural equipment are most apparent. In buildings, the
								average city or town school possesses very superior advantages. These buildings are
								usually artistic and attractive, well heated and well lighted, equipped with all
								needed sanitary arrangements, have an assembly hall and a library room, often a
								science study and lecture room, are well equipped with teaching apparatus, and often
								have, in addition, good playgrounds and attractive grounds about the school. With
									 the much larger salaries paid, the expert
								supervision, and the many extra educational advantages provided by the cities, it is
								not to be wondered at that they attract to them not only the best teachers, but the
								children of the most far-sighted parents as well. Until country people and their
								representatives, the district trustees, come to see the necessity of providing
								buildings and teaching equipment which is approximately as good, it will be a
								difficult matter materially to improve the district school. Much more money should
								be put into larger and better arranged school buildings, larger and better school
								sites, increased teaching equipment, and larger and better school libraries, as well
								as into better teachers and longer school terms.
							Better equipment essential. The need for better material
								equipment for rural-life education is one of the important needs of to-day, and only
								small advances can be made in the redirection and revitalizing of rural education
								until such has been provided. The cities spend four to six times as much per
								classroom for school buildings, and twenty to thirty times as much for equipment, as
								is spent by the rural districts. They also have much larger and better selected
								libraries of supplemental and general books, and a city library to draw on, in
								addition. Add to these advantages the fact that the city teachers, due to superior
								professional preparation and longer service, and to their specialization by grades,
								are, as a body, better capable of working without teaching equipment than the
								teacher in the mixed rural school, and that in the
								cities close, personal, and effective supervision takes the place of the annual or
								semiannual visit to the rural school by the county superintendent, and we can
								realize something of the heavy odds under which rural education now labors. More
								money, better equipment, longer school terms, and closer supervision are fundamental
								needs of rural education to-day.
							Difficulties in the way. It is much easier, however, to say that
								the schoolhouses, school sites, and teaching equipment for rural schools ought to be
								improved, than it is to secure the money for such improvements. In a series of such
								districts as those given on page 196 better schoolhouses and equipment are almost
								out of the question. Most of the districts in the table given cannot now afford
								taxes enough to enable them to secure a well-educated teacher, to say nothing of
								improving their schools. In other counties, richer in wealth, where taxes for better
								equipment could be raised by the districts without burden, it is difficult to get
								either the trustees or the people to vote the necessary funds. Economy approaching
								penuriousness has for so long been the habit that a proposal for increased expenses
								now comes as something of a shock. Many school districts in the upper Mississippi
								Valley have voted $200 to $300 of school tax each year for so long that the amount
								has become fixed by tradition, and a proposal now for its material increase for new
								facilities would bring a record-breaking attendance to
								the school meeting to oppose the increase. Only by patient and long-continued urging
								and education on the part of the county educational authorities, or by compulsion on
								the part of the state, can material improvement in educational conditions be
								effected under the district system of school control. In hundreds of districts in
								every state, no amount of urging or education can secure results, for the reason
								that the districts are too poor in taxable wealth to enable them to provide anything
								approaching adequate educational facilities, even if they had the wish to do so.
							The need of educational reorganization. In the matter of material
								equipment for the work of education, the weakness and inefficiency of the district
								system of organization and maintenance manifests itself with particular force. In
								some places the little district school, due to its remoteness from other
								neighborhoods and to the sparsity of population in the surrounding country, must,
								for a time at least, remain much as it now is. In many other regions, though, there
								is no business or educational reason for the continuance of so many small, poorly
								equipped, inefficiently managed, and relatively expensive rural schools. The needs
								of rural people could be much better served, much better schools for their children
								could be provided, and not infrequently a financial economy could be effected as
								well, if the long-outgrown district system of organization and maintenance were in
								large part superseded by a more rational and more business-like system of school organization and maintenance. That such a
								reorganization must be effected before material, general, or rapid progress can be
								made in redirecting and revitalizing rural education, the writer believes to be
								beyond question, and the following chapter will be devoted to a description of how
								such a reorganization may be effected, and the results which might be obtained from
								such reorganized schools.
							
								QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
								What can a teacher in a small rural school do, when she finds such a building
									as is described on page 209?
								What is the estimated value of the average rural schoolhouse of your county,
									or community? How many have any sanitary conveniences? How many would rank good,
									fair, and poor?
								How many have any equipment for instruction in manual training, domestic
									science, or agriculture?
								How many of the fundamental needs of a school building, as enumerated on pages
									212 and 213, have been met in school buildings you have known?
								How many of the school sites you have known would contribute to aesthetic
									training? How could they have been made to do so, and about what would it have
									cost?
								 Compare the teaching equipment of an average city and rural school in your
									county.
								 About what would it cost to supply a rural school with the teaching apparatus
									mentioned on pages 219 and 220?
								What is the average library equipment of the rural schools of your community? 
								How much of a "library fund" is there each year for additions and
									replacements? Who spends it, and what plan for its expenditure is followed? 
								 Suggest plans for raising library or equipment money each year by means of
									entertainments, or other such plans.
								How many of the districts of your county could afford $2500 for a new and
									well-equipped schoolhouse?
								What is the average cost per pupil of rural education in your county or
									community? How does this compare with city costs?
							
						
					

					

					
						CHAPTER XTHE REORGANIZATION OF RURAL EDUCATION
						The multiplication of districts. The tendency of rural people to
							multiply the number of school districts has been commented on frequently in the
							preceding chapters. To this the laws, originally designed to make easy the creation of
							new schools, have opposed but little resistance. Whenever the attendance at a school
							became sufficient to provide members enough in each class to awaken a little
							intellectual enthusiasm, the demand for a school nearer home led to a demand for a
							division of the district, and the erection of a new school-house nearer to the homes
							of the seceding parents. This process has been well illustrated in Figures 44 and 45.
							In the days of cheap schoolhouses, cheap teachers, cheap education, and local
							taxation, it was thought wise to encourage the process, and commonly pride was taken
							by the people in the abundant school facilities thus provided. The process went on
							until each township, six miles square, came to have from six to nine one-teacher rural
							schoolhouses in it, seven or eight to the township being the common numbers. This
							meant a school for every four to six square miles of farm land, and with maximum
							walking distances of from one to two miles for the children.
						
						Even the recent decreases in the rural population, the decreasing size of farm
							families, and the withdrawal of the older children from the school, all of which have
							greatly decreased the school attendance, have not wholly stopped the further
							multiplication of districts. Often the desire of a neighborhood to have a school of
							their own outweighs all other considerations, the laws interpose but little
							resistance, the county superintendent can offer but little objection, and the result
							is that another small struggling school is created, three new representatives of the
							people are elected to office, and a new rural schoolhouse soon greets the eye.
						The present result. This process has gone on for so long that every
							county which has been settled any length of time, and has reached a somewhat
							stationary level in its rural population, has to-day from five to seven times as many
							schools, and elects to office from five to seven times as many school officials, as
							there is any need for; pays for from one fourth to one third more teachers than there
							is any necessity of employing; and maintains a general level of rural education far
							below what could be maintained, for the same money, if the schools of the county were
							reorganized on a rational business and educational basis. The result generally is a
							collection of small schools, a horde of school officials, short terms, cheap teachers,
							poor buildings, poor teaching equipment, schools behind the times, and a general lack
							of interest on the part of the people in the schools maintained. This is one of the inevitable results of the district system of school
							administration, and the burden of it falls heavily upon country children.
						Recent attempts to improve conditions. Much has been said and
							written within recent years, with a view to remedying these conditions, and some
							pressure has been applied with this end in view, but with relatively little success.
							In a number of states the tax limits have been increased by law; minimum salaries for
							teachers have been prescribed; an earnest effort to secure more trained teachers has
							been made; the minimum yearly school term permitted has been ordered lengthened;
							improved sanitary conditions for school buildings have been demanded; special state
							aid for poor districts has been set aside; agricultural instruction has been
							introduced; and an effort has been made to educate the district trustees to some
							better conception of their duties and responsibilities. The net result of a decade or
							more of such effort is that a little more money is now being spent on rural education;
							the term is somewhat longer, and slowly increasing; the average schoolhouse is a
							little better, and a movement for schoolhouse improvement seems to have set in; the
							teachers have a little better training, and the salaries paid are a little higher; the
							trustee perhaps gains a little better conception of his functions before his successor
							is elected to office; and here and there one reads of a revitalized rural school which
							is rendering admirable community service. The progress, though, has been small compared with the effort expended, and not
							infrequently the progress made one year, with much effort, has all been lost a few
							years later. The process is too slow and too ineffective to accomplish much, and
							because it does not go to the root of the matter at all.
						The root of the matter. The real root of the matter is that the
							district system of school administration and school financing is a system which is
							wasteful of effort and of funds, results in great educational waste, and is
							unprogressive to a high degree. But little marked progress in the improvement of rural
							schools has been made in any state where the district system reigns supreme, and but
							little may be looked for until the district system, with its local taxation and
							control and its multitude of little schools, is subordinated by general law to a
							better system of organization and management. The unwise multiplication of school
							districts should be stopped, schools which will afford the kind of education needed by
							rural people should be provided instead, and a rearrangement of expenditures should be
							made which will provide sufficient funds to maintain the necessary number of good
							schools and attract good teachers to them. High-school advantages, of a kind suited to
							rural needs, now largely lacking, should also be provided for all. This is feasible
							only through a reorganization of the educational resources of each county, and along
							good business and educational lines.
						
						Equal rights for the country child. Such a reorganization proposes
							nothing more or less than the creation, for country children, of as good schools for
							their needs as city children now enjoy. It contemplates the abandonment of dozens of
							the small and inefficient one-teacher schools which dot the surface of almost every
							county, and the creation, instead, of a much smaller number of centrally located
							schools.
						
							CONSOLIDATION IN CENTRAL SCHOOLS
							The consolidation movement. The movement to restore to the
								country child something like equal rights with the city child, in the matter of
								educational advantages, had its beginnings in Massachusetts as early as 1869, and as
								a movement has become known as that for the consolidation of schools. Little use was
								made of the law in Massachusetts until after the final abolition of the district
								system, and it was not until about 1890 that the consolidation of schools began to
								make marked headway there. Since then, under the restored town management of
								schools, much progress in consolidation has been made, not only in Massachusetts,
								but in the other New England States as well. To the westward the movement began in
								Ohio, with the abolition of the subdistrict system in 1892. Indiana began the
								movement in 1901, and, due largely to the absence of the district system, this state
								has since then made remarkable progress in the consolidation of its district
								schools. These two states, both of which use the
								township as the unit of school organization and management, and such Southern States
								as Maryland, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Louisiana, all of which work
								under the county system, have made the most conspicuous successes in replacing the
								small and scattered rural schools by central consolidated schools. In nearly all of
								our states some provision is now made by law for the voluntary consolidation of
								districts, and in nearly all a few such centralized schools have come into
								existence. An examination of the progress of the consolidation movement in the
								different states will show, however, that no great progress in consolidation
									FIG. 54. PROGRESS OF CONSOLIDATION ININDIANA BY
										1908
									Consolidation of schools had then been effected in 82 of the 92 counties, and
										chiefly in the richest and best counties of the state. There were, in 1908, 309
										typical consolidated schools, 135 consolidated grade schools, and 784 union
										schools. A total of 19,109 pupils were transported daily, at a cost of $290,083.
										In all, 1611 one-room district schools had been abandoned by the township
										trustees. The size of the black circles on the map varies with the amount spent
										for transportation.
								
								
								
									FIG. 55. DIAGRAM OF GUSTAVUS TOWNSHIP, TRUMBULL COUNTY,
										OHIO, SHOWING TRANSPORTATION ROUTES
									Nine wagons are here used to gather up the children each day, and take them to
										and from the central school.
								 has been made in the district-system states, and that the stronger the
								district system in any state the smaller has been the success in establishing such
								consolidated schools.
							The plan in Ohio. This plan for the reorganization of rural education may be illustrated by the map of an
								Ohio township given in Fig. 55. This township is one which early abandoned all of
								its district schools and centralized the pupils in a school at the center of the
								township, the children being hauled to and from the school each day in
								transportation wagons. When first proposed in this township there was much
								opposition. This is always the case and must be expected. The first vote on the
								proposal resulted in its defeat, but the consolidated school-district was created
								shortly afterward, by a small majority vote. Two years later a visiting commission
								from another township made a house-to-house canvass of this township, to ascertain
								the sentiment of the people toward the centralized school idea. They found but seven
								persons in the township still opposed to the idea, and of these, six had no children
								in the school.
							As a result of the consolidation effected the number of teachers was reduced one
								half, a township superintendent of schools was employed, and a new interest and
								enthusiasm in the educational work of the township was awakened. The total cost for
								the consolidated school thus provided, after paying for the nine transportation
								wagons, which was 53 per cent of the whole cost, was but $245 more than the nine
								little inefficient rural schools had formerly cost. This is the general experience
								everywhere. Where the consolidated school costs more, it is nearly always because
								much better educational facilities are provided.
							
							The centralization plan. The map and the experience of this
								township are illustrative of the plan. An area, neither too large nor too small, is
								incorporated by vote into a consolidated school-district.
									FIG. 56. CENTRAL PUBLIC SCHOOL, TRUMBULL
										COUNTY, OHIO
									A type of the Ohio consolidated school. This is a brick, steam-heated,
										slate-roofed building, which cost about $10,000. It has eight rooms and
										basement, and four acres of ground. It is located five miles from a railroad,
										and is the most conspicuous landmark of the region. High school, elementary
										school, and kindergarten are provided, and an annual lecture course and many
										community entertainments are held here. It is a community center for the
										township.
								In Ohio or Indiana the township unit of school administration forms a
								ready-made area for the consolidation of schools. In northeastern Ohio, where the
								townships are five miles square instead of six, the township unit is better adapted
								to consolidation than anywhere else. Six miles square, which is the rule everywhere
								to the westward, is often too large. A location, as near the center of the
								consolidating area as is possible, is selected for the centralized school, and a new
								and modern school building is erected there. The old district-school buildings are then abandoned and sold, and wagons,
								somewhat of the type of the one shown on the plate inserted in this chapter, are
								used to gather up and haul all of the children to school each morning, and to return
								them to their homes each night.
							Occasionally other forms of conveyance are employed, as is also shown on the plate.
								The trolley car and the automobile make possible transportation for longer
								distances, and hence permit of the formation of larger consolidating districts. The
								ride should not be too long. Perhaps five to six miles, if horses are used, is long
								enough, or twelve to fifteen miles if automobiles are used. If horses are used the
								best plan is for the consolidated district to furnish the wagons, as they can then
								secure much better terms from the farmers when they furnish horses and driver only.
								Instead of continuing the old process of carrying a small and a poor school nearer
								to the child, the consolidation movement proposes to reverse the process and to
								carry the child some distance to a large and a good school, and usually one where,
								in addition, at least partial high-school advantages may also be obtained. It takes
								him from his home in the morning, lands him safely and dry at the school, on time,
								each day, and then takes him back to his home each evening, and in the same
								condition.

							
								Advantages of the plan. The advantages of the consolidation
									plan may be summarized, as follows:—
								Both the enrollment and the attendance for the
									consolidated area are materially increased. The gain in attendance in the sixth,
									seventh, and eighth grades is usually marked. The provision of some high-school
									advantages also brings in the older pupils, who are now absent from the district
									schools.
								
									FIG. 57. THE ORDINARY ROAD TO
										LEARNING
								
								The elimination of tardiness and the reduction of absences to a minimum. The
									driver should be authorized to act as an attendance officer also, and to report
									reasons for all failures to attend. In consolidated districts the percentage of
									attendance is about as good as in the cities.

								Pupils arrive dry and warm each day; there is no wet clothing to be dried, and
									colds and other troubles, due to exposure, are materially reduced.
								The pupils are under the care of a responsible person to and fro, and
									quarreling, smoking, profanity, vulgarity, and improper language and conduct are
										prevented,
									
										Wagon used in Springfield Township, Clark County,
											Ohio.
									
									
										Special school car on Cleveland and Southwestern Electric
											Line to Elyria.
									
									
										School automobile in Imperial County, Cal.
									
									DIFFERENT MEANS FOR TRANSPORTING PUPILS
									
									 both to and from school. In some localities the
									protection thus afforded girls is very desirable.
								Better grading and classification of pupils is possible, classes are large
									enough to stimulate enthusiasm and intellectual rivalry, and pupils can be placed
									where they can work to best advantage. Interest, enthusiasm, and confidence come
									from contact with numbers.
								The number of grades which each teacher must handle is reduced from eight or
									nine to two or three, with longer recitation periods in consequence.
								Opportunity is provided for the introduction of good instruction in drawing,
									music, nature study, manual training, domestic science, and agriculture, as well
									as for the enrichment of other subjects of study. It is the one great means for
									introducing these newer subjects into the rural school.
								The pupils have the advantages of better school buildings and school sites;
									better schoolhouse equipment in heating, lighting, ventilation, and sanitary
									conveniences; and better teaching apparatus, books, maps, etc. All of these
									naturally follow a concentration of wealth and effort in the provision of school
									advantages, and often cost less per capita than the much inferior equipment now
									costs for small and scattered schools.
								It leads to school terms of eight or nine months, instead of the five or six
									commonly provided by the district schools; to the employment and retention of
									better teachers; to supervision for the school; and to a higher grade of instruction. Instead of passing the teacher around from
									district to district, she is retained, and the pupils are passed from grade to
									grade.
								Community interest in education is quickened, and community pride in the
									school maintained is awakened. This leads to community interest as opposed to
									district interest; tends to break down the isolation and the stagnation of rural
									communities; and leads to deeper sympathy and better fellowship among the people.
									It improves the community as well as the school, and opens the way for such
									consolidated schools to become centers for the higher life of the
									community.

								It brings enough pupils together at one place to permit of the organization of
									group games, and thus provides for wholesome and stimulating play. The educative
									value of play is largely lost in the little district school, because there are not
									enough pupils to play many games.
								It is much more economical in administration, and this often holds true even
									after longer terms and better teachers have been provided. Much depends upon the
									economy with which the transportation can be arranged. If a wagon is required for
									each school closed the expenses will be about the same; if fewer wagons are
									required the expenses will be less. In the relative efficiency of the two kinds of
									schools there is no comparison, however.
								It offers to the rural boy and girl, and hence to country parents, all of the
									desirable educational advantages which the city boy
									or girl now obtains, and without having to go to the city to obtain them.
								The transportation feature indirectly aids in the building of better roads,
									which in turn makes rural life more attractive and helps to break up the
									isolation.
								In reducing the number of teachers needed it eliminates many of the poorest
									and the weakest, and it also reduces by from 65 to 80 per cent the number of
									district trustees required to manage the schools. Both of these are gains of much
									importance.
							

							
								Disadvantages of the plan. The main objections advanced
									against the plan may be summarized, as follows:—
								Depreciation of property; decreased valuation of farms in districts where
									schools have been closed. This idea has been disproved wherever the plan has been
									tried. A poor elementary school on a farm does not increase its value as much as a
									good school five or six miles away, with transportation and high-school advantages
									provided.
								Dislike to sending children so far from home. A child one mile from home, who
									has to walk, is farther removed than a child five miles away, with transportation,
									and not so well cared for.
								Necessity of taking a cold lunch, instead of coming home at noon, in the case
									of pupils living near the school. This objection can be easily remedied by the
									school, by using the domestic-science equipment.
								Children obliged to travel so far in bad weather;  children obliged to walk part of the way to meet the team, and then ride in
									damp clothing; unsuitable conveyance and driver; bad associations en route. These
									objections can all be eliminated by the school authorities, whose duty it is to
									provide suitable drivers, proper conveyances, and reasonable routes.
								Additional expense to parents to provide proper clothing to attend a central
									school. This objection has been found to have little weight.
								Local jealousy; an acknowledgment that some section of the community has
									greater advantages and is outstripping other sections. This is a rather strong
									argument,—with country people.
								It removes an ancient landmark, and is in the nature of an innovation. This is
									an even more formidable argument with a considerable class of rural people, to
									whom all progress is painful. The argument is often really an argument in favor of
									consolidation, but it frequently takes years to make such people see it this way.
									The presence of at least one hundred thousand such landmarks in the different
									states is one reason why rural education labors under so many difficulties.
							
							
								FIG. 58. ONE OF THE LANDMARKS
							
							
							Inaugurating the movement; the common plan. Two plans have been
								followed. The one which has usually been used in the Northern States has been for
								those interested in establishing such schools to look over the school map of a
								county and pick out certain natural concentrating centers,—communities where
								the advantages of consolidation would be easily made evident, and where the people
								were progressive, and likely to favor such an idea,—and then to begin a
								process of education of the people with a view to securing action. The first
								consolidated school in a county is usually hard to get voted, and requires much
								patient effort on the part of those interested.
									FIG. 59. WHERE CONSOLIDATION STARTED
										IN OHIO
									The original school was at Kingsville, in Ashtabula County. This county is
										located in a rich farming section in northeastern Ohio, where the townships are
										five miles square, the people intelligent, and the conditions for consolidation
										good. The above map shows the progress of the movement during the sixteen years
										up to 1908. Union schools mean only partially completed consolidation. Townships
										in white mean that these still retain their district schools.
								 After one or two successful unions have been formed, others follow with
								more ease, and before long most of the progressive portions of a
								
									FIG. 60. MAP SHOWING EXTENT OF SCHOOL
										CONSOLIDATION IN DELAWARE COUNTY, IND., 1908
									
									Area of county, 399 sq. miles. The fine lines are section lines, from which it
										may he seen that the area of some townships is 30 and of others 25 or 36 sq.
										miles. Rural school consolidation extends over 47.6% of the area of the county.
										Sixty-seven school wagons and several interurban lines daily transport about
										1300 pupils to consolidated schools. The county expended for conveyance $18,244
										in 1907-08. After belonging to the consolidated school one year, one district in
										Salem Township withdrew and reopened its district school. But after one year's
										retrial of the old plan, the patrons, convinced that the consolidated school was
										the better, abandoned the district school permanently, sold the schoolhouse, and
										returned to the consolidated school.
								
								county can be induced to form unions for the
								maintenance of such consolidated schools. This is well shown in the map of Delaware
								County, Indiana, given on the opposite page. This map shows how far the
								consolidation of district schools had proceeded there by 1908.
							This method of slow, general education has its advantages, as well as its
								disadvantages. Its advantages lie chiefly in that progressive communities do not
								have to wait for years for unprogressive communities to experience conversion, but
								may go ahead at once and plan what is best for their children. Its disadvantages lie
								chiefly in that some unions are formed which are too small; that some districts are
								left stranded, as it were, too small ever to form a union alone, and not
								advantageously located for joining existing unions, and that unions are formed with
								purely local interests in view, and with no thought as to organization with
								reference to a comprehensive scheme for the county as a whole. These advantages and
								disadvantages are well illustrated by the Delaware County map.
							Township unit; stranded districts. In that part of Ohio where the
								townships are five miles square, the township has proved a natural consolidating
								unit, and it is there that the consolidation of schools in Ohio has made the
								greatest headway. Where the township is six miles square, which is true everywhere
								to the west-ward, the township unit has not infrequently proved too large for
								successful consolidation as a whole. The result has been that consolidation has been
									postponed, or only partially effected, and a few
								one-teacher rural schools have been left stranded, and with little hope of future
								union. This is well shown in Fig. 61, below. The township unit of school
								administration may easily serve to prevent full county consolidation.
							
								FIG. 61. STRANDED DISTRICTS
								An Iowa consolidation. Central school located at one edge of the township;
									stranded districts too far away to join, later on.
							
							
							The county-unit plan. In the Southern States, where the county is
								the unit of school administration, where township lines scarcely exist, and where
								the district authorities have no functions of any importance, the county boards of
								education have been able to proceed with a plan for county organization which has
								resulted, in many cases, in complete county consolidation. This is well shown in the
								accompanying map of Duval County, Florida, where complete consolidation has not only
								been effected, but the location of future consolidated schools has been provided
								for.
							
								FIG. 62. MAP SHOWING CONSOLIDATED DISTRICTS AND
									LOCATION OF CONSOLIDATED SCHOOLHOUSES, IN DUVAL COUNTY, FLORIDA(After
									Knorr.)
								Area of county, 884 sq. miles. Location of future consolidated schools shown. Two
									launches are used in transportation, in addition to 28 wagons, all owned by the
									county. Thirteen schools answer the needs of this large county.
							
							
							The county-survey plan. A third plan has recently been provided
								for in Minnesota. This new plan is so unique and so full of possibilities for
								usefulness that it is almost certain of adoption by other states, in some form, as
								soon as its advantages are seen.
									FIG. 63. DOUGLAS COUNTY, MINN. (After
										Knorr.)
									A county of twenty townships, and containing three graded schools and
										eighty-four district schools. Area of county, 648 square miles.
								 The essence of the plan is that the county commissioners (supervisors) of
								any county may, and on petition of twenty-five per cent of the residents must,
								appoint a rural school commission of seven, one of whom is the county superintendent
								of schools. This commission carefully studies the geographical, educational, and
								social conditions in the whole county; redistricts the
								county, to form consolidated school-districts of from four to six miles square;
								prepares and publishes a report, and a map; and the matter is then submitted to the
								people of the county, for approval or disapproval, at a special election.
									FIG. 64. DOUGLAS COUNTY, MINN., REORGANIZED (After
										Knorr.)
									Twenty-four districts here replace the eighty-seven formerly existing in the
										twenty townships. Note how the new district lines vary from the township lines
										and also how they follow natural rather than township boundaries. District No.
										XIV (shaded), is shown in detail in Fig. 65.
								 If approved by a majority vote the plan is then put into effect, and a
								unified series of consolidated schools and high schools takes the place of the many
								scattered rural schools. The working of this plan is well shown in the two maps of
								Douglas County, Minnesota, on this and the preceding page, while the  small drawing following shows the detailed working-out
								of the proposed reorganization for one of the consolidated districts. The townships
								here, it will be noted, proved too large for use, twenty-four unions being required
								to cover the twenty townships. The township lines also bore little relation to the
								natural community boundaries.
							
								FIG. 65. DETAILS FOR DISTRICT XIV
									(After Knorr.)
								Area 29 sq. miles; valuation $199,984 (estimated). Eight wagons and routes are
									shown leading to the consolidated central school. Note how the district follows
									the dividing lines of communities, and varies from the township lines.
							

							Advantages of the county unit. The evident advantages of this
								county plan of action are that the educational resources of the county are dealt
								with as a unit, and a unified scheme for educational improvement and higher
								education for all is adopted at one time. Land and property values, number of
								children, probable future growth, topography and roads, climate as determining size,
								educational needs, and natural community boundaries must all be considered in making
								an educational survey of a county with a view to its educational reorganization. The
								mistakes made in organizing independent unions may
								thus be prevented. It may take a little longer to secure the initial action, but
								final action for the county as a whole will be secured much earlier under the
								Minnesota plan. 
							The same form of reorganization is shown by the two maps of Ada County, Idaho,
								reproduced on this and the following page.

							
								FIG. 66. MAP OF ADA COUNTY, IDAHO, SHOWING
									THE BOUNDARIES OF THE SCHOOL DISTRICTS AND THE LOCATION OF RURAL DISTRICT SCHOOLS
									AND HIGH SCHOOLS, 1908 (After Knorr.)
								
								There were twenty-four one-room rural schools (ungraded), five two-room rural
									schools, one three-room rural school, with a total of 4662 pupils enrolled, in
									1907.
							
							
							The need for such reorganizations. It is only in consolidated
								schools, such as have been described, and are further described and pictured in
								chapter XIV, that the educational and social needs of rural
								children can be adequately provided for. Something, of course, can be done to
								improve the site, building, teacher, equipment, 
									FIG. 67. SAME COUNTY, ILLUSTRATING A
										TENTATIVE PLAN OFCONSOLIDATION (After Knorr.)
									Numbers before "G." and "H.S." indicate probable enrollment of pupils in
										elementary and high-school courses, respectively. Roman numerals are used to
										designate the proposed consolidated school-districts.
								
								 and instruction in the isolated one-teacher rural
								school and make it better serve the community needs. With an especially capable
								teacher in charge it is possible to make such schools exert a much larger
								educational influence than is usual to-day. Still, after all has been done, the
								great handicaps of small classes and small attendance, numerous recitations with
								short time for each, lack of that stimulation to mental activity which comes only
								from contact with numbers, lack of opportunities for organized play, lack of
								specialized instruction, lack of supervision and guidance, shorter terms, inadequate
								finance,—all these lay a heavy hand on the education of country boys and
								girls. Under the county plan of school administration as found in the South, or
								under the Minnesota plan for unifying the educational resources of a county, these
								little district schools can be entirely eliminated and a series of good central
								schools can be established in their place. Only under such a system is high-school
								instruction for all likely to be well worked out.
							Such schools natural community centers. It is in such central
								consolidated schools, too, that the future community centers, mentioned at some
								length in chapter v, should and can be developed. Such schools become community
								landmarks, and attract general attention. If established in a little village, itself
								the natural center of a rural community, and properly equipped and managed, such
								central schools can become the very center of both the village and the community life. In addition to the ordinary classrooms, such
								schools should include rooms for manual training, sewing, domestic science, a
								science room, an assembly hall, and a combined school and public library. The school
								should possess space and rooms enough and be fitted with all the facilities
								necessary to enable it to become the center of the community life.
							
								FIG. 68. A COMMUNITY-CENTER SCHOOL
							
							A community school illustrated. The above picture of a one-story
								school, and the floor plans which follow on the next page, will illustrate the idea.
								The same idea could be worked out for a two-story building. The six classrooms shown
								on the plan provide for the ordinary classwork. The special subjects—manual
								training, sewing, domestic science, agriculture, and science—are provided for
								in the basement, as is also part of the gymnasium work. In addition, the building
								has a good assembly hall on one corner and a library room on the other. The
								arrangement of the building is such that either of these may be used by the
								community without interfering with the work of
									FIG. 69 FIRST-FLOOR PLAN OF A
										COMMUNITY-CENTER SCHOOL
									In the basement the heating plant and fuel and janitor's rooms are under
										classrooms 3 and 4. The manual-training room is under the assembly hall; the
										domestic science and sewing rooms are under the library; a science laboratory is
										under classroom No. 1, and an agricultural laboratory is under classroom No. 6.
										The toilet rooms and showers are under classrooms 2 and 5, under 2 for girls and
										women, and under 5 for boys and men, and so arranged that they may be entered by
										the school children by the main stairways from above or from the playground by
										the rear basement entrance stairs leading to the library or to the assembly
										hall.
									Note that the six classrooms form a unit by themselves, and
										can be closed off from the library and assembly hall entirely. Similarly either
										the assembly hall or the library may be used, at any time, without any access to
										the school proper. The toilet rooms in the basement may be shut off, in a
										similar manner, from the school.
								
								 the school. The assembly hall, fitted with movable
								seats, can be used by the school for morning exercises, lectures, exhibitions, and
								special occasions, and also by the adult residents of the community for lectures,
								public meetings, rural organization meetings, farmers' institutes, exhibitions, or
								social affairs. A piano, a lantern and screen, a stage, and possibly a
								moving-picture machine, should form part of the equipment of the hall. The library,
								at the other end of the corridor, and also accessible from the outside without
								disturbing the school, is the complement of the assembly hall as a center for the
								community life. A children's room, with open bookshelves about the wall; stacks for
								storing the community library, traveling libraries, and the school's books when not
								in use; reading-tables and magazine tables, and a librarian in charge of the room,
								constitute the essential features of the library room.
							Given now, in addition, a good site of four to five acres, with lawn, flowers,
								shrubs, trees, playgrounds, barns, experimental gardens, and all well laid out and
								planted, and we have an institution of which any community may well feel proud. In
								the hands of teachers interested in rural welfare, such can be made not only strong
								educational institutions for rural people, but the very center of the higher life of
								the community as well. The initial cost for buildings and equipment, when spread
								over the larger area, is relatively small, as is also the annual maintenance charge,
								while the educational and social benefits are very large.
							
							A state reorganization. With about twenty such schools to a
								county, instead of a hundred and fifty little ones, or somewhere near two thousand
								consolidated schools instead of fifteen thousand district schools to an average
								state, the whole nature of rural life and education could be redirected and
								revitalized in a decade, and life on the farm could be given a new meaning. Such a
								change would also dispense with the need for the services of from five to six
								thousand of the cheapest and most poorly educated of the rural teachers, as well as
								of some twenty-five thousand district-school trustees, both of which would be
								educational gains of great importance and significance.

							
								QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
								Is the rural population in your county or community increasing or
									decreasing?
								Are new school districts still being formed by the subdivision of old
									districts? Is the opposite process taking place?
								How many one-room schools in your county? How many in the state? What is the
									average per county?
								How many district-school trustees (directors) does this imply?
								Are your school trustees paid for their services? What does this amount to per
									year, per county? For the whole state?
								Do you have district trustees' institutes each year? What do these cost? How
									useful are they?
								Have you had any experience with the consolidation of schools? What was the
									nature of it?
								Do you think of any other advantages of consolidation than those given? Any
									other disadvantages?
								Which is the more expensive,—a $1200 school for an average daily
									attendance of 15, or a $10,000 school for an average daily attendance of 130? 
								If the Minnesota county-survey plan were applied to your county, about how
									many union schools would be needed? About how many teachers could be dispensed
									with? How many trustees?
							
						
					
					

					
						CHAPTER XIA NEW CURRICULUM
						ONE of our distinguished American scientists, now the chancellor
							of one of our large universities, once told the writer that in one of the first
							institute talks he ever gave he pointed out to the teachers present the great
							overemphasis of grammar in our public-school work, and the desirability of reducing
							the time then given to this subject. At the close of the address a school principal
							came forward and wrung his hand, saying that he agreed with him thoroughly, and had
							for years been advocating such a reduction, in order that more time might be secured
							for work in arithmetic. The writer once had a similar experience, except that the
							subjects involved were exactly reversed.
						The old curriculum. These two subjects of arithmetic and grammar
							have for too long occupied a place of first importance in both city and rural
							education. In the amount of time consumed, and in the emphasis given to minor details,
							geography has long been a close third. The amount of time given to each of these three
							subjects, and the great emphasis which has been placed upon relatively unimportant
							information, have been out of all proportion to the real value of these subjects of
							study. These three subjects, together with reading,
							writing, spelling, history, and book physiology, have for long constituted not only
							the backbone, but almost the entire content of our elementary-school knowledge. Eight
							or nine years of child life have been devoted to the study of these subjects alone. In
							the mean time, the great world of nature and the increasing needs of practical life
							have remained almost untaught and unnoticed. With the great changes which have taken
							place during the past half-century in almost all of the conditions surrounding rural
							life, is it much wonder that our rural people have lost interest in the type of
							education usually provided in their rural schools?
						Instead of trying to adapt the school instruction to the particular needs of rural
							and village pupils, our schools have remained stationary and traditional in type. In
							the cities notable advances, on the whole, have been made, though highly traditional
							city-school systems of the old type still abound. Among the rural and town schools,
							despite a few noteworthy examples of reconstructed schools here and there, the
							conditions generally show much less improvement. What were once the only subjects of
							instruction continue to be taught, almost to the exclusion of other subjects, and in
							much the old way. Teachers teach as they were taught, and what they were taught, and
							communities continue to demand instruction in the same old subjects, though profoundly
							dissatisfied with the results obtained.
						Why such instruction continues. Such instruction continues largely because of the great number of
							untrained teachers employed; because of the lack of ability to improve itself, which
							is one of the most prominent characteristics of the district system; and because of
							the, as yet, somewhat general lack of any effective educational supervision for our
							rural and small village schools. Lacking intelligent direction, these schools have
							merely drifted along in the old way. To the untrained or the poorly educated teacher,
							both of which abound, such formal book instruction is not only by far the easiest kind
							of instruction to give, but is also the only kind of instruction she knows how to
							impart. Of rather limited general education herself, lacking in professional insight,
							working without intelligent guidance, possessing little or no grasp of modern economic
							tendencies or of community social needs, and following city-type textbooks and a
							uniform course of study, the young girl teacher is not to be greatly blamed if she
							teaches the way she was taught and maintains a traditional school. To maintain
							discipline and get the pupils through the course of study have been for long the chief
							aim and end of rural-school instruction, and until recently our normal schools, almost
							unconsciously, have been preparing their girls to fit into only such a traditional
							type of school.
						Recent attempts to change these conditions. Within the past decade
							there has been a marked attempt to improve these conditions and to change the nature
							of the work done in our rural and village schools. There
							has been much discussion of the subject, and a determined effort has been made, within
							the past five or six years, to arouse trustees, teachers, and school officers to some
							proper conception of the needs and purposes of rural education. Legislation has also
							been invoked to this end. Trustees' institutes have been provided for in a number of
							states, agricultural instruction has been ordered introduced into the schools and
							inserted in the examination subjects for teachers, and many normal schools have at
							last begun to turn their attention seriously to what ought to be their prime
							function,—that of educating teachers for the rural and town schools of the
							state. The subject has also been considered seriously by farmers' institutes, the
							state and local Granges, and in the magazines and the public press.
						As a result of these many efforts more progress, naturally, has been made in some
							places than in others, and here and there one finds to-day examples of reconstructed
							rural schools which are rendering valuable rural service. The percentage of such
							schools in the total number, though, is exceedingly small, and the best examples of
							such are the consolidated schools, described in chapters X and XIV. The little one-teacher rural school, generally speaking, has as
							yet been but little touched by the new movement. Generations of educational traditions
							are hard to overcome, new teachers for the service have to be trained, the district
							system of management and maintenance interposes serious
							difficulties to any rapid educational progress, and the lack of any efficient or
							effective supervision for rural education, except in a few states having a modern
							educational organization, almost precludes the possibility of superimposing progress
							from above.
						The old traditional curriculum. This old-type traditional form of
							rural education is no longer adapted to meeting the needs of modern life, and the
							sooner it is changed and the rural school redirected and revitalized, the better it
							will be for rural life and for rural education. The old traditional school-subjects
							now monopolize too much of the school time, much useless matter should be eliminated,
							the purpose of the instruction in some of the subjects should be entirely changed, and
							all of the old subjects should be reduced to their proper place in a modern school
							curriculum. In the place of the matter thus eliminated, new subjects of instruction,
							dictated by modern needs, should be introduced.
						Arithmetic. The redirection of the old subjects of instruction is
							of first importance. The great overemphasis of instruction in arithmetic should be
							stopped, and the problems given should be made practical by reducing them to farm,
							rather than city, terms. Few people ever have use for more arithmetic than addition,
							subtraction, multiplication, division, fractions, and percentage, and it is a waste of
							precious time to teach more. If all arithmetic were eliminated until the third grade,
							much of the emphasis thereafter put upon mental work in
							the four fundamental operations and simple fractions, concrete problems dealing with
							home conditions introduced, and the upper-grade arithmetic shaded off into drawing,
							manual work, domestic science, and agricultural practice, it would be a great gain in
							arithmetical as well as in practical training, and would result in a great saving of
							time for other more important instruction. The reckoning of farm crops, problems of
							threshing and harvesting, problems dealing with the cost of growing farm crops, dairy
							and poultry problems, horse and cattle problems, problems relating to birds and
							insects or weeds and field crops, gardening and fruit-raising problems, carpentry and
							painting problems, weighing and sale problems, farm-labor problems, drainage and
							fertilizing problems,—such are types of community problems which may be made
							concrete and vital, and with which every country community abounds. Some day, when our
							farmers grow wise enough to see that uniform textbooks for a state are not the best
							things for the rural schools, they will discard the city textbook and demand
							arithmetics, readers, and other books written primarily for use in the rural
							schools.
						Grammar and language. As for formal grammar, this could be
							eliminated almost entirely, and with no real educational loss. No greater educational
							fallacy has been imposed upon us than the time-worn assertion that the study of
							English grammar teaches children to speak and write the English language correctly.
								 Grammar is the logic of a language, and as such is a
							study for mature rather than for immature minds. It would be a decided gain if all
							formal grammar, as such, were postponed to at least the eighth year, and better still
							to the high school. This does not mean that composition and language study would not
							be taught, but that such would be taught rather as an incident to the expression of
							the ideas the children have obtained from the study of concrete things. One may come
							to use, habitually, good English in the expression of his ideas, and still be almost
							ignorant of the rules of formal grammar. Too often such rules and such study interpose
							a serious obstacle between the child and the expression of his ideas, and confuse and
							impede rather than help him in obtaining that facility in oral and written expression
							which is the object of language study. A great saving of school time for other and
							better purposes can be effected here.
						Geography. In geography, too, much time is given to the mere
							memorization of useless intellectual lumber. A boy is drilled in school on the capes
							and bays of the coast of Maine, the products of California, the geography of Central
							America, and the size and location of the countries of Europe. He memorizes the
							information, and makes his passing mark on it. Later on when there is a big fire in
							Bangor, he has no idea as to its location; when it is proposed in Congress to remove
							the tariff on lemons, he does not know that this will affect a great California
							industry; he is astonished when you tell him that you
							sail almost directly south in passing through the Panama Canal; and when a war breaks
							out in the Balkans, he has no idea as to where the Balkans are or what peoples live
							there. His mind has been "disciplined" on information which he forgets as soon as
							possible, to give room for information, which, to him, it is more worth while to
							know.
						Of the local geography of his own environment, he may remain supremely ignorant, and
							of soils, roads, local boundaries, products, hills and valleys, water-courses, sense
							of direction, climate, seaports, trade-centers, industries, and the intercommunication
							and interdependence of peoples, he may have no practical conception. His geography has
							been book knowledge, easily forgotten because it was never tied up with his common
							knowledge and his home environment. A great decrease in the amount of time given to
							book and map geography, and an increase in the amount of attention given to the
							connecting of geographical study with the rural environment, would be a great rural
							educational gain. Sand tables are as important as maps, and out-of-door study is here
							of the first importance. No one of the old studies offers such fine chances for close
							correlation with the local community life. Too often we mistake, for an end in itself,
							what is merely a means or a tool for securing self-education, and are in the position
							of a school principal the writer once knew, who refused to promote a bright boy from
							the sixth to the seventh grade because he had studied
							the geography of Asia and not Africa, though there was no question as to the boy's
							ability to do the seventh-grade work.
						Physiology and hygiene. We have been teaching physiology for nearly
							half a century in our schools, yet of how little practical use it has been to us! The
							quiet voting-out of the open saloon which recent years have witnessed in all parts of
							the country is perhaps the greatest asset of our physiology teaching. We have learned
							the names and the number of our bones, the pairs of muscles and nerves, and the
							anatomical construction of our different organs, but of practical hygiene we have
							learned but little. Our teachers are not taught such practical hygiene, and know but
							little about it; the people themselves, as a mass, know but very little as to sanitary
							conditions; and only recently have we begun to direct our attention to the proper form
							of physiology instruction. Most of this new awakening is due to the state boards of
							health and to the newspapers, instead of to the schools.
						The real needs in such instruction are hygienic, rather than anatomical. How many
							bones or pairs of muscles or nerves we have, or what are their names, are matters of
							no consequence; the important matter is that children know how to take proper care of
							their bones, muscles, and nerves. Still more important are the great sanitary
							problems, particularly of rural life. Many rural homes and many rural schoolhouses do
							not, as yet, have even the rudiments of sanitary arrangements. Nowhere more than in the open country is there need for instruction
							relating to soil, water, and milk pollution; to the general unsanitary conditions of
							the homes and yards; to the importance of cleanliness and fresh air; the care of
							common accidents and disorders; the proper care of the sick; and to the baneful
							effects of improper diet, intemperance, advertising quacks, and patent medicines. The
							prevalence of hookworm in the South, and of malaria and typhoid everywhere as rural
							diseases, emphasizes the importance of some such sanitary instruction. How and what to
							eat, the importance of fresh air, the nature and prevention of disease, the importance
							of proper attention to disorders, and the evils of intemperance are types of
							information of which rural people stand in particular need, and boys and girls on
							leaving school should carry such practical hygienic knowledge away with them and apply
							it to their lives. Such information is far more important as information, far more
							useful for life purposes, and far more educative to youth than the location of Cape
							Blanco, the rule for the use of the objective case, or the ability to distinguish the
							tibia from the fibula.
						History. In history, too, the great field of national growth and of
							agricultural and industrial expansion, and the rich field of civic life and duties,
							present instructional opportunities too important for teachers to spend time in
							memorizing the skeleton of history. Wars, individual battles, and unimportant dates should be sacrificed for the personal, inspirational, and
							national sides of our national development. The study of history should leave a
							patriotic inspiration, rather than a bundle of dry facts.
						
							FIG. 70. A READING CHART FOR RURAL
								SCHOOLS
							(From Miss Field's The Corn Lady. Courtesy of the publishers, A.
									Flanagan Co.)
						
						Reading. In reading, also, despite a recent enrichment of the work,
							there is still much room for improvement. Reading is still too much of an art in
							itself, instead of a tool for usefulness in other school and in life work. Pupils are
							too frequently taught to read from a reader, but a love for reading and a habit of
							seeking information from books is not developed in them. The reading work of our rural
							and town schools lacks application, content, and scope, and needs to be connected, in
							a better way, with good literature and with the other work of the school. More books
							should be read, the supplemental reading should be materially increased in quantity,
							the number and the range of outside books read should be extended, the love for good literature should be built up, and reading as an
							isolated art should be made to give place to reading for pleasure and for use.
						Redirecting the school. Such changes as these need to be made in
							the old traditional subjects, partly to improve the instruction in them, and partly to
							make room for other new subjects of importance for modern life. A twentieth-century
							civilization cannot be advantageously maintained on an early-nineteenth-century
							curriculum and type of school, and one of the important duties of school officers,
							charged with the administration of the course of study, is to cut deeply into these
							old traditional subjects and to redirect the teaching of what is left. The reading and
							history need enrichment, physiology needs to be made personal and useful, geography
							needs to be made interpretive, and the arithmetic and language work should, in large
							part, be made a natural outgrowth of other instruction within and without the school.
							In the place of the instruction eliminated, new subjects of instruction, dealing with
							twentieth-century needs and problems, should be introduced, and teachers secured who
							are trained to handle them. In the majority of our cities such changes, redirections,
							and additions have been made, but nowhere are such changes, redirections, and
							additions more needed than in our rural and small-village schools. The special
							necessities of life on the farm, the peculiar needs of rural and small-village life,
							and the special need of interesting country children in country life early, all contribute to make such a redirection of the
							school of fundamental importance there.
						New instructional needs. The center of rural civilization is the
							home and the farm, and the great rural needs relate to domestic and agricultural life.
							How to make better homes, how to live more happily and better, how to improve the farm
							and its returns, and how to provide a better and a richer life for people in the open
							country, are the fundamental needs of rural communities to-day. As was stated earlier
							in this book, the school, if it is to be a vital force and to serve, must relate
							itself to the community in which it is located, and must so shape its instruction as
							to express and minister unto these same fundamental needs. To do this there should be
							added to the course of study of every rural school, in place of much of what has been
							and too often still is taught, good instruction in nature study, agriculture, manual
							training, domestic science, music, and play. Just what should be included in each of
							these new subjects will naturally vary somewhat with different communities, but
							whatever is done certainly should not be a mere copy of what has been worked out for
							the cities.
						Nature study and agriculture. Nature study, school gardening, and
							agricultural instruction are all related to one another, and no school has such
							excellent opportunities for effective instruction in these subjects as our rural and
							village schools. To open the minds of young people to the world of nature about them,
								to
							
								Lesson in bedmaking.
							
							
								(Courtesy, Rural Manhood.)Class in
										table-serving. NEW FORMS OF INSTRUCTION, I
							
							
								A model farm made in a country school. Page County, Iowa, school
									work.
							
							
								Teaching Arithmetic with a Babcock milk-tester.
								This is a feature of the instruction in a one-teacher country
									school near Chokio, Minn. The girls in this school study cooking and sewing also.
									NEW FORMS OF INSTRUCTION, II
							
							 make them observant and thoughtful, and to give them a
							mass of practical knowledge relating to the soils, the plant life, and the animal life
							of their surroundings, are the fundamental objects in such instruction.
						Beginning at first with generalized nature study and involving experimental gardening
							and growing, the work should gradually shade, during the sixth, seventh, and eighth
							grades, into the study of the elements of agriculture. The farm life and farm
							experiences of the community offer excellent opportunities for observation and
							illustration and for testing and applying; and the work is so fruitful of
							possibilities that, if well taught, much of the other work of the school may be made
							to hinge about this center of scientific information. Few subjects of instruction
							offer such golden opportunities for real life-instruction as does agriculture in an
							agricultural community. The opportunities for changing a dead school into a live one,
							by such instruction, are very large for any teacher who has energy enough to find out
							what to do and insight enough to know how to do it.

						What can be taught. The study of the soils of the community, with
							reference to their composition, cultivation, fertilization, drainage, and
							crop-producing qualities, is full of educational possibilities. The study of farm and
							garden plants, with reference to varieties, soils, tillage conditions for growth,
							common diseases, harvesting, costs of raising, selection and care of seeds, and values for different purposes, is likewise full of
							educational opportunities. Similarly the study of the insects, birds, and animal life
							of the community, and their habits and feeding values, can be made alive with
							interest. The care of chickens and the principles underlying the poultry industry
							could also be made a study of much value. The same is true of bees and the honey
							industry. Seed and soil testing, tests of grasses and vegetables, milk tests,
							experimental studies of molds and decay, tests of sprays for plant diseases, studies
							of fertilizers, and weather records and maps, as well as simple problems in chemical
							and physical action, are types of scientific studies, lying close to the home and the
							farm, which could be carried out even in small one-teacher rural schools. The value of
							the science workroom attached to a rural school, such as is shown in Fig. 50 (p. 211)
							and Fig. 52 (p. 214), and of a good school site, will now be apparent. Both are almost
							a necessity for good work in such subjects.

						How such instruction works. In a few of our schools such
							instruction had been made so alive and so valuable that it has interested the whole
							community, and farmers, who have not before visited a school for years, have come to
							see what the school is doing. The school gardens and schoolroom have become
							demonstration centers; boys in particular, but girls also, have been led to take a new
							interest in farm life and in farm conditions. Not infrequently, as a result of such
							instruction, they have been able to excel their parents in some form of agricultural work. When a father finds that he has been beaten in a
							contest by his boy, using new practices learned at school, he soon takes a new
							interest in rural education. The work soon leads to contest work in boys' and girls'
							agricultural clubs, and to entry in township, county, and state agricultural contests.
							The stimulating mental effect of such activity can hardly be overestimated.
						Domestic science. Equally important for the girls is some work in
							domestic science, given with particular reference to the home life and needs of
							children. The nature study, school gardening, and agricultural work contain much that
							is preparatory for such instruction. While the work of the seventh and eighth grades
							will naturally differentiate a little for the two sexes, especially in the
							consolidated schools, much of it can still be done in common, and with advantage, in
							the one-teacher rural school. The general science, the gardening, the milk tests, the
							study of molds and decay, the study of sprays for plant diseases, the principles of
							bacterial action, the simple problems in chemistry and physics, the study of foods and
							food materials, the planning of kitchens and homes, house furnishing, house
							sanitation, household accounts, economy in purchasing and marketing, and something as
							to the quality of textile fabrics and their adaptability,—these are almost
							equally important for the boys and the girls in our rural schools. It must not be
							forgotten that farming and successful and happy farm life are essentially a partnership business between a man and a woman, and the
							success of the business depends upon the intelligent coöperation of each of the
							partners. The men, too, need enlightenment upon some of these topics even more than do
							the women.
						Beyond this common basis of knowledge, the girls should be given elementary
							instruction in the household arts, in household management, and clothing and
							decoration. The household arts ought to include instruction in the selection and care
							of food materials, some ideas as to food values, the preparation of foods for workers
							and invalids, canning and preserving, the proper serving of foods, and the proper care
							of the dining-room and kitchen. Household management ought to include elementary
							instruction in the proper arrangement and care of the house, economical and practical
							furnishings, house cleaning and sanitation, laundry work, nursing and proper care of
							the sick, home emergency measures, and household accounts. The work in clothing and
							decoration should include simple sewing, the use of patterns, use of a machine, simple
							millinery, some study of textile fabrics, their adaptations and costs, and some study
							of color harmony and design in clothing and in house furnishing.
						The absolute unadaptability of the common-type one-room rural school for any such
							instruction will be at once apparent. It is a survival of the past, built to meet the
							needs of an earlier-nineteenth-century text-book education. If we propose to offer a
								twentieth-century education, the school needs to be
							reconstructed entirely and to be given an entirely new equipment. Simple sewing alone
							is possible on the desks of the old-type school. For this newer work the type of
							school building shown in Fig. 50, Fig. 52, or in Figs. 72-74, and the kind of
							equipment described in chapter IX, are both essential.
						Manual training. Manual training for boys is also an essential, if
							the needs of modern rural education are to be met. Some parts of the work might be
							taken by the girls as well, as some facility in the use of tools is desirable for the
							woman as well as for the man. In the consolidated school, and to some extent in the
							one-room rural school as well, the work will naturally differentiate itself into work
							which the boys will do somewhat alone. Besides offering a desirable physical relief
							from the monotony of books and seat work, this work ought to include instruction in
							the use of tools and materials, and practical work in construction and repair work of
							a kind common on the farm. It should not be confined to wood alone, but should include
							leather. A little paint and concrete work could also be included. A good workbench and
							tools, with a grindstone and a whetstone for their care, are necessary; while a simple
							set of tools for harness and shoe repair, and a few paint-brushes and trowels are
							desirable. The construction work, after certain fundamental instruction, should be
							applied to meet the needs of the school, the farm, and the home.
						
						Again, for such work, the inadequacy of the typical rural schoolhouse and its
							equipment will at once be apparent. Not only has it no tools, but almost no place to
							set up a workbench, even if the tools were provided. While it is possible to set up a
							workbench in the ordinary schoolroom, and such is certainly preferable to no manual
							instruction at all, the need of the workroom, such as is shown in Fig. 50, Fig. 52, or
							Fig. 74, will at once be apparent. In the consolidated schools such instruction can be
							provided for with ease, and made most effective in the training of youth. (See
							pictures of the Harlem School, in chap. XIV.)
						Organized play. Organized play is another desirable addition to the
							curriculum of our rural schools. The children do not need the play so much for the
							sake of mere exercise, because most rural children have plenty of mere muscular
							exercise. The need from the exercise point of view is greater in the consolidated
							schools, because there transportation usually takes the place of walking. The great
							play needs are educational and social, and not merely physical. A common sight around
							a rural schoolhouse is a little bunch of children huddled up together against the
							schoolhouse, at noon and at recess, doing nothing and with almost no initiative to
							action or group activity. Rural children carry into the school the rural isolation and
							rural lack of coöperative effort, and they need that training in wholesome play which
							will awaken the play instinct, develop group activity and individual initiative, and give grace to the carriage of the body as well. Some
							playground apparatus ought to be provided for every rural-school ground. This need not
							be expensive, and part of it could be made with advantage in the manual-training work
							of the school itself. Basketball and tennis are possible in any school, and swings,
							rings, hurdles, and parallel bars could be provided without much expense. A
							consolidated school should have all of these, with a ball-ground in addition.
						The new and the old compared. The comparative value of the new and
							the old instruction is striking. One prepares directly for usefulness and efficiency
							in life, while the other does not. If the new instruction were well introduced, it
							would not only prove most attractive to young people, but it would be possible to
							center about it much of the old traditional instruction, over which we have worked so
							hard and so long. If arithmetic were omitted almost entirely until the third grade;
							then about three years of work given in the use of the four fundamental operations,
							fractions, and percentage; then, beginning with the sixth grade, omitted almost
							entirely as a subject of study, but applied continually thereafter in the work in
							agriculture, domestic science, manual training, and drawing;—how easy the
							teaching of arithmetic could be made, and what an amount of time could be saved for
							instruction much more worth while. If, also, formal grammar were banished almost
							entirely from the elementary school, and what little was
							retained were used by the teacher to illustrate usage, and the oral and written
							language work were then based on what the pupils knew and were doing, how easy
							language teaching would become, and what a vast amount of time and energy would be
							saved for more useful employments. Why not have oral and written language work on
							setting a hen, managing an incubator, selecting seed-corn, raising alfalfa, shearing
							lambs, making an apron, baking bread, testing milk, mending harness, or on how to make
							a pigeon box?
						Possible correlations. Around these new subjects of instruction
							much of the old instruction could be correlated. Arithmetic, language work, and much
							of the work in physiology and hygiene, geography, and drawing could be closely
							correlated with the work in agriculture, domestic science, and manual training. Some
							of the reading could also be so correlated. This would then leave history, literature,
							and music as the inspirational and cultural subjects of the school. One group of
							studies would be for practical training, and of direct vocational value; the other for
							inspiration, amusement, and cultural ends. Such a change and redirection of rural
							education, either in the one-room, one-teacher school or the school of the
							consolidated type, would prove of inestimable value to rural children, and ultimately
							to rural life as well.
						How far is such redirection possible? How far such a redirection of
							rural education can be accomplished with the one-teacher
							district school as the unit is a question. Something, of course, can be done,
							especially in the county-system states, but in the strong district-system states and
							in states where low salaries and untrained teachers are the rule, the results are
							likely to bear but little relation to the amount of energy expended. Given a poorly
							educated and an untrained teacher, who has gained her stock of educational ideas by
							preparing for the county teachers' examination; a typical one-room, box-like, rural
							schoolhouse; financial support derived largely from local sources; the
							district-trustee system of control; and a county superintendent nominated at the
							primary, and elected at a general election, and for two-year terms; and we have a
							combination which can hardly be excelled for producing and maintaining inefficient
							rural service. The redirection of rural schools under such conditions calls for almost
							superhuman powers.
						On the other hand, given a normal-trained or otherwise well-educated teacher, with
							some adequate grasp of rural needs and problems; an intelligent community, willing to
							pay for good schools; and a school building which has either been built or
							reconstructed to meet modern educational needs, such as is shown in Fig. 50, Fig. 51,
							Fig. 69, or Figs. 72-74; and it is then possible to create a new type of rural
							one-room school. Given, in addition, an effective system of township or county
							supervision, and it is possible to make such a redirected school as efficient as small
							one-room rural schools can be made. If, however, large
							educational efficiency and as high a grade of education for rural children as for city
							children is desired, then the consolidated school, such as is described in chapters
								X and XIV, must be instituted. It is only in
							such consolidated schools that the country child will ever obtain an education which,
							for him, is the equal of that enjoyed to-day by the city child, and only by means of
							such redirected education will the chief present obstacles to keeping country boys and
							girls on the farm be overcome.
						The rural high school. When we turn from the elementary school to
							the rural high school, another problem in the redirection of rural education at once
							faces us. A separate chapter could be written on the rural high school alone, but the
							limits of this book forbid; still more, for our purposes it is not necessary. The same
							principles which apply for the elementary school apply for the high school as well.
							All over our land to-day are high schools, located in villages which are the centers
							of distinctly rural communities, and which are offering only an old-style course of
							instruction. The chief result of such instruction, so far as it relates to the farm,
							is to stimulate the cityward tendency among the young people. Almost nothing relating
							to farm life is taught; almost everything relates to preparation for college, the life
							of the professions, or a life of cultured ease.
						Book instruction almost entirely characterizes the work
							of these schools. Four years of Latin, three of German, four of English, four of
							history, three of mathematics, and one of physics, with perhaps a couple of years of
							commercial work, characterize the usual small-village or rural high school. Excepting
							the physics, all the subjects are textbook subjects, and are the cheapest things the
							school could offer. A room, a stove, and a teacher represent almost the entire expense
							for instruction. In the city high schools, on the other hand, we find many of these
							new subjects of study well introduced. There we find good laboratories existing for
							instruction in the different sciences, and manual training and domestic science in all
							of their important aspects are taught. A number of city high schools have also
							recently introduced agriculture, not because of its practical value for city children,
							but because of its superior value as a means of mental training. The village high
							school, though, remains highly traditional, and offers an excellent preparation for
							deserting the farm and going to the city to live. Its work bears but little relation
							to rural life or rural needs.
						Redirecting the high school. The same redirection of education is
							needed for the village and rural high school as for the rural elementary school. As in
							the elementary school, the high school which ministers to rural and village needs
							should relate itself to the life of the community which supports it, and for whose
							betterment it alone exists. There is little need for instruction in Latin in such
							schools, and probably not for German either. The English
							needs redirection, and the history reduction and redirection. A course dealing with
							social, economic, industrial, and political problems should be introduced. Music, art,
							and physical education should be added.
						The science work needs to be expanded. Agriculture, home economics, and manual work
							should be introduced, and taught in a more thorough and more extended manner than in
							the grades. The work in these subjects, begun in the grades, should be extended and
							carried on in the high school, into lines of advancement not possible in the grades.
							For the study of agriculture, barns, a greenhouse, a dairy laboratory, and liberal
							acreage are now needed; for domestic science, good kitchens, dining-room, sewing-room,
							and an art-room are desirable; for manual training, good facilities for woodworking,
							forging, farm blacksmithing, and concrete work are necessary. A good illustrative
							museum of agricultural, textile, mechanical, and commercial material would be a very
							desirable addition.
						The country boy who goes to the city. The question may naturally
							arise, What about the boy or girl who is not destined to remain on the farm? This is a
							good question. While but few city children will ever become farmers, and most country
							children will find their place on the farm, yet, on the other hand, it is true that
							not all country children will be needed on the farm, and some are of such type that
							their largest future lies elsewhere. Should all, then, be trained
								A corner in the blacksmith shop. High School, Colebrook, N.H.
							
							
								A corner in the carpenter shop. High School, Colebrook,
									N.H.RURAL HIGH-SCHOOL INSTRUCTION, I
							
							
								Class in sewing. High School, Colebrook, N.H.
							
							
								Class in live-stock, judging dairy cows at the Waterford, Pa.,
									High School.RURAL HIGH-SCHOOL INSTRUCTION, II
							
							 as though all were to become farmers and farmers'
							wives?
						What, after all, is education? Is it merely the accumulation of a stock of
							traditional knowledge for possible use later in life, or is education the living of
							life and life's experiences, in the best sense of these terms, as we go along? Is
							education the mere memorization of facts, or is it also the awakening of the power to
							think, and the refining of one's practical judgments, with a view to preparation for
							real usefulness in life? An answer to these questions will answer the other question.
							Education, unrelated to one's environment and daily life, is bookish and likely to be
							ineffective; education closely tied up with one's richest life experiences, whatever
							these may be, is likely to prove effective anywhere. It really matters little whether
							the future man or woman lives on the farm or in the city, for the kind of training
							which will adapt a man or woman to life in the open country will prove useful
							anywhere; and it will prove useful largely because it has been effective in awakening
							thinking, establishing standards, and refining judgments.
						
							QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
							
							Do you agree with either of the teachers mentioned in the first paragraph of
								this chapter? Why?
							How long has it been since you have had need, in your business life outside of
								school work, for any arithmetical knowledge beyond addition, subtraction,
								multiplication, division, simple fractions, and percentage?
							Aside from your school work, how much use do you ever have for the technical
								rules of grammar, or for parsing and analysis?
							
							Is it true that the study of English grammar trains young people to use the
								English language correctly?
							What should be the main purpose in teaching reading?
							What should be the main purpose in teaching geography?
							How far is the maintenance of discipline and getting pupils through the course
								of study: —(a) The ends you set up in your school work? (b) The
								community measure of your efficiency?
							What would you need to do to change such standards?
							How far does your course of study prepare pupils to meet the needs of the modern
								life of which they probably will form a part? 
							Do you use such problems in arithmetic as are given on page 261? If so, where do
								you get them?
							Do you think there would be a gain if different kinds of arithmetics and readers
								were used in country schools, from those used in city schools? Why? 
							 How important do you make the local geography? How could you connect such
								teaching with community welfare?
							Why is hygiene of particular importance for rural schools?
							Why is a redirection of the old subjects of the school curriculum particularly
								desirable for country children?
							Have you ever tried to change a dead school into a live one by means of nature
								study, school gardening, and agriculture? What did you do, and how did it work? 
							Aside from the practical value of the knowledge, what is the educational value
								of such studies as agriculture, gardening, manual training and domestic science in
								developing practical judgments and stimulating intellectual activity?
							Wherein will instruction in manual and domestic work tend to give greater skill
								in farm work and make farm life more attractive?
							How could you introduce manual work into a rural school, if you had no
								equipment, and no place for it was allowed in the course of study? 
							What kind of organized plays would be most useful with rural children? What kind
								are feasible in a small school?
							Are the rural high schools 'of your community real rural high schools, or
								old-type city high schools located in the country? If the latter, why do they
								continue to be such? 
							What do you think of the statement that a good education is one related to one's
								environment?
							What do you understand education to be and to mean?
						
					

					
					
						CHAPTER XIIA NEW TEACHER
						A new teacher needed. In reading the preceding chapter the reader
							has, no doubt, had raised in his mind many times the question (as to where teachers
							are to be found who can do such work for our rural schools. The question is a
							pertinent one, and how to secure an efficient corps of teachers for our rural schools
							is one of the most important problems now before us. Without intentional disrespect to
							teachers now engaged in rural service, it must, nevertheless be acknowledged that the
							average rural teacher of to-day is a mere slip of a girl, often almost too young to
							have formed as yet any conception of the problem of rural life and needs; that she
							knows little as to the nature of children or the technique of instruction; that her
							education is very limited and confined largely to the old traditional school-subjects,
							while of the great and important fields of science she is almost entirely ignorant;
							and that she not infrequently lacks in those qualities of leadership which are so
							essential for rural progress.
						Training and wages compared. When we compare her training and her
							services with the wages she receives we are led to feel, however, that our rural
							communities get all or more than they pay for, despite her many deficiencies. The recent Illinois investigation relating to the labor of
							working-girls, and the relation of a living wage to morality, brought out the
							statement that the common wage of $4 to $6 a week for young girls was a form of child
							labor, and that $8 per week was the very lowest amount that could be considered as a
							living wage. These figures mean annual incomes of $208, $312, and $416 a year. Many a
							rural teacher in the United States, older and more mature by far than these store
							girls, is to-day teaching in our rural schools for less than these sums, and putting
							into the work a degree of earnestness completely beyond what the wage paid might be
							expected to purchase. While recognizing the serious deficiencies of the average rural
							teacher for really effective rural service, it must still be admitted that the
							services rendered are remarkable, in view of the compensation offered. The wonder is
							that so many young women of energy and moral earnestness can be attracted, even for
							short periods, to such a poorly paid service, and that they are willing, during the
							short time they remain in the work, to spend so much time and energy in study and in
							attempts to increase their personal efficiency.
						The natural result. One result of such low standards and wages is
							that, in a number of our important agricultural states, from 15 to 25 per cent of the
							teachers in all the schools are new to the work each year. As permanency of tenure and
							length of service characterizes city-school systems rather than country schools, it
								must follow that from 20 to 30 per cent of the country
							teachers are beginners each year, and from 25 to 35 per cent are new to the particular
							position This means that short terms of service and a constant recruiting of the ranks
							with beginners must characterize the teaching in our rural schools. The best of the
							class, instead of remaining in the rural schools to render service, are soon drawn to
							the cities, where better pay and practically permanent tenure are the rule. The
							inevitable result is that the teaching force in our rural schools, despite notable
							exceptions here and there, is as a class made up of either the older, least
							progressive, and least successful teachers on the one hand, or of the young, poorly
							educated, and inexperienced teachers on the other.
						The remedy. So long as we retain the district system of
							organization and management, there is little help, generally speaking, for this
							situation. While some rural-school districts could undoubtedly afford to tax
							themselves at higher rates, and offer the equivalent of city prices for their
							teachers, the great majority of our rural-school districts cannot and never can do
							this. Still more, it would not be right for them to be compelled to do so, as both the
							burden of taxation and the per capita cost of instruction would be unreasonably high.
							Under a system of consolidated schools, as described in chapter X,
							there is no reason, though, why the larger taxation area could not pay the equivalent
							of city prices for their teachers, and so secure and
							retain the best that are available. Cheap teachers, short-term contracts, and frequent
							changes will never produce good rural schools, and one of the most important needs in
							rural education to-day is the adoption of some larger unit of organization and
							finance, under which our rural schools may be enabled to pay what the best teachers
							can command elsewhere. Then only can our rural schools expect special preparation for
							the work, and then only may they expect to retain the best teachers in them. The
							consolidated school, if organized along the right lines, offers such an opportunity
							for rural education, while the district unit does not.
						Importance of the wage question. The pay which teachers in our
							rural schools receive, by which is, meant their annual income rather than their
							monthly salary, has been emphasized first because better pay is an absolute
							prerequisite to any material improvement in the character, training, and permanency of
							our rural teaching force. Until salaries somewhat comparable with city salaries are
							paid, we cannot expect the kind of young men and women we want to be attracted to
							rural teaching or to be willing to spend the years necessary in study and preparation
							for the work. The best of those who get started in rural work to-day tend to leave for
							the city at the first opportunity, or to change soon to other better-paid employments.
							It requires a large amount of devotion to an ideal to remain as a rural-school
							teacher, despite the large opportunities for usefulness,
							when the work does not carry a living wage. We may talk as much as we like about
							giving the country boy and country girl a chance, and of equalizing the educational
							advantages as between city and country children, but this can never be done until the
							country can economically compete with the city for teachers and for educational
							leaders. So long as the cities can continue to draw off the best, by reason of longer
							terms, better salaries, better tenure, and better teaching and living conditions, so
							long will rural education be at a discount, and so long will discerning farmers
							continue to send their children to the city to secure the better educational
							advantages offered there.
						The fact that the present low salaries and poor conditions surrounding rural
							education are wholly unnecessary, and that salaries of from $800 to $1000 a year could
							be paid rural teachers, and good educational conditions provided, if a proper unit of
							educational organization and taxation were once instituted, makes the present
							conditions all the more inexcusable. Once place rural-school teaching on a financial
							basis comparable with that of the cities, and we can then demand almost any
							preparation for the work, within reason, which the peculiar necessities of the case
							seem to require. Teaching in the country is not different from farming, in that both
							must be economically profitable if they are to attract and retain the class we want to
							keep on the farm. The writer has known many good
							teachers, who like the country better and would much prefer to teach there, but who
							simply cannot afford to do so under the present economic conditions.
						Present status of teacher training. When we turn from the pay to
							the training of our rural teachers, the situation is almost equally bad. In most of
							our states the standards for entering the work are low, while the means provided for
							helping and improving teachers in service are wholly inadequate. Nowhere is good
							educational preparation and proper professional insight needed more than in our rural
							schools, where the teacher must work alone almost the whole year through. If untrained
							and poorly educated teachers are to start anywhere, under present conditions, it ought
							to be in the cities, where there are superintendents, supervising principals, special
							supervisors, teachers' meetings, and study classes for the constant improvement of
							those in service. The cities, however, do not need to, and usually will not, receive
							such teachers. A good high-school education, followed by normal-school training or by
							an apprenticeship in the country, is to-day a somewhat general prerequisite to city
							service. For the country schools, on the other hand, sixteen or seventeen years of age
							and a third-grade county teacher's certificate, obtained by coaching up on and passing
							an examination on the old common-school subjects, plus the good will of some district
							trustee, is about all that is necessary to enter the service. The fact that the new
							teacher too often  lacks general education, knows almost
							nothing as to rural needs and problems, has little or no professional insight and
							interest, and is almost wholly ignorant of the great worlds of science, industry, and
							agriculture, counts for little in her certification or her employment. It is the
							competition of such teachers which keeps down wages and drives the better teachers to
							the cities or into other fields of service. As soon as it can be done, the county
							examination, as a means of entering the teaching ranks, ought to be abandoned in favor
							of certification based upon having first obtained a certain minimum of general
							education and professional training. The further continuance of such certificates
							ought also to be based upon the teachers showing growth in knowledge and in teaching
							power.
						New attention to the rural-teacher problem. During the past ten
							years, new attention has been directed to the special problem of preparing teachers
							for service in the rural schools. As the complex problems of rural life and rural
							needs have dawned upon us, we have slowly begun to realize that their solution not
							only demands a new type of rural education, but that education is also the key to the
							solution. To try to meet such new needs the State of Michigan, in 1897, first ordered
							that each of the state normal schools should organize a special course for the
							preparation of rural teachers. In 1902, the Indiana State Normal School made similar
							provision, by organizing a rural school in connection with its normal work. In 1907,
							the State Normal School at Kirksville, Missouri, did the
							same thing. This Missouri school has rendered special service to rural education, and
							the rural-school building provided is described in some detail in chapter XIV. Since these beginnings, a number of other state normal schools
							have begun to turn their attention to this problem, though the number doing so as yet
							is altogether too small. With the growth of the consolidated school, however, the
							normal schools will be forced to turn their attention more and more to this new aspect
							of rural education, and to offer training and courses that will give some adequate
							conception of the problems of rural life. The training that will best prepare for city
							graded work, which is what our normal schools now give, will not best prepare for
							rural service. The special educational and social needs of the city should
							characterize one; those of rural life the other.
						Teachers' training classes. Despairing of ever securing enough
							trained teachers for the schools of the state through the regular state normal
							schools, New York, in 1894, provided for the establishment of teachers' training
							classes in the high schools of the state. Maine did the same in 1901, Michigan in
							1903, and Minnesota and Nebraska in 1905. By 1911, thirteen states had made provision
							for such training classes, and 624 such classes had been established in the high
							schools of these states. In a number of additional states the legislatures of 1912 and
							1913 provided for such training classes, and the number of such
							
								(Courtesy, World's Work.)
								TEACHING COUNTRY CHILDREN IN TERMS OF COUNTRY LIFE
								After a boy has learned how to judge seed corn he has something definite to say
									when he writes his composition in English; and he has a new interest in arithmetic
									when the problems are made to deal with corn.
							
							
							 classes is now probably twice as large as two years
							ago. In 1889, Wisconsin also provided for the establishment of county training
							schools, in counties not containing a state normal school, and twenty-seven of these
							had been organized by 1911. All of these schools are intended specifically for the
							training of teachers for the rural schools of the county; the course is usually one
							year long; and nearly all of the states grant to the graduates of such a course a
							short-term teacher's certificate, valid only for teaching in the rural schools of the
							county. The rapid development of such training classes may be illustrated by Nebraska,
							where the high-school training classes were first established in 1905, and where the
							movement has been very successful.
						
							
								Year
								No. of classes
								Students enrolled
								Teachers graduated
							

							
								1907-08
								64
								1212
								550
							

							
								1908-09
								92
								1502
								763
							

							
								1909-10
								103
								1819
								894
							

							
								1910-11
								107
								2112
								911
							

							
								1911-12
								143
								3011
								1002
							

							
								1912-13
								153
								3056
								1350
							

							
								1913-14
								170 (?)
								3500(?)
								—
							
						

						The prime object in the establishment of such training classes has been to secure
							some professional preparation for the teachers in the rural schools of the state. In
							this, these classes have been very successful. In New York, approximately seven
							thousand such graduates are now teaching in the rural
							schools. In Nebraska, probably three thousand teachers so trained are now engaged in
							teaching. The course is short, being but one year in duration in most of the schools,
							and no-where over two years in length. In some of the states, even elementary-school
							graduates are admitted to the course, though the usual plan is to offer such work only
							in the third and fourth years of the high-school course, and in place of the other
							instruction. A one-year course, offered as a substitute for the last year of the
							regular course, is perhaps the most common plan.
						Nature of the instruction offered. As might naturally happen in the
							beginning of such a movement, the instruction offered in most cases follows too
							closely the old traditional lines, and prepares primarily for teaching a traditional
							old-type rural school. This is well illustrated by the following courses of
							instruction, reproduced from those now in use in certain training classes in two
							different states:—
						
							I. ONE-YEAR COURSE(Open to high-school students, and also
								to elementary-school graduates)
							
								First half-year
								Second half-year
							

							
								1. Arithmetic.
								1. U.S. history and civics.
							

							
								2. Geography, physiology, nature study, and agriculture.
								2. Grammar, language, composition, and penmanship.
							

							
								3. Reading, spelling, and drawing.
								3. School law.
							

							
								4. Psychology, principles of education, and school management.
								4. History of education.
							

						
						

						
							II. ONE-YEAR COURSE(Intended primarily for high-school
								graduates)
							
								First half-year
								Second half-year
							

							
								1. Reading
								1. American literature
							

							
								2. Grammar and composition.
								2. U.S. history.
							

							
								3. Geography.
								3. Physiology.
							

							
								4. School manual and law.
								4. Agriculture.
							

							
								5. Psychology and principles of teaching.
								5. Observation, school management, and practice.
							
						

						Why such courses are inadequate. Such preparation, while perhaps
							good enough of its kind, is not the kind that is needed to meet the peculiar needs of
							rural education of to-day. It prepares primarily for the old type of rural school, and
							not for the new one which is needed. In the first course reproduced, which is used
							uniformly in one of our large and important states, there is nothing in it to give
							intending rural teachers any conception whatever as to the new rural-life problems and
							new rural needs, or how to make themselves of real rural service. In the second
							course, the half-year of agriculture is the only modern subject. On the contrary,
							there is a great overemphasis, in each, of the old common-school subjects. It may, of
							course, be said that the students in these classes do not know these old subjects.
							This is probably true, but if they are not capable, after a little help and direction,
							of getting up these subjects themselves, and fast enough to keep ahead of a class,
							they are not likely to prove of much value as teachers. They knew these subjects once
							and have forgotten them, and a year after this second drill, if they do not at once teach the subjects, they will have forgotten them
							again. There are too many subjects to be taught, of so much more importance, and
							subjects which cannot be worked up from books alone, that only a minimum of time ought
							to be put on these old subjects. Such training courses are, of course, better than no
							training at all, but they are not what should be given to enable young people to
							render the kind of rural service demanded by the conditions of twentieth-century farm
							life.
						Probable future development. These high-school training courses are
							now rendering a useful service in providing some training for the teachers of our
							rural schools. The probabilities are, though, that these high-school training classes
							supply a temporary rather than a permanent need, and that the line of evolution in the
							future will involve both the development of combined county normal-training and
							agricultural high schools, and the turning of our state normal schools back to what
							ought to be one of their main functions. The development of agricultural and
							normal-training high schools, somewhat after the Wisconsin type, offering four-year
							courses intended to prepare young people directly for rural life and rural service,
							ought to become a prominent feature of a future county unit of educational
							organization. Under a county plan for consolidated schools, such as is out-lined in
							chapter X, and with the county unit for educational organization
							and administration, as is outlined in chapter XIII, the
							organization of such agricultural and normal-training
							high schools would become a marked feature of the school system of every agricultural
							county of any size in area and population. Agriculture would, of course, be prominent
							in such schools, as would studies intended to prepare for other rural-life needs.
							Preparation for rural-school teaching would, in such schools, be closely correlated
							with preparation for rural living, and the teachers' training course would be so
							shaped as to involve the whole four years of training, with specialization during the
							fourth year, or perhaps the third and fourth years. No adequate preparation for rural
							teaching of the right kind can be given in one year. The whole teachers' training,
							with emphasis on science, music, drawing, manual and domestic work, and English,
							should lead up to the last or professional year as its culmination.
						A suggested one-year course. Assuming, however, that for the
							present but one year can be devoted to such preparation, and that the course is to be
							open to students of all kinds of previous training, of what ought the training to
							consist? The following is one suggestion for such a course:—

						
							SUGGESTED ONE-YEAR COURSE FOR RURAL TEACHERS(To be divided
								into four terms, of ten weeks each)
							
								First term
								Second term
							
							
								1. Language work.
								1. Reading and literature.
							

							
								2. Geography.
								2. Arithmetic.
							

							
								3. Agriculture.
								3. Nature study.
							

							
								4. Arts group. (See below.)
								4. Arts group. (See below.)
							

							
								5. Rural problems.
								5. Rural problems (Continued.)
							


							
								6. Educational psychology.
								6. Principles of teaching.
							
							
						

						
							
								Third term
								Fourth term
							
							
								1. History and civics.
								1. Library work.
							

							
								2. Physiology.
								2. Hygiene and sanitation.
							

							
								3. Nature study (continued).
								3. Agriculture (resumed).
							

							
								4. Arts group. (See below).
								4. Arts group. (See below).
							

							
								5. School manual, law, etc.1
								
								5. Observation and practice.1
							

							
								6. School management.
								6. Education and the state.
							
						

						Arts group
						Drawing; music; and games, organized play and gymnastics;—each one lesson a
							week throughout the year. Manual training, two lessons each week, first half-year.
							Domestic science, two lessons each week, second half-year.

						EXPLANATORY
						Common-school subjects. In the work in the common-school subjects
							(language work, geography, reading and literature, arithmetic, history, and civics),
							the purpose is not so much to "review" and relearn these subjects, as to study plans
							for teaching them; what to emphasize and what to omit; and plans for correlating the
							work with other school instruction and with the community life. The possibilities of
							farm arithmetic, farm language work and essays, and home geography would naturally be
							emphasized. In reading and literature some drill on the use of the voice should be
							included.
						Physiology and hygiene. After a very short review of physiology
							proper, the work should go into personal and community hygiene, and should include
							such topics as bacteria, home and yard sanitation, schoolhouse sanitation, common
							diseases, proper care of the sick, first aid to the injured, detection of common
							defects in school children, and the personal health of the teacher.
						Agriculture and nature study. A year devoted to practical work in
							agriculture and science. Agriculture is studied in the fall and spring, and scientific
							experiments, particularly in chemistry and physics, are carried on during the winter.
							School gardening and farm observation should be an important 1 The order for these two subjects to be
								reversed, for one half of the pupils.
							 part of the work. The importance of a sunny
							conservatory corner in the schoolroom for growing plants, such as is shown in Fig. 52,
							p. 214, or of the workroom shown in Fig. 50, p. 211, will now be apparent. The work
							should be as practical as is possible, and students should be shown how to obtain and
							use agricultural bulletins, and how to organize and conduct boys' and girls'
							clubs.

						Library work. A ten-weeks' course, on the selection, care, and use
							of books, intended to put teachers into sympathetic touch with the traveling and
							rural-library movement, and to train them in the care of the school library. What type
							of books to buy for the school library; what kind of literature children ought to
							read; what types of supplemental books to order, and how to use them; and also an
							acquaintance with a number of the most useful books for a rural teacher, as helps and
							for stimulating further professional growth, should be included in this course.
						Rural problems. A course dealing primarily with the rural-life
							problem, what can be done to solve it, and how to do it. The course might be called
							one in rural sociology, if that is a more expressive term. It should set forth the
							rural-life problem as it has developed and now is, showing the country teacher's
							relation to it; should show the place of the church, the library, the school, the
							Grange, the Y.M.C.A., etc., in its solution; should point out the need of revitalizing
							rural education and of redirecting the rural school; should reveal to the new teacher
							the economic and social needs; should emphasize the importance of slowly educating
							rural communities to see the need for improving their home life, the community life,
							and the school, and the many advantages of the consolidated school for such purposes;
							and finally the need and place for leadership on the part of the country teacher, and
							the ways in which she may exercise it.
						Arts group. The instruction here should be of a very practical
							type, such as how to teach drawing and music in the rural school; how to organize
							games and sports, what kind of equipment to get, and how to get it; what kind of
							gymnastics to teach; the importance of exercise for the teacher and for rural
							children; and how to organize local and inter-community contests.
						
						The manual training should be adapted to rural needs, and should include instruction
							in how to teach the use and care of tools for work in wood, leather, and perhaps
							concrete, with instruction as to what to do in these various lines. In domestic
							science, the work should include the essentials of cooking and sewing, the chemistry
							of the kitchen, the use of the sewing-machine, kitchen appliances, table service, etc.
							It will be valuable for teachers to know manual and domestic work, even though the
							school in which they teach does not as yet offer any facilities for instruction in
							such subjects.
						Professional work. The first ten weeks should be given to a very
							simple and very concrete study of the essentials of educational psychology; the second
							ten weeks to a study of the fundamental principles underlying the organization and
							management of a rural school; the third ten weeks to school management, with special
							reference to rural-school needs; and the last ten weeks to a study intended to enlarge
							the teacher's horizon and give inspiration for service, and dealing with the place and
							purpose of public education in the state and the why of public education. During the
							third term also the school manual, or course of study, for the state or county is read
							through and explained; the small amount of school law a rural teacher needs to know is
							stated; and the use of the school code shown. In the last ten weeks there is both
							observation and practice in teaching, and training in how to make reports and keep a
							school register is given. To prevent a congestion in the practice work, the order of
							giving the practice teaching and the school manual and law work should be reversed,
							for one half of the pupils.
						What such a course prepares for. With some such course of training
							as the above, the new rural teacher is prepared to go out and get results and to
							improve social and educational conditions. The emphasis, it will be noticed, is placed
							upon knowing something as to needs, means, and ends, rather than upon mere-practice in
							teaching the traditional old-type common-school
							subjects. The course is intended to develop a useful, thinking teacher, capable of
							increasingly useful service, rather than a mere teaching apprentice along the old
							traditional lines.
						Such a teacher has been shown how to improve the schoolhouse and grounds; how to get
							school gardening and agriculture started; how to get a bench and some tools into the
							schoolhouse, and what to do with them; how to start sewing with the girls, and how to
							awaken an interest in cooking and home work; and how to enrich the instruction in the
							old subjects, and relate them to community life. Such a teacher, also, will see the
							advantages of getting acquainted with the people of the community, and will discover
							ways of socializing and improving the rural life. She will understand both the
							strength and weakness of the school in which she works, and, instead of talking
							vaguely about the educational rights of the country child, will set to work to improve
							the existing school and schoolhouse. She will also know the greater advantages of the
							consolidated school, and perhaps do something to awaken a sentiment in favor of
							providing such.
						Everything cannot be done at once, or in a year, for rural communities are
							proverbially slow to move. They follow those only whom they know and trust, and real
							rural service can never be rendered by the city teacher who goes to the country "to
							get experience," takes but little interest in the community, and never gets into
							sympathetic touch with rural life and rural needs. The
							story of the two churches, given in chapter VI, each of which is a
							story of ten years of effort, and where it took time in each case to see that any
							progress was being made, are good illustrations of rural-community service and good
							illustrations for the rural teacher to keep in mind.
						The rural high-school teacher. When we pass from the
							elementary-school field to the high school, something of the same need for a new type
							of a rural and village high-school teacher is evident. Of teachers of Latin, English,
							history, and mathematics of the prevailing type, there is a great surplus, while of
							teachers of the newer subjects and with the newer attitude in the old subjects, there
							is a shortage. This is only natural in a time of changing educational emphasis, and,
							in a country where the emphasis has been shifted so recently and so quickly as in our
							own, the lack of adjustment to new conditions, in the training of high-school
							teachers, is only natural. Colleges and universities, like normal schools and training
							classes, are too often continuing to give a preparation better suited to the past than
							to the future.
						The rural and village high schools, generally speaking, need redirection almost as
							much as do the elementary schools. Agriculture, manual work, and the home-keeping arts
							ought to be important elements in the training given in such schools, and the school
							needs good laboratory and land and barn equipment for its work. The usual rural or
							village high school is an old-time city-type
							institution, copied by the village or rural district because it represents the
							traditional course of instruction and is cheap and easy to maintain. If a teacher of
							the newer subjects is wanted, or one who can redirect the teaching of the old
							subjects, such teachers are hard to obtain, even though the salaries now offered for
							such teachers are comparable with the profits obtained from farming or from practical
							work. The institutions engaged in the training of high-school teachers, alike with the
							institutions engaged in the training of elementary teachers, need to set to work
							seriously to prepare teachers who can go to our rural and village high schools and
							begin the redirection of the school and the improvement of rural and village life.
						The call for rural leadership. If our rural teachers are really to
							serve, if our rural schools are to be redirected and made vital, and if the school is
							to assume the position almost everywhere open to it and become the social center for
							the community life, a new type of leadership must be developed in our rural teachers.
							As Dean Bailey puts it, "A new race of country teachers needs to arise." The course of
							training just outlined has been worked out with this thought in mind. The need for
							rural leadership is great, and no one in the whole rural community has one half the
							opportunity for leadership and service that belongs, by the nature of the case, to the
							country teacher. The isolation and petty jealousies of rural communities are such that hardly any one is willing to try to start a new
							movement, and especially is this the case if it is a movement for the improvement of
							existing conditions. The heavy burden of denominationalism interferes with the
							effectiveness of the rural minister, the Grange leaders belong to an organization
							which does not include all citizens, while the rural social worker at best occupies
							but a limited field. Everywhere we find the public-school teacher, and the fact that
							she is a public official, supported by all and at the service of all, gives her an
							initial advantage such as no other community agent does or can enjoy. The nearest
							approach would be the public librarian, but the opportunities of even such an officer
							are small compared with those of a teacher.
						Possibilities for usefulness. As an outside person, with a better
							perspective than that of the community residents, and as a teacher of the children of
							all, the teacher, if possessed of proper training and vision, has the opportunity
							gradually to enlarge her duties so as to include the social and the educational
							leadership of the whole community. If she has studied rural social, economic, and
							educational problems and needs; if she realizes the place and the importance of the
							home, the school, the church, the library, the Grange, the Y.M.C.A., and the Y.W.C.A.,
							as social institutions; if she knows the importance of each of these in effecting
							general progress;—then it is possible for such a teacher to evolve into one of
							the most useful of rural social workers. She must,
							however, have the vision to form a clear conception as to needed community
							advancement; have the practical judgment to know what to attempt, and what to postpone
							or to let alone; be patient enough not to expect to transform everything in a day or a
							year; and be possessed of that quality of leadership which stimulates others into
							action, and develops initiative and self-reliance in them, instead of trying to run
							everything personally and to magnify her own importance in the community. To give, in
							the training school, so far as it can be done, training for such rural leadership, is
							much more important than improving the teacher's knowledge of the subject-matter of
							arithmetic and grammar, or of filling her full of methods and devices for the teaching
							of such subjects.
						Personal attitude; steps in the process. In addition to such
							training the teacher needs to be in sympathy with life in the open country. No
							town-bred and town-sick teacher can ever render the kind of service desired. She must
							really love the country, and feel that her call for service lies there. The
							possibilities and beauties of life in the open country must make a strong appeal to
							her. Accepting conditions as she finds them, she then begins to contribute her part to
							that gradual transformation and reconstruction of rural life which is necessary to
							adjust it to modern demands. From small beginnings large results will ultimately come.
							The first step is to make as good a school as is possible, and to make it permeate the life of the community. Another early progressive step
							is the improvement of the building and the grounds. From the school as a center, the
							teacher must gradually reach outward into the community life. School exhibitions,
							boys' and girls' clubs, contests of various kinds, community gatherings, parents'
							associations, joint institutes of the young people and the farmers, and coöperative
							community undertakings for the improvement of the school or the community life, will
							come along naturally as the school develops from a little isolated institution for the
							drilling-in of definite amounts of old traditional knowledge, into a larger community
							institution devoted to the advancement of the community welfare.

						
							QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
							
							What are average yearly wages for rural teachers in your state? In your county,
								or township?
							What percentage of the teachers are new to the work each year? Why is this
								so?
							Compare the yearly wages of teachers in consolidated schools with those in
								district schools.
							Why is it impossible, in most of our states, to equalize educational
								opportunities between city boy and country boy under present conditions?
							Why are good educational preparation and professional insight of particular
								importance for teachers in our rural schools? 
							Why is the county teachers' examination a poor test for such preparation?
							What percentage of the teachers in your state or county have had professional
								preparation for the work of teaching? What number do you suppose have a modern point
								of view in their work?
							Do you have high-school training classes in your state?
							
							
								(Courtesy, Rural Manhood.)
								A RURAL SCHOOL EXHIBIT
								Work of the pupils in Hanover Township, Morris County, N.J.
							
							
							
								BOYS' SESSION OF THE FARMERS' INSTITUTE
								At the Winnebago County, Ill., Farmers' Institute. A girls' session was held with
									the Winnebago CountyHousehold Science Department.
							
							
							Are the courses of instruction offered in such "adequate," judged by the
								standards set up on pages 293-94?
							Do you have courses comparable to the one outlined on pages 295-96? Do you think
								such would be an improvement on what the teacher now gets?
							Do you regard the course on pages 295-96 to be an improvement on the ones given
								on pages 292-93? In what particulars, and why?
							How can we "redirect" the high school along the lines suggested?
							What lines of attack in improving educational conditions in rural districts are
								most likely to be successful?
							In what ways does the country-school teacher have particular advantages for
								rural leadership?
							Read carefully the last five pages of this chapter, and then outline a feasible
								plan for community improvement, and with the ultimate end in view of making your
								school a community center, large or small.
						
					

					
					
						CHAPTER XIIIA NEW TYPE OF SUPERVISION
						Larger rural leadership. When we pass from a consideration of the
							teaching to that of the supervision of instruction in our rural and village schools,
							the need for fundamental supervisory changes, if we are to accomplish large results,
							will be no less apparent. Perhaps no phase of the rural-school problem is more
							urgently in need of a radical reconstruction than is that phase that has to do with
							the supervision of the instruction in our rural and village schools. It is very
							desirable to stimulate the local leadership of teachers, as emphasized in the last
							chapter, but even more important is the inspiration and leadership which comes from
							some one of larger authority and oversight. Unless there is an effective leader of
							leaders to stimulate and to direct, rural educational progress is almost certain to
							prove sporadic and ineffective. In an army good drill sergeants and lieutenants are,
							of course, necessary, but an army would prove ineffective in action if there were no
							captains for the companies or colonels for the regiments. It is the lack of captains
							and colonels of larger grasp and insight that is to-day the greatest single weakness
							of our rural and village educational army. When matched against the city educational army, with its many captains and colonels,
							and under generals of large insight and effective personal force, the city army easily
							outgenerals its opponent. Still more, because of its superior organization and
							superior generalship, its more attractive service, and the better pay and greater
							permanency of its educational positions, the city educational army is continually
							drawing off from the other not only its best officers, but its best privates as well.
							The rural and village army can make but few reprisals, and hence is continually
							compelled to fill its ranks with raw recruits. The reason for this condition is partly
							financial, due in part to poor educational organization, as we have previously pointed
							out in chapter VIII, but partly due to the lack of good generalship
							in the rural and village army.
						Dropping the figure of speech, the lack of effective personal and professional
							supervision for our rural and town schools is to-day one of the most serious handicaps
							under which they suffer. Lacking leadership which knows what ought to be done and how
							to do it, the rural and village schools too often merely drift along. Only in a few of
							the New England States, in New York, New Jersey, parts of Utah, and in a few Southern
							States, is anything approaching effective supervisory organization as yet to be
							found.
						The county unit in evolution. Everywhere outside of New England,
							and excepting only New York, Virginia, and Nevada, the county exists as a unit of
								school organization and administration, though the
							county as a unit is everywhere more or less further subdivided into townships, or
							school districts, or both. The county unit, also, is found in all stages of evolution
							from the strong-district and weak-county combination, such as exists in Missouri, up
							to the county as the single unit of educational organization and administration,
							analogous to a city-school organization, as exists in Maryland. Between these two
							extremes we find states representing all stages in the evolutionary process, though
							the direction of the evolution seems somewhat clear. The county, outside of New
							England, and possibly one or two other states, offers such a natural and ready-made
							unit for educational organization and administration, its use would offer so many
							financial and educational advantages, and the general tendency toward making the
							county the unit, generally speaking, seems so unmistakable, that we may, perhaps in
							the near future, look forward to seeing a system of school organization,
							administration, and supervision evolved which shall be as effective and efficient for
							rural and village schools as our forms of city educational organization and
							administration are for city schools. In the mean time, we need an improvement in
							conditions to secure better results.
						The evolution of the school superintendency. As education began to
							evolve from a little, local, and voluntary community interest into a large, general,
							and compulsory state interest, and as the states began
							to be possessed of school funds of some actual or potential size, our people began to
							create state and county educational officials to look after the larger interests of
							the state, as opposed to the smaller interests of the communities. State and county
							superintendents of schools were eventually created for nearly all of the states, and
							these officials were given power to apportion the income from the state school funds
							and the proceeds of taxation, and to compel, in return, the submission of certain
							statistical information which the state thought it worth while to collect. The state
							educational officer looked after the financial and statistical matters for the state
							as a whole, and the county educational officers acted, in large part, as his
							representatives, in the same capacity, in the different counties. Almost the only
							educational function given to such officials at first was that of visiting and
							stimulating an interest in the schools. As the office called for no special qualities,
							and could be filled from among the electorate more easily than could the position of
							county treasurer or auditor, there was at first no reason why election from and by the
							electorate, and for short terms, would not secure as satisfactory school officers as
							any other method.
						New conception of the office. Since those early days the whole face
							of the educational problem has changed, and the nature of the superintendent's duties
							and powers has changed as well. The clerical and financial functions remain, but
							greatly enlarged, and, in addition, powers and functions
							formerly resting with the local district authorities on the one hand, and new
							educational functions since assumed by the state on the other, have been intrusted to
							this county educational official. Many of these new powers and duties, such as the
							certification of teachers, the outlining of the course of study, the selection of
							school library and school textbooks, the construction and sanitation of school
							buildings, the examination and grading of the schools, and the supervision of the work
							of the teacher, call for professional preparation of a rather high order if efficient
							service is to be expected.
						As a result, within the past decade or two, entirely new conceptions of the office
							have been evolving, and entirely new educational demands have been pushed to the
							front. The idea that any citizen or teacher could fill the office has been passing,
							and states have begun to demand an examination and a special certificate as a
							prerequisite of holding the office. Still more recently our studies of the rural-life
							and the rural-educational problems have alike led to the conclusion that the
							educational system of a county should be placed under as efficient educational
							leadership as is that of a city.
						If the education of the country boy and girl is as important as the education of the
							city boy and girl, and if the country boy and girl are ever to secure approximately
							equal advantages, then country people must see to it that their schools are possessed
							of as good educational organization and leadership, for their needs, as are the schools of the cities. To secure such results for
							country boys and girls there must be provided a better system of organization and
							maintenance than is now found in most of our states (chapter VIII);
							a new type of teaching equipment must be provided (chapter IX); a
							reorganization and consolidation of the schools, according to some rational county
							plan, should be carried out (chapter X); a new course of
							instruction, ministering to the community needs, should be introduced (chapter XI); a new type of teacher, interested in the community welfare,
							should be trained and secured (chapter XII); and a new form of
							rural-school supervision, which shall be as good and as effective for rural and
							village schools as city-school supervision is to-day for city schools, should be
							created and maintained.
						Our present supervision. Of real educational supervision for our
							rural schools, except in a few favored states, we have to-day almost none. The town
							supervision required uniformly for all schools in Massachusetts, under which rural and
							town schools are alike supervised by the town-school superintendent, is perhaps as
							effective as any system of supervision we have. The township system as inaugurated
							here and there in Ohio, if properly established, often gives excellent results.
							Depending, as it does, on voluntary establishment, and not being subject to other than
							nominal state or county oversight, it is more often ineffective than effective, and
							still more often not
							
								FIG. 71. TOWNSHIP SUPERVISION IN
									OHIO
								
								This map shows what has been accomplished under the permissive law for
									supervision by townships after nearly forty years of permission, and ten years of
									active urging. Real supervision can only be said to have been established in the
									town-ships marked "1." More than half of the townships still have no
									supervision.
							 established at all. This is well shown by the accompanying map of Ohio,
							which shows the results of nearly forty years of voluntary effort in the provision of
							township supervision. The New York plan for the appointment of district
							superintendents, for divisions of a county small enough to enable the superintendent
								 to reach the teachers, and with freedom given the
							appointing boards to go anywhere they desire to secure men or women for the office, is
							a plan which ought to secure fairly good results. The Maryland and the Utah systems,
							where the county constitutes one school district and the county is the unit, represent
							perhaps the best we have to-day in rural-school supervision.
						In most of our states, though, the supervision of our rural and town schools is
							clerical, statistical, and financial, rather than educational in type. These aspects
							of the work are often handled in a very satisfactory manner, but the educational
							supervision too often consists only of the yearly visit, for a few hours, of the
							county superintendent; perhaps a final written examination of the pupils, on uniform
							questions sent out from the superintendent's office; and unintelligent oversight by
							the district trustees. What the school is or is not, it is or is not almost entirely
							because of the character of the teacher in charge. Here and there a teacher of
							strength and large personal initiative teaches, for a year or two, a remarkably
							efficient school; the old stager and the beginner, on the other hand, usually maintain
							only a traditional old-type school. Either satisfies the letter of the law, because
							there is no professional oversight close enough to know what is going on or strong
							enough to compel improvement. The teacher is left to her own initiative; the district
							trustees set the standards; the school too frequently merely drifts along; and the
							more intelligent farmers move to town to secure better
							educational advantages for their children. Given such a new type of teacher as has
							been described in the last chapter and she would probably soon be driven from the work
							by the lack of teaching equipment, the inaction of the district trustees, and the lack
							of effective support from the county educational authorities. Under the present system
							progress is slow and hard to make, and in large part because there is at the top no
							educational leadership, with power to act. Good teachers are worn out and leave for
							the city because the efforts they put forth secure such small results.
						The system to blame. There is little use to blame the county
							superintendent for this state of affairs, because he is not to blame. He is merely the
							product of a bad system: it is the system itself which is to blame. The chief count
							against the county superintendent is that he too often openly defends the system which
							hampers him, instead of aiding efforts to throw it off and secure one better adapted
							to modern needs. We need, in most of our states, materially to strengthen the
							authority of the county superintendent in dealing with the district boards of
							trustees; to open the way for securing superintendents of larger insight and broader
							knowledge; and to replace the present yearly visitation and examination by close
							personal and professional supervision, such as our cities to-day enjoy. To do this,
							some new legislation, as well as trained and efficient supervisors, will be
							necessary.
						
						Present conditions in the county office. In twenty-eight of the
							forty states having a county superintendent, he is elected by the people at popular
							elections. In eighteen of the twenty-eight states, he is elected for but two-year
							terms, and in two of these eighteen states, the county superintendent is actually made
							ineligible, by the state constitution, to serve more than four years in the office. In
							other words, the county superintendent of schools, a man who ought to enter the work
							only after careful study and training for it, as a life career, and with the idea of
							becoming an educational leader, as does a city superintendent, is by the people
							regarded merely as a political officer and clerk, and the office is passed around
							among the electorate without regard to the effect of this action on the schools. The
							county superintendent must first become a resident of the county and a voter, must
							then work up in the party ranks and extend his acquaintanceship to secure a
							nomination, must win the primary and stump the county against an opponent, and pay his
							political assessments and campaign expenses,—all for a temporary and poorly-paid
							political job, and always with the risk of defeat staring him in the face. Every other
							year, in eighteen of our states, he must waste six months of his time and possible
							educational efficiency in such political work, and he must also keep his political eye
							open all the time in between.
						Why the cities draw the best. It is not surprising that the office
							of county superintendent does not attract the best men
							and women in the teaching profession. The low salary paid, the expense of securing the
							office, the public notoriety, the humiliation of defeat, the short tenure of office,
							the high protective tariff levied against men and women of training from the outside
							by the local-residence requirement, and the inability to accomplish much when he has
							the district system to deal with, all alike tend to keep the best men out of the
							office. The position of county superintendent of schools is one of much potential
							importance, and is capable of being transformed into one which will render great
							service to the people; but in most of our states to-day it remains, to a high degree,
							a highly-protected local industry, offering but temporary employment to the few who
							are willing to consider political candidacy, and realizing but a small fraction of the
							possible service and efficiency for which the people pay.
						Unlike the city superintendency, the office of county superintendent offers no career
							to any one. Too often good men go down to defeat at the hands of the people because of
							having rendered honest and efficient service, or are made the victims of a shrewd
							canvass by an opponent among an unthinking electorate. In city-school work we should
							regard it as highly unprofessional for a man to open a campaign to secure the city
							superintendent's job when the board of education had expressed no dissatisfaction with
							him, but in county supervision this is regarded as the proper method of procedure. The political method of nomination and
							election seldom brings the best-prepared men to the front; the real merit of a man for
							the office has little to do with either his salary or his retention in the office; and
							the inevitable result is that the best-educated and best-trained of our school men,
							whose services the counties ought to be bidding for to secure them as their leaders,
							refuse to have anything to do with the office. The blighting influence of party
							politics in the county and the personal politics and jealousies in the districts alike
							combine to lay a heavy hand on rural educational progress. Under the circumstances, it
							is not to be wondered at that the chief educational progress of the last quarter of a
							century has been made by the cities, and that the rural-school problem remains with
							us.
						Where the fault lies. The fault lies, as has been said before, not
							so much with the county superintendents themselves as with the system which produces
							them. It is the system itself which is wrong, and no one feels this more than the
							efficient county superintendent who to-day tries to make educational progress. On all
							sides he is cramped and hampered, and most so in the states where the district system
							is strong. Say what we may for the present system and the fact still remains that the
							office of county superintendent of schools to-day is but a temporary and poorly-paid
							job, offering no incentive to any one to prepare for it. If a man to-day desires to
							become a city-school principal, and rise to be a city
							superintendent, he first goes to a normal school or university and prepares himself
							for the work by years of careful study of educational theory and administration, and
							he then expects to be able to enter the work without reference to residence or
							politics, and to rise in it on the basis of his energy and capacity. Almost nowhere in
							county supervision, outside of a few Southern States and the States of New York, New
							Jersey, and Utah, can a man either enter the work or retain his place in it, solely on
							the basis of merit. If, on the other hand, the office were taken entirely out of
							politics; made an appointive instead of an elective office; thrown open to general
							competition, as high-school principalships and city superintendencies have been; and
							with salary, tenure, and promotion based on competency and efficient
							service;—the office of county superintendent could soon be made one of great
							importance, and would offer a career for which a man or woman would be warranted in
							making long and careful preparation.
						Stock arguments. The stock argument that the present plan is
							thoroughly democratic and educates the people is one that has no merit in it. The
							cities are not undemocratic because they appoint their city superintendents instead of
							electing them, nor are the high-school districts because they do not have the people
							nominate and vote for two local residents every time they need a new high-school
							principal. The argument that the people are educated by using the ballot, which is another stock argument, is exceedingly
							fallacious when applied to the election of what ought to be so distinctly an expert
							officer as a county superintendent of schools. In the present days of primaries,
							initiatives, and referendums, there are plenty of chances for such education by means
							of the ballot without exercising it to the injury of the school system. Moreover, the
							education of the people comes from voting on public issues, and not in deciding
							between men who are to do work of a highly expert and professional type. The personal
							and professional qualities demanded for the office of county superintendent of schools
							are such that the people, as a mass, are not competent to decide between candidates,
							and in the interests of the education of their children they ought not to be permitted
							to do so. It would be just as sensible to nominate and elect, by popular vote, a
							county health-officer, a county entomologist, or a county horticulturist, and the
							results would be about as satisfactory.
						The way out. To put our rural and village schools on a proper
							basis, to provide the kind of instruction and supervision children in such schools
							ought to enjoy, and to eliminate the rural-school problem, we need to eliminate both
							personal and party politics from the management of these schools, and to put them, so
							far as management is concerned, on the same basis as our better-organized city-school
							systems. This demands the subordination of the district system, the reorganization and consolidation of the schools, the erection of the
							county as the unit for school administration, and the complete elimination of party
							politics from the management of the schools. Never before in the history of our
							educational systems has there been such urgent need for men of adequate educational
							preparation, deep social and professional insight, and large executive skill and
							personal power for the supervision of rural education; and such men, once selected and
							appointed, need to be given the same tenure, compensation, and free hand which a
							superintendent of schools in a well-organized city-school system has to-day. Long ago
							our cities abolished their districts, stopped electing their superintendents by
							popular vote, and began to manage their cities as a unit; and not until our counties
							introduce something of the same unit system into their educational management can
							rural education be put on a competitive basis with city education. For the pleasure of
							electing a horde of unnecessary trustees and of voting for another county officer, the
							people have as a consequence an unnecessary number of small, costly, and inefficient
							rural schools, poorer teachers than is necessary, inadequate and often unsuitable
							instruction, and supervision that is little more than a name.
						What democracy should mean. Democracy ought to mean good government
							and efficient administration,—the best and the most efficient that the taxes we
							pay can secure. This, however, does not of necessity mean that the people should vote for all, or even for any large number, of those who are
							to secure such government for them. With the coming of the short ballot in county
							government, as it has come in city government, one of the first offices which ought to
							be removed from the political column is that of county superintendent of schools.
							Rural-school administration and supervision, if it is to be properly done, is a piece
							of expert professional work, for which a superintendent ought to prepare himself with
							care, and one which ought to be placed on as high a professional plane as is the
							supervision of our city schools. When this has been done, the reorganization of rural
							education, with centrally located rural schools, instruction suited to the needs of
							country children, and supervision as close and effective as the cities to-day enjoy,
							will be easy of accomplishment. Then only will farmers cease moving to the city to
							secure better educational advantages for their children.1
						

						A reorganized county system. Utah and Maryland offer us excellent
							examples of a good system of county school organization; and the plans followed by
							some other states, as, for example, the supervisory system of Massachusetts, or the
							Minnesota scheme for the reorganization and consolidation of districts (chapter X), possess some commendable features. The essentials 1 Of 1100 cases of removal
								from country to city personally investigated recently by T. J. Coates, supervisor of
								rural schools in Kentucky, more than 1000 were caused by a desire for better school,
								church, and social advantages. are a small
							county board of education, say of five, only a part of whom go out of office at any
							one time, and consisting of laymen elected by the people, preferably at a time
							distinct from the general political election. This body constitutes a county board of
							education, analogous to a city board of education. This board then elects the county
							superintendent of schools, and such assistant superintendents or special supervisors
							as are necessary, or as may be required by law, and fixes the compensation for each.
							In making such selections they should be free to go anywhere in the United States for
							the man or woman for the position. The county board also appoints a secretary, with
							such clerical assistance as is needed. The secretary and his assistants then attend to
							all clerical and business functions, leaving the superintendent and his assistants
							free to attend to the supervision of the instruction in the schools.
						The county board. The county board, with the assistance of its
							executive officers, then manages as a unit the schools of the county, outside of
							cities under city superintendents; manages all strictly county schools, such as county
							agricultural high schools and county training schools; purchases and distributes all
							school supplies; levies the county school taxes; and pays out all school funds. One
							very important function of such a board, acting in conjunction with its executive
							officers, is that of abolishing the present unnecessary districts and reorganizing the
								educational system of the county according to some
							rational plan, and with a view to providing all children in the rural and village
							districts with a system of rural education comparable in efficiency with that provided
							by the better city-school systems for their children. This involves the establishment
							of a number of strong centralized schools, often with partial or complete high schools
							attached.
						The Utah and Maryland plans are fundamental, because they go to the root of the
							rural-school problem. The subordination of the district system, the elimination of
							personal and party politics from the management of the schools, and the reorganization
							of rural education along good business and professional lines are absolutely necessary
							prerequisites to any solution of the problem of giving the rural boy and girl
							educational advantages comparable to those now enjoyed by city children.
						The plan applied. Applying this plan to the suggested
							reorganization of Douglas County, Minnesota, as shown in Figs. 63 and 64, pp. 246 and
							247, the following results would be obtained. Instead of the people electing one
							county superintendent of schools from among their own number, and at the low salary
							fixed by law, the people would then elect a county board of education of five
							citizens, who, in turn, would appoint a county superintendent of schools to serve as
							an educational expert, and a secretary to manage the clerical and business affairs of
							the county office. In making these selections, the
							county board would be as free to go outside of the county, or outside of the state if
							it seemed wise to do so, as city boards of education are now free to look elsewhere
							for a city superintendent of schools or a grammar or high-school principal. They ought
							also to be free to fix the salary of each person so employed. What is wanted is the
							best person which the money a county can afford to pay will secure. On the
							recommendation of the superintendent the county board would also appoint such
							assistant superintendents, primary supervisors, and supervisors of special
							instruction—drawing, music, agriculture, manual work—as the best interests
							of the schools of the county seemed to demand.
						The three independent town-school systems and the ninety-eight district schools, as
							shown in Fig. 63, would be consolidated into twenty-four districts, following natural
							community lines, as shown in Fig. 64; twenty-two of the twenty-four consolidated
							schools would contain a graded school and would offer two years of high-school
							instruction, while the other two, due to their small number of children, would be able
							to provide only a graded school. Full four-year courses would be maintained in each of
							the towns. Should the educational needs of the county seem to require it, a county
							agricultural high school could be developed at some central point, from one of the
							two-year high schools. A county teachers' training school, a county parental school,
							or other special-type schools could also be developed,
							if the population and educational needs of the county seemed to warrant it.
						The gain in supervision. The greatest gain from such a
							reorganization would come from the centralized professional leadership, the close
							supervision, and the business organization which would be provided for the schools.
							Under such a plan a system of county schools, organized along the lines of the best
							city-school administrative experience, could be perfected for the county as well as
							for the city. It would then be the business of the county board of education to select
							the most capable leader obtainable, pay him a salary commensurate with his worth and
							the importance of the position, give him needed assistance to insure helpful personal
							supervision, and then expect him to develop the best system of rural and village
							schools throughout the county which the money at hand would secure. Uniform terms and
							uniform tax rates would naturally follow, and a uniformly high standard of rural and
							village education would soon come to prevail everywhere throughout the county. The
							schools of the whole county would then be managed much as are the schools of a
							city-school system to-day. A New England town presents the same idea, on a smaller
							scale. A city-school system of twenty-four school buildings, located in different
							parts of the city and under one city superintendent and one city board of education,
							is entirely analogous to a county-school system of twenty-four consolidated schools,
							under one county superintendent and one county board of
							education. The difference is one of distance, and not of principle; and a telephone in
							each school, connected with the county office, and an automobile for the county
							superintendent would largely eliminate this. If farmers can afford such conveniences
							for a county agricultural adviser, it ought also to be possible to afford them for a
							county educational adviser and his assistants. All that is required is the exercise of
							a little imagination and the expenditure of a little more money to perfect as good
							schools for the country as are now to be had in the cities. That such a form of school
							organization is not imaginary or impossible may be seen from the description of the
							schools of Baltimore County, Maryland, given in the following chapter.

						
							QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION
							
							Classify the clerical, financial, and educational functions of a county
								superintendent of schools.
							Distinguish between statistical, clerical, and financial supervision of schools
								on the one hand, and educational supervision on the other.
							If your county superintendent spent half a day visiting each teacher in your
								county not under a supervising principal or a city superintendent of schools, and
								spent four days each week in visiting, how many visits could he make to each teacher
								each school year? 
							Is the supervision as you know it supervision, or inspection? Why? 
							What new lines of educational activity could a county superintendent of schools
								in your county engage in, to the great advantage of the schools? 
							Would the county system, in your judgment, be a good thing if applied to your
								state?
							
							What has been the average tenure of office of the county superintendent in your
								county?
							To what extent is the county the unit for other public affairs in your
								state?
							Work out a good plan for a county system of school administration to fit the
								needs of the schools of your county.
							Do you see anything impractical in the Minnesota county-unit plan as applied on
								pages 323-25?
							Apply the present district system of organization and control to a city of 100
								teachers, and what would be the result?
							Read the third part of the following chapter, describing a county-unit school
								system, and see if it does not give you new ideas as to the possibilities of
								county-school supervision.
						

					
					
					
						CHAPTER XIVNOTEWORTHY EXAMPLES IN RURAL EDUCATION
						THIS chapter, like chapter VI, is intended to
							be merely descriptive of a few noteworthy examples of rural educational effort of the
							kind the preceding pages have tried to outline as desirable. It is not claimed that
							the examples described are the best of their class, but only that they are typical,
							and that they illustrate well what may be done along the line of redirecting and
							revitalizing our rural schools.
						
							A ONE-ROOM RURAL SCHOOL
							The rural school building shown in the plate opposite this page was erected on the
								campus of the State Normal School at Kirksville, Missouri, on the establishment of
								the ungraded school there, in 1907. The children come chiefly from two different and
								adjacent rural school districts, and are transported to and fro each day in the
								transportation wagons, as shown in the picture. The school owns the wagons, and
								contracts with farmers to furnish horses and driver and to haul the children. The
								school is in charge of a regular teacher, and pupils from the normal school go to it
								for observation and practice.
							
							
								THE MODEL RURAL SCHOOL AT THE KIRKSVILLE, MO., NORMAL
									SCHOOL
								
								Showing the exterior of this one-teacher rural school, the pupils, and the
									transportation wagon ready to start for home.
							
							
							
							The building represents what can be done, at no great expense, to provide a
								building with modern conveniences for the distinctly rural school. In such a
								building a redirected school, such as is described in chapter XI,
								is easily possible. The basement, ground floor, and attic are all equipped and put
								to use, as may be seen from the floor plans here reproduced. This building, with
								full equipment, could probably be duplicated to-day in most communities for not to
								exceed $2500, and in many communities for less. The building has been copied, in
								more or less modified form, by school authorities in Missouri and Iowa, and, where
								one-room schools must be maintained, represents a desirable type of rural
									building.1
							
							Basement. This is twenty-eight by thirty-six feet in size, with a
								clear head room of eight feet. The floor is of concrete, underlaid with porous tile
								and cinders. The tile leads into a sewer. The walls are of concrete also, protected
								from undue moisture by an outside tile, running around the building, also leading
								into the sewer. The space above the tile is filled with cinders. The outside
								entrance to the basement is also of concrete, with a sewer drain through the lower
								step.
							The basement has eight compartments: (1) A furnace-room, containing a hot-air
								furnace, inclosed by galvanized iron; a double cold-air duct, with an electric fan;
								and a gas water-heater. (2) A coal-bin, six by eight feet in size. (3) A bulb or
								plant room, three 1See
									also Fig. 51, p. 231, for another model rural school building. by eight feet, for fall, winter, and spring storage of
								materials. (4) A dark room, four by eight feet, for children's experiments in
								photography. (5) A laundry-room, 
									FIG. 72. BASEMENT PLAN OF MODEL RURAL SCHOOL
								 five by twenty-one feet, for teaching laundering, with tubs, drain, and
								drying apparatus. (6) A gymnasium, thirteen by twenty-three feet, for indoor games,
								in stormy weather. (7) A tank-room, containing a four-hundred-gallon pneumatic
								pressure-tank, storage-battery for electricity, hand-pump for emergencies,
								sewer-pipe, floor-drain, etc. (8) An engine-room, containing a gasoline engine,
								water-pump, electrical generator, switchboard, water-tank for cooling the gasoline engine, weight for gas pressure, gas
								mixer, batteries, pipes, wires, etc.
							The pumps lift water from a well into the pressure-tank, through pipes below the
								frost line. Gasoline is admitted, through pipes below the frost line, from two
								forty-gallon underground tanks, placed thirty feet from the building. The basement,
								first floor, and attic are wired for electric lights, so that the building may be
								used in the evening for neighborhood purposes. The gasoline engine, furnace, and
								other appliances can be managed by the boys, as such machinery is not different from
								what they will use later on the farm.
							First-floor plan. The schoolroom is twenty-two by twenty-seven
								feet in the clear. The children face the east, and the light comes in from the
								north. A ground-glass window at the rear admits sunlight, for sanitary reasons. The
								schoolroom has adjustable seats and desks, teacher's desks, and telephone. An alcove
								or closet is on the east side for books, teacher's wraps, etc. At the back of the
								room is a stereopticon, with a screen at the front. The school has an organ,
								bookcases, shelves, and teaching apparatus. Pure air enters above the children's
								heads from the furnace, and passes out at the floor through the open fireplace.
							Both boys and girls have separate toilet-rooms within the building, containing a
								washbowl with hot and cold water, toilet, and shower, as well as mirrors,
								towel-racks, and separate water-heaters. The walls between the toilet-rooms are
								deadened, and each is reached from separate cloak-and
								hat-rooms. Girls may enter the building and reach the girls' toilet-room by a side
								entrance, and without passing through the 
									FIG. 73. FIRST-FLOOR PLAN OF MODEL RURAL
										SCHOOL
								 schoolroom. A drinking-fountain on this floor would be a desirable
								addition, and could easily be supplied from the pressure-tank. Stairs lead both to
								the attic and to the basement.
							Attic plan. This is thirty-five by fifteen feet in size, and
								seven and one half feet to the ceiling, in the middle of the building. While an
								attic is a common feature in schoolhouses, this is one of the few to be put to use.
								Still more attic room could have been secured if the
								roof had been humped out (gambrel roof) instead of being doubled in on the sides.
								The attic is furnished with gas for cooking and with electricity for lighting. It
								has a gasoline stove; a large sink, such as a good 
									FIG. 74. ATTIC PLAN OF MODEL RURAL
										SCHOOL
								 kitchen usually contains; cupboards, boxes, and receptacles, for
								experiments in home economics; washbowl, drinking-fountain, and table. It also
								contains two manual-training benches for work in wood; a disinfecting apparatus, and
								a portable chemistry-agriculture laboratory; and numerous other equipments for
								experimental work. Besides the end windows, four skylights, one by eight feet in
								size, provide additional light. The room is heated by hot air from the furnace. It also has a disappearing bed, which
								slides into the wall under the roof, for the use of the person who acts as janitor,
								as well as a mirror, wash-bowl, and towel-rack.
						
						
							A CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL
							The consolidated school illustrated and described here is the Harlem Consolidated
								School, located in Winnebago County, Illinois. The consolidated district was formed
								in 1910, by the union of four rural districts, and the school building was completed
								in March, 1911, at a cost of $17,700. The consolidated district comprises eighteen
								sections (one half a township) of land, but lies in four different townships. This
								illustrates how a rural social community may bear little or no relation to township
								organization.
							The assessed valuation of the four rural districts uniting, in 1909, was $71,419,
								$68,206, $72,114, and $142,666 respectively; or a total assessed valuation of
								$354,405 for the consolidated district. Bonds for $17,700 were issued; bearing five
								per cent interest and payable in fifteen annual payments, the first payment to be
								made five years after their date. It was estimated that in five years the assessed
								valuation of the district would so increase, largely because of the new consolidated
								school, that the tax for paying the bonds would be relatively light. In 1910, the
								first year of the consolidation, the valuation increased from $354,405 to $8383,797;
								in 1911, to $487,365; and in 1912 to $489,266.
							
							
								THE HARLEM CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL, WINNEBAGO COUNTY, ILL.
									I
								This picture shows the exterior of the building which was erected, while the six
									pictures which follow show details of the work of this reorganized rural school.
									(Reproduced by permission from the 1911 Annual Report of the County Superintendent
									of Schools of Winnebago County, Mr. O.J. Kern.)
							
							
							
								The Attic Gymnasium.
							
							
								The Grammar-Grade Classroom.
								
								THE HARLEM CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL, II
							
							
							The year before consolidation the four districts levied a total of $1600 in school
								taxes, or an average of $400 per district, for all purposes. The first levy (1910)
								for the consolidated district was for $3500; the second (1911) was for $4500; and
								the third (1912) was for $5500. The rate of tax in 1911 was the same, however, as in
								1910, due to the increase in valuations. The rate of tax levied in 1912 was only
								seventy-five per cent of the amount allowed by law, and but 70 per cent of that
								levied for city schools at the county-seat town of Rockford. In 1909 no high-school
								facilities were provided by any of the districts, while the new consolidated
								district now offers a four-year high-school course; employs five teachers instead of
								four; and provides a nine-months' school term for all children in the four original
								districts. The chief reasons for the increase of tax were that the districts before
								had done so little; that the new school paid larger salaries than formerly; provided
								more teachers than before consolidation; added four years to the course of
								instruction, and lengthened the term; and that the area consolidating (half a
								township) is small. An area one half larger would have afforded more pupils, reduced
								the per capita cost, and reduced the tax rate one third. A trolley line runs through
								the consolidated district, and a special five-cent fare is granted the pupils from
								any part of it.
							The plates which accompany this description show something of the nature of the
								school and its work. The first plate shows the
								building and the pupils. The building consists of a high basement, first floor, and
								attic. The picture also shows the organized play which is a feature of the school,
								the track team being at the right, and the girls' basketball team at the left. On
								the opposite side of the building is the school garden, for outdoor work in
								agriculture. The drawing opposite shows the grounds, and the way they have been laid
								off into playgrounds, school gardens, and lawns. The figures around the border of
								the grounds refer to a planting plan prepared by the department of horticulture of
								the College of Agriculture of the University of Illinois.
							The upper half of the next plate shows the attic gymnasium, though it is the
								intention to fit this room up eventually as an assembly hall. The lower half of the
								same plate shows one of the classrooms, fitted with steel seats, lights, etc. In the
								next plate the domestic science laboratory and the school band are shown; and in the
								plate following this the manual-training room and the agricultural laboratory. The
								building is heated by a hot-air furnace, and is equipped with a gasoline
								power-engine, running water, drinking-fountains, toilet-rooms, etc.
							Here in the open country is a school of 101 pupils, organized into primary school,
								grammar school, and high school, and offering a rich course of instruction adapted
								to rural needs. Between it and the four little rural schools it has supplanted there
								is almost no comparison.
								
									FIG. 75. THE HARLEM CONSOLIDATED
										SCHOOL GROUNDS, WINNEBAGO COUNTY, ILL.
								 The present school is an object of much
								community pride; the former schools were objects of community neglect. Nature study,
								drawing, handwork, and physical training are given in the grades; agriculture and
								manual training in the seventh and eighth grades; sewing in the eighth grade; and
								agriculture, manual training, sewing, domestic science, and commercial studies, as
								well as mathematics, history, English, and science, in the high school. Practically
								one fifth of the enrollment in the consolidated school in 1912 was of children over
								fourteen years of age, whereas before consolidation there were practically no
								children over that age in any of the rural schools uniting to form the consolidated
								school. Instead of four little schools, enrolling from eighteen to twenty pupils
								each, with one teacher, and little or no school spirit, there is now a consolidated
								school enrolling one hundred and one pupils and possessed of a spirit which is of
								the first importance in the education of children. It has cost more money, to be
								sure, though largely because the districts before consolidation did so little, but
								the increased returns have justified the larger expenditure. The county
								superintendent, in speaking of this school says: "Better country schools will come
								when more money is expended in a better way. There is no other way." This school
								certainly represents the better way.
							
							
								The Domestic Science Laboratory. 
							
							
								The School Band.
								THE HARLEM CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL, III
							

							
							
								The Manual-Training Room.
							
							
								The Agricultural Laboratory.
								THE HARLEM CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL, IV
							
						
						
						
							A COUNTY-UNIT SCHOOL SYSTEM
							Baltimore County, Maryland, is an excellent example of the county unit of school
								organization and administration, and also serves as an excellent example of what can
								be accomplished in the improvement of rural education, with good leadership and by
								patient effort, and under proper educational conditions. The story is so interesting
								and so illustrative of possibilities that it is reproduced here.
							Baltimore County, Maryland, has an area of 630 square miles (approximately 25 miles
								square), and is entirely separate and distinct from the city of Baltimore. There are
								in the county, in round numbers, 50 one-teacher rural schools, 50 two-teacher rural
								and village schools, and 45 schools having from 3 to 49 teachers. The largest
								schools are near the city of Baltimore. A number of the schools having 3 or more
								teachers are consolidated schools, located in the villages and rural communities.
								The county school-system thus consists of 145 buildings, spread over an area of 630
								square miles, and with something over 400 teachers employed; as compared with 105
								buildings and about 1800 teachers for the city of Baltimore, and condensed within an
								area of 30 square miles. In Maryland the county, and not the township or the
								district, is the unit of educational organization and administration. For each
								county a board of county school commissioners (county board of education) is
									appointed. These county boards consist of either
								three or six persons, appointed for six-year terms, one third going out of office
								every two years. In Baltimore County the board consists of six members, and is
								composed of farmers, merchants, and other men of affairs.
							Each board of county school commissioners practically has entire control of the
								school affairs of the county, with the one exception that county school taxes, above
								a certain legal maximum, must first be approved by the county governmental
								authorities. The expenditure of all school moneys is in the hands of the board of
								school commissioners, and funds are apportioned as the needs of the different
								schools of the county require, and without regard to the taxable wealth of the
								different communities. This results in an equalization of both the burdens and the
								advantages of education, over the whole county, just as they are to-day equalized
								over a whole city. In other words, equally good schools, equally long terms, and
								equally good salaries are provided for all the schools of the county, and without
								reference to the taxpaying power of the different communities.
							District boards of school trustees exist in each district, but these are appointed
								by the board of school commissioners each year. A district board is allowed, on
								approval by the county board, to select the principal for its school, and he may, in
								turn, nominate all assistant teachers in the school to the county board for appointment. He also acts as secretary of the district
								board. The functions of these district boards are confined to the above; to the care
								and repair of school-houses and furniture; to the supervising of the repair of the
								schoolhouse, when directed to do so by the county board; to the levying of district
								taxation, for additional educational facilities; and they may also admit, suspend,
								and expel pupils, and exercise limited local supervision over the schools. With the
								details of the work of instruction they have little or nothing to do, as the
								outlining of the course of study, the selection of textbooks and apparatus, and the
								supervision of instruction are strictly educational functions which rest with the
								county board of school commissioners and its appointed educational officers.
							The development of a good supervisory system in Baltimore County has been a matter
								of growth, and forms an interesting story of rural effort. It is unusual chiefly
								because the political conditions in most of our states will not permit of such
								progress being made.
							In 1900 the supervisory force consisted of a county superintendent and one
								assistant, who together attended to all the clerical, statistical, and financial
								work of a large county office, and also tried to supervise the schools of the
								county. Together the two officials were never able to visit each school in the
								county more than twice each year, and even to make such rounds required one hundred
								days (five school months) of continuous visiting from each. The principals in all of the schools of the county were also teaching
								principals, with no free time for supervision, so that the schools of the county
								were practically without supervision. 
							About this time the board selected and appointed a new county superintendent, a
								recent college graduate, who had studied educational administration, and he set
								about the education of his board and the improvement of the educational conditions
								of his county. In 1902 the county board was induced to employ a clerk and
								stenographer for the office, so as to give the superintendent and his assistant more
								time, free from office work, for the supervision of the schools. Members of the
								county board were induced to accompany them, and see for themselves the needs of the
								schools. In 1901 the county superintendent organized local institutes, or teachers'
								meetings, in all parts of the county, and soon the principals of the larger schools
								were made the leaders of these local institutes. The superintendent then organized a
								"Monthly Saturday Round-Table for Principals and Leaders of the Teachers' Meetings."
								Parents' meetings were also organized, and civic associations were addressed by the
								superintendent and teachers, on the work of the schools. This was all done as part
								of a quiet but persistent campaign of education, first of the teachers and then of
								the people, with a view to securing support for a movement for better schools,
								better educational conditions, and better salaries. To a selected list of four
								thousand citizens, equal to one fifth of the patrons
								of each school, annual reports, reprints of addresses, programs of work, etc., were
								mailed. The board itself soon became responsive to popular sentiment, began to talk
								of improvement, began to lay its plans before the people, and began to show a
								disposition to meet their wishes for better schools. Progress, though slow, soon
								became cumulative and sure.
							Additions to the work now began to be made. Domestic science was introduced, at
								first in a few localities, and by means of a half-time teacher. Soon the women's
								clubs of other communities asked for an extension of the work, and this was done.
								The work is now in charge of a special supervisor, assisted by seven special
								teachers of domestic science. In all except the one-teacher schools, home economics
								has now been provided for all girls in the sixth, seventh, and eighth grades, and is
								continued through the four-year courses of five of the high schools of the county.
								In addition, about sixty grade teachers also teach sewing in the fifth and sixth
								grades of the schools. Rural domestic science clubs have been begun, largely as an
								outgrowth of this instruction. Manual training was begun in a similar way, and with
								a similar result. Now a special supervisor of manual training, assisted by six
								special teachers, travels from school to school on a weekly schedule, and gives
								instruction to the boys in that subject.
							Farmers' clubs and Granges began to urge the board to
								improve the schools. The consolidation of schools soon began to attract attention,
								and a number of consolidated schools have been formed. The farmers began to ask for
								an agricultural high school for the county, and in 1909 this was established. The
								wonderful work of this high school, which has profoundly influenced the agricultural
								and educational work and the social life of the whole county, has been described by
								the principal of the school in a recent magazine article.1 A demand for better school
								buildings—better-heated, ventilated, and adapted to modern educational
								needs—came as a natural outgrowth of the campaign of education.
							The need for better supervision for the schools was also kept before the board,
								largely by illustrations from the business world. Instead of freeing the principal
								from teaching duties, the plan decided upon was rather to use the county as a unit
								and to strengthen the county supervisory force. In 1905 an expert in primary work
								was appointed as supervisor of primary grades for the county. Grade-teachers'
								meetings, twice each month, were then instituted for the first- and second-grade
								teachers. The primary supervisor also began to visit the primary classrooms once
								every ten days, and to hold personal conferences with the teachers as to their work.
								The next year the third- and fourth-grade teachers were included. The chief
									purposes1
									The World's Work, January, 1912: "A Very Real Country School,"
									by B.H. Crocherton.
								 of the teachers' meetings were to outline and discuss
								the work to be done, to give the teachers definite aid, and to create a stronger
								professional spirit among them. The board, during this second year, appointed one of
								the best primary teachers in the county as a substitute teacher, it being her chief
								work to visit and help teachers in their classrooms, and to relieve them for a day
								or two at a time while they visited schools, with or under the direction of the
								superintendent or supervisor.
							By 1908 the county board of education had become so impressed with the good results
								that they appointed a grammar-grade supervisor, who, in turn, began a similar work
								of organization and direction, beginning first with the fifth-grade teachers, and
								gradually extending the work to the upper grades. The work had grown to such
								importance by 1911 that the board authorized each special supervisor to select an
								assistant, of her own choosing, to help in the work of grade supervision. The
								special supervisors were also given the help of a stenographer.
							In 1910 the board authorized the superintendent to hold an all-day meeting, five
								times a year, of all teachers teaching in the one-room rural schools; and, in 1911,
								meetings for all teachers in the two-room rural schools were also authorized. These
								meetings were helpful in evolving plans, and led naturally, in 1912, to the
								appointment, by the county board, of a special supervisor of rural schools for the
								county. The man selected had been a rural teacher in
								the county, had risen to the principalship of one of the larger schools, and then
								had gone to a teachers' college and had prepared himself well for the work to be
								done. Beginning with September, 1912, the teachers of the county were organized into
								thirteen supervisory groups, of not over thirty-five teachers to a group, with
								eleven of the thirteen groups in charge of a grade supervisor or assistant, who
								visits and aids the teachers of that group. The other two groups are in charge of
								assistant superintendents. The county superintendent oversees and directs the work
								of all, and visits each teacher once each year.
							This, in brief, is the story of thirteen years of educational effort at the
								improvement of the schools of a county. The results have been such as to give the
								people of Baltimore County, Maryland, one of the best organized rural-school systems
								to be found in the United States. Aside from the slow but gradual education of the
								people of the county to appreciate the need for better supervision and to demand
								that more money be spent on the schools, the excellent results which have been
								attained there have been due largely to five things:—
							
								The county board of school commissioners has been a continuing body of
									citizens, only one third going out of office at one time, and has thus been able
									to plan and to execute a continuing educational policy.
								
								The county board was free to go anywhere it wished to secure the kind of man
									it desired for county superintendent, to appoint him, and to fix his
									salary.
								The county board has been free to retain his services continuously, without
									the interference of party politics or the chances of a biennial political
									election. Efficiency, not politics, has been the basis of his retention in
									office.
								The county board has also been free to appoint assistant superintendents,
									special supervisors, assistant supervisors, stenographers, and clerks, as they
									deemed necessary, and to fix their salaries, and without having first to ask the
									county board of supervisors or the legislature for permission to do so. They have
									been free, as such boards ought to be, to make progress as fast as they thought
									desirable, instead of being tied, hand and foot, by uniform laws.
								The county board has also been able to consolidate schools and transport the
									pupils; to improve buildings and sanitary conditions; to provide a uniformly long
									term; to increase and standardize the salaries of the teachers throughout the
									county; to enforce the employment of good teachers for all schools; and to add new
									schools and new forms of instruction, where and as seemed desirable;—and all
									because of its control of the schools of the county as a unit. Their work has been
									exactly analogous to that of a city board of education for a city.
							
							
						
					
				
			
		




		
			
			
				BIBLIOGRAPHY
				THE following is a small selected list of eighty titles, and contains only the more
					important of the recent literature bearing on the rural problem. No attempt is made to
					make it a comprehensive list, nor would such serve any useful purpose. Instead is
					submitted a short list, containing the more important books, pamphlets, and magazine
					articles which have appeared within recent years. Following this is a selected list of
					twenty books, such as would be desirable to supplement this one, and which can be obtained
					for an expenditure of $16.70. A selected list of fifteen free pamphlets is also added.
					These lists will aid teachers, schools, and libraries in the purchase of other books on
					the subject.

				PART I. THE RURAL-LIFE PROBLEM

				
					1. The Rural Evolution


					1. BUTTERFIELD, K. L. Chapters in Rural Progress. 251 pp. $1.00.
						University of Chicago Press, 1908.A good analysis of rural social progress.

					2. CARVER, T. N. The Principles of Rural Economics. 386 pp. $1.30.
						Ginn & Co., Boston, 1912.Deals in an interesting manner with the reasons for
						the cityward trend and the possibilities of the farm and country of the future, from the
						viewpoint of an economist.
					3. CHILDS, ROSA P. "Making Good Farmers out of Poor Ones"; in Review of
							Reviews, November, 1910. 6 pp.An account of Dr. Knapp's demonstration work
						among Southern farmers. An interesting popular account.
					4. HIBBARD, B. H. "Tenancy in the North Central
						States"; in Quarterly Journal of Economics, August, 1911. 20 pp.A
						good study of tenancy in these states. Gives the high price of land and the one-crop
						system as the chief factors in producing tenancy.
					5. Ross, J. B. "The Agrarian Revolution in the Middle West"; in North
							American Review, vol. 190, pp. 377-91 (September, 1909).Sketches the great
						social changes taking place at present in the upper Mississippi Valley, and the effect
						of these changes on the institutions of rural society there.

					6. WILSON, W. H. The Evolution of the Country Community. 221 pp.
						$1.25. The Pilgrim Press, Boston, 1912.Treats of rural social development, the
						pioneer, the land-exploiter, the husbandman, the religious life of each period, rural
						morality, recreation, and the graded school, from the point of view of the
						church.
					7. System of Tenant Farming, and its Results. Pamph., 5c.
						Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C.A study of the effects of tenant
						farming in the South.
					8. "Passing of the Man with the Hoe"; World's Work, August, 1910.
						13 pp.A very interesting article on the agricultural changes wrought by the
						introduction of farm machinery.
					9. "Railroading Knowledge to Farmers"; World's Work, November,
						1911. 7 pp.An illustrated article, describing an agricultural demonstration
						train.
				

				
					2. The Rural Church
					10. ASHENHURST, J. O. The Day of the Country Church. 208 pp.
						$1.00. Funk & Wagnalls, New York, 1910.Contains an excellent chapter on
						leadership.
					11. BUTTERFIELD, K. L. The Country Church and the Rural Problem.
						153 pp. $1.00. University of Chicago Press, 1911.The task of the church and its
						relation to the rural problem is outlined.
					
					12. FISKE, G. W. The Challenge of the Country. 274 pp. 75c. The
						Y.M.C.A., Association Press, New York, 1912.A book on the rural problem, with
						special reference to the country church. Written at the request of the International
						Committee of the Y.M.C.A. associations.
					13. MCNUTT, M. B. "Ten Years in a Country Church"; in World's
						Work, December, 1910. 6 pp.A very interesting account of ten years of effort
						in a country parish in Illinois, and the results achieved.
					14. NESMITH, G. T. "The Problem of the Rural Community with special reference to the
						Rural Church"; in American Journal of Sociology, May, 1903. 26
						pp.The condition of the rural church; community means for improvement.
					15. SYMPOSIUM. "The Church and the Rural Community"; in American
							Journal of Sociology, March, 1911.
					16. WILSON, W. H. The Church of the Open Country. 283 pp. 50c.
						Missionary Education Movement of the United States, New York, 1912.The place of the
						rural church in modern farming communities, and what changes must be effected if the
						church is to continue as a rural leader. The author is Secretary of Presbyterian
						missions.
					17. WILSON, W. H. "The Church and the Rural Community"; in American
							Journal of Sociology, March, 1911. 34 pp., including discussion.A paper
						along much the same lines as the above. 
				

				
					3. Rural Life in general
					18. ANDERSON, W. L. The Country Town. 307 pp. $1.00. The Baker and
						Taylor Co., New York, 1906.Contains good chapters on rural-life conditions and
						needs, rural degeneration and depletion, rural resources, and the rural church.
					19. BAILEY, L. H. The Country-Life Movement. 220 pp. $1.25. The
						Macmillan Co., New York, 1911.A consideration of the recent country-life
						movement.
					
					20. BAILEY, L. H. The Training of Farmers. 263 pp. $1.00. The
						Century Company, New York, 1909.A discussion of the need and the means of training
						farmers for more successful agriculture and better living.
					 21. COUNTRY LIFE COMMISSION. Report. 65 pp. Government Printing
						Office, 1909, 10c. Reprinted by Sturgis & Walton, New York, 75c.The report of
						President Roosevelt's Commission, outlining the problem and suggesting remedies. A very
						important document.
					22. GRAYSON, D. Adventures in Contentment. $1.20. Doubleday, Page
						& Co., Garden City, L.I., 1907.Charming sketches of the delights of country
						life.
					23. HAGGARD, H. R. Rural Denmark and its Lessons. 335 pp. $2.25.
						Longmans, Green & Co., New York, 1911.Describes the great rural transformation
						effected in Denmark by agricultural education and coöperation among the farmers.
					24. HART, J. K. Educational Resources of Village and Rural
							Communities. 277 pp. $1.00. The Macmillan Co., New York, 1913.A collection
						of 16 essays, by different authors, on different phases of the rural-life
						problem.
					25. HILL, J. J. "What we must do to be fed"; in World's Work,
						November, 1909. 38 pp., illustrated. Reprinted as chapter I in his Highways
							of Progress, 1910. Emphasizes the importance of scientific agriculture.
					26. MCKEEVER, W. A. Farm Boys and Girls. 326 pp. $1.25. The
						Macmillan Company, New York, 1912.A good book on rural home life, and the life
						interests of young people.
					27. PAGE, L. W. Roads, Paths, and Bridges. 263 pp. $1.00. Sturgis
						& Walton Co., New York, 1912.The best book on roads for farmers. Contains much
						useful information.
					28. PAGE, L. W. "Good Roads"; in World's Work, July, 1909. 9 pp.,
						illustrated.A short popular article, along the same lines as the above.
					
					29. PLUNKETT, SIR H. The Rural-Life Problem of the United States.
						174 pp. $1.25. The Macmillan Company, New York, 1910.Written by an authority on
						Irish and American agriculture. Deals largely with the life of the farmer, and the great
						need for business coöperation.
					30. ROBERTSON, J. W. Conservation of Life in Rural Districts. 46
						pp. 25c. The Y.M.C.A., Association Press, New York, 1911.
					31. SIMS, N. L. A Hoosier Village. 181 pp. $1.50. Longmans, Green
						& Co., 1912.A study of a town of 2500 people, with reference to the causes for
						its degeneration. In conclusion, says that not a single improvement in the village life
						has come from within.
					32. SYMPOSIUM. Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
							Sciences. Philadelphia. Issue for March, 1912, a special number on the rural
						problem, 243 pp. $1.00.A very important issue. Contains 28 valuable articles by
						well-known authorities, and dealing with almost every phase of the rural-life
						problem.
					33. WASHINGTON, BOOKER T. "How Denmark has taught itself Prosperity and Happiness";
							in World's Work, June, 1911. 9 pp. Describes the rural high schools
						which have changed the whole nature of rural life in Denmark.
				

				
					4. Home Life
					34. BUELL, JENNIE. One Woman's Work for Farm Women. 50c. Whitcomb
						& Barrows, Boston, 1908.Story of the life of Mary A. Mayo, a pioneer
						country-life leader in the Michigan Grange.
					35. DODD, MRS. HELEN. The Healthful Farmhouse. 69 pp. 60c.
						Whitcomb & Barrows, Boston, 2d ed., 1906.A good account of the actual
						remodeling of a farmhouse, by a farmer's wife.
					
					36. DAVENPORT, MRS. E. Possibilities of the Country Home.
						Bulletin, University of Illinois, Urbana.A very practical treatise, dealing with
						the water supply, lighting, heating, and beautifying of the farm home, and its costs.
						May be had on application.
				

				
					 5. Rural Social Surveys
					37. BRANSON, E. C. The Georgia Club, 41 pp. Bulletin No. 23, 1913,
						of the United States Bureau of Education.Describes the work done by the students at
						the state normal school at Athens, Ga., in the study of rural sociology.
					38. GALPIN, C. J. Method of Making a Social Survey of a Rural
							Community. Circ. Inf. No. 29, University Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment
						Station. 11 pp. illustrated, 1912. A very good short outline, with maps, showing
						surveys. Distributed free.
					39. MORSE, H. N., EASTMAN, E. F., AND MONAHAN, A. C. An Educational
							Survey of a Suburban and Rural County. 68 pp., illustrated.Bulletin No. 32,
						1913, of the United States Bureau of Education. A social and educational survey of
						Montgomery County, Md.
					40. SHARPLEIGH, F. E. Principles and Methods of Rural Surveys. The
						Y.M.C.A., Association Press, New York, 1913.A detailed description of how to go to
						work, and what to do.
					41. TAFT, ANNA B. Community Study for Rural Districts. 137 pp.
						35c. Missionary Educational Movement for the United States, New York, 1912.Another
						outline, with directions for such studies, and charts.
					42. WELLS, G. F. A Social Survey for Rural Communities. 23 pp.
						10c. Published by the author, 150 Fifth Avenue, New York, 1912.A syllabus outline
						of things to study.
				
				

				PART II. THE RURAL-SCHOOL PROBLEM

				
					1. Needs in Rural Education

					43. BETTS, G. H. New Ideals in Rural Schools. 128 pp. 60c.
						Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, 1913.A short treatise on the school, its social
						relationships, the curriculum, and the teacher.
					44. CARNEY, MABEL. Country Life and the Country School. 405 pp.
						$1.25. Row, Peterson & Co., Chicago, 1913.A very practical treatise on the
						rural-school problem.
					45. CUBBERLEY, E. P. The Improvement of Rural Schools. 76 pp. 35c.
						Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1912.Treats the problem under the headings: The
						Problem; More Money; Better Organization; Better Supervision.
					46. DRESSLAR, F. B. Rural Schoolhouses. Bulletin of the United
						States Bureau of Education.Pictures and describes many good buildings.
					47. EGGLESTON, J. D., AND BRUÈRE, R. W. The Work of the Rural
							School. 283 pp., $1.00. Harper & Bros., New York, 1913.Considers the
						rural school as a factor in the upbuilding of the rural community.
					48. FOUGHT, H. W. The American Rural School. 361 pp. $1.25. The
						Macmillan Company, New York, 1910.A good treatise on the rural-school problem, but
						chiefly along the lines of organization and the curriculum.
					49. KERN, O. J. Among Country Schools. 366 pp. $1.25. Ginn &
						Co., Boston, 1906. The first of the books on the rural school, and still quite
						useful. Describes many experiments. Well illustrated.
					50. MONAHAN, A. C. Status of Rural Education in the United States.
						73 pp. Bulletin No. 8, 1913, of the United States Bureau of Education.An excellent
						presentation of present conditions. 
					51. SYMPOSIUM. The Rural School as a Community Center.  Tenth Yearbook, Part II, of the National Society for the
						Study of Education. 75 pp. 78c. University of Chicago Press, 1911.Contains a series
						of articles, by different authors, on rural-school extension, coöperation, libraries,
						community needs, etc.
					52. SEERLEY, HOMER. The Country School. 218 pp. $1.00. Charles
						Scribner's Sons, New York, 1913.A very general work, dealing very briefly with
						almost every phase of rural-school work.
				

				
					2. Organization and Supervision of Rural Schools
					(Nearly all of the books listed above, under 1, treat of this topic also. In
						addition the following are worthy of special note.)
					53. HAYS, W. M. Education for Country Life. Circular 84, Office of
						Experimental Stations, United States Department of Agriculture.Points out the large
						possibilities of the consolidated school as a community center.
					54. ILLINOIS. Consolidation of Country Schools. Bulletin, free.
						University of Illinois, Urbana.Contains the report of the special committee sent to
						investigate the Ohio consolidated schools, with good summaries on the question of
						consolidating schools.
					55. KERN, O. J. "A New Kind of School"; in World's Work,
						September, 1908.Describes the John Swaney School, in Illinois, as a type of the
						consolidated school.
					56. KNORR, G. W. Consolidated Rural Schools, and the Organization of a
							County System. 99 pp. Bulletin 232, Office of Experiment Stations, United States
						Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C., 1910.An excellent bulletin on
						consolidation and the county unit. The best study of the subject so far published.
						Contains much valuable data as to costs, and many illustrations.
					57. KNORR, G. W. Study of Fifteen Consolidated Schools. Southern
						Education Board, Washington, D.C.Contains data as to organization, costs, and
						efficiency.
					
					58. SYMPOSIUM. Supervision of Rural Schools. Twelfth Yearbook,
						Part II, of the National Society for the Study of Education. 114 pp. 75c. University of
						Chicago Press, 1913.A series of contributed articles, dealing with different phases
						of the problem of supervision of rural schools. Also contains a good bibliography on
						school supervision.
					59. TRUE, A. C. Some Problems of the Rural Common School; in 1901
						Yearbook of the United States Department of Agriculture. 22 pp. Reprinted separately,
						for free distribution.A good brief statement of the present conditions and the
						advantages of consolidation.
					60. Wisconsin, Conditions and Needs of the Rural Schools of. 92
						pp. 12c. Training School for Public Service, New York. Also printed by the Wisconsin
						State Board of Public Affairs.The results of a field study of the rural schools of
						parts of Wisconsin, and of the supervision of them.
				

				
					3. The Curriculum
					(See also Betts, Kern, and Fought, under 1, above.)
					61. BROWN, H. A. The Readjustment of a Rural High School to the Needs
							of the Community. 31 pp., illustrated. Bulletin No. 20, 1912, United States
						Bureau of Education, Washington, D.C.Describes how Colebrook Academy, New
						Hampshire, was redirected.
					62. CROSBY, D. J., and CROCHERTON, B. H. Community Work in the Rural
							High School. 12 pp. In Yearbook, United States Department of Agriculture, 1910.
						Also reprinted separately for free distribution.Describes the community work done
						in the agricultural high school of Baltimore County, Maryland.
					63. CROCHERTON, B. H. "A Very Real Country School"; in World's
							Work, January, 1912. 10 pp., illustrated.Describes the establishment and
						extension work of this same Baltimore County high school.
					
					64. DAVENPORT, E. Education for Efficiency. 184 pp. $1.00. D. C.
						Heath & Co., Boston, 1909.A discussion of what constitutes efficient education,
						and the place of agriculture in an educational system.
					65. GATES, Fr. T. "The Country School of To-morrow"; in World's
							Work, August, 1912. Outlines the way in which the rural school must be
						redirected.
					66. HOWE, F. W. Boys' and Girls' Agricultural Clubs. 23 pp.,
						illustrated. Farmers' Bulletin, No. 385, United States Department of Agriculture,
						1910.Describes the work, and gives a list of publications of the Department
						relating to the work.
					67. JEWELL, J. R. Agricultural Education, Including Nature Study and
							School Gardens. 140 pp. Bulletin No. 2, 1907, United States Bureau of
						Education.A careful consideration of the curriculum.
					68. JOHNSON, A. A. County Schools of Agriculture and Domestic Economy
							in Wisconsin, 24 pp. Bulletin No. 242, Office of Experimental Stations, United
						States Department of Agriculture, 1911.Describes the kind of work done in a number
						of these schools.
					69. JOHNSON, C. Old-Time Schools and School Books. 381 pp. $2.00,
						illustrated. The Macmillan Company, New York, 1904.A good description of the
						old-time district school, and its work.
					70. N.E.A. Report of the Committee on Industrial Education in Schools
							for Rural Communities. In Report of Proceedings, N. E. A., 1905. Also reprinted
						separately, 10c. For sale by the Association. A useful report, dealing with the
						possibilities of agricultural education in one-room schools.
					71. N.E.A. Report of the Committee on Courses of Study in
							Agriculture. In Report of Proceedings, N.E.A., 1912, pp. 1391-1413. A very useful report, outlining many practical courses for
						different types of schools.
					72. ROBINSON, C.H., and JENKS, F.B. Agricultural Instruction in High
							Schools. 80 pp. Bulletin No. 6, 1913, United States Bureau of
						Education.Discusses types of schools, salaries of teachers, and kinds of
						instruction provided.
					73. SCUDDER, M.T. Field Day and Play Picnics for Country Children.
						Bulletin, Charities Publication Committee, New York. 10c.Describes how to organize
						and conduct such.
				

				
					4. The Teacher
					74. BAILEY, L.H. On the Training of Persons to teach Agriculture in the
							Public Schools. 53 pp. Bulletin No. 1, 1908, United States Bureau of
						Education.Discusses the nature of the problem, and the means of training teachers
						for rural service. 
					75. FIELD, JESSIE. The Corn Lady. 107 pp. 50c. A. Flanagan Company, Chicago, 1911. A
						series of letters from a country teacher to her father, describing her work in
						transforming a rural school. Should be read by every rural teacher. The appendix
						contains some very good farm-arithmetic problems.
					76. MONAHAN, A. C., andWRIGHT, R.H. Training Courses
							for Rural Teachers. 61 pp. Bulletin No. 2, 1913, United States Bureau of
						Education.Describes what is being done in the different states in the matter of
						preparing teachers for the rural schools.
					77. MUTCHLER, F., and CRAIG, W.J. A Course of Study for the Preparation
							of Rural-School Teachers. 23 pp. Bulletin No. 1, 1912, United States Bureau of
						Education. Outlines a course of study for rural teachers.
					78. WRAY, ANGELINA. Jean Mitchell's School. $1.00. Public School
						Publishing Co., Bloomington, Illinois, 1902. A charming
						story of a country teacher's experience, and of a kind which young teachers could read
						with profit.
				


				
					5. Two Useful Bibliographies

					79. Bibliography of Education in Agriculture and Home Economics.
						62 pp. Bulletin No. 10, 1912, United States Bureau of Education. Free.
					80. Free Publications of the United States Department of Agriculture,
							Classified for the Use of Teachers. 35 pp. Circular 94, Office of Experiment
						Stations, United States Department of Agriculture. Free.
				



				
					SELECTED LIST OF TWENTY BOOKS FORPURCHASE
					
						No.
						Author
						Title
						Retail Price
					

					
						1.
						BUTTERFIELD, K.L.
						Chapters in Rural Progress.
						$1.00
					

					
						2.
						CARVER, T.N.
						Principles of Rural Economics.
						1.30
					

					
						6.
						WILSON, W.H.
						Evolution of the Country Community.
						1.25
					

					
						11.
						BUTTERFIELD, K.L.
						Country Church and the Rural Problem.
						1.00
					

					
						12.
						FISKE, G.W.
						Challenge of the Country.
						.10
					

					
						16.
						WILSON, W.H.
						Church of the Open Country.
						.50
					

					
						18.
						ANDERSON, W.L.
						The Country Town.
						1.00
					
					
						19.
						BAILEY, L.H.
						The Country Life Movement.
						1.25
					
					
						21.
						COUNTRY LIFE COMMISSION.
						Report.
						.10
					
					
						24.
						HART, J.K.
						Educational Resources of Village and Rural Communities.
						1.00
					
					
						26.
						MCKEEVER, W.A.
						Farm Boys and Girls.
						1.25
					
					
						32.
						SYMPOSIUM.
						Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences,
							March, 1912.
						1.00
					
					
						35.
						DODD, HELEN.
						The Healthful Farmhouse.
						.60
					
					
						48.
						FOUGHT, H.W.
						American Rural School.
						1.25
					
					
						49.
						KERN, O.J.
						Among Country Schools.
						1.25
					
					
						51.
						SYMPOSIUM.
						Rural School as Community Center.
						.75
					

					

					
						58.
						SYMPOSIUM.
						Supervision of Rural Schools.
						.75
					
					
						70.
						N.E.A.
						Report of Committee on Industrial Education.
						.10
					
					
						75.
						FIELD, JESSIE.
						The Corn Lady.
						.50
					
					
						78.
						WRAY, ANGELINA.
						Jean Mitchell's School.
						1.00
					
					
						
						
						Total cost, at retail price,
						$16.70
					
				



				
					SELECTED LIST OF FIFTEEN FREE PAMPHLETS

					
						37.
						BRANSON, E.C.
						The Georgia Club.
					
					
						38.
						GALPIN, C.J.
						Making a Social Survey of a Rural Community.
					
					
						39.
						MORSE, EASTMAN, and MONAHAN.

						Survey of a Rural County.
					
					
						46.
						DRESSLAR, F.B.
						Rural Schoolhouses.
					
					
						50.
						MONAHAN, A.C.
						Rural Schoolhouses.
					
					
						53.
						HAYS, W.M.
						Education for Country Life.
					
					
						56.
						KNORR, G.W.
						Consolidated Rural Schools, and a County System.
					
					
						59.
						TRUE, A.C.
						Some Problems of the Rural Common School.
					
					
						61.
						BROWN, H.A.
						Readjustment of a Rural High School.
					
					
						66.
						HOWE, F.W.
						Boys' and Girls' Agricultural Clubs.
					
					
						67.
						JEWELL, J.R.
						Agricultural Education, including Nature Study.
					
					
						72.
						ROBINSON and JENKS.

						Agricultural Instruction in High Schools.
					
					
						74.
						BAILEY, L.H.
						On Training to teach Agriculture in Schools.
					
					
						76.
						MONAHAN and WRIGHT.

						Training Courses for Rural Teachers.
					
					
						77.
						MUTCHLER and CRAIG.

						Course of Study for Rural Teachers.
					
				
			

			
				OTHER PAMPHLETS AND REPORTS
				In nearly all of the states, special bulletins have been issued on one or more phases of
					the rural-school problem, and some of these are quite valuable. No attempt has been made
					to list such here, but the Report of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and
					such Bulletins as may have been issued by the state, ought to be added. The Annual Reports of the Secretary of Agriculture for the United
					States also contain, from time to time, useful articles. In addition the two following
					monthly magazines contain many articles of value:—
				
					World's Work. A Monthly Illustrated Magazine. $3.00 per year.
						Doubleday, Page & Co., Garden City, L.I.This magazine contains many articles
						relating to farm life and rural education, and, besides being an excellent general
						magazine, is of particular value to those who are interested in rural life and
						education.
					Rural Manhood. A Monthly Illustrated Magazine. $1.00 per year.
						International Committee, Y.M.C.A., New York.Devoted to the country work of the
						Y.M.C.A. Contains much that is valuable relating to rural life.
				
			
			
			
				INDEX

				
					Administration and organization of schools, 178-93.
					Agriculture:—Instruction in rural schools, 268-71, 296; national aid for, 37;
						new, 36-37; future demands on, 44; reorganization and commercializing of, 36-51; U.S.
						Dept. of, 38, 39, 155-58.
					Agricultural colleges, 38.
					Agricultural clubs, boys and girls, 144-46; Clinton County, Iowa, 156-59.
					Agricultural expansion, great American, 18-21, 22-24, 41-43.
					Agricultural development, four periods of:—I. Up to 1830, 7-13; II. 1830-60,
						14-18; III. 1860-90, 18-28; IV. 1890 on, 29-61.
					Arithmetic, redirection of instruction in, 260-61.
					Automobiles on farms, 64.
					Away-from-farm-influence in education, 260-61.
					Back-to-land movement, 169.
					Baltimore Co., Md., County unit in, 321-23, 339-47.
					Barley, new seed, 39.
					Bathroom conveniences, 34.
					Bibliography on rural problems, 349-60.
					"Boarding-around" arrangements, 88.
					Boy-Scouts, rural, 144.
					Buildings, school, 207-16; consolidated school interiors, 253, 328-38; fundamental
						needs in, 212-16; typical interiors, 207-12; special rooms, 215.
					Camp-Fire Girls, rural, 144.
					Church:—A rural, reorganized, 132-37; a village, reorganized, 137-39; as a
						community center, 121-23; early social aspect of, 76-78; large early influence, 72-74;
						the teacher and, 81-82; effect of changes on, 71-81; social mission of, 80.
					Churches:—Too many, 77-78; an overchurched township, 78; dying churches,
						76-79.
					Cities, gradual rise of, 8, 25.
					City and country schools compared, 221.
					City connections formed, 65.
					Cityward migration, the, 24-26.
					Clinton County, Iowa, commercial club plan, 156-59.
					Commerce, rise of, 16.
					Commercial clubs aiding farmers, 155-59.
					Commercial large-scale farming, 45-46.
					Commercial small-scale farming, 46-47.
					Community centers, 117-26; possible, 118-25; one plan for, 119; the church as a,
						121-23; the library as a, 124; the school as a, 125.
					Community-center schools, 251-54; floor-plans for, 253.
					Community life, 126, 158.
					Community rural service, 126.
					Consolidation movement, 203; inaugurating the same, 240.
					
					Consolidation of schools, 230-55, 328-38; advantages of, 235-38; disadvantages of,
						239-40; district consolidation, 240-43; township consolidation, 243-44; county-unit
						plan, 245-49, 321-26; state reorganization, 255; in Illinois, 384-38; in Indiana, 231,
						242; in Ohio, 232-34.
					Consolidated schools:—A one-room school in Missouri, 328-34; a good example in
						Illinois, 334-38.
					Country-life Commission, the, 169.
					Country-life movement, meaning of, 128.
					County board of education, 322-26, 339-47.
					County school superintendent. (See Superintendent;
						Superintendency.)
					County system, the, of school administration, 190-92, 245-49, 339-47.
					County taxation for education, 198-200.
					County unit in evolution, 307.
					Curriculum:—The old, 256-66, 275-76; need of redirecting, 267-68, 275-78; new
						one needed for rural school, 256-81, 296; for rural high school, 278-80.
					Distribution of taxation for education, systems of, 201-02.
					District school:—Origin of, 83-85; multiplication of districts, 163-65,
						181-83, 226-29; decline of, 164-66.
					District system, 86-88, 178-86, 221-25; essential features of, 178-86; objections
						to, 184-86, 226-30, 285-87.
					District taxation, 194-97.
					Domestic science, instruction in, 271-73, 298, 343.
					Education, early, 83-89; changes in after 1870, 89-96; increasing cost of, 99-100;
						increasing term, 101; present inadequacy, 97; what constitutes, 280-81.
					Educational reorganization needed, 172-75, 203, 224.
					Equalizing effect of general taxation, 199-201.
					Erie Canal, 16.
					Expansion, agricultural, 18-21, 22-24.
					Experts, farm, 155-59.
					Farm experts, 155-59; hands, 26, 60; labor, saving in, 26-28; managers, 46;
						tenantry, 51-61; values, 23, 30, 43, 67.
					Farmer, home-builder type, 22.
					Farmer, town and travel habit, 65-66.
					Farmers, agricultural courses for, 70.
					Farmers' organizations, 149-59.
					Farmers' Institutes, 154-55.
					Farmhouses, newer, 33-35.
					Farming:—Commercial, 14; conditions in fifteen states, 30; population, 30;
						subsistence stage, 10-14.
					Farms, development of, 19, 20, 24; free, given away, 19; size of, 30.
					First period in agricultural development, 7-13; characteristics of the period,
						7-13.
					Florida, Duval County, consolidation, in, 245.
					Foodstuffs, recent values of, 42.
					Fourth period in agricultural development, 29-61; characteristics of the period, 31;
						changes involved, 60-61; effect on school, 94-97.
					Furnaces in homes, 34.
					Geography, instruction in, 262-64.
					
					Georgia, Black counties in, 48.
					Government, local, 68-71.
					Grading of schools, 90.
					Grammar and language, instruction in, 261, 262.
					Grange, the, 124, 149-52, 302.
					Harlem, consolidated school, 324-28.
					Hesperia Movement, the, 152-53.
					High school, rural:—Redirection of, 278-80; teacher in, 300-01.
					History, instruction in, 265-66.
					Home and school, 18. Home-builder farmer, 22. Home life, early, 11, 18. Homes, early
						farm, 11; need for better, 115-17; present farm homes, 33-35.
					Hygiene, instruction in, 264-65, 296.
					Idaho, Ada County, reorganized, 249-50.
					Immigrants:—Early types, 15-16; later types, 54-59; land ownership by, 107;
						teaching agriculture to, 70.
					Indiana, Delaware County, consolidation in, 242.
					Institutes, farmers', 154-55.
					Institutional church, an, 135-37.
					Instruction:—In rural school, 256-81; in rural high school, 278-80.
					Intellectual revolution, the, 74-76.
					Intensive farming, 46.
					Interiors of building, school, 207-16; a model building, 214; a reorganized school,
						211.
					Inventions:—New,15-16; labor-saving, 26-28.
					Kirksville, Missouri, rural school, 328-34.
					Kitchens, farm, 116.
					Language and grammar, instruction in, 261-63.
					Library:—Rural, 124, 146-49; school, 220-21; library work, 297.
					Living:—Early, 10-14, 18; third-period characteristics, 22; fourth-period
						changes, 31-35.
					Local government amid the change, 68-71.
					Machinery, new farming, 15, 89.
					Magazines in the farm home, 33, 64.
					Mail, rural delivery, 33.
					Maintenance of schools, types of, 193-204.
					Manual training, instruction in, 973, 298, 343.
					Manufacturing, rise of, 16.
					Markets, early, 9, 11; new, 14, 40-41.
					Maryland, county unit of administration in, 381-23, 339-47.
					Migrations, early Westward, 9.
					Minnesota, Douglas County, reorganized, 246-48, 323-25.
					Mississippi Valley:—An agricultural center, 30-31; town movement in, 36; towns
						lacking in personality in, 102.
					Missouri, Kirksville consolidated school, 328-34.
					Model rural school buildings, 214, 253, 328-38.
					Morrill Land-Grant Bill, 37.
					National aid for agriculture, 37.
					Nature study, instruction in, 268-71, 296.
					Negro farmers, 48, 50, 59.
					Neighborhood clubs, 158-59.
					New England influence on religious life, 71-72.
					New interest in rural life, 65.
					Newspapers in farm homes, 33, 64.
					Nursing, district, 139.
					
					Ohio, consolidation of schools in, 230-34, 241.
					Ohio, township supervision of schools in, 312.
					Organization and administration of schools, types of, 178-93.
					Outlook, larger rural, 114.
					Ownership of land, 61, 107.
					Periods of agricultural development. (See Agricultural
						development.)
					Personality, the school and, 113.
					Personality, retention of, on farms, 112-13.
					Pioneer life, early, 10.
					Plainfield, Illinois, reorganized rural church, 132-37.
					Play, organized, instruction in, 274.
					Population and production, relative increases in, 27.
					Population, rapid growth of urban, 8, 25.
					Professional preparation for teaching, 289-99.
					Railways, early, 16-17.
					Reading, instruction in, 266-67.
					Redirecting the school, 172, 174.
					Redirected schools:—A rural, 328-34; a consolidated, 334-38.
					Rural economic interests, 108.
					Rural human interests, 109.
					Rural library, 124, 146-49, 297.
					Rural life:—Early, 11; to-day, 32-35; great rural interests, 173; movement,
						the recent, 169; needs to-day, 104, 110, 297; educational deficiency in, 105.
					Rural population, 8, 25, 111; by states, 49; decreases in, 50-51.
					Rural school. (See School.)
					Rural school progress, fundamental needs for, 203-04.
					Rural social life, 63-68, 297.
					Rural social problem, 106, 297.
					Rural teacher:—Training of, 289-99; high school teacher, 300-01; possibilities
						for large service, 301-04.
					Science, domestic, instruction in, 271-73, 298.
					Science room in schools, 215.
					School:—Origin of, 83-85; the early, 88, 177; second-period school, 86-88;
						city-school influence on, 92; changes in direction after 1870, 90-95; amid the
						fourth-period changes, 94-97, 164-72; typical early interiors, 84, 86; costs,
						increasing, 94-101; district, decline of, 163-67; library, 220-21; sites, 216-18;
						supervision. (See Supervision, Superintendency); term, increasing,
						101.
					School and democracy, 163, 320.
					School and home, 18.
					School and personality, 113.
					School buildings:—types and needs of, 207-16; typical interiors, 207-12;
						fundamental needs of, 212-16; special rooms in, 215; consolidated, 328-38.
					Schoolmaster, the early, 88.
					Schools, rural:—Not of necessity poor, 167; recent criticism of, 168;
						redirecting them, 172-75, 328-38; fundamental needs of, for progress, 203-04; present
						plight of, 102, 164-67.
					School systems and evolution, 178.
					Second period in agricultural development, 14-18.
					Second-period school, 86-88.
					Seed selection, 39.
					Sites, school, 216-18.
					Size of farms, 30.
					Social work for the church, 122.
					 Society, early rural, 63-65; changes in, 65-68.
					
					Specialization, farm and crop, 15.
					Stock-breeding, 39.
					Subsistence farming, 10-14.
					Sunday, early, social significance of, 64.
					Superintendency, county:—In evolution, 308; new conception of the office,
						309-11; present conditions in the office, 315-20; the way out, 319-20, 346-47.
					Supervision, rural, 306-26, 339-47; same under county system, 321-26; under county
						board of education, 322-25; present type of, 313-21; township, in Ohio, 312; county, at
						present, 311.
					System, district. (See District system.)
					Taxation for education, forms of, 193-204; distribution of, 201-02.
					Teacher:—The early, 88; decrease in men, 91; new rural type needed, 90-93,
						283-304; teacher and the church problem, 81, 302.
					Teacher, rural:—Call for service from, 301-04; training and wages compared,
						283-88; present status of training, 288; in rural high schools, 300-01.
					Teachers' training classes, 289-99; beginnings of, 289-90; development of, in
						Nebraska, 291; instruction offered, 292-99; suggested course, 295-99.
					Teaching equipment, 206-25; special equipment needed, 218-20. 
					Telephone and the farmer, 32.
					Tenantry, farm, 51-61; in the United States, 51; in each state, 53; increase in, 52;
						tenantry vs. ownership, 107; tenantry and social life, 66-68.
					Tenants, new, and local government, 69.
					 Third period in agricultural development, 18-28.
					Town movement of farmers, 36.
					Town or township system, 186-90.
					Town system, the New England, 187.
					Town vs. district control, 188.
					Township, the Western, 189.
					Town and township taxation, 197-98.
					Trading, early markets, 13.
					Trains, agricultural, 39.
					Travel, farmers enjoying, 66.
					Utah, county-unit plan in, 213-23.
					Workroom in the rural school, 211, 214, 215.
					Y.M.C.A., county-work division, 123, 124, 138-43, 302.
					Y.W.C.A., county-work division, 123, 124, 142-44, 302.
				

			
		
	
