
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Dunn, Jacob Piatt, 1855-1924.. The unknown god. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0882
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		



			
			
				
					 THE UNKNOWN GOD
						ANDOTHER ORTHODOX ESSAYS 
				
				
					BY JACOB PIATT DUNN 
					SECRETARY OF THE INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY
				
				
					SENTINEL PRINTING COMPANY
					INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
					1914
				
			

			

			

			
				DEDICATORY.

				To Dr. Charles P. Emerson, Teacher of the Men's Bible Class of the First Presbyterian
					church, Indianapolis, who, while in nowise responsible for the positions taken herein,
					has, by his Bible teaching, led me to views of the scriptures that were to me in many
					respects novel, this little book is gratefully dedicated.
			

			
		


		
			
			
				The UNKNOWN GOD AND OTHER ORTHODOX ESSAYS
				
					THE UNKNOWN GOD.
					The sermon of Paul on Mars' Hill has long held a place in the front ranks of examples
						of forensic oratory; and properly no oratory holds such rank that is not effective, for
						the object of oratory is to convince, and that which lacks convincing power lacks the
						essential feature of true oratory. There have been many comments on this effort of Paul,
						many reflections on its ingenious method, many on its immediate effects, many on its
						permanent argumentative force. And yet, when considered in the setting of its known
						surroundings, it seems singularly inadequate to the results attained.
					 Paul had just arrived at Athens from 1
						
							1
							Note: (The unknown God.)
							This essay was originally published in the Biblical World of Dec. 13, 1913. When it
								was written, I supposed that my main thesis, that the Athenian altar to "The Unknown
								God" was erected to the Supreme First Cause, was absolutely novel in modern
								literature. Since writing it, my attention has been called to a recent publication,
								"Agnostos Theos" (Press of B. G. Teubner, Leipzig-Berlin, 1913), by Eduard Noiden.
								In this erudite volume of 400 pages, the author, from historical and philological
								premises, reaches the same conclusion—that this altar was erected to the
								Supreme First Cause. His process of reasoning, however, and his other deductions,
								are entirely different from my own. He devotes much space to the origin of this idea
								of deity, holding that it is not of Grecian but Oriental origin. This is quite
								possible. St. Justin maintained that Plato derived his ideas from Moses. However
								that may have been, it is not material here, for Plato's philosophy had been taught
								in Greece for four centuries before Paul's time and was then the prevailing
								religious belief.
						 Berea. His preaching in Macedonia up to this point had not
						produced like results. On the contrary, it had evoked persecution, and he had been
						obliged to flee from Philippi, from Thessalonica, and from Berea.' While he waited here
						for Silas and Timothy, his spirit was stirred by the idolatry of the city, and he began
						disputing in the synagogue and in the market place. Soon he attracted the attention of
						the philosophers, Epicureans and Stoics, men who devoted their entire time to the
						hearing and discussion of new things, and especially to religious matters. These people
						took him to the Areopagus— possibly, but not probably, before the council which
						held sessions there—which was the most prominent place of public discussion; and
						said to him, with at least an appearance of toleration and respect: "May we know  what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is? For thou
						bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would know what these things mean."
					 And now Paul stood up in the most notably intellectual city in the world, before an
						audience that probably could not have been excelled at that time in cultivation. It was
						not an address to the masses. He was talking to the intellect of the age. He was alone.
						There was not even a sprinkling of party allies in the crowd to applaud a telling hit,
						or to second his effort in any way. His words stood absolutely on their own merit. And
						these are his words, as given in our authorized version: 
							 Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious.
							For as I passed by and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this
								inscription, "TO THE UNKNOWN GOD." Whom therefore ye ignonantly worship, him declare
								I unto you.
							God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven
								and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
							Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he
								giveth to all life, and breath, and all things;
							And hath made of one blood all nations of  men for to
								dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed,
								and the bounds of their habitation;
							That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him and find him,
								though he be not far from every one of us;
							For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets
								have said, For we are also his offspring;
							Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the
								Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven.by art and man's device.
							And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now he commandeth all men
								everywhere to repent;
							Because he hath appointed a day, in which he will judge the world in righteousness
								by that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assurance to all men in
								that he hath raised him from the dead.
						
					

					 To this version modern criticism has offered little addition or change, the only
						material suggestions being as to the phrases "too superstitious" and "to the unknown
						God." It is generally conceded .that the words rendered "too superstitious" may be
						properly rendered "very religious", "very devout", "truly god-fearing", or like terms
						having none of the offensive meaning that  necessarily
						attaches to "too superstitious". As to the other, it was suggested by some of the early
						church fathers that the inscription was probably in the plural-"to unknown gods"; and
						conjecture has been made that this implied gods of foreign nations, whom the Athenians
						fancied to have brought ills to them, or who might do so. Modern critics usually accept
						the singular form, but as there is no article used in the Greek, the ordinary
						translation would be "to an unknown god". This, however, is not obligatory, and the
						translation "to the unknown .god" is generally admitted as proper. It would be more
						impressive to render it, as could properly be done, just as it stands in the original:
						"To Unknown God."
					 No critic rejects the account as above given, or the description of the events
						following, which is as follows: 
							And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked; and others said,
								We will hear thee again of this matter.
							So Paul departed from among them.
							Howbeit certain men clave unto him and believed; among which was Dionysius the
								Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
						
					

					
					Taking the entire account as it stands, two things seem obvious on its face. First, the
						address as recorded must be a mere summary of the actual discourse, for it would require
						less than two minutes for delivery. It is too brief for Paul's known sermonizing
						ability; too brief for the occasion, with the special trip to the Areopagus; too brief
						for the distinguished audience. Second, nothing in the speech aroused criticism or
						dissent till he spoke of the resurrection; and this point is important because it
						implies assent to all that precedes that. The common form of all such discourses in
						Athens was disputation or discussion. Paul himself was "disputing" in the synagogue and
						the market place when the philosophers were attracted to him. It was a form of
						discussion in which anyone was free to join, and it was a matter of give and take for
						all. The Greek philosophers were skilled debaters, trained particularly in this form of
						discussion, and would quickly have interposed if they had any objection. But they did
						not, and this is vastly significant. For example, the fact that Paul directly attacked
						idolatry and image-worship, in a city that was given over to  it, and where it was established by law, but without interruption, demonstrates what
						we know also from profane history, that at this time the educated Greeks did not believe
						in idols, and made no pretense of believing in them, even though they joined in the
						statutory rites.
					With these two deductions in mind, let us look at the speech again. It has often been
						suggested that Paul was too prudent, and too skilled an orator to call his audience "too
						superstitious", in an offensive way, at the outset. That is a valid deduction, but we
						can add to it the certainty that his hearers did not take offense at his words; and also
						that he did not intend them in an offensive or critical sense, because to have done so
						would have been to overthrow his own argument. How could he consistently urge that the
						Athenians were unduly superstitious for believing in an unknown god, and in the next
						breath assure them that this god was the only true god, whom they ought to worship?
						Obviously the words rendered "too superstitious" were intended and accepted as
						commendatory.
					 In like manner, as to the inscription on  the Athenian
						altar, we can be sure that it was in harmony with the interpretation given to it by
						Paul. If the inscription had been "to unknown gods," in a plural and indefinite form, or
						if it had been, as St. Jerome cojectured, "To the unknown gods of Asia, and Europe, and
						Africa; to foreign and unknown gods," and Paul had proceeded to state that it was an
						altar to the one god "that made the world and all things therein," he would have been
						interrupted and mocked at once. Some philosopher would have said: "Thou art indeed a
						babbler, and ignorant, for this altar is not to one god, but to all unknown gods." The
						assent of his audience can be explained only on the basis that this altar was erected to
						an unknown god "that made the world and all things therein." 
					But further, what is meant by "the unknown god?" What could these words possibly mean
						to the Greeks? The word "unknown" is universally the antithesis of "known;" and the
						phrase could not possibly mean anything to the Greeks, or to anyone else, but "the
						unknown god" as distinguished from their known gods. And how  did they know any god? Not by personal acquaintance. No one pretended to that. They
						knew their gods by their names and their images. Zeus, Hera, Pallas Athene, and all the
						rest, were familiar to the Athenians by their names and their images, just as Cupid, and
						Liberty, and Santa Claus are to Americans, but this altar was to a god who had no name
						and no image.
					 The necessary inference is that this god of the Greeks was one for whom they had no
						name, of whom they had no image, and yet whom they believed to have "made the world and
						all things therein,"—a god who could plausibly be compared to Jehovah. But did the
						Greeks recognize any such god? Was there any deity in their pantheistic circle that
						would answer to these requirements? Unquestionably there was; and he was the supreme
						divinity of their most prominent religious sect—the Platonists. Plato had been
						dead for four centuries, but his philosophy had lived; and though it had ramified into
						almost as many sectarian forms as the teaching of Jesus Christ has since, this central
						feature of one supreme, unknown god was preserved in all of them, as it is in all  Christian beliefs. Moreover, it had tinctured all other
						philosophies. The Stoics believed in a supreme first cause, though they located it in
						matter, as our materialists do. The Epicureans conceded the possibility of such a being,
						but held that if he existed he dwelt apart, and took no heed of the affairs of men. And
						this was not wholly repugnant to the Platonian theory, for it held that the Supreme
						Being created Jove, and all the other known gods, and left to them the minor creations,
						and the supervision of mankind, while he returned to a state of eternal repose.
					Of all the gods of the Greeks, this one alone had no name. Plato refers to him simply
						as "God," "the Deity," "the Supreme First Existence;" and he never received any name.
						When Cicero had occasion to consider him, he referred to him as "the god of Plato."
						Neither was any image ever made of him by the Greeks or by the Romans, any more than by
						the Jews. He was always and everywhere "the Unknown God" until He revealed Himself. But
						there was no reason why the Platonists should not have erected an altar to him; and from
						the known customs  of the ancients there was every reason
						to expect them to do so. And we know from profane writers that altars to unknown gods
						were not peculiar to Athens. Pausanias, Philostratus and Lucian mention their existence
						at other places. The hypothesis that this altar was a Platonian altar to the Supreme
						First Cause is the only one on which the known historical facts and this account of
						Paul's sermon can be reconciled. 
					Furthermore, we know that this pagan conception of God was commonly referred to as "the
						unknown God" in the early church literature. The Gnostic heretics all held to this
						conception in some form, some even maintaining that the Supreme Being was unknown to the
						inferior supernaturals whom he created. This heresy was vigorously denounced by the
						orthodox Christians, who maintained that God was known throughout the spirit world, not
						only by the angels who are his servants, but by Satan who was driven from his presence,
						by evil spirits who declared their knowledge when cast out, and by the spirits of the
						dead, for Christ said of little children, "In heaven their angels do always behold the
						face of  my Father which is in heaven." More than this, He
						was now known to men, both through Christ and through the Holy Spirit, whom Christ had
						promised as a Comforter that should teach them all things—not fully, of course,
						but as "seen through a glass darkly," and so far as within finite comprehension.
					Thus, Ignatius, in his epistle to the Trallians, recites, among other heresies of the
						Gnostics, that, "They introduce God as a Being unknown." Irenaeus, who wrote the first
						formal work against heresy that is preserved to us, speaks of the Gnostic deity as "the
						unknown God" (Ante-Nicene Christian Library, Vol. 5, p. 79), "the unknown Father" (Ib.,
						pp. 171, 288), "the Father unknown to all" (Ib., pp. 80, 89), and "the Unnameable," and
						"the Unspeakable" (Ib., p. 171). He also refers to him as "the unoriginated,
						inconceivable Father" and the "Father who cannot be named" (Ib., pp. 56, 101); and calls
						these heretics "those who know not God" (Ib., p. 122) ; while he urges at great length
						that God is known to Christian believers (Ib., pp. 179, 239, 291, 315, 370, 390). 
					
					Consider the sermon in this light. The writings of Plato were known to all the learned
						world at that time, and doubtless were known to Paul, for he quotes from the Greek poets
						in this same sermon, and was able to talk Greek to a Greek audience. The God of the
						Hebrews was known to his audience. The Jews had a synagogue in Athens in which
						disputations were held, as well as in the Athenian schools and in the market place; and
						these philosophers who. made haste to inquire into all new things, especially in
						connection with religion, did not overlook the Hebrew teachings. The controversial
						writings of the ancients demonstrate clearly that the Hebrew theology was very fairly
						understood.
					What Paul undertook was to maintain two theses in the Areopagus. The first was that the
						God of Plato and the God of Moses were in fact one God; and this the Greeks heard with
						interest. The second was that God had revealed Himself in Jesus Christ, and had proven
						his personality by the resurrection; and from this a part of his audience at once
						dissented. As to the first of these, the inadequacy of the recorded argument  is at once apparent to anyone who has given any attention to
						Socratic discussion. With one exception the recorded sermon is pure assertion, and that
						exception is the quotation from the Greek poets, "For we are also his offspring." There
						is no other proof offered, and to us this is small proof; but not so to the Greeks or
						their Roman successors. We must remember that their conceptions of God were derived
						wholly from the light of reason, and a statement like this from the poets was evidence
						of a common belief. It did not mean that it was conclusive evidence of the fact stated,
						but that it was the basis of a tenable hypothesis, and this was as high as the light of
						reason could reach. Thus, in Cicero's great argument on the immortality of the soul,
						which is probably as high a reach toward certainty as pure reason ever attained, after
						reviewing the statements of the poets and philosophers, he avows that he believes the
						soul immortal chiefly because all men believe it. And from the standpoint of nature and
						reason this is the strongest argument that can be made for anything supernatural. For
						all men conceive God to be just, and he has not implanted 
						in us any desire or aspiration as to known things which is not capable of attainment.
						This is the argument to which Tennyson, with all his enlightenment, turns back at
						last— 
					
						Thou wilt not leave us in the dust:
						Thou madest man, he knows not why;
						He thinks he was not made to die;
						And Thou hast made him; Thou art just.
					
					It being evident that the record of Paul's sermon is the briefest summary, we may
						reasonably infer that the omitted portions were such as would probably have been
						considered satisfactory evidence by the Greeks, though of no eternal weight to the world
						at large; and there are points where the coherence of the argument seems to call
						specially for such matter. For example, the words "Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship,
						him declare I unto you," are followed by what is apparently a conclusion of an argument
						or exposition—"God that made the world and all things therein."
					These gaps might have been filled by direct quotations from the Hebrew scriptures and
						from Plato. As is commonly known, Plato's chief presentation of his ideas of the  Supreme Being is in his book entitled "Timaeus," in which
						the astronomer Timaeus presents to Socrates and his disciples the conclusions as to the
						divine nature and the creation of the universe which he had deduced from astronomy and
						mathematics. This book was universally known and quoted, and might naturally have been
						quoted by Paul on this occasion. Under these circumstances it will not be irreverent to
						conjecture what Paul might have said in this line; and the desire to present my thought
						more clearly may excuse the audacity of suggesting the following reconstruction of
						Paul's sermon as a possibility:
					
						Ye men of Athens I perceive that ye are indeed devoted to the worship of the Deity,
							for as I passed along, and observed the objects of your worship, I found among others
							an altar with this inscription, TO UNKNOWN GOD. Him therefore, whom ye worship without
							knowing, proclaim I unto you. For this altar, as is known to all, is erected to the
							Supreme Being who created the universe, and whose existence is declared by the
							philosopher Plato to have been discovered to the astronomer Timaeus through
							observation and contemplation of the heavenly bodies and of the laws of nature.
						Now Timaeus, as ye know, distinguished first between the eternal spirit existences
							and earthly  things, or as he saith, "between that which
							is ever-existent, and has no generation or creation, and that which is in a state of
							generation, or coming into existence, but never really is. * * * And whatever is
							generated is necessarily generated from a certain cause; for it is wholly impossible
							that anything should be generated with out a cause. * * * Let this universe then be
							called heaven, or the world, or by any other name that it usually receives, * * * (and
							we know) that it is generated;-for this universe is palpable, and has a body; and all
							such things are perceptible (i. e., are to be apprehended by the senses) ; and things
							perceptible, being apprehended by reason in conjunction with perception, appear to be
							in a state of generation. And again, with reference to what exists, it must
							necessarily have arisen from some cause."
						So likewise the sacred writings of whose truth I bear witness declare that God is a
							spirit, and that "in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth." And again,
							the prophet Jeremiah saith: "He hath made the earth by His power; He hath established
							the world by His wisdom; and by His understanding hath He stretched out the
							heavens."
						And Timaeus further testifies of the Creator. "He was good, and in the good envy is
							never engendered about anything whatever; hence, being free from envy, He desired that
							all things should as much as possible resemble Himself. * * * For as the Deity
							desired, as far as possible, that  all things should be
							good, and nothing evil, lie accordingly took everything that was visible and not in a
							state of rest, but in excessive agitation and disorder, and then reduced it from
							disorder into order, conceiving the latter to be far better than the former." 
					

					So, again, our sacred writings declare that when Gor created the earth it wa.s without
						form and empty, but He proceeded to bring the seas into their places and also the land,
						and to make the land for man's welfare by adding plants and animals for man's use. And
						as each separate work was finished He contemplated it, and pronounced it good; and when
						all wa.s finished He pronounced it very good.

					But before proceeding with these works, there was another creation, for as Timaeus
						saith: "Whatever has been generated must necessarily have bodily shape, and be visible
						as well as tangible. But nothing can be visible without the aid of fire," which is to
						say, light. Wherefore after first making the heavens and the earth God created light,
						that all His works might be seen and known. And, furthermore, being Himself eternal, and
						not created, it was Hi.s will that man, who is created and not eternal, should be given
						a way to judge of eternal things. Wherefore, as Timaeus further saith: "God resolved to
						form a certain moveable image of eternity, and thus, while He was disposing the parts of
						the universe, He, out of that eternity which rests in unity, formed an eternal image on
						the principle  of numbers;-and to this we give the
						appellation of Time. But besides this he contrived the days and nights, months and
						years, which had no existence prior to the universe, but rose into being
						contemporaneously with its formation. All these are but the parts of time; and the terms
						'it was' and 'it will be' are .varying and evanescent forms of time, which we have
						wrongly and unawares transferred to an eternal essence. For we say that an (eternal)
						thing was, is and will be; while according to truth the term 'it is' is alone suitable,
						'was' and 'will be' being expressions suitable only to created things, which move
						through time. * * * With this design then, and after much reflection on the generation
						of time, the Deity, in order that it might be produced in full operation, created the
						sun, moon, and five other stars, which are denominated planets, to distinguish and guard
						over the numbers of time."


					And thus declare our sacred books: "And God said let there be lights in the firmament
						of heaven to divide the day from the night and let them be for signs and for seasons,
						and for days and years; and let them be for lights in the firmament of heaven to give
						light upon the earth, and it was so. And God made the two great lights; the greater
						light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night; He made the stars
						also."

					But while He gave this image of eternity, God did not confuse language by using the
						same terms for eternal and temporal beings, as Timaeus truly  states that men do. For when He gave His commands to Moses, and Moses asked Him who
						he should say to the Jews had given these commands, He answered, "Tell them I AM hath
						sent thee." For this was The Eternal One, who existed before time began, and before
						"was" and "will be" arose as expressions of time. As David also says of Him:

					Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever Thou hadst formed
						the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, Thou art God.

					Being persuaded then that God is eternal and not created, but that He created all
						things, ye know that He should be worshipped as an eternal spirit. For that God that
						made the world and all things therein, He, being Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not
						in temples made with hands; neither is He served by men's hands as though He needed
						anything; seeing He Himself giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; and He made
						of one every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, having determined
						their appointed seasons, and the bounds of their habitation; and hath willed that they
						should seek after God, if perchance they should reach out to Him and find Him. And it is
						His will that men should see His greatness in His works, as Timaeus hath done; for as
						David testifieth:


					

					The heavens declare the glory of God; Th firmament showeth His
						handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, And night unto night showeth knowledge. There
						is no speech nor language Where their voice is not heard. Their line is gone out through
						all the earth And their words to the end of the world.

					And indeed God is not far from each one of us; for in Him we live and move, and have
						our being: as certain of your own poets have said:

					For we are also His offspring.

					Being, then, the offspring of God, and knowing His eternal nature, we ought not to
						think that the Deity is like unto gold, or silver, or stone graven by art and device of
						man. Neither do ye believe this, but think that the worship of such image is fitting
						only for those who have not by contemplation and reason attained a knowledge of the
						Eternal Spirit and First Cause of all things, which indeed it is not possible for all
						men to do. For Timaeus himself saith: "To discover then the Creator and Father of this
						universe, as well as His work, is indeed difficult; and when discovered it is impossible
						to reveal Him to mankind at large."

					But as God is good, He desires that all men shall know the goodness that is in Him, and
						not only those who have the good fortune to meet with competent teachers, or to be able
						themselves to understand the teachings of His works.


					

					Nor, being good, is it His desire that men should deceive themselves, and worship
						images of their own creation, which as ye know they do in ignorance of the Deity
						Himself. Wherefore He hath prepared a more certain testimony to all men; and though in
						time of men's ignorance He overlooked this false worship, He now commandeth all men,
						everywhere, to repent; inasmuch as He hath appointed a day which He will judge the world
						in righteousness by the man whom He hath ordained; whereof He hath given assurance unto
						all men, both the learned and the ignorant, in that He hath raised him from the
						dead.



					Certainly Paul must have followed some such line of argument as this, or he would not
						have been able to hold the quiet attention of his hearers. Nor is it strange that he
						should make such an appeal on this occasion to the learned men of his day, whom he knew
						to believe in an eternal and supreme Deity. It had the appearance of a promising field.
						If they had so much of the light, why should they not be prepared for more light? But
						Paul never tried the experiment again. He learned at Athens the lesson of the futility
						of the appeal to mere worldly wisdom, which he used so effectively thereafter. How
						forcibly he puts it in his epistle to the Corinthians :


					
					
						For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel; not with wisdom of
							words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. 
						For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which
							are saved, it is the power of God.
						For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing
							the understanding of the prudent.
						Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of this world? hath not
							God made foolish the wisdom of this world?
						For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God
							by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe.
						For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom.
						But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling-block, and unto the Greeks
							foolishness.
						But unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the
							wisdom of God.
						Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger
							than men.
						For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not
							many mighty, not many noble are called:
						But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God
							hath chosen  the weak things of the world to confound the
							things which are mighty;
						And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea and
							things which are not to bring to naught things that are:
						That no flesh should glory in His presence.
						But of Him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto u.s wisdom, and
							righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption:
						That, according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
						And I, brethren, when I came to you came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom,
							declaring unto you the testimony of God.
						For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ, and Him
							crucified. And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling.
						And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in
							demonstration of the spirit and of power:
						That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
					

					What a contrast to the sermon at Athens is presented by this preaching at Corinth; afid
						remember that Paul went directly from Athens to Corinth, and was found there by Silas
						and Timothy. His changed attitude was apparently fully understood by the brethren, for
						Luke says: "But when Silas  and Timothy came down from
						Macedonia, Paul was constrained by the Word, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the
						Christ." And this change was justified by the results, for "many of the Corinthians
						hearing believed;" and he continued to preach there for eighteen months.

					But the lesson of this experience continued to grow in Paul's mind, and he saw that
						worldly wisdom was an obstacle to salvation. Hence when he wrote to the Romans after
						saying that he is "debtor both to Greeks and to Barbarians, both to the wise and to the
						foolish," he urges the superiority of faith over worldly wisdom, saying: 
							For I am not ashamed of the gospel; for it is the power of God unto salvation to
								every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. 
							For therein is revealed a righteousness of God from faith unto faith as it is
								written, But the righteous shall live by faith.
							For the wrath of God i.s revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and
								unrighteousness of men, who hinder the truth in unrighteousness;
							Bcause that which is known of God is manifest in them; for God manifested it unto
								them.
							 For the invisible things of Him since the creation of the world are clearly seen,.
								being perceived through the things that are made, even His everlasting  power and divinity; that they may be without excuse:
							Because that, knowing God, they glorified Him not as God, neither gave thanks; but
								became vain in their reasonings, and their senseless heart was darkened.
							Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools.
							And changed the glory of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of
								corruptible man, and of birds, and four-footed beasts, and creeping things.
							Wherefore God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts unto uncleanness, that
								their bodies should be dishonored among themselves.
							For that they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshipped and served the
								creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever.
						
					


					Quite possibly the statement that these passages refer to the Platonists will be met by
						the objection that if Paul had referred to the god of Plato in his sermon on Mars' Hill,
						there would have been more explicit record of it. Is it credible that his treatment of
						Platonism there, and in his subsequent writings to the Corinthians and the Romans, would
						have been left in so obscure a condition that they escaped notice in later times? Did
						not the principal faith of the Greeks,  and the one that
						has most profoundly affected the world since their day, call for something clearer? 
					 This objection has force at first blush; but consider the alternative. If these
						passages do not refer to Platonism there is no reference whatever in the New Testament
						to Platonism. Yet it was the chief faith of intellectual Greece, and the apostles were
						preaching throughout Greece and the Grecian colonies. Is this possible? Can you conceive
						of a new religion which should spring up in America, and whose history should make no
						mention of Christianity? Can you believe that the apostles did not meet and combat the
						highest form of religious error of their day? 
					 Surely not. The record is too plain that Paul thus became the leader in the long fight
						which the church maintained against the votaries of "the unknown God," who carried their
						trust in the wisdom of men, and their idea of permissible indulgence in sensual sin,
						even after professed conversion to Christianity, in many cases. Their generation is not
						wholly passed, and the record still remains with its lesson that when the appeal  of the gospel is made to the wisdom of this world, it
						receives assent only so far as it coincides with the preconceived opinions of the
						hearer. And when conviction of part of the truth comes from the wisdom of the world, it
						never rises higher. It is faith that stands in the wisdom of men and not in the power of
						God. 
					 And Paul's words were perfectly intelligible to his hearers, who were meeting these
						same teachings of Greek philosophy daily. To us, who look back over the ages, Platonism
						seems something wonderful and admirable, but it is only by contrast with other forms of
						heathenism. To the primitive church it was merely one form of error, worse, indeed, than
						the rest, "because that knowing God, they glorified Him not as God.". It was not a thing
						to be magnified or extolled. Hence Paul's statements become clear and rational when we
						apply the simple historical rule of interpreting words in terms of the period and
						conditions of their use. 

				
				
				
					THE FIRST HERESIES. 
					In approaching a historical consideration of early heresies, it should be borne in mind
						that the word "heresy" has had a somewhat shifting meaning during the Christian era. In
						modern thought it is commonly linked closely with two things, persecution and creed. The
						feature of persecution is now more a matter of history than of experience, for the world
						has grown to a point where most men hold to the belief that, 
					
						He is the heretic who lights the fire, 
						Not he who burns in it.
					
					Hence the present association of persecution with heresy dwarfs in comparison with that
						of creed. Of course some people feel that they are persecuted if they are expelled from
						a church organization for heresy, but in fact this is no worse than being read out of a
						secret society or a political party, when your views are in conflict with those of the
						other members. It is the right, as well as the nature of birds of a feather to flock
						together, and the intrusion of an outsider is a disturbing factor, whether it be the  impertinence of the cuckoo, or the misfortune of the
						duckling that is hatched among a brood of chickens. 
					In our day creeds have come to be regarded lightly by many persons, and the dissenter
						often accepts the name of heretic with an air of gayety, or even pride. Perhaps Mr.
						Chesterton is theoretically right in holding that the dissenter, if serious in his
						dissent, ought to hurl back the epithet, and maintain that he himself is orthodox. But
						he overlooks the fact that, in such a case, the dissenter accepts the name in a purely
						sarcastic way, and really implies all that he could be asked to maintain as to the
						rectitude of his own position. In apostolic times no creed had been
						forniulated—not even the Apostles' Creed—and the punishment of heresy was
						mild enough to satisfy any modern liberal. The rule was, as laid down by Paul, "A man
						that is a heretic, after the first and second admonition, reject; knowing that he that
						is such is subverted and sinneth, being condemned of himself." As this plainly implies,
						a heretic was a member of the church, or one who had been a member, who proclaimed views
						contrary to the common  faith. The outsider, whatever his
						faith, was not a heretic, but merely an unbeliever. Paul evidently used "heretic" in its
						ordinary Greek sense of one who set up his own views as against those of his cult.
						Indeed, he uses the same word concerning himself when he told Agrippa that "after the
						straitest haeresis, or sect, of our religion I lived a Pharisee."
					But there was a difference in the application. Though Paul used this word as one that
						Agrippa could understand, he did not mean that the Pharisees were wrong as compared with
						the Saducees. And though the word is here used in a sense that is not bad, it is never
						so used as to differences of doctrine among Christians. As Greek philosophy was based on
						reason, the Greek was not only at liberty to go where reason led him, but was fairly
						bound to do so; whereas, Christianity being based on revelation, the Christian was bound
						to hold to that which had been revealed. And so while Paul in writing to the Galatians
						includes heresies among the works of the flesh, he does not treat them as ordinary sins
						of weakness. For example, he speaks to the Corinthians of being  carnal-minded, and quarreling about baptism, as pardonable sins for which
						they should repent, but he 'does not class these with heresies, for he says: "There must
						be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest among
						you." Peter refers to "damnable" or "destructive" heresies; and the other New Testament
						writers do not use the word in reference to false teachings, for the apparent reason
						that the word was not strong enough to express their disapproval of such teachings. It
						is perfectly plain to any fairminded person that the apostles did their utmost to hold
						the church to the ideal of "one God, one faith, one baptism."
					It was only natural that false teachings should increase as the church grew, and some
						persons were attracted to it for other reasons than a desire for eternal salvation. It
						is quite possible that others than Ananias and Sapphira were drawn by prospects of gain
						through the communal system which first existed. It is quite possible that others than
						Simon the Samarian were attracted by a belief that the apostles had introduced a new
						system of sorcery that put the magic of  the rest of the
						sorcerers out of business. At any rake it is certain that in the writings of John, the
						last of the New Testament writers, there are more, and more specific references to
						heresies than in all the rest. He is the only one who mentions any heretical sect by
						name, referring in Revelations to "the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate."
						His reference to the doctrine of Balaam is, of course, to the Old Testament heresy,
						which he defines as a teaching "to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit
						fornication." It is obvious that one must seek outside of the New Testament for exact
						information as to what the heresies of that period were. Or at least it is impossible to
						grasp fully the meaning of the New Testament writers in their references to heresies
						without some light from the outside.

					 In a search for information of this kind, the most reliable source of instruction is
						the writings of the early fathers of the church. Of these there were five who were
						contemporary to some extent with the apostles, and who are-accepted by Protestants and
						Catholics alike as reliable witnesses in their statements of fact. Of these five, the
						one who  makes the most specific statements as to heresies,
						is Ignatius, who says in his epistle to the Trallians, i. e., the Christians of the city
						of Tralles, in Asia Minor: For there are some vain talkers and
							deceivers, not Christians but Christ-betrayer.s, bearing about the name of Christ, in
							deceit, and corrupting the word of the gospel. * * * For they alienate Christ from the
							Father, and the law from Christ. They also calumniate his being born of the Virgin;
							they are ashamed of his cross; they deny his passion; and they do. not believe his
							resurrection. They introduce God as a being unknown; they suppose Christ to be
							unbegotten; and as to the Spirit they do not admit that he exists. Some of them say
							that the Son is a mere man, and that the Faher, Son and Holy Spirit are but the same
							person; and that the creation is the work of God, not by Christ, but by some other
							strange power. 
					

					 These were doctrines of the Gnostics, who were not a compact sect, but included all
						those who professed a knowledge of divine things outside of Christian revelation, and
						whose views covered every phase of what we now call New Thought. It will be noted that
						the central points of attack were the three doctrines known to us as the Virgin Birth,
						the Incarnation and the Holy Trinity.  The assault on the
						dual nature of Jesus took two forgns; one that he was only a man; the other that he was
						only divine, and that his appearance as a man was phantasmal, and not real.
					Ignatius comes back to this last doctrine again, in this same epistle, as follows:
						"Stop your ears therefore, when anyone speaks to you at variance with Jesus Christ, the
						Son of God, who was descended from David, and was also of Mary; who was truly begotten
						of God and of the Virgin, but not after the same manner. For, indeed, God and man are
						not the same. He truly assumed a body; for 'the Word was made flesh,' and lived upon
						earth without sin. * * * He did in reality both eat and drink. * * * He really, and not
						merely in appearance, was crucified and died." He reverts to this again in his epistle
						to the Smyrneans, where, speaking of Christ, he says: "He suffered all these things for
						us, and he suffered them really, and not in appearance only, even as also He truly rose
						again. But not as some unbelievers, who are ashamed of the formation of man, and the
						cross, and death itself, affirm, that in appearance only, and not in  truth, he took a body of the Virgin, and suffered only in
						appearance."
					Ignatius makes what is probably a full summary of all the heresies up to his time in
						his epistle to the Philadelphians, as follows: "If anyone confesses Christ Jesus the
						Lord, but denies the God of the law and of the prophets, saying that the Father of
						Christ is not the Maker of heaven and earth, he has not continued in the truth any more
						than his father the devil, and is a disciple of Simon Magus, not of the Holy Spirit. If
						anyone says there is one God, and also confesses Christ Jesus, but thinks the Lord to be
						a mere man, and not the only-begotten God, and Wisdom, and the Word of God, and deems
						Him to consist merely of a soul and body, such an one is a serpent, that preaches deceit
						and error for the destruction of men. And such a man is poor in understanding, even as
						by name he is an Ebionite. * * * If anyone confesses the Father, and the Son, and the
						Holy Ghost and praises the creation, but calls the incarnation merely an appearance, and
						is ashamed of the passion, such an one has denied the faith not less than the Jews who
						killed Christ. If anyone  confesses these things, and that
						God the Word did dwell in a human body, * * * but affirms that unlawful unions are a
						good thing, and places the highest happiness in pleasure, as does the man who is falsely
						called a Nicolaitan, this person can neither be a lover of God, nor a lover of Christ,
						but is a corrupter of his own flesh."
					 It is in the light of these heretical doctrines that we must interpret the Apostles'
						Creed, which was the church's answer to heresy, as well as its fortification against
						heresy. It means that Christ was really begotten, conceived of the Holy Ghost, born of
						the Virgin Mary; that he actually suffered— felt pain—under Pontius Pilate;
						was actually crucified, dead and buried; that there was nothing phantasmal or
						allegorical about it. And further, it must be remembered that every statement of this
						creed is an article of faith, based on revelation. There is not a statement in it that
						could be ascertained by reason, or by any earthly means. It is the credo.
					Ignatius furnishes the names of some heresiarchs in his epistle to the Trallians: "Do
						ye also avoid those wicked offshoots of his  (Satan's),
						Simon his firstborn son, and Menander, and Basilides, and all his wicked mob of
						followers—the worshippers of a man, whom also the prophet Jeremiah pronounces
						accursed. Flee also 'the impure Nicolaitans, falsely so-called, who are lovers of
						pleasure, and given to calumnious speeches." This Father wrote somewhere about the year
						A. D. 100, and Basilides reached the climax of his fame a few years later than that, but
						had probably taught earlier. He is said to have been a Simonian, and Hippolytus, one of
						the earliest writers against heresies, says Basilides claimed that Matthew, the
						Evangelist, revealed to him "certain secret doctrines which had been specially
						communicated to himself by Christ." Hippolytus also says of the Simonians: "They do
						whatever they please, affirming that they are redeemed by his (Simon's) grace. For
						nothing is the cause of damnation, supposing a man to act wickedly, for evil is evil not
						through the nature of things, but by convention." Justin Martyr, who wrote some fifty
						years later than Ignatius, adds the names of Saturninus, Valentine,  and Marcion, who, he says, is still living at that time. 
					For yet more specific information we must drop still farther down in the second century
						to Irenaeus, who was presumably a native of Asia Minor, though his writings were made
						while he was Bishop of Lyons, France. He states that he was a contemporary and personal
						acquaintance of Polycarp, the apostolic father, who was a disciple of St. John the
						Evangelist. It is to his work, commonly known by the title "Against Heresies," that we
						are indebted for much of our detailed knowledge of the earliest heresies, and,
						incidentally, for much information as to the customs and faith of the church in
						apostolic times. But this book was not given this title by Irenaeus. He called it "A
						Refutation and Subversion of Knowlelge, Falsely So Called ;" and there is a manifest
						significance in the similarity of this title to "the oppositions of science falsely so
						called," which Paul warned Timothy to avoid.
					This book covers all phases of Gnosticism, which was the professed knowledge of its
						adherents; and which was in fact a most  heterogeneous and
						shifting mixture of religion, philosophy and magic. It covers the religious deductions
						of "the wisdom of the Greeks," which Paul pronounced "foolishness," and which is now
						commonly known to be foolishness from a scientific point of view. The argument of
						Plato's Timaeus is based on astronomy that treated the sun and planets as revolving
						about the earth, on mathematics founded on mystical numbers and letters, 'on physics
						:hat held the so-called elements, earth, air, fire and water, to be convertible forms of
						a single unknown essence. And yet from these premises were deduced complete systems of
						all existences, spiritual as well as material, and of the creation and regulation of the
						universe. It was against these theories, so far as they were in opposition to the
						revelation of Jesus Christ, in addition to other errors, that the early church
						contended. That is why Paul wrote to the Colossians: "Beware lest any man spoil
						you'through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments
						of the world, and not after Christ." That is why he wrote to the Romans: "I would have
						you wise unto that  which is good, and simple unto that
						which is evil." 
					And there is something in this defiance of the science of their day, by the apostles,
						that challenges attention; for as we look back over the ages, we realize that the
						science of today has been the foolishness of tomorrow, even to men of science. And
						furthermore we know that with all its mighty achievements in ascertaining the processes
						of nature, science stands absolutely without the threshhold as to their primary causes,
						even in the most common things. Consider a commonplace mystery. Every man knows that in
						the spring the cherry tree puts forth its leaves, and later its blossoms, and still
						later it produces its fruit. But if I ask how the cherry tree reaches its nerve fingers
						down into the great storehouse of nature, and selects the emerald for its leaves, the
						alabaster for its bloom, and the ruby for its fruit? the wizard Burbank stands as dumb
						as the most ignorant child. Much more as to spiritual things. When Zophar asked Job:
						"Canst thou by searching find out God?" Job answered: "Ask now the beasts and they shall
							 teach thee; and the fowls of the air and they shall tell
						thee.
					"Or speak to the earth and it shall teach thee; and the fishes of the sea shall declare
						unto thee.
					"Who knoweth not in all these things that the hand of the Lord hath brought this ?"
					But when the voice from the whirlwind asked: "Have the gates of death been opened unto
						thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?" Job answered: "Who is he that
						hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things
						too wonderful, which I knew not."
					But to resume, Irenaeus says that the first notable teacher of heresies was Simon the
						Samarian, who, after his unsuccessful effort to purchase the power of conferring the
						Holy Spirit, returned to the former sorceries with which he had "bewitched the people of
						Samaria," but with startling additions from his Christian experience. Irenaeus says:
						"This man then, was glorified by many as if he were. a god; and he taught that it was
						himself who appeared among the Jews as the Son, but descended in Samaria as the  Father, while he came to other nations in the character of
						the Holy Spirit." The successor of Simon was Menander, who likewise claimed that he,
						himself, was the one sent by the Supreme Being for the salvation of the world. After him
						came Saturninus, who "laid it down as a truth, that the Savior was without birth,
						without body, without figure, but Was by supposition a visible man." This genius also
						taught that two kinds of men had been created, one wicked and one good—that the
						wicked were assisted by demons, and the good by the Savior. While Saturninus taught his
						faith in Syria, Basilides was spreading a somewhat similar doctrine at Alexandria, of
						the phantasmal manifestation of Christ. He taught that Christ transfigured himself and
						others at will; and that, "he did not himself suffer death, but Simon, a certain man of
						Cyrene, being compelled, bore the cross in his stead; so that this latter being
						transfigured by him, that he might be thought to be Jesus, was crucified, through
						ignorance and error, while Jesus himself received the form of Simon, and standing by,
						laughed at them."
					Carpocrates, the next mentioned by Irenaeus,  appears to
						have been an original Unitarian. He held "that Jesus was the son of Joseph, and was just
						like other men, with the exception that he differed from them in this respect, that
						inasmuch as his soul was steadfast and pure, he prefectly remembered those things which
						he had witnessed within the sphere of the unbegotten God." But he emphasized the
						Simonian encroachment on modern thought. Like all the other Gnostic teachers,
						Carpocrates taught his followers that they were free to commit sensual sins, but his
						basis for this doctrine was "that things are evil or good, simply in virtue of human
						opinion."
					 Cerinthus, the next heresiarch, had views similar to those of Carpocrates in part. "He
						represented Jesus as having not been born of a virgin, but as being the sofi of Joseph
						and Mary according to the ordinary course of human generation, while he nevertheless was
						more righteous, prudent and wise than other men." The Ebionites also held that Jesus was
						only a man. They used only the gospel of Matthew, and repudiated the Apostle Paul
						entirely. The Nicolaitans were alleged followers of Nicolas, who was one  of the first seven deacons ordained by the apostles.
						Irenaeus says of them: "They lead lives of unrestrained indulgence. The character of
						these men is very plainly pointed out in the Apocalypse of John, as teaching that it is
						a matter of indifference to practice adultery, and to eat things sacrificed to idols.
						Wherefore the Word has also spoken of them thus: 'But this thou hast that thou hatest
						the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.' "
					While these heretics differed in many particulars, there was, in addition to their
						common doctrine of license to sin, another common characteristic of their teachings.
						They all attacked the dual nature of Jesus Christ. Irenaeus, in summing up their
						teachings, says that some of them, "will have it that the Word and Christ never came
						into this world; that the Savior, too, never became incarnate, nor suffered, but that he
						descended like a dove upon the dispensational Jesus; and that as soon as he had declared
						the unknown Father, he did again ascend into the pleroma. Some, however, make the
						assertion that this dispensational Jesus did become incarnate, and suffered, whom they
							 represent as having passed through Mary just as water
						through a tube; but others allege him to be the son of the demiurge, upon whom the
						dispensational Jesus descended; while others, again, say that Jesus was born from Joseph
						and Mary, and that the Christ from above descended upon him, being without flesh, and
						impassible. But according to the opinion of no one of the heretics was the Word of God
						made flesh. For if anyone carefully examines the systems of them all, he will find that
						the Word of God is brought in by all of them as not having become incarnate and
						impassible, as is also the Christ from above. Others consider him to have been
						manifested as a transfigured man; but they maintain him to have been neither born nor to
						have become incarnate; while others hold that he did not assume human form at all, but
						that, as a dove, he did descend upon that Jesus who was born from Mary. Therefore, the
						Lord's disciple pointing them all out as false witnesses, says: 'And the Word was made
						flesh and dwelt among us.' " 
					 In explanation of the terms used in this passage, it should be remembered that all  of these Gnostic theories were by-products of Platonism; and
						all of them had the feature of an unknown Supreme First Cause, who is here referred to
						as "the unknown Father." This supreme being was said to have created or begotten
						subordinate deities, one of whom was the demiurge, or creator of the earth. The
						assembly, or whole body of these deities, or demons as they are called in the New
						Testament, was called the "pleroma." 
					The heresiarchs above named are the only ones specified by Irenaeus as contemporary
						with the apostles. He mentions that Cerinthus was especially obnoxious to St. John, and
						gives a statement of Polycarp that on one occasion John, when going to bathe, at
						EIphesus, saw Cerinthus in the bathhouse, and at once ran out, exclaiming: "Let us fly,
						lest even the bathhouse fall down, because Cerinthus, the enemy of truth, is within."
						It is very evident that they, or others who held similar doctrines, had very quickly
						invaded the churches, from references to these characteristic doctrines. Thus Jude says:
						"For there are certain men crept in privily, even they who were of old written  of beforehand unto this condemnation, ungodly men, turning
						the grace of our God into lasciviousness, and denying our only Master and Lord, Jesus
						Christ. * * * Woe unto them! for they went in the way of Cain, and ran riotously in the
						error of Balaam for hire, and perished in the gainsaying of Korah. These are they who
						are hidden rocks in your love-feasts when they feast with you." Indeed, Jude indicates
						that these dangerous characters were Gnostics in his statement that "these rail at
						whatsoever things they know not; and what they understand naturally, like the creatures
						without reason, in these things they are destroyed." 
					 So Peter also says: "Among you also there shall be false teachers, who shall privily
						bring in destructive heresies, denying even the Master that bought them, bringing upon
						themselves swift destruction. And many shall follow their lascivious doings. * * *
						forsaking the right way, they went astray, having followed the way of Balaam, the son of
						Beor, who loved the hire of wrong-doing." These heretics were quick to take advantage of
						Paul's distinction between living under the law and living under grace  without sin; wherefore Paul complains to the Romans that "we
						be slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say; let us do evil that good may
						come,—whose condemnation is just."
					It is manifest that in the epistles the apostles were not preaching abstractions; that
						they were fighting "not as one beating the air;" but were striking at present sin, and
						notably at these two Gnostic teachings. And nowhere is this more manifest than in the
						writings of St. John, for as Matthew Arnold notes: "The two great points of that close
						cousin of the Fourth Gospel, that document which we call First Epistle of St. John, are
						these: Jesus Christ come in the flesh! and: He that doeth righteousness is righteous."
						Put Matthew Arnold, in applying the latter exclusively to his doctrine of "sweet
						reasonableness," overlooks its direct application to the heresies of the day, of which
						the denial of the dual nature of Christ and the affirmance of freedom to sin were the
						twin characteristics. And this is true as to many of his citations in the same line from
						the Old Testament, as well as the New; for the Hebrews were always in contact with
						idolaters  who, like the Midianites, held to this oriental
						idea of sensual indulgence as a religious thing; and the preaching against it was
						necessarily constant and vigorous.

					A consideration of the passages quoted above, and others of similar import in the
						epistles, will prepare one for acceptance of the testimony of Irenaeus as to the special
						purpose of the fourth gospel, which is as follows: 
							John, the disciple of the Lord, preaches this faith, and seeks, by the proclamation
								of the gospel, to remove that error which by Cerinthus had been disseminated among
								men, and a long time previously by those termed Nicolaitans, who are an off-shoot of
								that "knowledge" falsely so called, that he might confound them, and persuade them
								that there is but one God, who made all things by His Word; and not as they allege,
								that the Creator was one, but the Father of the Lord another; and that the Son of
								the Creator was, forsooth, one, but the Christ from above another, who also
								continued impassible, descending upon Jesu.s, the Son of the Creator, and flew back
								again into His Pleroma; and that Monogenes was the beginning, but Logos was the true
								son of Monogenes; and that the creation to which we belong was not made by the
								primary God, but by some power lying far below Him, and shut off from  communion with the things invisible and ineffable.
							The disciple of the Lord therefore, desiring to put an end to all such doctrines,
								and to establish the rule of truth in the church that there is one Almighty God, who
								made all things by His Word, both visible and invisible; showing at the same time,
								that by the Word, through whom God made the creation, He also bestowed salvation on
								the men included in the creation; thus commenced his teaching in the gospel: "In the
								beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same
								was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was
								nothing made. What was made was Jife in Him, and the life was the light of men. And
								the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not."
						
					

					 But the ingenious Gnostics of later date took even these words and quoted them in
						support of their heresy, saying that the "all the things" made by God meant "all things
						in the Pleroma," and not in the world. Irenaeus, however, shows that this interpretation
						is futile, saying: "John, however, does himself put this matter beyond all controversy
						on our part, when he says: 'He was in the world, and the world was made by Him, and the
						world knew Him not. 'He came unto his own, and his own received him not.' * * * While
						the gospel affirms plainly  that by the Word, which was in
						the beginning with God, all things were made, which Word, he says, 'was made flesh, and
						dwelt among us.' " 
					 This statement of the purpose of the Fourth Gospel is confirmed in other ways. t7or
						example, Luke and John, who were the latest evangelists, are the only ones who make
						mention of Christ's eating after his resurrection, and of his flesh being felt by his
						disciples, John's gospel being especially full on these points. Presumably when the
						earlier gospels were written, the importance of noting these facts had not been shown by
						the heretical teaching that the resurrected Christ was phantasmal, or in appearance
						only. But John makes an express declaration of purpose, immediately after his account of
						the doubt of Thomas, in these words: "Many other signs therefore did Jesus in the
						presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book: but these are written,
						that ye may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God." The only objection that
						has been offered to the statement of Irenaeus that the opening words of the gospel of
						John were intended to "put an end" to these heresies, is that the gospel is  "not polemical." Centainly it is not polemical in form, and
						it would have been a breach of literary propriety to make it so. It is simply a
						statement of facts, as facts, which of themselves refute the heresies. But if anyone
						desires a polemic by St. John against the two heresies that Christ was not God manifest
						in the flesh, and that Christians were licensed to sin, he has only to turn to his-first
						epistle, and read: That which was from the beginning, that which we
							have heard, that which we have seen with our eyes, that which we beheld, and our hands
							handled, concerning the Word of life (and the life was manifested, and we have seen,
							and bear witness, and declared unto you the life, the eternal life, which was with the
							Father) ; that which we have seen and heard declare we unto you also, that ye also may
							have fellowship with us. * * * If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have
							fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Hi.s Son cleanseth us from all
							sin. If we say we have no sin we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Is we
							confess our sins he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse
							us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned we make Him a liar, and His
							Word is not in us. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye may not
							sin. * * * Beloved, no new commandment write I  unto you,
							but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning. * * * Little children, it is
							the last hour; and as ye heard that antichrist cometh, even now have there arisen many
							antichrists, whereby ye know it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they were
							not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us; but they
							went out, that they might be made manifest that they all are not of us. And ye have an
							anointing from the Holy One, and ye know all things. I have not written to you because
							ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and because no lie is of the truth.
						
					

					Who is the liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ. This is the antichrist,
						even he that denieth the Father and the Son. Whosoever denieth the Son the same hath not
						the Father; he that confe.sseth the Son hath the Father also. As for you, let that abide
						in you which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye heard from the beginning
						abide in you, ye also shall abide in the Son, and in the Father. * * * Whosoever abideth
						in Him sinneth not; whosoever sinneth hath not seen Him, neither knoweth Him. My little
						children, let no man lead you astray; he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as
						He is righteous; he that doeth sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the
						beginning. To this end was the Son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of
						the devil. * * * Beloved, believe not every spirit, but prove the spirits, whether they
						are of God; because many  false prophets are gone out into
						the world. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God; every spirit that confesseth that Jesus
						Christ is come in the flesh is of .God; and every spirit that confesseth not Jesus is
						not of God; and this is the spirit of the antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it
						cometh; and now it is in the world already. * * * Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the
						Christ is begotten of God. * * * And who is he that overcometh' the world, but he that
						believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? * * * If we receive the Witness of men, the
						witness of God is greater; for the witness of God is this, that He hath borne witness
						concerning his Son. He that believeth an the Son of God hath the witness in him; he that
						believeth not God hath made Him a liar; because he hath not believed in the witness that
						God hath borne concerning His Son. And the witness is this, that God gave unto us
						eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son hath the life; he that
						hath not the Son of God hath not the life. * * * And we know that the Son of God is
						come, and hath given us an understanding, that we know Him that is true, and we are in
						Him that is true, even in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal
						life.
					Plain and explicit as these words are, it seems certain that John himself lived to hear
						them perverted by ingenious heretics, who maintained that Jesus Christ was not God  manifest in the flesh. If so, it must have been trying even
						to the aged saint on Patmos, whose gospel had been the gospel of love, and whose life
						had been the life of love, and who now had come to the time when, 
					
						The soul's dark cabin, battered and decayed, 
						Lets in new light through chinks that time has made.
					
					Possibly such perversion of his teaching was the cause of his writing these impressive
						words, so in contrast with his nature: "I testify unto every man that heareth the words
						of the prophecy of this book, if any man shall add unto them God shall add unto him the
						plagues which are written in this book: and if any man shall take away from the words of
						the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part from the tree of life, and out
						of the holy city, which are written in this book." 
					 But his warning was ineffectual, for truth is no more eternal than error, and does not
						spring up again more certainly when "crushed to earth." If a divine messenger should
						appear on earth today, and make a revelation, and print it, and copyright it,  somebody would attempt to improve on it before the copyright
						had expired. This has been the fate of every religion that has been promulgated in the
						world, and it is not surprising that heresies were rife in an age when the world was
						saturated with "philosophy," and when everybody dabbled in it. Surely, John had occasion
						to write: "Blessed is hl that keepeth the words of the prophecy of this book."
					And in this connection it may be noted that Irenaeus has some cause for complaint of
						misrepresentation, though in his case it was probably a mere misunderstanding. In his
						answer to these heresies he points to the unity of doctrine in the church throughout the
						world, beginning with these words: "The church, though dispersed throughout the whole
						world, even to the ends of the earth, has received from the apostles, and their
						disciples this faith: (She believes) in one God, the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven,
						and earth, and the sea, and all things that are in them; and in one Christ Jesus, who
						became incarnate for our salvation; and in the Holy Spirit, who proclaimed through the
						prophets the dispensations of  God, and the advents, and
						the birth from a virgin, and the passion, and the resurrection from dead, and the
						ascension into heaven in the flesh of the beloved Christ Jesus our Lord," etc. It has
						been assumed from this that the Apostles Creed, or something very similar to it, had
						been formulated prior to this time and was used in the church; but this is not a tenable
						historical proposition. If there had been any set formula, Irenaeus would have known it,
						and would have used it as a direct authoritative answer to these heresies. But he refers
						to these quoted words only as "this teaching," "this faith," "this tradition." Moreover,
						the existence of any set formula would have destroyed the force of his argument in
						presenting this faith, for he presents its unity as in contrast with the divergent and
						conflicting features of the heresies. He says he has "judged it well to point out, first
						of all, in what respects the very fathers of this fable (i. e., the heresies) differ
						among themselves, as if they were inspired by different spirits of error. For this fact
						forms an a priori proof that the truth proclaimed by the church is immovable,  and that the theories of these men are but a tissue of
						falsehoods."
					 If there had been a fixed creed there would have been no force in the fact that the
						church was immovable. But there is a logical force in his declaration that, "the church,
						having received this preaching and this faith, although scattered throughout the whosle
						world, yet, as if occupying but one house, carefully preserves it. She also believes
						these points of doctrine just as if she had but one soul, and one and the same heart,
						and she proclaims them, and teaches them, and hands them down, with perfect harmony, as
						if she possessed only one mouth. For although the languages of the world are dissimilar,
						yet the import of the tradition is one and the same." Obviously if there had been any
						formula, it must have been in some one language, and in other languages there would have
						been simply a translation, which is a very different thing from "the import of a
						tradition." And this is a difference which neither Irenaeus nor his opponents could have
						overlooked. The purity of the Christian doctrine at this time was due to the constant
						and vigorous opposition of the apostles  and their
						disciples to anything inconsistent with the revelation they had received. The church
						never attempted a creed or fixed formula, until it was driven to it by heresy; but after
						it started in creed-making it certainly produced some things that, like Paul's epistles,
						are "hard to be understood." And in my opinion, Athanasius made a notable start in
						trouble when he undertook to define the Trinity, and asserted that anyone who did not
						accept his definition could not be saved. 
					 And it may well be questioned whether any of the additions that have ever been made to
						what we know as the Apostles Creed have done more good than harm; for the additions are
						practically all efforts to circumscribe and limit the infinite, which by their very
						incomprehensibility have led many men to reject the simple faith of apostolic times,
						which of itself should mark the boundaries of orthodoxy. I take it that the real
						problems of Christianity today are much the same that they were in the time of the first
						heresies. The really dangerous assaults are not on any of the features that distinguish
						our modern sects, but on the Apostles Creed  itself. But if
						you are inclined to the orthodoxy of that creed, you need not be discouraged. You are
						fighting the same battle that was fought by Irenaeus, and Polycarp, and Paul, and John.
						And you have no more reason to be ashamed of it than they had. The simple faith is still
						"foolishness" to the Greeks; bit science and philosophy are making no stronger bluff
						today than they did eighteen centuries ago. The simple faith is still greater than the
						wisdom of men. It may be more attractive to the rich and the great, but it is still the
						gospel of the poor. It is not a prize for study or learning, but is still equally
						accessible to all men. It is in sum and substance the simple, yet infinite belief that, 
					
						So the Word had breath, and wrought
						With human hands the creed of creeds,
						In loveliness of perfect deeds, 
						More strong than all poetic thought;
					
					
						Which he may read that binds the sheaf,
						Or builds the house, or digs the grave, 
						And those wild eyes that watch the wave
						In roarings round the coral reef.
					
				

				
				
					THE VIRGIN BIRTH.


					There is no doctrine of the Christian church that has been assailed, from the
						beginning, more aggressively and persistently than that of the Virgin birth of Jesus
						Christ. And it is entirely natural that it should have been questioned. When it was
						announced to Mary, her answering question indicated her belief in its impossibility.
						Joseph did not believe it until its truth was especially revealed to him. What wonder
						then that outsiders questioned it; and that this and its twin doctrine of the
						Incarnation were the storm centers of the heresies in the church before the New
						Testament was written? It was this fact that caused them to be immovably fixed in the
						Apostles Creed, or the baptismal formula that preceded it. Today they are doctrines of
						the Catholic church, the Greek church, and of all Protestant churches that accept the
						Apostles Creed.

					The real wonder is not that it was questioned, but from what source it could have
						originated if it were an invention of man; for the idea was absolutely novel at the time
						of its origin. An thi fact must be kept in mind in the consideration of the scriptural
							basis of the doctrine, for it is not possible to
						comprehend language except in the light of the conditions of its use, and the state of
						knowledge at the time of its use. At this period neither the Jews nor any other people
						had a.ny idea of reproduction except through the cohabitation of a male and a female. In
						Jewish thought all life was created by male and female, and all life was so preserved in
						Noah's ark. This idea was universal for centuries, and it is only in comparatively
						recent times that science has made us acquainted with the myriad forms of asexual and
						bisexual life that have existed all the time. To the older atheists and skeptics
						reproduction without the connection of male and female was contrary to the laws of
						nature. To the modern materialist and evolutionist sex is merely a matter of
						development, subject to remarkable variations, which are manifest in many common forms. 

					The most commonly understood instance is that of the honey bee. With this insect the
						queen, or one perfect female in the hive, has connection with males, but the semi-nal
						fluid is deposited in a sac in her body,  and is applied at
						her will to such eggs as she chooses. The eggs that are not fructified hatch male bees,
						or drones, only. The fructified eggs hatch imperfect females, or workers. If a queen is
						kept from her hymeneal flight by clipping her wings, her eggs hatch males only. If she
						makes her flight with males of a different variety, the workers hatched are hybrids, but
						the drones are pure-blooded. If it becomes desirable to have an additional queen, the
						workers secure this result by enlarging a cell in which one of the fructified eggs has
						been deposited, and feeding the larva with a special kind of food, whereupon it develops
						into a perfect female. Occasionally a worker, whose organs do not permit connection with
						a male, will lay eggs, and such eggs always hatch males.

					 But in the case of the bee there are males present, and fructification may be imagined
						to occur in some unknown way. A still more conclusive example of the "miracle" of virgin
						birth may be seen.by anyone, in the late spring or early summer, by stepping unto a
						garden and observing a colony of plant lice, which, unhappily, may be found in almost
							any garden. At that season these insects are all
						wingless, and all females. The eggs are fructified in the female by some process of her
						own, and the young are hatched within her, and brought forth alive. As their
						reproduction is very rapid, several individuals may be seen if the act of giving birth
						at almost any time. But stranger still, later in the season the winged plant lice appear
						among them, and these are both male and female, which cohabit as other insects; and the
						females lay eggs that remain inactive during the winter, and hatch new broods of
						wingless females in the spring. The appearance of the winged insects is apparently due
						to a change of temperature, for if the colony is in a greenhouse or other warm location,
						they do not appear. By keeping them in such surroundings, a colony lhas been kept for
						four years, in a state of continued reproduction, without any males among them, and
						presumably, this might be continued for an indefinite period. 

					So contrary was this to the universal opinion of the time, that when Bonnet announced,
						in 1745, the discovery of the successive generation of virgin plant lice, it was utterly
							 discredited; and nearly a century passed before the fact
						was fully confirmed and recognized by scientists as to these 'and other forms of life.
						At the present time, not only is parthenogenesis a well-known phase of nature, but in
						some of the lower organisms fructification has been accomplished artificially, by
						scientists, through physical and chemical agencies. In view of these unquestionable
						truths, seventeen centuries of revilings of the Virgin Birth as contrary to the laws of
						nature may forthwith be consigned to the waste-paper basket.

					The Jews and other peoples of the time of Christ never dreamred of such things as
						these. The idea of a virgin birth was equally foreign to the Hebrew scriptures and the
						pagan mythologies. In the latter there are numerous cases of alleged divine fatherhood,
						but in all of them the divinity assumes so ae earthly form, and has physical connection
						with the mother. The nearest approach to it in classic mythology is the birth of
						Perseus, in which case Jove fell as a shower of gold into the lap of Danae. The New
						Testament writers were dealing with a new proposition; and from the purely historical
						standpoint, this ignorance of the existing wonders of
						nature in reproduction will explain why no one of them calls attention to the
						fulfillment of this prophecy of Jeremiah (xxxi, 22) : "Turn again, O Virgin of Israel,
						turn again to these thy cities. How long wilt thou go about, O thou blacksliding
						daughter? for the Lord hath created a new.thing in the earth. A woman shall compass a
						man." The word rendered "compass" means to "include." Critics have cudgeled their brains
						over this passage for years, but there has never been any plausible explanation found
						for it except the teaching of the Catholic church that it is a prophecy of the Virgin
						Birth—a woman shall include a man—the female shall give birth without any
						connection with a male.

					It may be objected that such a lack of conception of a virgin birth is not consistent
						with Matthew's adoption of Isaiah's sign: "Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a
						son, and shall call his name Immanuel." It is hardly questionable that the Jews did not
						regard this as a Messianic prophecy; and it is certain that none of them understood it
						to mean that a virgin should conceive and bear  a son while
						she remained a virgin. They applied these words to the son of the prophetess described
						in the folowing chapter, though his flame was not called Immanuel, or God With Us,
						either by his mother or by anyone else, but Maher-shalal-hash-baz, or Hastening to the
						Spoil. Moreover the prophecy continues, with an appearance of strange inconsistency, as
						to this Immanuel: "And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for
						a rock of offense to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the
						inhabitants of Jerusalem. And many shall stumble thereon, and fall, and be broken, and
						be snared, and be taken. Bind thou up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.
						And I will wait for Jehovah, that hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I will
						look for him. * * * For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given; and the
						government shall be upon his shoulders: and his name shall be called Wonderful,
						Counsellor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his
						government and of peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his
						kingdom, to establish it, and to uphold  it with justice
						and with righteousness from henceforth even forever. * * * And it shall come to pass in
						that day, that the root of Jesse, that standeth for an ensign of the peoples, unto him
						shall the nations seek."

					What had the obscure and insignificant Maher-shalal-hash-baz to do with this eternal
						kingdom? If this prophecy was not fulfilled in Jesus Christ, it has never been
						fulfilled. And so of all the other prophecies. Of the dozens of professed Messiahs who
						have arisen during the ages, not one has fulfilled any Messianic prophecy. This is the
						consensus of the world. The Jew stands today still awaiting the Messiah, but in doubt
						whether the Messiah is to be a person or a time—a period of restoration.

					In regard to the Hebrew word "almah" which is here rendered "virgin," no one can Tairly
						dispute the Jewish contention that it commonly signifies only an unmarried young woman
						of marriageable age. The significant points in the controversy as to the word are these:
						Matthew took his statement of the text from the Septuagint, which presented the
						impartial judgment of seventy of the most distinguished Hebrew scholars  of the period immediately preceding its use, as to the
						meaning of the word in this connection. In the Septuagint are two places, and only
						two, where "almah" is translated "parthenos" or "virgin." One is in the case of Rebekah
						at the well (Gen. xxiv, 43) and the other this passage in Isaiah. In the passage in
						Proverbs, "the way of a man with a maid," which is often cited by Hebrew authorities
						against this use of the word, the Septuagint reads "bealmaiv," and translates, "the way
						of a man in his youth," which is much more consistent with the remainder of the passage.
						But the expression in Isaiah is "ha almah," or "the virgin," indicating a special
						significance; and as a "sign," the birth of a son to "a young woman" could not be a
						surprising thing to Ahaz, or to anyone else. Under these circumstances, the impartial
						judgment of the Seventy, before the present question arose, is certainly not an
						authority that is to be set aside lightly.


					In the phases of the modern assault on the divinity of Jesus, the attack on the Virgin
						Birth has taken a new form, in the alleged "silence of the scriptures" on the subject,
							outside of the opening chapters of Matthew and Luke. This
						argument is stated by Dr. Orr (The Virgin Birth of Christ, p. 91) as follows: "Why, it
						is asked, if the miraculous birth is a fact pertaining to the essence of the Gospel, do
						we never hear any more about it? Matthew and Luke themselves are silent about it after
						the first chapters; the other Gospels, Mark's and John's, are devoid of all trace of it;
						there is no whisper of it in the Book of Acts; Paul and Peter, the epistle to the
						Hebrews, the Book of Revelation, all are silent about it."

					The truth of these claims is a question of the meaning of language, and it is not es-
						sential to identity of thought that the same words should always be used. The doctrine
						of the Virgin Birth involves two essentials; the fatherhood of God, and the motherhood
						of a Virgin, the latter excluding the possibility of an ordinary earthly fatherhood. It
						is not questioned that Mary was Christ's mother; and she was the one member of His
						family who appears to have given full credit to His claims during His ministry. She was
						present at the crucifixion, and she was with the disciples on the day of Pentecost.  The real point of assault is the fatherhood of God; and in
						what respect are the Evangelists silent as to this? Without doubt their most important
						statements are their records of the statements of the Master, and as to these it is
						necessary to consider but one in this connection. Why was Jesus crucified? Was it
						because He claimed to be the Son of God in the same sense as all other men? Was it
						because He claimed to be specially endowed by God, or inspired as the prophets had been?
						Unquestionably not. The one controlling question at His trial was that put by the High
						Priest: "I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou art the Christ,
						the Son of God." The wording of the answer varies, but there is no variance in its
						import. The High Priest pronounced it blasphemy, and all present agreed with him. Jesus
						made no objection to their interpretation of His words. It so happens that the two
						Evangelists who are said to be silent as to the miraculous birth are the ones who are
						most explicit at this point. Mark puts the question and answer in these words: "Art thou
						the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, "I am:
						and ye shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming with the
						clouds of heaven." John alone records the charge preferred by the Jews to Pilate: "We
						have a law, and by that law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of . God."
						What room for argument here? It was not blasphemy at the Jewish law to claim to be a
						specially endowed man. It wes not blasphemy to claim to be a prophet. If his claim were
						no more than that, He was not only going to death unnecessarily; but He was deceiving
						His accusers, for they certainly understood Him to claim more. Ele could have stopped it
						all—saved His life, and prevented their crime—by a word. And He knew it. If
						He did not mean that He was the Son of God as no other man present, or in the world,
						was—if He did not mean to make a claim that was blasphemy under the Jewish law, if
						it were not true—what merit was there in thus accepting the truth of the charge,
						and submitting to death? What excuse was there for such a course? 

					It is noteworthy in this connection that  neither Mark nor
						John gives any account whatever of the childhood of Jesus, and neither gives his earthly
						genealogy. Matthew and Luke give genealogies which, on their face, are hopelessly in
						conflict. Matthew makes Joseph, the putative father of Jesus, the son of Jacob, and
						derives his descent from David through Solomon. Luke, in our version, appears to make
						Joseph the son of Heli, and derives his descent from David through Nathan. But neither
						states that Joseph "begat" Jesus, or was .he father of Jesus; or that Jesus was the son
						of Joseph. Matthew says that: "Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born
						Jesus, who is called Christ." Luke says that Jesus, "when he began to teach, was about
						thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli." It has
						naturally been inferred that what Luke gives is the genealogy of Mary, which would be
						indicated if the. arbitrary punctuation were changed as follows: "was about thirty years
						of age, (being as was supposed the son of Joseph) the son of Heli," etc. 

					There is a singular misapprehension as  to this
						interpretation of this genealogy in Luke. Dr. Orr says: "the idea is a modern one." (The
						Virgin Birth of Christ, p. 75) Dr. Plummer more explicitly asserts: "It is probable that
						so obvious a solution, as that one was the pedigree of Joseph and the other the pedigree
						of Mary, would have been very soon advocated, if there had been any reason (except the
						difficulty) for adopting it. But this solution is not suggested by anyone until Anninus
						of Viterbo propounded it, about A. D. 1490." (International Critical Commentary, Luke,
						p. 103.) As a matter of fact, this interpretation was given at length in the second
						century by Irenaeus, in his work against heresies (Book 3, chaps. 21, 22), as if it were
						a matter of common understanding in the church at that time. He also gives a very
						sufficient reason for it by pointing out that the Messiah could not come through
						Joseph's line, as given by Matthew, because it came through Jechoniah and Joachim, who
						had been cursed, and whose descendants had been excluded from the succession. Irenaeus
						argues that as the promise to David was that the Messiah should be "of the fruit of his
							 body," 2 Sam. vii, 12; Ps. 132, 11, and not "of the
						fruit of his loins," descent through a female was indicated. He also gives the meaning
						of Paul's statement that Adam was "the figure of Him that was to come," to be that he
						was not begotten of man, but was made by the direct act of God. It is of interest to
						note in this connection that Jewish writers recognize two distinct genealogies as
						seeming to be given for Noah, in the fourth and fifth chapters of Genesis, one showing
						descent from Shem, and the other from Cain. The latter is explained by some Jewish
						authorities as being the genealogy of Naamah, the sister of Tubal Cain, who is said to
						have been Noah's wife. (Jewish Encyc. Titles, Genealogy and Noah.) 

					How do Mark and John dispose of genealogy? Mark sums it up in his opening words: "The
						beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God." John, likewise, refers only to
						the divine fatherhood: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and
						the Word was God. * * * And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us." After their
						opening statements both pass at once to the baptism of 
						Jesus, which was the beginning of his gospel. There was nothing unnatural in this. The
						calling of the Apostles was to preach the gospel and it was unquestionably taught by
						word of mouth long before it was reduced to writing. The gospel of Mark was presumably
						the first written, and it purports to be the gospel only, in its opening words: "The
						beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ." Matthew and Luke presumably added their
						opening chapters to explain how Jesus, who was taught by all to be the Son of God, came
						to be known as the son of Joseph. This having been fully done by them, there was no
						occasion for a repetition of it by John. 

					The mere fact ,that a historical writer deals only with a certain period raises no
						presumption as to his view of things in other periods, unless it be of assent to what is
						commonly accepted concerning them. If the fact that all of the Evangelists devote most
						of their attention to the teachings of Jesus, before and after his resurrection,
						reflects any discredit on the record of his birth, which is made by only two of them,
						what should be said of a History of England that makes no mention of King Alfred the
						Great,  on one hand and King George the Third, on the
						other? That is the case as to Macaulay's History of England; but no sane person imagines
						that it implies any disblief in, or ignorance of, those monarchs. To argue that the
						omission of Mark and John to record the birth of Jesus implies discredit of the records
						of Matthew and Luke is no more reasonable than to contend that it implies that he was
						not born of woman at all, as was claimed by some of the Gnostics. 

					But all of the Evangelists do speak of Mary as the mother of Jesus, and of God as his
						father, in the plainest terms, and these are the essential features of the divine birth.
						Mark records in his first chapter the witness of the voice from heaven at his baptism:
						"Thou art my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased." Later in the same chapter is the
						testimony of the unclean spirit, "I know thee who thou art, the Holy one of God." In the
						second chapter he records Christ's declaration: "The Son of Man is Lord also of the
						Sabbath." In the third chapter another unclean spirit testifies: "Thou art the Son of
						God." In the fifth chapter a third unclean spirit cries: '"What  have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the most high God?" In the ninth
						chapter is the account of the transfiguration, with the heavenly witness, "This is my
						beloved Son." And finally, when nature trembled at the death of the Lord, he records the
						confession of the centurion: "Truly this man was the Son of God."

					As to the testimony of "unclean spirits," it is of course now the common belief that
						demoniacal possession was merely some form of mental or other derangement, and that
						these speeches were of the demoniacs, and not of evil spirits that possessed them. But
						this does not lessen the sincerity of the testimony of Mark, who apparently believed in
						evil spirits which took possession of men; and who regarded their recognition that Jesus
						was the Son of God as supernatural. It is notable that John's gospel makes no mention of
						casting out devils, though he records that the Jews said of Christ: "He hath a demon and
						is mad." It is also striking that Jesus, in his answer to the disciples of John the
						Baptist, makes no mention of casting out evil spirits, although he names specifically
						the other work performed in their presence. What inference
						may be drawn from this as to the extent to which he accomodated himself to the manner of
						speech of the time, is a matter of speculation; but it cannot be fairly questioned that
						Mark held the common view, or that his record was intended to convey his faith in the
						divinity of Christ.

					The language of John is even more explicit. In his opening words, he says: "And the
						word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the
						only begotten of the Father." This expression, "the only begotten of the Father," or
						"the only begotten Son," is used repeatedly by John, and it is not capable of any
						rational interpretation but the fatherhood of God, limited exclusively to Jesus Christ.
						Throughout John's gospel are the strongest declarations of Jesus as to his relations to
						his Father in his teachings, as well as special express statements. To the Samaritan
						woman who said: "I know that Messiah cometh, he that is called Christ," Jesus answered:
						"I that speak unto thee am he." When the blind man asked who is the Son of God, he
						answered: "He it is that speaketh with thee." To the Jews
						who would have stoned him, he said: "Say ye of him whom the Father sanctified and sent
						into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God?"


					It would indeed be strange if the book of The Acts were silent on this matter, for it
						was written by Luke, and addressed to the same person to whom his gospel was addressed.
						It opens with a reference to that gospel as a record of "all that Jesus began both to do
						and to teach." It follows the former communication naturally, beginning with the promise
						of "the Father," revealed by Jesus, that the Holy Spirit should descend on his
						disciples, and the fulfillment of that promise: Thereafter it is the record of med who,
						as he says, "hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ." And this
						hazard was, as he records of Paul, that they "proclaim Jesus, that he is the Son of
						God." 



					Immediately following the day of Pentecost come the two sermons of Peter, another of
						those who are said to be "silent." In these he speaks of God's "Son," alternating this
						title with "the Holy and Righteous  One," "the Prince of
						Life," "the Prophet" foretold of prophets. And when Peter and John "came to their own
						company" they united with one accord in the prayer of thanks for "the Holy Child,
						Jesus." It is true that the revised version makes these words "Son" and "Child" read
						"Servant," but the alternative translation is only a question of context. Mary herself
						was with them there, and they were all "of one heart and soul." It was Luke who made the
						record, and in his gospel he was the one who spoke always of "the child," and recorded
						the prophecy: "Thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Most High." It was he who
						made the record: "the Holy Thing which is begotten shall be called the Son of God." Does
						not the old version present the more rational choice of words? 

					Note here the reverence with which this conception is always spoken of, and its freedom
						from the grossness of all pagan ideas of divine fatherhood. Paul, who is also one of the
						"silent," writes to the Galatians: "When the fulness of time was come, God sent forth
						his Son, made of a woman."  In the common belief in the
						unity of the Holy Trinity, he varies this expression in his epistle to the Philippians,
						and says: "Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be
						equal with God: But made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a
						servant, and was made in the likeness of man." And so he writes to the Romans of "his
						Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh;
						and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of Holiness, by
						the resurrection from the dead." It is fully manifest that the primitive church held the
						same pure and sacred ideal of the conception and birth of Jesus that is expressed by
						Ignatius in his epistle to the Trallians: "Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who was
						descended from David, and was also of Mary; who was truly begotten of God and of the
						Virgin, but not after the same manner. For indeed God and man are not the same." 

					Among the, New Testament epistles, that to the Hebrews stands apart in its unknown
						authorship and its special appeal to the Old Testament. It opens: "God, who at sundry
							 times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the
						fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son." Then come,
						a few verses later, these words: "For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou
						art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father, and he
						shall be to. me a Son? And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world,
						he saith, and let all the angels of God worship him." What is this if not a reference to
						the angel hymn of the nativity? Then he develops his argument that Moses was faithful as
						a servant, "but Christ as a Son;" and that "it behooved him in all things to be made
						like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest," of
						that unique priesthood of Melchizedek, "without father, without mother, without
						genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life but made like unto the Son
						of God."


					But if these men believed that Jesus was the Son of God, why did they not put greater
						stress on the circumstances of his birth? In a historical investigation of any other  documents, one would naturally look for the answer to such a
						question in the purpose of the writings. Obviously the chief purpose of the New
						Testament scriptures, and of the preaching of the Apostles, was to convince men of the
						divine mission of Christ. And this was a vast undertaking. The whole scheme of
						Christianity as we understand it was absolutely novel and startling to Jewish thought.
						The doctrines of the Incarnation and the Holy Trinity were as foreign to the Jewish mind
						as the doctrine of the Virgin Birth. They did not look for Messiah as God manifest in
						the flesh, but as a specially endowed man who was to be the chosen representative of
						God. The idea of a reviled, abused, rejected and crucified Messiah was apparently as far
						from the thoughts of the disciples while Jesus was living as it was from the expectation
						of other Jews.

					It was only after his death that they had any comprehension of his real mission, for as
						Cleopas said: "We trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel." It was
						not until after the risen Christ had explained to them that "all things must  be fulfilled, which were written in the lav of Moses and in
						the prophets, and in the Psalms, concerning me," and after he had "opened their
						understanding, that they might understand the scriptures," that they began to see the
						application of the many predictions of the "man of sorrows and acquainted with grief."
						And this understanding was further developed in accordance with the promise: "But the
						Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach
						you all things." It is very clear that while the miracles and the teachings of Jesus
						convinced his disciples that he was the Messiah anticipated by the Jews, it was his
						resurrection and the visitation of the Holy Spirit, beginning on the day of Pentecost,
						that convinced them that he was the Messiah from the Christian point of view. In any
						effort to convince others, it is the natural course for men to rely on the arguments
						that convince themselves.

					It is noteworthy that there is not a single instance where Christ himself referred to
						his birth as an evidence of his divinity. His claim was based on three grounds, the
						works lie performed, his teaching, and the fulfillment  of
						prophecy. The multitudes at Lystra were ready to worship Paul and Barnabas after one
						miracle, but Jesus recognized the inefficiency of his works to overcome the prejudice of
						the Jews in his words: "If the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which were
						done in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes." To his
						evidence there were added in apostolic times his resurrection and the witness of the
						Holy Spirit, and these remain the effective arguments for Christianity to this day. It
						is doubtful that any person was ever converted by the story of the birth of Jesus.

					But there are manifestly secondary purposes in the several books of the New Testament.
						On its face, Matthew's gospel was written with a special view of showing the fulfillment
						of prophecy. On its face John's gospel was written with a special view of meeting
						heresies that had arisen in the church. Luke expressly declares the special purpose of
						his gospel to Theophilus, "that thou mightest know the certainty concerning the things
						wherein thou wast instructed." Theophilus was presumably a Greek convert, who, perhaps with others, had need of a full statement of all
						the evidences of the faith from the beginning. Luke had been with Paul, and their
						instruction must have been the same. And there must have been much of that instruction
						that is merely referred to in Paul's epistles, for he exhorts the Colossians to be
						"stablished in the faith, as ye have been taught," and the Thessalonians to "hold the
						traditions ye have been taught," and indeed most of the epistles indicate the preference
						expressed by John to "speak face to face." It follows then that the gospel of Luke
						covers the things that were taught by Paul. And, likewise, Paul, if he believed that
						Jesus was the Son of God, as he repeatedly says he did, could not have said to the Jews
						of Antioch, concerning David, "Of this man's seed hath God, according to his promise,
						raised unto Israel a Saviour, Jesus," unless he believed with Luke that Mary was of the
						lineage of David. 

					As a matter of evidence, it is apparent that the record of the miraculous events
						attending the birth of Jesus rests primarily on the testimony of Mary, and secondarily
						on the testimony of Joseph. If the facts to  which they
						testified stood alone, their evidence, in all probability, would have received scant
						credence; because the story was so extraordinary, and was so easy of fabrication. There
						could be no testimony to the Virgin Birth but theirs. But as to the teachings and the
						works of Christ, the early church was "compassed about with a cloud of witnesses." And
						the Apostles regarded these evidences sufficient, as Christ himself did, or he said to
						John's disciples: "Go and show John again those things which ye do hear and see." So to
						the Jews: "The works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me;" and again:
						"If I do not the works of my Father believe me not." And to Philip: "Believe me that I
						am in the Father and the Father in me, or else believe me for the very work's sake."

					Paul was an eminently practical man, and as a logician who aimed at results he devoted
						himself to the effective arguments. It is evident that to him the strongest argument for
						the truth of Christianity was his own conversion, and he used this effectively, because
						his persecution of the Christians prior to his conversion was notorious. Indeed  to the present time, the personal experience of conversion,
						and the witness of the Holy Spirit, which make the convert able to say: "I know that my
						Redeemer liveth," are the most convincing evidences known; and anyone who is at all
						familiar with practical Christianity is familiar with this fact. In the writings of Paul
						and the other epistles, there is no occasion to expect anything in reference to the
						Virgin Birth, except the use of language that is in harmony with it; and that
						abounds.

					But while it was of little force as evidence, the Virgin Birth was an important truth
						for the edification, confirmation, and comfort of those who had accepted the faith, and
						who desired to know more of the wonderful divine incarnation. In all the history of the
						church, it is doubtful if any other one thing has so impressed the humanity of Jesus on
						his followers as the story of the Christ child, or if any other one thing has made
						greater impress on the spirit of Christianity than the angel chorus of "Peace on earth,
						good will to men." And if these are taken away, how much goes with them! If Mary's story
						be not true, the one historical  alternative is the ancient
						Jewish slander of an unchaste love, for the scripture record is plain that Joseph was
						not the father of Jesus. If she deceived her husband and her Son, and all his followers
						in this, all the rest of the story is equally false—the annunciation, the wise
						men, the shepherds, Elizabeth, Zacharias, Simeon, Anna, all must go. The Magnificat, the
						Nunc Dimittis, the Angel Song, are but the phantasies of a lying harlot. More than this,
						if Jesus Christ were not indeed the Son of God, he died to perpetuate the falsehood. And
						if his disciples were not convinced that he was the Son of God, they gave up lives of
						peaceful security, and accepted hardships and persecution, and death, to hand the
						falsehood down to the millions who have followed them. One can understand how an
						unbeliever can accept this alternative; but it is not easy to understand how any human
						mind can imagine it as presenting "a nobler ideal of the Christ."
				

				
				
					THE PASSING OF DARWINISM.
					
						Of all the tyrannies that oppress mankind,
						The worst are those that tyrannize the mind.
					
					So wrote the poet. Whether he had in mind the tyranny of scientific theories, I cannot
						say; but he might well have had them in mind. Science, theoretically, is knowledge, and
						the science of each age is what passes for knowledge in that age. Heretofore a
						considerable part of the science of every age has been the exposed error of succeeding
						ages, and presumably this will continue to be the case for some ages to come. Of course
						the scientist is an extremely important factor in human progress, and unquestionably we
						are indebted to him for the larger part of the knowledge we possess; but he is not
						infallible. Losing sight of this, the great majority of mankind, in each age, accept the
						"teachings of science" without much question, for the simple reason that they know that
						the scientists know more than they do, and they accept these dicta with little thought
						or investigation of their own.
					
					Most of the untruths thus accepted are theories, as distinguished from recorded
						observations, for your scientist usually gets the habit of asserting a theory that
						satisfies his mind with the same assurance that he states an observed fact. Still there
						are numerous instances of untruths advanced as observed facts, for there are always
						scientists who are credulous of untruth and incredulous of truth. As an amusing
						illustration of this, which came within my personal knowledge, Prof. Alexander Winchell,
						in his valuable work entitled "World Life" (pp. 14, 15), gives an account of a meteor
						falling through a house, and through the body of one Leonidas Grover, who was sleeping
						there. He says he took the story from the Indianapolis Journal; and the original account
						there states that the meteor was not found until the next day by people who slept in the
						house that night, that it was still hot when it was found, and that it still bore the
						bloodstains of Grover. As a matter of fact there was no such man, and no such event. The
						story was a newspaper hoax, which was fully exposed within a week of its publication. It
						was absurd on its face, for meteors do not fall
						perpendicularly, and in passing through the atmosphere they become intensely heated,
						often being entirely consumed. That one should fall through inflammable material without
						setting fire to it, and should retain bloodstains, is so preposterous that it might well
						challenge the skepticism of any scientist. But it did not, and possibly Prof. Winchell's
						readers are still accepting it.
					 Practically, it matters little if people do believe such a thing as this, for they are
						quite as happy in their ignorance; but occasionally we find an accepted scientific
						theory which is false, and which is more serious in its effects on mankind. Of this
						class the most tremendous air-bubble of all the ages is what is commonly known as
						Darwinism. It began when Charles Darwin returned in H. M. S. Beagle, in 1836, with his
						"shipload of knowledge," though it did not attract very general notice until he
						published his later works, chiefly devoted to the effects of domestication on animals;
						and its cloud still hangs over us. There are thousands of fairly intelligent people who
						still accept the Darwinian theories as established facts, and  doubtless there will be such for many years to come. These theories formed
						the basis of religious controversy for years. Atheists, skeptics and materialists hailed
						them as knocking the bible account of creation "higher than Beecher's Life of Christ."
						Alarmed and angry theologians hastened to assail them, but while these were strong in
						satire and ridicule they were hopelessly weak in scientific information, and .in
						consequence they were visibly routed, until it occured to some of the more thoughtful
						that there was not necessarily anything inconsistent with religion in the theory of
						evolution —that if the omnipotent desired to create a universe by evolutionary
						processes it was just as easy to do it in that way as by a direct fiat of creation; and
						this is the theory most generally accepted today. Indeed some theologians have reached
						the point where they champion evolution in everything as the only rational mode of
						divine procedure, and it would not be surprising to see it introduced as an article of
						faith in some new creed.
					It is only fair to Darwin to say that he was not responsible for all of this. He
							offered no theory of the origin of life. He said he had
						"nothing to do with the origin of the soul, nor with that of life itself." His theories
						were concerned only with the modes of descent, or development, from primary forms. He
						says: "I imagine that probably all organic beings which ever lived on this earth
						descended from some primitive form which was first called into life by the creator." He
						also quotes with approval the letter of a divine who wrote that he had "gradually
						learned to see that it is just as noble a conception of the Deity to believe that he
						created a few original forms capable of selfdevelopment into other and needful forms, as
						to believe that he required a fresh act of creation to supply the. voids caused by the
						action of his laws."

					 But this modest position was not satisfactory to many of Darwin's followers, and
						notably to Haeckel, who is perhaps more widely known than any of the others, and whose
						views probably more nearly represent the popular conception of Darwinism than those of
						Darwin himself. Haeckel was an avowed materialist. He rejected any supernatural
						influence in the development of  the world or of anything
						in it, from the period of nebulous gas to the present. To him, life was simply a matter
						of spontaneous generation. And he was gracious enough to reval to the world just how it
						was developed from the "urschleim," or protoplasm, which he calmly identifies with
						albumen-though there is no such thing known to science as albumen that is not the
						product of living organism. This is his method: The most important
							process is the formation of a kernel or nucleus in the simple little lump of albumen.
							WVe can conceive this to take place in a purely physical manner by the condensation of
							the innermost central part of the albumen. The more solid central mass, which at first
							gradually shaded off into the peripheral plasma, became sharply separated from it, and
							thus forms an independent, round, albuminous corpuscle; and by this process the
							Moneron becomes a cell. * * * In the same way as the kernel of the organic cell arose
							in the interior or central mass of the originally homogeneous lump of plasma, by
							separation, so, too, the first cell membrane was formed on its surface. This simple,
							but most important process, as has already been remarked, can likewise be explained in
							a purely physical manner, either as a chemical deposit, or as a physical  condensation in the uppermost stratum of the mass, or as
							a secretion. One of the first processes of adaptation effected by the Moneron,
							originating by spontaneous generation, must have been the condensation of an external
							crust, which as a protecting covering shut in the softer interior from the hostile
							influences of the outer world. As soon as by condensation of the homogeneous Moneron a
							cell-kernel arose in the interior, and a membrane arose on the surface, all the
							fundamental parts of the unit were furnished, out of which, by infinitely manifold
							repetition and combination, as attested by actual observation, the body of the higher
							organisms is constructed. 
					
					This is the great Haeckel's explanation of the origin of life—an explanation that
						has actually been accepted by people who think they are thinking beings—but if you
						will read it over carefully you will see that it does not mention the origin of life at
						all. It does not offer a suggestion of a suspicion of an explanation of the origin of
						life. It does nothing but state that a nodule may be formed of inorganic matter, with a
						harder crust about it, by chemical or physical processes; all of which is very true. But
						you are no nearer life with your nodule than you were before. You may pick up hundreds
						of such nodules of clay in the gravel of our streams; but I02  .they are just as dead and just as inorganic as any other clay.

					Morever, other scientists have not been satisfied with a theory of spontaneous
						generation. They have tried to effect it in fact but every effort, from those of Huxley
						in the glacial regions to hundreds of others in the laboratories, has failed; and
						spontaneous generation is now abandoned, even by believers in the theory of descent, to
						the cemetery of "waiting for more light." The question of the origin of life is simply
						pushed to one side; and yet life is the great essential of the theory of descent itself.
						For the present, at least, science has to treat as a fact the proposition that inanimate
						matter does not progress or retrograde. So far as we have any evidence, it is the same
						yesterday, today and forever. It knows neither ascent nor descent. And so the
						materialist scientist, who rejects any consideration of supernatural interposition,
						stands, at the outset, baffled by the question of the cause of the process by which he
						avers creation to have been effected. Nobody knows what life is' or whence it comes, or
						whither it goes, any more than he knows the nature of God.
					
					But Haeckel took two other positions, and they are positions to which the materialist
						is irresistibly driven. The first is that there is no such thing as "life," other than
						as a property of all matter. He says: "We thus arrive at the extremely important
						conviction that all natural bodies which are known to us are equally animated, that the
						distinction which has been made between animate and inamimate bodies does not exist.
						When a stone is thrown into the air, and falls to earth according to definite laws, or
						when in a solution of salt a crystal is formed, the phenomenon is neither more nor less
						a mechanical manifestation of life than the growth and flowering of plants, than the
						propagation of animals or the activity of their senses, than the perception or the for-
						mation of thought in man. This final triumph of the monistic conception of nature
						constitutes the highest and most general merit of the Theory of Descent, as reformed by
						Darwin."
					This thought, not of Darwin, but of the great Haeckel—the wonderful German
						philosopher, biologist, scientist—was fully adopted by the small boy who brought
						in a  dead cat, and exclaimed: "Mamma, here is a perfectly
						good cat that 'someone has left in our alley." "Right," says Haeckel, "every atom of
						matter is in it that was there before it died. Life is not gone. If you throw it up in
						the air it will fall just the same as a stone." This is "the final triumph of the
						monistic conception"—a dead cat is a live cat. But the genial materialist
						overlooks one point. If you threw that cat up in the air, when it was alive, it would
						light on its feet; but if you threw it up after death, it would light "any old way."
					 Second, Haeckel denies any purpose in nature,—says it "no more exists than the
						much-talked-of beneficence of the Creator;" that "if we contemplate the common life and
						the material relations between plants and animals (man included), we shall find
						everywhere, and at all times, the very opposite of that kindly and peaceful social life
						which the goodness of the Creator ought to have prepared for his creatures—we
						shall rather find everywhere a pitiless, most embittered struggle of All against All."
						Quite possibly Haeckel could have arranged the universe more satisfactorily; but no
							Darwinianreally rejects purpose in nature, and Haeckel
						accepts it as fully as any, under the name of adaption. In the quotation above as to the
						development of the Moneron, he says that one of its "first processes" was the formation
						of an external crust or cell membrane. Why? He says "for a protective covering, to shut
						in the softer interior from the hostile influences of the outer world." That is the
						purpose of the cell membrane; and the whole theory of development is built on the
						purpose, or supposed purpose, of forms, organs and other characteristics. The real
						difference beween the materialistic and deistic conceptions of nature is that the former
						holds these characteristics to have been developed unconsciously by the organism itself,
						to meet its needs—to serve these purposes; while the latter holds them to have
						been created by an intelligent power to serve the same purposes. 
					This is especially observable in Darwin, for his whole argument is that because certain
						changes have been produced by breeding in animals, and cultivation in plants, through
						the intelligence of man interposed for the purpose of producing these results,  similar results might have been attained by animal and
						plant organisms without any interposition. Haeckel makes the proper distinction that
						Darwin did not originate the theory of descent, but makes this claim for him: "He has
						established a new theory which reveals to us the natural causes of organic development,
						the acting, (efficient) causes of organic form production, and of the changes and
						transformations of animal and vegetable species. This is the Theory of Selection, or
						more accurately the Theory of Natural Selection, * * * which shows us why this
						progressive transformation of organic forms took place, and what causes, acting
						mechanically, effected the uninterrupted production o.f new forms, and the ever
						increasing variety of animals and plants. Darwin's immortal merit cannot be justly
						estimated until a later period, when the Theory of Development, after overthrowing all
						other theories of creation, will be recognized as the supreme principle of explanation
						in anthropology, and consequently in all other science."
					How cocksure is this foremost exponent of Darwinism! He leaves his avowed oneand only basis of scientific proof, and essays the role of a
						prophet. And yet, it is precisely this theory of development—this theory of
						natural selection—that has been assailed and torn to pieces; not by clergymen; not
						by popular orators; but by biologists, botanists, zoologists, paleontologists; and these
						largely German materialists. For it is the redeeming grace of science that it constantly
						seeks for evidence, and though it accepts a theory as plausible today, it abandons it as
						readily tomorrow if it fails to hinge with known facts.
					In 1903, Dr. Dennert, of Stuttgart, collected the views-of contemporary scientistis,
						under the title, "Vom Sterbelager des Darwinismus ;" and said: "What I seek to show in
						these statements is the fact that Darwinism now almost belongs to the past—to
						history—that we stand by its death-bed, and that even its friends are endeavoring
						to secure for it at least a decent burial." In 1907, Prof. Kellogg, of Leland Stanford
						University, in his book "Darwinism Today," protested against this as too sweeping, yet
						practically admitted its truth. He says: "It is precisely the German biologists who are
							 most active in this undermining of the Darwinian
						theories. But there are others with them; Holland, Russia, Italy, France, and our own
						country all contribute their quota of disturbing questions and declarations of protest
						and revolt. The English seem most inclined to uphold the glory of their illustrious
						countryman. But there are rebels even there. Altogether it may be stated with full
						regard to facts that a major part of the current published output of general biological
						discussions, theoretical treatises, addresses and brochures dealing with the great
						evolutionary problems, is distinctly anti-Darwinian in character. This major part of the
						status of evolution and its causes, its factors and mechanism, by working biologists and
						thinking natural philosophers, reveals a lack of belief in the effectiveness or capacity
						of the natural selection theory to serve as a sufficient causo-mechanical explanation of
						species-forming and evolution. * * * The fair truth is that the Darwinian selection
						theories, considered with regard to their claimed capacity to be an independently
						sufficient mechanical explanation  of descent, stand today
						seriously discredited in the biological world."
					The Darwinian theories proper may be summed up in two propositions: First, by
						artificial selection—breeding and cultivation— such changes have been
						produced in animals and plants that the resultant forms would be classed as new species,
						if the process and causes of change were not known. Second, the changes produced by
						artificial selection might be duplicated, equaled, or even exceeded by natural
						selection—chiefly through the influences of sexual selection, heredity, and
						survival of the fittest. 
					The first proposition looks almost axiomatic, but on scientific consideration it is
						found to have little basis except in minor and non-essential variants of form, color and
						the like, which naturally appeal to the senses. For example, would anyone, not knowing
						the facts, say that the Poodle and the Great Dane were of the same species or the Manx
						cat and the Angora, or the Bantam chicken and the Shanghai, or the draft horse and the
						Shetland pony, or the pound pippin and the wild crab-apple ? Certainly not from
						appearance; but that is not the determinant of  species.
						The word "species" is somewhat indefinite in meaning and application; and in various
						cases some naturalists class certain animals and plants as different species when others
						make them only varieties. The old definition of "species" was a class of animals or
						plants that might reasonably be supposed to have descended from a common ancestor. The
						one now most generally accepted involves the same idea in another form —a class of
						animals that have the capacity for indefinite, fertile interbreeding. Thus the horse and
						the ass interbreed, but their progeny are not fertile; and consequently the horse is
						classed as equus caballus, and the ass as equus asinus. 
					On application of this test, no scientist would call the various breeds of domestic
						animals different species; for all of them, dogs, cats, horses, cattle, sheep, chickens,
						pigeons and rabbits, have the capacity for fertile interbreeding. Furthermore, all of
						these animals know their kind. Every dog recognizes any other dog as a dog, no matter
						what his race, color or previous condition of servitude. We can say, therefore, with
						assurance, that artificial selection,  through all the
						thousands of years of its known progress, has never produced a new species. And this is
						a vital point, for this was the boundary line that Darwin essayed to cross. The species
						line is the primary, the simplest point of division in animal and plant life. If that
						cannot be crossed—if the first step in the theory of development cannot be
						taken—the jump from protoplasm to man becomes an absurdity; and that first step
						has never been taken, either by nature or by the aid of man, so far as the world
						knows.
					The results of artificial selection are not new species, but extreme variants; and
						these variants follow the same rule that natural variants follow, of reversion to the
						common or ancestral type. As soon as you stop what is called "pure breeding," and allow
						domesticated animals to mate by choice, interbreeding becomes common, and the progeny
						lose their variating features. Everybody has seen this in dogs and chickens. The same
						principle applies in the cultivation of plants. You can take the finest varieties of
						strawberries, and in a few years, withoutproper
						cultivation, they will retrograde to the level of the common wild berry.
					This principle of recurrence to the type is of great significance, for it is as fixed a
						rule of nature as variation, on which all breeding and cultivation is based. A certain,
						almost fixed, percentage of animals will vary from their parents in some respect. The
						study of these variations has established a new science, known as biometry. This word
						was originally applied to the measurement of duration of life, in compiling mortality
						tables, but now has a much broader application. This science has established the fact
						that, just as a practically fixed number of people, out of a thousand, will die in a
						given time, so, out of a thousand, a practically fixed number will vary from the medium,
						or type, in height, weight, and other characteristics. These tendencies to variation may
						be increased by changes of climate, soil, food, and other external conditions, but the
						inherent tendency, under the same conditions, is to recur to the type. These lines of
						investigation have been followed extensively in recent years in the systems of
						measurement in armies, in police records of criminals, and inmedical work, as to men. At the same time scientists have been examining and
						recording the details of variation in lower organisms with a patience and assiduity that
						are almost incredible. The result has been a general agreement in the regularity of the
						law of recurrence, as fully as in the law of variation; and that one about offsets the
						other.
					 None of Darwin's theories met readier acceptance than that of sexual selection. It
						hinged so fully with common ideas. Everybody was familiar with the brighter colors of
						many male birds, and many were aware that these colors often took on more than common
						brightness in the mating season. As Tennyson puts it: 
					
						In the spring a fuller crimson comes upon the robin's breast;
						In the spring the wanton lapwing gets himself another crest; 
						In the spring a livelier iris changes on the burnished dove;
						In the spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.
					
					What is all of this for if not to attract the female? That seems an evident purpose of
							nature. Darwin did not point it out. He merely adopted a
						belief that had continued for centuries. And yet no theory has been more completely
						dropped, even by those who at first gave it warm support. As a matter of scientific
						observation, the female, in the lower animals, does very little selection. This is
						easily noted in barnyard fowls, in which the ornamentation of the males is marked. If
						there is any rivalry of the males, it is settled by a fight, and the female accepts the
						victor without regard to looks. In all his experience Darwin recorded eight instances in
						which he thought the female made a selection, and since then not over half a dozen cases
						have been recorded; all doubtful. This as to birds—the highest class of animals
						showing this color feature. Its most notable occurrences elsewhere are in reptiles,
						insects and fishes. It is almost inconceivable that these lower forms of life should
						have aesthetic tastes as to color, and especially enough to cause through countless
						generations a development of the favorite colors in the males. We commonly fancy such
						tastes in birds, but on our poetic side we have developed an estimate of the
						intelligence  of birds that has no foundation in fact. It
						is only in nursery rhymes that Jenny Wren is attracted by the plumage of Cock Robin. In
						real life she pays no attention to him, but mates with her little Quaker as if lie were
						the only bird on earth. 
					When you pass lower in the scale, what imaginable effect could bright colors have on
						the female fish, which sometimes does not even see the male that fertilizes the spawn
						which she has left? We have throughout temperate America a notable example of this
						characteristic in the rainbow darter. It is a small fish, three or four inches long, and
						ordinarily of plain brown and white color; but in the mating season the male takes on a
						complete suit of purple and orange that makes it a typical representative of this phase
						of nature. No tropical fish is more brilliantly colored than the male rainbow darter in
						the mating season; but to say that its colors are the result of countless ages of
						selection by the female is inconceivable rot. The experiments of Douglass and Duerigen
						with lizards demonstrated that alterations of color in the males had no effect at all on
						their acceptance by the females; nor did disfigurement,for
						tailless males were as readily accepted as any. 
					But the most convincing experiments in this line were those of Mayer with the Promethea
						moth, and later those of Mayer and Soule. The Promethea is one of our rather common
						large moths, whose larvae feed on the leaves of the sassafras, and which was grouped by
						Linnaeus with the silkworm moth, the Luna, and our common Cecropia, in the genus
						Attacus. The wings of the female Promethea are reddish brown and those of the male are
						much darker, which, by the sexual selection theory, would be due to the preference of
						the female for that color. Mayer collected 450 Promethea cocoons, and took them to
						Loggerhead Key, one of the Dry Tortugas, which is far out of the habitat of this moth,
						and where there could be no outside interference.
					 The male of this species seeks out the female, and is able to find her at quite a
						distance. Mayer's first task was to learn by what sense this was done, and to locate the
						sense. When the females were put in transparent glass jars, covered so that no odor
						could escape, the males could not find them at all. When
						the same jars were covered only with netting, the females were found readily; and the
						same was true when the females were put in boxes or wrappings where they were not
						visible, but from which odors could escape. When the wings of females were cut off and
						the wings of males glued in their places, the males went to them just the same. When the
						wings of males were cut off, and wings of females glued in their places, the other males
						paid no attention to them whatever. Finally, a number of females were cut in two, and
						the abdomens put in one place, and the heads, thoraxes and wings in another. The males
						then went to the abdomens, and never to the other parts. It was thus conclusively shown
						that the male found the female by smell and not by sight.
					The sense of smell was rightly guessed to be located in the antennae, and this was
						proven by covering the antennae of various males with shellac, photographic paste, glue
						or paraffin, whereupon these males could not find the females at all. When the wings of
						the males were removed, and wings of females put in their places, the females accepted
						them quite as readily; and so they did  when the males
						were left wholly wingless, and the scales all brushed off their bodies. These very
						conclusive experiments convinced Mayer that "the coloration of the male has not been
						brought about through the agency of sexual selection on the part of the female."
					Later, Mayer and Soule repeated the experiments on a larger scale, and with variations.
						They took 1,500 Promethea cocoons, and of the males that hatched, the wings of about
						one-half were painted with red and green ink. They were accepted by the females as
						readily as the normal males, and sexual selection received another black eye. Similar
						experiments were tried with the moth Porthetria dispar, the male of which is brown and
						the female white; and with the same results. In consequence the items of color and sight
						as factors in mating must be dropped as to these moths; and, indeed, they may be safely
						dropped as to all moths, among which the color variations are very frequent, for the
						simple reason that they are nocturnal. It would be a strange provision of nature, on any
						theory, if the mating of a nocturnal animal were made dependent on color and sight.  In brief, so far as the experiment and observation of the
						last quarter of a century go, sexual selection may be pronounced a delusion and a myth;
						and it may be eliminated or disregarded as a factor in the acceleration of natural
						selection.
					Without it, natural selection by the mating of variants falls back to the law of
						chance, and here we get to a mathematical basis. For example, if one individual of a
						species in 100 had a notable variation of a certain kind, out of 20,000 individuals
						there would be 200 with this variation. In the matings of these 20,000 individuals, by
						the law of chance, there would be 9,801 pairings of individuals that did not have the
						variations; 198 pairings of variants with non-variants; and a single pairing of
						variants. In other words, 991/2 per cent of the original variation would be wiped out by
						the dilution of blood in the second generation. This is one of the chief factors in the
						law of recurrence to the type; and another equally important one is the conflict of
						variations. Variations are not in one direction, but in all directions. A certain
						proportion of the progeny of any generation will be larger  than the average, but an equal proportion will be smaller, and the tendency of this
						in subsequent matings is to make an offset, or, in other words, a recurrence to the
						type. The law of nature is not the development of new types, but the preservation of
						existing ones.

					 Strangely enough the Darwinian hypothesis of "survival of the fittest" has also been
						badly damaged, for this seemed the strongest of all his hypotheses. As a matter of
						common sense, why should not the strongest and best equipped for defense have the best
						chance of survival in the struggle for life? And yet we all know there have been
						thousands of decrepit fathers mourning their robust Absaloms—"O Absalom, my son,
						my son Absalom, would God that I had died for thee." But, you say, that was war. Of
						course it was war; and the whole basis of the evolution theory is that animal life is an
						unending, bitter, pitiless war—a struggle to the death for the perpetuation of
						life. And it is not only man that sends the strongest and best equipped to the front.
						All animals that resist danger do the same. It is the leader of the herd that goes to
						meet threatened danger; the one who has whipped the other 
						bucks, and demonstrated his superiority. And when the fittest is not on hand, the next
						best goes to the front. When a hen and her chicks are threatened, it is the hen that
						gives battle. The records of sportsmen show many similar cases. Even so shy and timid a
						bird as a mother woodcock, when surprised with her brood by the hunter, will pretend to
						be wounded, and fall and flutter almost within the hunter's reach, while her chicks are
						seeking places of safety. The world is so full of such things that we might use in more
						than one sense the poet's words: 

					
						Is it true, O Christ' in heaven, that the strongest suffer most?
						That the wisest wander farthest, and most hopelessly are lost?
						That the mark of rank in nature is capacity for pain?
						That the anguish of the singer marks the sweetness of the strain?
					

					But this is an individual aspect of survival that does not meet the broader Darwinian
						proposition of survival in convulsions of nature, when "fitness" must necessarily lie in
						power of endurance. When at college, my daily walk from my lodging took me past a depression in a bit of woods. Every spring this depression
						filled with water, in which the frogs and toads of the neighborhood deposited their
						spawn, which duly developed into tadpoles. As the season advanced, and the tadpoles
						grew, the pond shrank. Finally the day would come when only a gallon or two of water was
						left, and it was alive with squirming, suffering tadpoles. The next day nothing was to
						be seen but a black mass of shriveled remains. Where was the advantage of the fittest in
						that struggle? Possibly the strongest ones may have lived half an hour longer than the
						others, but of what avail? It might be imagined that during the half hour a rain came
						up, and gave the pond enough water to carry the fittest through to froghood; but you
						could hardly imagine such a chance year after year until a superior type of frogs was
						produced.

					Now this annual tragedy was a miniature of the vast recurrent cataclysms to which the
						theory of the survival of the fittest must be applied. Not only at the end of the
						geologic ages, but also at the close of numerous epochs of those ages, mighty
						convulsions of nature occurred, in which hundreds of 
						species of animals and vegetables were totally extinguished; and in the next following
						epochs many new species came into existence. The Darwinian proposition is that these new
						species were developed from variants of the old species that were best fitted to endure
						the shock. There has been little opportunity for practical study of this hypothesis, on
						account of the lack of cataclysms in the historic period. It is quite possible that man
						was on earth in the Glacial Period, and there are very widespread traditions of a
						deluge; but within historic time there is only one recorded outbreak of nature that
						destroyed a species. A West Indian hurricane, in 1898, is believed to have totally
						exterminated one species of humming-bird peculiar to the island of St. Vincent; but it
						is believed that the great eruptions of Krakatoa, in 1883, and of Mont Pelee in 1902,
						did not exterminate a single species of animal or plant.

					Still there have been some scientific observations that throw light on the question,
						and the trend of these observations is directly opposite to the Darwinian hypothesis,
						which locates the "fittest" among the variants from the type. Perhaps the most  notable illustration is that recorded by Bumpus, in his
						Biological Lectures at the Woods Holl Laboratory. He was making a study of the English
						sparrow in the United States, and after a severe storm, on February 1, 1898, he
						collected 136 of these birds that had been wounded. Of these 64 died, and 72 survived. A
						careful study of all of them, with measurements of their parts, convinced Bumpus that
						the ones that died "perished not through accident, but because they were physically
						disqualified;" and the physical disqualifications consisted of variations from the type.
						The extreme variants were the ones that perished; and Bumpus drew this conclusion: "The
						process of selective elimination is most severe with extremely variable individuals, no
						matter in what directions the variations may occur. It is quite as dangerous to be
						conspicuously above a certain standard of organic excellence as it is to be
						conspicuously below the standard. It is the type that nature favors."

					The only conceivable explanation of this that a Darwinian could offer would be that the
						existing types have attained such fitness through ages of development, that natural  selection by destruction of the unfit has ceased to be a
						cause of progress and development of new species. But if that be true, why not equally
						true of the types of geologic time? They had gone through this same process of
						development and elimination, according to the Darwinian premises, and yet the types
						perished when the cataclysms came, and by the Darwinian conclusion, the variants lived
						and developed new species. On the other hand, there is at least a suggestion of an
						intelligent creator in the fact that existing types are better fitted to endure nature's
						hardships than any variants from them that we might suppose to be more "fit."

					Of all the Darwinian hypotheses, the one least susceptible of proof, one way or
						another, is the theory of the development of organs to meet needs of animals. And it is
						here that adaptation comes most forcibly in conflict with design in nature. To
						illustrate the distinction, take the eye. No one questions that its purpose is sight.
						The believer in design in nature holds that it was made for that purpose by an
						intelligent creator. The Darwinian holds that it was developedby animals to meet a need; developed through countless ages, by natural
						selection of advantageous variations. Nobody has ever suggested when, or by what animal
						organism, the eye was begun; but if evolution be true, there must have been a time when
						some sightless organism, by variation, began the development of an organ of sight. Now
						it is not hard to conceive of a rudimentary eye, for eyes exist in immense variety, and
						some are so rudimentary that they merely distinguish between light and darkness, as, for
						example, those that line the mantles of some of the mollusks. But can you. conceive of
						the first start toward the development of a rudimentary eye; of what form it took; or of
						any imaginable advantage it gave its possessor in the struggle for existence that would
						cause it to be perpetuated and improved till, after some centuries, a rudimentary eve
						was developed? Perhaps you can imagine how rudimentary eyes, once developed, might
						multiply, and reach the stage of the composite eyes of insects, with a few independent
						single eyes scattered about in addition; but can you conceive of the leap from that to
						the vertebrate eye, with its protective  socket and lid,
						its camera with self-adjusting focus, muscle and nerve attachments, and lacrimal
						apparatus ?

					Take another example. It is generally believed that the horns of animals are for
						defensive purposes, and this seems probable. The first step in their development, if
						they were developed, was presumably a slight increase in the thickness of the skull at
						the two points of attachment, symmetrically located, or some excrescence of the skin,
						for horns have indicia of skin developments if they be developments. In five hundred
						years of persistent selection, these might have developed half an inch in thickness. But
						during this period, of what imaginable use could they have been to their possessors as
						weapons, or for any other purpose, that would make it a factor in the survival of the
						fittest? And if horns were developed by nature for protection, by natural selection and
						survival of the fittest, how did the ruminants of the deer family ever happen to develop
						the unfortunate quality of shedding their antlers annually, and leaving themselves for
						several months without any weapons of defense? And if developed as weapons on the theory
						of  advantage, why was the process carried far beyond the
						point of advantage in the antlers of the elk, the moose, the big-horn, and the reindeer?
						It would be as absurd to arm an infantryman with a howitzer, instead of a musket, as to
						imagine that need or advantage in defense caused the development of such antlers.

					But what is the purpose of these eccentricities of development on the theory of design?
						I do not know. I disclaim any power to fathom the infinite. That is the province of the
						evolutionist. In fact, one of the evidences of divine guardianship is the fact that
						nobody is under any obligation to accept the revelations of purpose in nature offered by
						various discerning minds. A few years ago a popular divine in London, England, delivered
						a sermon on special providences, in which he gave as an example the flattened antlers of
						the reindeer, with which it could scrape away the snow from the mosses and lichens on
						which it feeds. Moncure D. Conway, the well-known newspaper correspondent, happened to
						be in London at the time, and made the comment that, unfortunately for the illustration,
						every Laplander knew  that the reindeer sheds its antlers
						in the fall, and its new ones are not grown till the following spring. If the divine had
						been posted, he might have replied that while this was true in general, there was a
						notable exception to it in the fact that the female reindeer, if with young, does not
						shed her antlers, but carries them through the winter, which looks still more like a
						special providence. In reality, however, the reindeer does not use its antlers to scrape
						snow, but does what snow-shoveling it has to do with its hoofs, so that purpose may
						safely be dropped.

					It must be a heavy strain on vital resources to reproduce the heavy antlers of the
						reindeer and other kindred animals, and this exemption of the female, when her strength
						is needed for something more important in nature, would probably be recognized by
						physicians as one of nature's provisions to protect the mother, for the benefit of the
						offspring. This provision has often been noted, as, for example, in the fact that
						ordinarily the female will not conceive not only when pregnant, but also when nursing
						new-born offspring. It is difficult to conceive how an intermittent quality or
						characteristic of that  sort could be developed by the
						animal itself; and the vast importance of it in the function of reproduction, which is
						manifestly nature's greatest care, makes it a strong evidence of intelligent design. 

					There are still more remarkable facts in this connection. In most species of deer the
						females normally have no antlers; but when they cease to be fertile, especially in case
						of atrophy or degeneration of the ovaries, rudimentary antlers appear, and these are
						never shed. This has been observed authentically in the roedeer, the Virginia deer, the
						moose, and the red deer; and is presumably true in less known species. So in birds,
						females that have ceased to breed have in numerous cases been known to as sume male
						plumage, though not so pronounced as in the average male. This has been observed in
						pheasants of various kinds, chickens, peafowls, wild and domestic ducks, partridges,
						bustards, the American pelican, chaffinches, buntings, etc. These facts indicate more
						probably that Wallace is right in his idea that female plumage represents a "degenerate"
						condition of the female than that Darwin and his followers are correct in their theory
						that male  plumage is a development of the male. But if
						that be true, how did the normal plumage of both originate? And are not the facts again
						suggestive of an intelligent purpose to save the strength of the female for her
						offspring, instead of dissipating it in ornamentation ? 

					Another weak point in the theory of adaptation that has attracted attention is the
						difficulty of applying it to correlations in nature, of things that are claimed to be
						the result of development. For example, we have the honey-bee and the honey-producing
						plant. Darwinism asserts that both are developments, and it is fairly bound to assert
						that one developed on account of the other, or that both developed contemporaneously, as
						a matter of correlation. In the case of the eye, it were of no use that the lens
						developed unless there also developed the nerve that gives preception of sight. In the
						horns of animals, no use would be served without the muscles and sinews, and also the
						bone developments to which these are attached, to support the added weight on the head,
						and make the practical use of the horns possible. There are some of these correlations
						in nature as to  which it seems equally difficult to
						conceive of either development preceding the other, or of the two developing
						simultaneously from any need of the animal.

					This is illustrated by the honey-bee. In each hive or colony of these insects there is
						but one perfect female permanently. If another perfect female develops, she has to be
						concealed from the queen regnant by the workers, until she leads a new swarm or
						community from the hive, or the old queen will sting her to death. The queen bee is
						fertilized but once, after which the drones, or male bees are killed by the workers. The
						seminal fluid received by the queen is not deposited at once on the eggs, but is
						retained in a sac in her body, from which it is ejected on such eggs as she chooses. The
						unfertilized eggs hatch drones. The fertilized eggs hatch workers, or, more properly,
						undeveloped females. This provision of only one perfect female may seem a strange
						exception to nature's usual profuse sexual provision for the preservation of the type;
						but the removal of any additional female from the hive with a new swarm is an adequate
						and striking mde of attaining the same end; and still more
						remarkable is the fact that if the queen bee should die, the workers will take a worker
						pupa, and by enlarging its cell, and modifying and increasing its food, cause it to
						become a fully developed female.

					This system of reproduction is peculiarly fitted to the community life of bees, and to
						nothing else. If anyone can imagine the possibility of its development from the needs or
						adaptations of the moneron, or any of the later-ons, such person should enlighten the
						world by suggesting the need from which the development proceeded. A single female is no
						essential of community life; there are numerous insect and other communities in which
						females are abundant. The control of fertilization, the modified development of
						fertilized eggs, the emergency development of sex after an egg has hatched, are things
						that would naturally be pronounced contrary to nature, if we did not know the facts.
						What need of nature caused the development of this unique social system, and the
						extraordinary modification of reproduction that so peculiarly fits it? 

					While such unsolved problems confront the Darwinian in the animal world, there are  still more serious ones in the vegetable world, for plants
						have no volition. We naturally entertain a lurking suspicion that the Ethiopian might in
						some way change his skin, or the leopard his spots; but you cannot so hospitably
						entertain the idea that the banana could change its skin, or the tiger-lily its spots;
						though in all probability one would be as easy as the other. For example, color in
						flowers cannot be attributed to sexual selection; and Darwin accounts for it thus:
						"Flowers rank amongst the most beautiful productions of nature; but they have been
						rendered conspicuous in contrast with the green leaves, and in consequence at the same
						time beautiful, so that they may be easily observed by insects." The stated object of
						this attraction is that the insects may carry pollen and fertilize the female
						flowers.

					There is no question that insects have a large part in the fertilization of flowers in
						this way, but it is now conceded that they are guided in their movements almost wholly
						by smell, and not by sight. The experiments of Plateau, the Belgian naturalist, and
						others have shown that insects visit any nectar-bearing flower, no matter how colorless
						or  inconspicuous it may be; that the removal of the
						colored parts of the flower made no material difference in the visits; that they did not
						visit gayly colored flowers that were not nectar-bearing; but that they at once began
						visiting such flowers when nectar was placed in them. Moreover it has been shown that
						while some insects have a sense of color, most of them are near-sighted—the
						keenest sighted being the dragon flies, which are insectivorous, and do not visit
						flowers. Indeed, the evidence of guidance by smell has been seen by hundreds who were
						not experimenting, for if honey or sirup, or sugar be placed on a board, or on the
						ground, in the open, insects will come to it, although sight could give no possible
						association of color or memory in such a case.

					Another group of inexplicables is found in the provisions of nature for the
						preservation of the type, through multiform arrangement for the protection and
						dissemination of seeds. Many persons who are not scientists have noticed that tall trees
						have provision for protecting their seeds in the fall to the ground; such as the
						seed-wings of the maple and ash, and the shells of nuts. In very tall trees this is especially striking, as in the remarkable double
						coverings of the cocoanut and the Brazil nut. You cannot very well assume that a
						variation of increased height in the plant caused a thickening of the seed cover without
						some assumption of knowledge or volition in the plant. Neither can you assume as a law
						of nature that a variation of increased thickness in the seed cover caused the plant to
						grow higher. If that were true, the hazel would not have remained a bush, while the oak
						and the chestnut developed into monarchs of the forest. A more highly developed Darwin
						is needed for the explanation of the wonders of plant life.

					Darwin disposed of the suggestion that the colors of flowers were for the pleasure and
						refinement of man, with the statement that such a supposition was "utterly subversive of
						his theory," which is apparently true. He says that "natural selection cannot possibly
						produce any modification in a species exclusively for the good of another species." If
						this be true of development, it can as well be assumed throughout nature; and Haeckel's
						conclusion that there is no purpose in nature becomes quite logical. We are then reduced to the inevitable conclusion that. nothing on earth
						exists for the benefit of any other existence. Of course we know that all living
						existences derive benefits from other things, but that is merely incidental. The
						beneficial results are no part of the cause of existence of the beneficial things.
						Thankfulness for the bounties of nature is a complete waste of time and effort.

					This thought is clearly not conducive to the higher mental and moral development of
						man, if evolution has any part in those features of life. It is repulsive to reason when
						applied to thousands of things in the inorganic world that are of vast use to man and
						other living things, many of which are due to variations of general laws of nature. To
						take a simple illustration, the general rule of the action of heat on inorganic matter
						is that "heat expands aid cold contracts;" but with antimony this rule is reversed, and
						it contracts with heat and expands with cold. This variation is of great value to man,
						because, on account of the general rule, it is impossible to make an exact mold of any
						of the common metals; but by mixing antimony with other metals we get a compound
							which neither expands nor contracts with heat, and so we
						can produce the exact forms required for types and other things in which exactness is
						necessary.

					This is a reminder of human limitations, for what we call "a law of nature" is merely a
						statement of what man thinks he knows about some process of nature; and when he learns
						that nature does not always proceed in that way, the "law" has to be changed. The most
						extraordinary variation of this rule occurs in one of the commonest forms of
						matter—water—which follows the general rule except that below four degrees
						centigrade it reverses, and contracts with heat and expands with cold. This eccentric
						variation is of tremendous importance. But for the fact that cooling water begins to
						expand above the freezing point, ice would form first at the bottom of lake and streams
						instead of at the top. In a very short period of freezing weather they would freeze up
						solidly, and so would the underground waters connecting with them. In summer, as the
						warmer water would remain at the surface, the thawing process would be very slow,
						indeed, nothing of any depth could  thaw out at all. Water
						animals and plants would be unable to exist. Land animals and plants would be deprived
						of water except in summer. Underground streams would not thaw out at all. The cold
						produced in summer by the continued thawing would materially reduce the temperature of
						the entire region subject to frost. The present Temperate Zone would be rendered desert
						and uninhabitable.

					Darwinism does not attempt to account for the origin or properties of matter; neither
						does Evolution. The materialist says simply that matter and its properties are
						eternal— in other words incomprehensible; because the infinite is always
						incomprehensible. We say that space is infinite because we cannot comprehend any limit
						to it. Equally we cannot comprehend anything without a limit. This confession of the
						materialist that there is something that he does not understand would be cheering, but
						for the fact that he is just as sure that matter was not made, or is not controlled, by
						a superior being as he is of anything else. The deist has no advantage over him in
						knowledge on this point. It is a matter of opinion. But if a scientist tells me that so remarkable a thing as this variation in
						the expansion of water, a variation so unique in nature, a variation in a substance so
						universal and so essential to every living thing, a variation occurring at just the
						point where it becomes of vital significance to all life, is a mere matter of
						chance—a thing of blind forces acting blindly, I can answer only that his
						superstition is greater than mine.

					But, to return to Darwinism, let no one consider it vain and useless from the deistic
						standpoint. Holding it an exposed error, it was a magnificent error. It has turned human
						thought to great eternal problems, and has broadened it by bringing a clearer perception
						of the impossibility of finite comprehension of the infinite. Men are less prone to set
						bounds to Divine power, except in the scientific world, to which, most happily, a large
						part of the functions of dogma have been transferred from religion. Theologians even
						hesitate to specify the exact conditions under which the Omnipotent may be reconciled to
						erring humanity. The whole thinking world realizes more fully that there is a  great deal that it does not know—approaches more
						closely to the realization that, 

					
						Knowledge is from man to man,
						And not from man, O God, to Thee.
					

					But Darwinism has also greatly stimulated scientific research, and modern science has
						strengthened the basis for belief in design in nature by revealing wonders in life that
						our fathers never dreamed of. Moreover, Darwinism has demonstrated and emphasized most
						impressively, the fact that the greatest changes known to mankind to have occurred in
						animal and vegetable forms— the nearest approaches to the origin of new
						species—have been the result of the interposition of man, applying and regulating
						the laws of nature, as he understands them. It is a perfectly safe proposition that if
						you take all the results of natural selection known to mankind, and put them together,
						they do not equal the transformations of living organisms accomplished by Luther Burbank
						alone. So far as human knowledge goes, the greatest agency in the mutation of animal and
						vegetable life has been the knowledge and power of man; and yet those changes are
						insignificant in comparison with what would  have been
						necessary to transform protoplasm, even if it had life, into the myriad forms we see
						about us. If we would explain those mighty changes, from the beginning of geologic time,
						we face the logical deduction of the interposition of some power and some knowledge far
						superior to man's—a power and a knowledge of which might appropriately be written: 

					
						O JEHOVAH, how manifold are thy works!
						In wisdom hast Thou made them all:
						The earth is full of Thy riches.
						Yonder is the sea, great and wide, 
						Wherein are things creeping innumerable,
						Both small and great beasts.
						There go the ships;
						There is leviathan, whom Thou hast formed to play therein.
						These wait all for'Thee, 
						That Thou mayest give them their food in due season.
						Thou givest unto them, gather;
						Thou openest Thy hand, they are satisfied with good.
						Thou hidest Thy face, they are troubled;
						Thou takest away their breath, they die,
						And return to their dust.
						Thou sendest forth Thy Spirit, they are created;
						And Thou renewest the face of the ground.
						Let the glory of Jehovah endure forever.
					
				

				

				
					THE DEBT OF ENGLISH LITERATURE TO THE BIBLE.

					When Rome was at the zenith of her luxury and splendor; when every known land was
						ransacked for all that was wonderful in nature to grace her festivities; when the gold,
						and silver, and precious stones of the world were lavished on the trappings of man and
						beast that made up the public pageants; there dwelt on a barren island of the Aegean Sea
						an aged man for whose eyes a spectacIe was prepared grander than ever Roman Emperor
						looked upon. There was nothing in the place to suggest such an occurrence. The island
						was occupied by a Roman penal colony. Its rugged outline and scant soil proclaimed its
						volcanic origin. The old man dwelt in a little grotto among the jagged rocks on the
						southern coast, where the ceaseless beat of the sea upon the shore—the sea that
						formed his prison walls—was never out of his ears, but yet there came to his view
						scenes of such ravishing beauty, scenes of such grewsome horror, actors so colossal, and
						events so stupendous, that the boldest imagination has never produced their equals. To those who seek to know the philosophy of English
						literature, nothing could be more significant than the portion of his vision which is
						described in these words: 

					
						And I saw a great white throne, and Him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and
							the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them. 
						And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth were
							passed away; and there was no more sea.
						And I, John, saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven,
							prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
						 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is
							with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God Himself
							shall be with them and be their God.
						And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death,
							neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the former
							things are passed away.
						 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said
							unto me, Write-for these words are true and faithful. 
					
					Write! Write of the new heaven and the new earth! Write of the heaven and the earth
						which men never dreamed of before,  but which henceforth
						shall be their highest ideals. Write! for this inspiration comes not for thee alone; and
						we who stand here at the foot of nineteen centuries can look back over them and see
						that, to all who have written living words since then, has come this same vision, and
						for all the world to whom those words have reached there is now no heaven but that where
						tears are dried, and where there is no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, nor any
						more pain—the heaven of peace—the heaven of rest,—unending rest.
						Search English literature through and you find this the ever recurring ideal of heaven,
						whether the writer be believer or skeptic. There is no other conception of Heaven that
						can stand beside it, "for they are fled away and there is found no place for them."
					Turn if you please to 'the Iliad and the Odyssey and read the descriptions of scenes in
						the heaven of the Greeks and Romans—the petty bickerings of the gods and
						goddesses, and the fierce threats of old Jove to castigate all of them if they did not
						behave better. How childish is this conception of a heaven of perpetual breach of the
						peace as compared with the heaven of rest. And  equally
						faulty is every other conception when put beside it. Not even the living death of
						Nirvana, the highest of them all, can find favor or approval when viewed in the light of
						the vision of Patmos. And this conception of a heaven of peace has so passed into the
						hearts of men—this longing for rest has so taken possession of them—that we
						adopt it in the purely material sense and seek for places of quiet and peace to lay away
						the bodies of our dead. Our Tennyson sings:
					
						We have idle dreams—
						This look of quiet flatters thus
						Our home-bred fancies—O to us,
						The fools of habit, sweeter seems
					
					
						To rest beneath the clover sod,
						That takes the sunshine and the rains—
						Or where the kneeling hamlet drains
						The chalice of the grapes of God;
					
					
						 Than if with thee the roaring wells 
						Should gulf him fathom-deep in brine;
						And hands so often clasp'd in mine, 
						Should toss with tangle and with shells.
					
					 Yes and no. Not fools of habit. This is but the natural expression of the longing of
						the soul for the heaven of its highest dreams
						—natural as the worship of the crucifix, or the feeling of awe in the sanctuary.
						The old heavens are gone and the new heaven has come.
					And with the old heaven are gone the old gods. They fled so long ago that they are
						almost forgotten. Their names, their attributes, and the devoirs men paid to them are
						become the subject of study by the antiquarian. 
					Listen to the song of their flight and the triumphal approach of their successor:
					
						The oracles are dumb, 
						No voice or hideous hum
						Runs through the arched roof in words deceiving.
						Apollo from his shrine
						Can do more divine
						With hollow shriek the steep of Delphos leaving.
						No nightly trance or breathed spell
						Inspires the pale ey'd priest from the prophetic cell.
					
					
						Peor and Baalim
						Forsake their temples dim,
						With that twice-batter'd God of Palestine;
						And mooned Ashtaroth,

						

						Heav'n's queen and mother both, 
						Now, sits not girt with taper's holy shrine,
						The Lybic Hammon shrinks his horn,
						 In vain the Tyrian maids their wounded Thammuz mourn.
					
					
						And sullen Moloch fled, 
						Hath left in shadows dread
						His burning idol all of blackest hue;
						 In vain with cymbal's ring 
						They call the grisly King
						In dismal dance about the furnace blue;
						The brutish gods of Nile as fast, 
						Isis and Orus, and the dogAnubis haste.
					
					
						Nor is Osiris seen
						In Memphian grove or green
						Trampling the unshow'r'd grass with lowings loud;
						Nor can he be at rest
						Within his sacred chest; 
						Naught but profoundest hell can be his shroud;
						In vain with timbrell'd anthems dark
						The sable-stoled sorcerers bear his worshipped ark.
					
					
						He feels from Juda's land 
						The dreaded Infant's hand 
						The rays of Bethlehem blind his dusky eyn.
						Nor all the gods beside
					
					
					
						Longer dare abide,
						Not Typhon huge, ending in snaky twine;
						Our babe, to show his Godhead true,
						Can in his swaddling bands control the damned crew.
					
					 It may seem somewhat Milesian to prove that these ancient gods have vanished from
						English literature by quoting Milton's verse concerning them, but with him, as with all
						our writers,, they have vanished as gods. There has, in their place, come into our
						literature the one supreme ruler, omniscient and omnipotent, and the effect of this
						change is to be seen throughout its farthest reaches. What greater change could come to
						a people than a change of the being it worships, and what greater change of such beings
						could there be than that brought by the Bible. A moment's reflection on its necessary
						relation to all that we hold most sacred, and the fact that the force of the change must
						be recognized whenever there is allusion in literature to what we hold sacred, will give
						some faint realization of the vast effect it has had in ennobling our literature. It is
						true that the ancient gods are occasionally used "to point a moral or adorn a tale," but
						even the popularity of "classic allusion" is fast dying
						out, and what was considered "fine writing" a century ago, on this account, is now
						regarded as pedantic. The red, Cracker blood of America calls for something closer home,
						something more practical, something that hinges with the faiths of today, and our
						writers respond to the demand. Through music we have had some influx of the gods of the
						northern barbarians, but these, too, come not as gods, but as heroes or myths, who are
						gone forever, save as memories, and whose highest mission was to make room for something
						better. Their relation to our life and our literature is well presented in Longfellow's
						translation of Tegner's beautiful lines: 
					
						I heard a voice, that cried,
						"Balder, the Beautiful,
						Is dead, is dead." 
						And through the misty air
						Passed like the mournful cry 
						Of sunward sailing cranes.
					
					
						Balder, the Beautiful, 
						God of the summer sun,
						Fairest of all the gods!

						

						Light from his forehead beamed,
						Runes were upon his tongue,
						As on the warrior's sword.
					
					
						They laid him in his ship,
						With horse and harness, 
						As on a funeral pyre.
						Odin placed
						A ring upon his finger, 
						And whispered in his ear.
					
					
						They launched the burning ship: 
						It floated far away
						Over the misty sea,
						Till like the sun it seemed.
						Sinking beneath the waves,
						Balder returned no more. 
					
					
						So perish the old Gods! 
						But out of the sea of Time
						Rises a new land of song,
						Fairer than the old.
						Over its meadows green
						Walk the young bards and sing. 
					
					
						Build it again, 
						O ye bards,
						Fairer than before; 
						Ye fathers of a new race,
						Feed upon morning dew, 
						Sing the new Song of Love.
					
					
					
						The law of force is dead!
						The law of love prevails! 
						Thor, the thunderer,
						Shall rule the earth no more. 
						No more, with threats,
						Challenge the meek Christ.
					
					Woe! indeed, to the gods whom the bards do not sing, for if their characters and
						attributes cannot possess and fill the souls that have caught the inspiration to sing
						the true and the beautiful, how may they hope to reach the hearts of the surging masses
						to whom sentiment is but an occasional visitor ?
					
						The old gods
						Are dead, poor sinners, all of them but Death, 
						Who has laughed down Jove's broad ambrosian brow,
						Furrowed with earthquake frowns; and not a ghost
						Haunts the gods' town upon Olympus' peak.
					
					The old gods are gone,—and with the old gods we may include the lesser spiritual,
						or at least supernatural, beings with which the world was peopled when it was young.
						Gone are the djins and the genii. Gone are the kobolds and the gnomes. Gone are the
						elves and the fairies. Gone are the  nymphs, the "gorgons,
						hydras and chimeras dire." And in the place of these mischief-making and terrifying
						creatures we have the holy angels—the angels who watch over the sleep of innocent
						childhood—the angels whose soft pinions fan the fevered brow—the angels who
						whisper hope to the parting soul and bear it away to the new heaven. "Are they not all
						ministering spirits ?" 
					 How far this conception of supernatural beings who stand intermediate between us and
						divine perfection, loving, sympathetic, surpasses any that can be found in any other
						than the Hebrew mythology! What other form of spirit is there as to which there could be
						any feeling that kinship ennobled man? What other conception could sustain that
						exquisite touch of Poe's in the death of Annabel Lee—"So that her high-born
						kinsmen came and bore her away from me?" 
					 What other conception could give inspiration for that description of Uncle Toby's
						oath—"The accusing spirit which flew up to heaven's chancery with the oath,
						blushed as he gave it in; and the recording angel, as he wrote it down, dropped a tear
						on the word and blotted it out forever ?"
					
					 What other could carry the thoughts of aid, companionship and sustaining sympathy in
						Whittier's lines: 
					
						To weary hearts, to mourning homes,
						God's meekest Angel gently comes;
						No power has he to banish pain, 
						Or give us back our lost again.
					
					
						 He mocks no grief with idle cheer,
						Nor wounds with words the mourner's ear;
						But ills and woes he may not cure
						He kindly trains us to endure.
					
					
						Angel of Patience! sent to calm
						Our feverish brows with cooling palm;
						To lay the storms of hope and fear,
						And reconcile life's smile and tear.
					
					
						O thou who mournest on thy way, 
						With longings for the close of day;
						He walks with thee, that Angel kind,
						And gently whispers, "Be resigned:
						Bear up, bear on, the end shall tell
						The dear Lord ordereth all things well."
					
					 And with this conception of the angels and of their passage to and from the spirit
						world there comes of necessity the unique and satisfying thought of a passage
						way—a means  of transit. The old patriarchs saw it
						as a lad-der over which they ascended and descended in their constant journeyings, but
						that is too material an image for so ethereal a pathway. Our American poet portrays its
						architecture with more artistic touch— 
					
						And as the moon from some dark gate of cloud
						Throws o'er the sea a floating bridge of light,
						Across whose trembling planks our fancies crowd
						Into the realm of mystery and night—
						So from the world of spirits there descends
						A bridge of light, connecting it with this,
						O'er whose unsteady floor, that sways and bends,
						Wander our thoughts above the dark abyss.
					
					A new heaven and a new earth! Not a new earth in any physical sense. The mountain top
						was not to be lower, or the beetling cliff less difficult to scale. The snow was still
						to hurtle through the pine forest, and the dry simoon to drive the hot sand of the
						desert before it. The rivers were 'not to cease their flow to the sea, nor old ocean to
						cease his fierce beating against his bounds. Harvest was still to follow seed time, and
						winter summer, just as it all had been from the creation dawn. But it was to be new to
						man-new in its meaning—new in its inspirations—new in its
						inspirations—new  in all that pertains to the
						relation of man to man, and man to the infinite. And first and greatest of all is the
						view of life itself. What is the object or end of human life? Why are wehere? I take it
						that the bible—more especially the New Testament—first gave mankind the
						clear teaching that life on earth was primarily a preparation for a future life—a
						life of infinite duration under new conditions, compared to which our present being is a
						thing of small importance. Perhaps the thought may be expressed as living chiefly with a
						view to death. I do not underrate the scriptural teachings as to the good that may be
						done in this world by right living. I do not desire to question the laudability of
						ambitions of various earthly kinds. My thought is that all this is made subordinate to
						the one central purpose of attaining blessedness in a world beyond. It cannot be more
						forcibly put than in those ominous words, "What shall it profit a man if he shall gain
						the whole world, and lose his own soul?" And though this conception may a.t first seem
						repulsive, it is the conception that pervades our literature. Bryant puts it direct in
						his stately lines: 
					
					
						So live, that when thy summons comes to join
						The innumerable caravan that moves
						To the pale realms of shade, where each shall take
						His chamber in the silent halls of death,
						Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night
						Scourged to his dungeon, but sustained and soothed
						By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave.
						Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
						About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.
					
					
						So live that you may die in the hope of a blessed immortality. Death
						is but the curtain that hangs between the two lives, and the life that lies beyond is so
						much grander than this little space that its contemplation robs death of its
						terrors— 
					
						 I wage not any feud with Death
						For changes wrought on form and face;
						No lower life, that earth's embrace
						May breed with him, can fright my faith.
					
					
						Eternal process, moving on,
						From state to state the spirit walks;
						And these are but the shattered stalks,
						Or ruined chrysalis of one.
					
					
						Nor blame I Death, because she bare
						The use of virtue out of earth:
						I know transplanted human worth
						Will bloom to profit otherwhere.
					
					
					
						For this alone on Death I reak
						The wrath that garners in my heart; 
						 He put our lives so far apart
						We cannot hear each other speak.
					
					 You say this is somber. In one sense it is, and yet it is the least somber and most
						comforting idea of the purpose of life and the relations of life and death that was ever
						given by any religion. The fact is, in spite of all the lightness we may throw into it,
						that life is a serious matter and death is even more so. But neither can be escaped.
						They are the two great inevitables—the is and the must be. We fight off the
						contemplation of what must be—we strive to forget—but time and again we must
						remember, and when we must this bible idea comes as a consolation that surpasses any
						other, and which therefore has won the full assent of our thinkers—of our great
						poets. If there be a time when the awfulness of it all can be contemplated with
						satisfaction, or even with perfect equanimity, I should think it would be when lost in
						the sonorous roll of the Coplas de Manrique—
					
					
						Our lives are rivers gliding free
						To that unfathomed, boundless sea,
						The silent grave!
						Thither all earthly pomp and boast
						Roll to be swallowed up and lost
						In one dark wave.
					
					
						Thither the mighty torrents stray,
						Thither the brook pursues its way,
						And tinkling rill—
						There all are equal; side by side
						The poor man and the son of pride
						Lie calm and still.
					
					
						This world is but the rugged road
						Which leads us to the bright abode
						Of peace above;
						So let us choose that narrow way, 
						Which leads no traveler's foot astray
						From realms of love.
					
					
						Our cradle is the starting place, 
						Life is the running of the race,
						We reach the goal
						When, in the mansions of the blest, 
						Death leaves to its eternal rest
						 The weary soul.
					
					
						Did we but use it as we ought,
						The world would school each wandering thought 
						To its high state.
						Faith wings the soul beyond the sky,
						Up to that better world on high,
						For which we wait. 
					
					
					There are many features of the Bible teaching whose adoption in the prevailing
						sentiment of English literature could not be shown in a single essay, although we may be
						justified in assuming that the Bible teaching controls them, even if it be not their
						original source. The common rules of morality, and the duties of the various social
						relations, are not sufficiently distinctive of the Christian religion to admit of an
						exclusive claim for it as their origin, without an investigation of comparative
						religions, and of historical influences that would be very extensive. The relations of
						parent and child, husband and wife, ruler and subject, master and slave, guardian and
						ward, judge and suitor, are regulated in all religions known to mankind, and there is
						such similarity in their regulation that it would be difficult, indeed, to lay claim to
						any particular teaching for one religion exclusively. And so with the more common moral
						offenses, as murder, theft, blasphemy, deceit, fraud, cruelty and the like. The more
						apparent influence will therefore be found in the doctrines concerning the relations of
						God to man, and of these there is none more peculiar to Christianity than the doctrine of the mediation of love. There is nothing
						exclusive in the doctrine of mediation, and nothing exclusive in the Jewish idea that
						"without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins." These are almost
						universal, and for centuries untold nations have groaned under the belief in angry
						deities who could be appeased only by the sacrifice of life or the offer of material
						gifts. If you turn to Homer you are wearied with the ever recurring statement of how
						someone poured libations, or
					
						 Laid 
						On the rich fat, raw portions from the limbs
						For sacrifice, and other parts he cast
						Sprinkled with flour of meal, into the flames.
					
					 And so the doctrine runs through all the old religions in some form, reaching its
						climax in the horrors perpetrated on the teocallis of Mexico. This idea of a divine
						being whose wrath can be appeased only by the blood of his creatures is so puerile, and
						so repugnant to common sense, that its general adoption can be explained only by the low
						conception of divinity. It is quite possible that it is to some extent still held among
						Christian nations on account of the prominence  of the
						figurative sacrificial idea in the Christian mediation, but the belief in blood
						atonement is so far dispelled that I presume I may refer to it here, without offense, as
						abandoned by the thinking world. The theory of the mediation of love, in its first
						stage, is set forth in the words
					For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believeth
						in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
					 Note the distinction. It is not a God of wrath, but a God of love; and the sacrifice
						is offered not by guilty men, but by a loving deity. But why the cruel death? It was the
						supreme test of love—
					
						Greater love hath no man than this; that a man lay down his life for his friends.
						For scarcely for a righteous man will one die.
						 Yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. 
						But God commendeth his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners Christ died
							for us.
						We love him because he first loved us.
						If a man love me he will keep my words; and my Father will love him, and make our
							abode with him.
					
					 These extracts cover the line of the doctrineof the
						mediation of love, which is a doctrine of the Bible alone. It places love above all
						else. It makes Christianity the religion of love; and love the drawing power of
						religion. This was Christ's teaching of his mission: "And I, if I be lifted up from the
						earth, will draw all men unto me." And this is the mediation not only between God and
						man, but also between man and man. Again and again is the injunction made not merely to
						love among the brethren, but also for a reaching out of love to those who may be
						affected by it and so reclaimed; even as the love of God reached out in mediation.
						Consider this strange teaching:  Ye have heard that it hath been
							said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, Love
							your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for
							them which despitefully use you and persecute you: That ye may be the children of your
							Father which is in heaven. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do
							not even the publicans the same? Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is
							in heaven is perfect.
					
					
					Now this conception of love as a means of mediationas a power to reconcile God to man
						and man to man—'is absolutely unique with the religion of the Bible. It is the
						very central thought and essence of that religion, and it can be put no stronger than in
						the words of St. John:  Beloved, let us love one another, for love
							is of God; and everyone that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that loveth
							not, knoweth not God; for God is love. 
					
					And I submit that this idea permeates English literature—not merely religious
						literature, but poetry and fiction and the drama. It is not only on the Angel's list
						that Abou Ben Adhem's name leads all the rest because he loves his fellow men. The
						novelist writes it there. The poet writes it there. The dramatist writes it there. It is
						an universal ideal. Literature dare not refuse it. It would sacrifice itself if it did
						not recognize that sentiment which but a few years ago made friend and foe stop in their
						heated contest and stand uncovered before the bier of Henry George, because he had
						proven his love for the human race, broadly and beyond dispute. I  believe that Holland does not at all exaggerate the effect of this sentiment
						in his lines, so far at least as the general tenor of English literature is
						concerned:
					
						In all the crowded universe
						There is but one stupendous Word; 
						And huge and rough, or trimmed and terse,
						Its fragments build and undergird
						The songs and stories we rehearse.
					
					
						And this great word, all words above,
						Including, yet defying all—
						Soft as the crooning of the dove, 
						And strong as the Archangel's call—
						Means only this—means only love!
					
					
						The love of home and native land,
						The love that springs in son and sire,
						And that which welds the heart and hand 
						Of man and maiden in its fire, 
						Are signs, by which we understand,
					
					
						The love whose passion shook the Cross;—
						And all those loves that, deep and broad, 
						Make princely gain of piteous loss,
						Reveal the love that lives in God
						As in a blood-illumined gloss. 
					
					It is hardly necessary to offer proof that we set as our very highest ideal the spirit
						of self-sacrifice and earnest effort for race, for nation,
						for neighbors—the spirit that seeks especially to help the poor and
						friendless— the spirit of love to man. There is the whole of our Christmas
						literature, and a very large literature it has grown to be, which is based exclusively
						on this motive, and which could not exist without it. And who would wish to live without
						it—who—pagan, Jew, or infidel—would wish to have the world lose the
						beautiful Christmas spirit? It is the climax of religious aspirations known to
						man— 
					
						Peace beginning to be 
						Deep as the sleep of the sea 
						When the stars their faces glass
						In its blue tranquillity—
						Hearts of men upon earth
						 Never once still from their birth, 
						To rest as the wild waters rest
						With the colors of heaven on their breast.
					
					

						Love, which is sunlight of peace, 
						Age by age to increase 
						Till anger and hatreds are dead, 
						And sorrow and death shall cease—
						"Peace on earth and good-will!"
						Souls that are gentle and still 
						Hear the first music of this
						Far off, infinite bliss.
					
					
					 I have now endeavored to demonstrate, or rather to illustrate, the fact that the
						really great debt of English literature to the Bible is a debt for ideas—for great
						thoughts which have given the best of our literature. The debt is of this character
						because the religion of the Bible is the religion of the English-speaking peoples, and
						all that is highest and best of any people is included in the religion of that people.
						But the illustrations I have given are the barest suggestion of the full truth, which is
						that the religion of the Bible permeates English literature. It cannot be separated out
						any more than the blood can be taken out of a man and leave him a living creature. This
						is particularly noticeable in Shakespeare, for it is clearly impossible that any man
						should have written Shakespeare's works, without being familiar with Bible
						thought—almost with Bible phrases. Note how closely they follow in common
						instances.* The Bible phrase is: "A good name 2
						
							2 *Note-The quotations are from the King
							James' version, which Shakespeare did not know, but they do not differ materially from
							the same passages in the Bishops' Bible, which he did know. 
						 is rather to be chosen than great riches." Shakespeare's
						words are:
					
						Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, 
						Is the immediate jewel of their souls. 
						Who steals my purse steals trash, etc.
					
					 The Bible phrase is: The merciful man doeth good to his own soul.
						
					
					Shakespeare's words are:
					
						The quality of mercy is not strained.
						It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven 
						Upon the place beneath. It is twice bless'd,
						It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes.
					
					 The Bible phrase is:  I have been young, and now am old, yet have
							I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.
					
					Shakespeare's words are:
					
						Had I but served my God with half the zeal
						I served my king, he would not in mine age
						Have left me naked to mine enemies.
					
					And so it is throughout English literature, in the poem, the novel, the essay, the
						drama. Whenever you pass out of the realm of common things and approach the
						supernatural, or the higher levels of human life, you come to Bible suggestions. It is
						just as naturally and necessarily so as that you should come  on suggestions of Anglo-Saxon derivations. At least it seems natural to us
						who look on literature as not only the product of the thought of a nation, but also as
						the product of the demand of a nation. And yet it must have been that this was not so
						before the invention of printing had made literature accessible to the masses, and,
						indeed, long afterward, for books were luxuries long after printing was invented. And it
						is an historical truth that while books remained the luxuries of the learned few there
						was in them a vast surplusage of the mythologies of Greece and Rome in particular, and
						this continued even to the opening of the present century in what is called "a wealth of
						classic allusion."
					And now that we have reached this conclusion as to the facts—now that we may say
						that the religion of the Bible has driven all other religions from English literature as
						potential factors—now that we recognize that our whole literature adopts its
						conceptions of heaven and earth, of the divine and the human, of good and bad, of the
						noble and the vile, what is the debt? How shall we itemize the statement of what is
						owing? Clearly the first and the plainest item is the superior  character of the ideas introduced, their loftier tone, their grander
						aspirations, their tendency to make mankind more lovable to mankind. This is a great
						debt. Its measure is the superiority of the Christian religion over other religions in
						its teachings of the relations of God to man, and man to man. The second, and in purely
						literary consideration, the greater item, is that it makes our literature comprehensible
						to the people. It is essential to the utility of a literature that it be understood. I
						am aware that there is a school of would-be literati who imagine that merit lies in
						concealment, who veil thought with meshed words, who study out symbols and signs to
						convey hidden meanings, whose aim is to mean what they do not say; and I am aware that
						the devotees of this vogue insist that our great English writers have all been similarly
						afflicted, and that they put in hours seeking for hidden meanings that the author never
						dreamed of, even going so far as to find cryptograms showing that he did not, write what
						he wrote. But I avow that there was never a man wise enough to think a great thought who
						was not also wise enough to know that the masses.would have  a hard enough time to understand it even when written large in plain English and with
						explanatory footnotes. The object of the great author is to convey thought—not to
						conceal it. And to this end the thorough adoption of the religion of the people into
						literature is of the utmost aid.
					 Possibly we can reach a clearer conception of what the Bible has done for literature
						in this respect by a consideration of what it has not done for something else. We divide
						the learning of men into science, literature and art. Has the Bible done anything for
						science? The controversy is a vast one. The enemies of religion urge that it has stood
						in the way of science. They point to the Christian world forced for years to use the Ro-
						man numerals instead of the Arabic on account of religious prejudice. They point to
						Galileo and the hindrance to astronomical study. They point to Columbus and the Spanish
						bishops declaring the impiety of the belief in a new world where the gospel could not
						have reached. They come down much later, in the controversy over geology, to the point
						where the Christian world sneered with Cowper at those who
					
					
						Drill and bore 
						The solid earth, and from the strata there
						Extract a register, by which we learn
						That he who made it, and reveal'd its date
						To Moses, was mistaken in its age. 
					
					But looking back over all this from the vantage ground of today men on all sides
						concede that all this controversy resulted from a misconception of the religion of the
						Bible, and that the opposition to scientific progress was the product of human
						stupidity, not of divine wisdom. The consensus of modern thought leaves the relation of
						the Bible to science'just where it stood on the creation morn, when the Lord said:
					
						Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and let them have dominion over
							the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all
							the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. 
						And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of
							the air; and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them; and whatsoever
							Adam called every living creature that was the name thereof.
					
					 In other words the religion of the Bible simply opens wide the door of nature and  says to man "enter and learn what you may." But it stops
						there. Its sturdiest champions cannot claim that the Bible was intended to teach
						science. There is no debt of science to the Bible as there is of literature to the
						Bible. 
					 And how about art? Is it indebted to the Pible? Certainly not in ancient times. The
						Jews had no art. The stern command from Sinai—"Thou shalt not make unto thee any
						grave image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or that is in the earth
						beneath, or that is in the water under the earth"—was enforced in its literal
						significance. The art of Greece and Rome had fallen into decay before Christianity
						became associated with temporal power, and it continued little more than a memory
						throughout the centuries until the Dark ages gave way to the Revival of Learning. In its
						beginning modern art seems to have drawn its inspiration from the Bible. The painting of
						Raphael Da Vinci, Titian and Corregio, and the sculpture of Donatello, Michel Angelo,
						and Sansovino were largely of Bible subjects, but it must be remembered that the great
						patron of their art was the Church, and the demand controlled to a large extent  the nature of the supply. The old masters must have drawn
						their inspiration largely from What remained of ancient art, aided by classic
						literature; and certainly as art developed from its new birth the earlier Christian
						motives yielded to pagan subjects, and the trend has been so steadily in that direction
						since then that to know high art today you must know the mythologies. The renaissance of
						art followed the renaissance of literature, and the two are bound together by subtle
						ties. Art has two sources of inspiration—literature and nature. It cannot live and
						thrive in defiance of literature, and for that reason art, in its common acceptation,
						has been repressed among the English-speaking peoples by the influence of the Bible on
						English literature. The permeating influence of the Bible religion has destroyed the
						demand for classic subjects and the ability to comprehend them. You cannot force the
						pagan mythologies in that unfriendly climate. They are taught in vain in colleges and
						seminaries. The people will have none of them. In English and American homes
						—protestant homes at that—you will find a thousand Madonnas where you find
						one  Venus—a thousand Christs where you find one
						Apollo. The Englishman or American knows nothing of the mythologies unless specially
						taught, and cares nothing for them. The figure of a Greek god or goddess wakes no
						sentiment in his breast. If he knows who it is he knows it only as he knows that "lbs."
						stands for pounds. To the Greeks it was different. These were the gods and goddesses
						they worshipped—to whom they prayed-to whom they poured libations—to whom
						they offered sacrifices.
					They understood what these figures meant—not usually from the figure itself,
						which was that of a typically perfect human being, but from the dress or insignia. And
						so the statuary and the paintings of the ancients carried messages to the masses which
						were understood, and which wakened responsive chords in their breasts, because the
						highest feelings of every people are the religious feelings. We can never have a
						distinctively English or American art except it be one that explains itself to the
						people and is comprehended by them, and in its higher levels it must be founded in the
						religion of the Bible. And such an art will surely develop in  this country, for the Bible has driven out the possibility of any other art,
						and has held the ground fallow until the master minds shall arise who shall be able to
						express the ideals of that religion in the forms which nature has put about us here. 
					That work has already been done for literature; and what art will owe to the Bible
						when there shall arise in this land a new and unique art—grand in its
						conceptions—reverent in its teachings—elevating in its
						influences—speaking a language that the untutored can understand—unfettered
						by the superstitions and false traditions of other lands—that is what English
						literature now owes to the Bible. It is a great debt-one whose magnitude is so far
						beyond our grasp that we lose ourselves in the effort to comprehend it. We realize
						ourselves but pygmies on the sands of time gazing with curious eyes at,the mighty surf
						beat of an ocean that mocks human power and submerges human endeavor. We build our puny
						dykes and dig our channels, but with the incoming tide they are lost forever, and the
						relentless sea goes on shaping the land ever to its will. 
					
					 You may doubt; you may question; you may deny; but before you are spread the pages of
						history recording the continued 'movement of man in ways that were not his ways and to
						ends that were not his ends. and there stand the words—"Behold I make all things
						new. And he said unto me, Write!" Can you deny that the prophecy is fulfilled ?

				

				
			
		
		

			
				OTHER BOOKS, BY SAME AUTHOR

				MASSACRES OF THE MOUNTAINS—
				A history of the Indian Wars of the Far West, by Jacob Piatt Dunn Harper
					& Bros.; price $3.75; for sale by all dealers.

				"Of the many volumes which have been written on our Indian Wars, this of Mr. Dunn, is
					entitled to rank among the best, if not as the very best."—The Critic.
					

				"Mr. Dunn's book has the great merit of sincere effort to bring the actual situation and
					the prejudices and habits of both sides into view."—The Nation.
				

				"A book which embodies a great deal of research, recounts much straightforward history
					and furnishes enough of romance, tragedy and pathos to stir by turns the reader's intense
					pity and indignation."—The Literary World.
			

			
				INDIANA—
				A Redemption from Slavery. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. (American
					Commonwealth Series), by Jacob Piatt Dunn; price $1.25; for sale by all dealers.

				" Mr. Dunn has struck on the line of genuine interest and dignity which runs through the
					history of the States formed on the soil of Northwest Territory."—N. Y.
						Independent. 

				Excepting Professor Johnston's 'Connecticut,' we may pronounce this last volume the most
					scholarly of the series. It certainly ranks in the very first grade."—The Critic.

				"His volume is in every respect one of the most valuable of an exceedingly valuable
						series."—Boston Traveler. 
			

			

			
				TRUE INDIAN STORIES—
				With Glossary of Indiana Indian Names, by Jacob Piatt Dunn; Sentinel
					Printing Company, Indianapolis; price $1.00, post-paid.

				" The author of this little volume of studies from the pioneer days of Indiana is the
					Secretary of the State Historical Society a trained writer and investigator, and our most
					competent authority on all that relates to the Indian tribes of the Ohio Valley. * * *
					Never before have all the facts been so well hunted down, brought into connected sequence,
					and told in a way to convey their full meaning of tragedy and human interest. * * * An
					index glossary of 67 pages gives the correct Indian form and etymology of nearly all the
					local names in the State of Indian origin or connection. The numerous illustrations are
					nearly all of special historical value. The volume might well be used as a history reading
					book in the schools of the Ohio Valley region."—American
						Anthropologist, Jan-Mar., 1908 (Signed review by James Mooney, of the Bureau of
					Ethnology.)

				 "An important addition to the modern literature included under the term "Americana,"
					that should find a place in the library of all interested either in philology or the early
					history of the States of this broad land. * * * It contains many facts not generally known
					to the public; it deals with a number of Indian tribes and Indian chiefs that have played
					important parts in the history of the State of Indiana."—The Indian's
						Friend, Nov. 19, 1908.


				 Includes the stories of The Little Turtle, Tecumtha, the Shawnee
					Prophet, Frances Slocum, etc. Sent, post-paid, by The Sentinel Printing Company,
					Indianapolis, on receipt of $1.00. 

			



		
	
