
   ----CITATION---- 
        Coulter, John Merle, 1851-1928. An analytical key to some of the common wild and cultivated species of
          flowering plants. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC0871
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        TWENTIETH CENTURY TEXT-BOOKS
        EDITED BY A. F. NIGHTINGALE, PH. D. SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGH
          SCHOOLS, CHICAGO
      
      
      
        OTHER BOTANICAL WORKS
          BY DR. JOHN M. COULTER.
        
          PLANT RELATIONS. 
              A First Book of Botany. 12mo. Cloth, $1.10.
            
          PLANT STRUCTURES. 
              A Second Book of Botany 12mo. Cloth, $1.20.
            
          PLANT STUDIES. 
              An Elementary Botany. 12mo. Cloth, $1.25.
            
          PLANTS. 
              A Text-Book of Botany. 12mo. Cloth, $1.80.
            
        
        D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,
          NEW YORK.
      
      
      
        
          TWENTIETH CENTURY TEXT-BOOKS
          
          ANANALYTICAL KEYTO SOME
              OF THE COMMON WILD AND CULTIVATED SPECIES OF FLOWERING PLANTS
        
        BY
          JOHN M. COULTER, A. M., PH. D.
          HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
        NEW YORK
          D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
          1900
      
      
      
        VERSO
        COPYRIGHT, 1900 BY D. APPLETON
          AND COMPANY
      
      
      
        PREFACE
        ONE purpose of this little pamphlet is to enable the beginning student
          to discover the names of some of the most common seed-plants likely to occur wild in his
          vicinity or in common cultivation. Only those plants have been included which bloom in the
          spring or early summer, as such plants form the most usual and the easiest introduction to
          such work.
        The region covered is that of the standard manuals for the Northern States—viz.,
          the district north of the northern boundaries of North Carolina and Tennessee and west to
          the 100th meridian. This does not mean that many of the plants do not occur south and west
          of this area, so that contiguous States may use the Key to some extent.
        To select a few hundred plants from so large an area is to run the risk of omitting some
          of the most common or most available plants of some regions. Teachers are urged,
          therefore, to send the names of additional plants which their experience may have found
          useful, that they may be included in subsequent editions. It is also strongly urged upon
          every teacher to obtain for reference one or both of the standard manuals for the region,
          in order that the Key may be supplemented and a greater range of plants examined.
        As the Key contains only a small percentage of the plants of any region, it will be
          necessary for the teacher to select the forms, and not to attempt to name the plants
          indiscriminately. Unless this is done, the result will be confusion and disappointment. It should be clearly understood, also, that to
          obtain the names of plants is not the chief service to be rendered by the Key. It is
          intended to illustrate those structures of seed-plants which are used in their
          classification, and so lead to some conception of the principal groups. To learn to
          recognize a group of plants is far better than to remember the name of a species.
        It is taken for granted that the teacher knows how to use a simple key, directions for
          which are far more effectively given with a plant in hand than by any amount of printed
          text. It must also be taken for granted that the teacher is familiar with the common terms
          used in descriptions. Some of these are defined in the Key, and others will be found in
          any good dictionary. Only such are used as seem absolutely necessary.
        The two standard manuals for the region are Gray's Manual and Britton's
            Manual. In many cases these two manuals give different names to the
          same plant. As the Key is intended as an introduction to either of them, the names in both
          are given when they differ, the first being the name used in the older Gray's Manual, the second the name used in the more recent Britton's Manual. It will be noticed that sometimes the name of the genus differs, and
          sometimes only the name of the species.
        The order in which the families are given is known as the order of Engler and Prantl, and
          differs from that found in Gray's Manual. It begins with what are
          regarded as plants of lower rank and advances to the highest, and is thought to express
          natural relationships better than any order yet proposed.
        JOHN M. COULTER.
        THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO,
            March, 1900.
      
      
      
        CONTENTS
        KEY TO THE FAMILIES
        I. MONOCOTYLEDONS
        Parts of the flower usually in threes (never in fives); leaves mostly parallel-veined;
          ours all herbs except Smilaceœ.
        1. Flowers usually with neither calyx nor corolla and massed
            upon a more or less fleshy axis (spadix)
        
          Marsh or aquatic plants, with linear leaves. 
              Flowers in a dense cylindrical terminal spike
                Typhaceæ 5
              Flowers in globular heads
                Sparganiaceæ 6
              Flowers in a cylindrical lateral spadix
                Araceæ 7
            
          Terrestrial plants, with broad or compound leaves
            Araceæ 7
        
        2. Flowers with calyx and corolla alike (perianth) or different, not collected upon a spadix
        a. Ovary superior (appearing within the flower)
        
          Pistils numerous
            Alismaceæ 6
          Pistil one. 
              Perianth of similar divisions or lobes. 
                  Fruit a pod. 
                      Styles separate or only partly united
                        Melanthaceæ 8
                      Styles solitary
                        Liliaceæ 9
                    
                  Fruit a berry. 
                      Stems not climbing
                        Convallariaceæ 12
                      Stems climbing by tendrils
                        Smilaceæ 14
                    
                
              Perianth of 3 green sepals and 3 colored petals. 
                  Leaves broad, net-veined, whorled
                    Convallariaceæ 12
                  Leaves narrow, parallel-veined, alternate
                    Commelinaceæ 8
                
            
        
        b. Ovary inferior (appearing below the flower)
        
          Stamens 3
            Iridaceæ 16
          Stamens 6
            Amaryllidaceæ 15
          Stamens 1 or 2 and massed with the style; flowers very
              irregular
            Orchidaceæ 17
        
        
        II. DICOTYLEDONS
        Parts of the flower usually in fives or fours; leaves mostly net-veined.
        A. ARCHICHLAMYDEÆ
        Corolla either wanting (apetalous) or of separate petals
            (polypetalous).
        1. Corolla wanting, and sometimes the calyx also
          (naked)
        a. Flowers in aments (dense scaly spikes); trees or shrubs
        
          Leaves pinnately compound
            Juglandaceæ 19
          Leaves simple. 
              Calyx wanting. 
                  A single flower in the axil of each bract; fruit a pod with
                      numerous downy-tufted seeds
                    Salicaceæ 20
                  Pistillate flowers 2 or 3 in the axil of each bract; fruit a
                      winged or wingless nut
                    Betulaceæ 21
                
              Calyx present. 
                  Fruit a nut inclosed by a cup or involucre
                    Fagaceæ 22
                  Spike of flowers becoming a pulpy aggregate fruit
                    Moraceæ 23
                
            
        
        b. Flowers not in aments
        * Shrubs or trees
        
          Leaves opposite. 
              Leaves palmately lobed; fruit in pairs and winged
                Aceraceæ 49
              Leaves pinnately compound; fruit winged at apex
                Oleaceæ 63
            
          Leaves alternate, simple. 
              Fruit winged all around
                Ulmaceæ 23
              Fruit berry-like. 
                  Anthers opening longitudinally
                    Thymelæaceæ 54
                  Anthers opening by uplifted valves
                    Lauraceæ 32
                
            
        
        ** Herbs; sepals sometimes petal-like
        
          Pistils more than one, separate or nearly so. 
              Flowers naked and in spikes
                Saururaceæ 19
              Calyx present, and usually colored or petal-like
                Ranunculaceæ 28
            
          Pistil one. 
              Ovary superior. 
                  Pod 5-celled and 5-beaked
                    Crassulaceæ 38
                  Ovary 1-celled, becoming an akene
                    Polygonaceæ 24
                
              Ovary inferior, 6-celled
                Aristolochiaceæ 24
            
        
        2. Calyx and corolla both present, the latter of separate
            petals (polypetalous)
        a. Stamens more than 10
        
          Trees, shrubs, or woody vines. 
              Leaves alternate. 
                  Pistils numerous. 
                      Leaves without stipules
                        Anonaceæ 27
                      Leaves with stipules
                        Rosaceæ 40
                    
                  
                  Pistil one. 
                      Fruit a pod
                        Tiliaceæ 52
                      Fruit fleshy. 
                          Ovary 1-celled; fruit a berry
                            Berberidaceæ 31
                          Ovary 1-celled; fruit a drupe (stone fruit)
                            Drupaceæ 44
                          Ovary 5-celled; fruit a pome (calyx fleshy)
                            Pomaceæ 43
                        
                    
                  
                
              Leaves opposite
                Saxifragaceæ 38
            
          Herbs. 
              Pistils several. 
                  Stamens on the receptacle
                    Ranunculaceæ 28
                  Stamens on the calyx
                    Rosaceæ 40
                
              Pistil one. 
                  Stamens separate or in 2 sets. 
                      Sepals and petals colored alike
                        Begoniaceæ 54
                      Sepals and petals unlike. 
                          Fruit a berry
                            Berberidaceæ 31
                          Fruit a pod. 
                              Leaves entire
                                Portulacaceæ 25
                              Leaves compound or toothed. 
                                  Sepals 2
                                    Papaveraceæ 33
                                  Sepals 4
                                    Capparidaceæ 37
                                
                            
                        
                    
                  Stamens united into a column
                    Malvaceæ 52
                
            
        
        b. Stamens not more than 10
        
          Trees, shrubs, or woody vines. 
              Fruit fleshy. 
                  Fruit a drupe (stone fruit)
                    Cornaceæ 58
                  Fruit a berry. 
                      Stamens alternate with petals. 
                          Leaves simple
                            Grossulariaceæ 40
                          Leaves compound
                            Araliaceæ 56
                        
                      Stamens opposite petals
                        Vitaceæ 51
                    
                
              Fruit dry. 
                  Pod 3-celled
                    Hippocastanaceæ 50
                  Pod 1-celled. 
                      Stamens separate
                        Cæsalpinaceæ 44
                      Stamens united in 1 or 2 sets
                        Papilionaceæ 45
                    
                
            
          Herbs. 
              Pistils more than one
                Crassulaceæ 38
              Pistil one. 
                  Ovary 1-celled. 
                      Corolla regular or nearly so. 
                          Sepals 4 or 5. 
                              Leaves alternate
                                Saxifragaceæ 38
                              Leaves opposite
                                Caryophyllaceæ 26
                            
                          Sepals 2
                            Portulacaceæ 25
                        
                      Corolla irregular. 
                          Stamens 6 in 2 sets
                            Papaveraceæ 33
                          Stamens 5 or 10. 
                              One petal with spur at base
                                Violaceæ 53
                              Petals not spurred
                                Papilionaceæ 45
                            
                        
                    
                  
                  Ovary 2- or 5-celled. 
                      Ovary superior (appearing within the flower). 
                          Ovary 2-celled
                            Cruciferæ 35
                          Ovary 5-celled. 
                              Leaves simple. 
                                  Parasitic plants, not green
                                    Monotropaceæ 59
                                  Green plants. 
                                      Flowers regular. 
                                          Anthers opening by holes at the
                                              apex
                                            Pyrolaceæ 58
                                          Anthers opening lengthwise
                                            Geraniaceæ
                                              48
                                        
                                      Flowers irregular
                                        Balsaminaceæ 50
                                    
                                
                              Leaves trifoliolate
                                Oxalidaceæ 49
                            
                        
                      Ovary inferior (appearing below the flower). 
                          Fruit a berry
                            Araliaceæ 56
                          Fruit dry. 
                              Fruit a 4 celled pod
                                Onagraceæ 55
                              Fruit splitting into 1-seeded halves
                                Umbelliferæ 56
                            
                        
                    
                
            
        
        B. SYMPETALÆ
        Corolla with petals united (sympetalous), at least at base.
        1. Stamens more numerous than the lobes of the
          corolla
        
          Ovary 1-celled. 
              Sepals 5
                Papilionaceæ 45
              Sepals 2
                Papaveraceæ 33
            
          Ovary 3 to many-celled. 
              Stamens separate. 
                  Style 1. 
                      Ovary superior
                        Ericaceæ 59
                      Ovary inferior
                        Vacciniaceæ 60
                    
                  Styles 5
                    Oxalidaceæ 49
                
              Stamens united into a column
                Malvaceæ 52
            
        
        2. Stamens as many as the lobes of the corolla or
          fewer
        
          Stamens opposite the corolla lobes
            Primulaceæ 61
          Stamens alternate with the corolla lobes, or fewer.
        
        a. Ovary superior (appearing within the flower)
        
          Corolla regular or nearly so. 
              Stamens as many as the corolla lobes. 
                  Ovaries 2, separate
                    Apocynaceæ 64
                  Ovary 1. 
                      Ovary deeply 4-lobed around the style. 
                          Leaves alternate
                            Boraginaceæ 67
                          Leaves opposite
                            Labiatæ 69
                        
                      Ovary not deeply lobed. 
                          Ovary 1-celled. 
                              Fruit an akene; leaves entire
                                Plantaginaceæ 77
                              Fruit a pod; leaves toothed to compound
                                Hydrophyllaceæ 66
                            
                          
                          Ovary 2- to 10-celled. 
                              Stamens free from the corolla or nearly so
                                Ericaceæ 59
                              Stamens on the corolla tube. 
                                  Stamens 4. 
                                      Pod opening by a lid
                                        Plantaginaceæ 77
                                      Pod not opening by a lid
                                        Verbenaceæ 68
                                    
                                  Stamens 5. 
                                      Fruit of 2 or 4 seed-like nutlets
                                        Boraginaceæ 67
                                      Fruit a many-seeded pod or berry. 
                                          Filaments not woolly
                                            Solanaceæ 72
                                          Filaments or some of them
                                              woolly
                                            Scrophulariaceæ
                                              74
                                        
                                      Fruit a few-seeded pod. 
                                          Style 3-cleft
                                            Polemoniaceæ
                                              65
                                          Styles 1 or 2, entire or
                                              2-cleft
                                            Convolvulaceæ
                                              64
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
              Stamens fewer than the corolla lobes. 
                  Stamens 4
                    Verbenaceæ 68
                  Stamens 2. 
                      Stems naked
                        Plantaginaceæ 77
                      Stems leafy
                        Scrophulariaceæ 74
                    
                
            
          Corolla irregular. 
              Ovules and seeds solitary in the cells. 
                  Ovary 4-lobed
                    Labiatæ 69
                  Ovary not lobed
                    Verbenaceæ 68
                
              Ovules and seeds 2 or more in each cell. 
                  Trees or woody vines
                    Bignoniaceæ 77
                  Herbs
                    Scrophulariaceæ 74
                
            
        
        b. Ovary inferior (appearing below the flower)
        
          Tendril-bearing herbs
            Cucurbitaceæ 81
          Not tendril-bearing. 
              Flowers not in an involucrate head. 
                  Leaves alternate
                    Campanulaceæ 83
                  Leaves opposite. 
                      Leaves with stipules
                        Rubiaceæ 78
                      Leaves without stipules
                        Caprifoliaceæ 79
                    
                
              Flowers in an involucrate head. 
                  All the flowers with strap-shaped corollas
                    Cichoriaceæ 84
                  All but the ray flowers (and sometimes those) with tubular
                      corollas
                    Compositæ 84
                
            
        
      
    
    
      
        AN ANALYTICAL KEY TO SOME OF THE COMMON WILD AND CULTIVATED SPECIES OF
          FLOWERING PLANTS
        
          I. TYPHACEÆ (CAT-TAIL FAMILY)
          Marsh or water herbs, with nerved and linear leaves, naked staminate and pistillate
            flowers in a compact cylindrical terminal spike, and a 1-celled ovary becoming a
            1-seeded, nut-like fruit.
          
            1. TỲPHA (CAT-TAIL FLAG)
            Tall herbs, with large grass-like leaves sheathing the base of the simple stem, which
              is terminated by a long and very dense cylindrical spike of flowers, the upper part staminate and wilting, the lower part pistillate,
              more compact, and persistent. 
            
              Tỳpha latifòlia. Stems 4-6 ft. high, the leaves (¼ to 1 in.
                broad) rising higher; staminate and pistillate parts of the spike contiguous. (See
                  Plant Structures, p. 239, Fig. 221.) In marshes or on the
                borders of ponds and lakes.
            
          
        
        
          II. SPARGANIACEÆ (BUR-REED FAMILY)
          Like Typhaceœ, but flowers in globular heads and with leaf-like
            bracts.
          
            1. SPARGÀNIUM (BUR-REED)
            Marsh or water herbs, with grass-like leaves sheathing the base of the stem, which
              branches above and bears scattered globular heads of flowers, the upper heads
              staminate, the lower larger and pistillate.
            
              Spargànium eurycárpum. Stems 2 to 4 ft. high; fruit heads 1
                in. broad, the fruit sessile, with the broad and depressed top abruptly tipped in
                the center. Borders of ditches, ponds, streams, etc.
            
          
        
        
          III. ALISMACEÆ (WATER-PLANTAIN
              FAMILY)
          Marsh or water herbs, with a basal cluster of ribbed, long-petioled leaves, naked
            branching stems, 3 green sepals, 3 white (sometimes pinkish) petals, 6 or more stamens,
            and numerous distinct ovaries becoming akenes.
          
            Alisma. Flowers perfect; stamens 6; carpels in one
              circle.
            Sagittaria. Staminate and pistillate flowers separate; stamens
              rarely few; carpels in dense heads.
          
          
            1. ALÍSMA (WATER-PLANTAIN)
            Herbs with ovate to lanceolate leaves mostly rounded or heart-shaped at base, loose
              cluster of numerous small perfect flowers, usually 6 stamens, and numerous pistils in
              a circle.
            
              Alísma Plantàgo or Alísma Plantàgo-aquática.
                Branching stem 1-2 ft. long; leaves 3-9-ribbed, with cross veinlets; fruit in a flat
                cluster, obliquely obovate, keeled on the back. Ditches, shallow water, etc.
            
          
          
            2. SAGITTÀRIA (ARROWHEAD)
            Herbs with arrow-shaped leaves, flowers in whorls of 3, the lower ones pistillate
              (with numerous pistils), the upper ones staminate (with numerous stamens), the flat
              and winged fruits forming dense globular heads. (See Plant
              Relations, p. 186, Fig. 163.)
            
              Sagittària variábilis or Sagittària
                  latifòlia. Stem ¼ to 4 ft. high; leaves exceedingly variable in shape; fruit
                obovate, with a long beak. In water or wet places.
            
          
        
        
        
          IV. ARACEÆ (ARUM FAMILY)
          Herbs, with acrid or pungent juice, thick or tuberous rootstocks, simple or compound
            leaves, small flowers crowded on a fleshy stalk (spadix), which is
            usually surrounded by a very large more or less showy bract (spathe),
            4-6 sepals or none, no petals, and fruit usually a berry. (See Plant
              Structures, p. 243.)
          
            * Spathe surrounding the spadix.
              
                1. Arisæma. Flowers covering only the base of the
                  cylindrical spadix; leaves compound.
                2. Richardia. Flowers completely covering the cylindrical
                  spadix; leaves arrow-shaped.
                3. Symplocarpus. Flowers completely covering the globular
                  spadix, which is surrounded by a fleshy shell-shaped spathe.
              
            ** Spadix not surrounded by a spathe, but arising from the side of a 2-edged
                leaf-like stem.
              
                4. Acorus. Spadix cylindrical.
              
          
          
            1. ARISǼMA
            Low herbs with a simple naked stem sheathed at base by the petioles of the 1 or 2
              palmately compound and veiny leaves, a conspicuous spathe arched above and inclosing
              the spadix, which is elongated and naked above and bearing at its base small naked
              flowers, the upper consisting of a cluster of nearly sessile anthers, the lower of a
              single ovary.
            
              Arisǽma triphýllum (INDIAN TURNIP. JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT). Leaves
                mostly 2, of 3 ovate-pointed leaflets; spadix thicker above, obtuse, shorter than
                the spathe, which is often variegated with white or purple, and hooded and pointed
                at summit. Rich woods. The turnip-shaped and wrinkled rootstock is intensely acrid.
                (See Plant Structures, p. 244, Fig. 225.)
              Arisǽma Dracóntium (GREEN DRAGON). Leaf usually solitary, palmately divided into 7-11 oblong lanceolate
                leaflets; spadix tapering into a long and slender tip which extends beyond the
                greenish tube-like and pointed spathe. Low ground.
            
          
          
            2. RICHÁRDIA
            Herbs with a basal cluster of large arrow-shaped leaves, a broad spathe spreading
              above and surrounding the slender spadix, which is densely covered above with naked
              staminate flowers, and below with ovaries.
            
              Richárdia Africàna (CALLA LILY). Leaves glossy green and broad; spathes large and pure white. A native
                of South Africa and very common in cultivation.
            
          
          
            3. SYMPLOCÁRPUS or SPATHYÈMA (SKUNK CABBAGE)
            Herbs with a strong odor, a basal cluster of very large and broad entire veiny leaves
              preceded in earliest spring by the nearly sessile spathes which barely rise out of the ground, are shell-like and very thick, and
              inclose a globular spadix densely covered with flowers consisting of 4 sepals, 4
              stamens, and 1 ovary. 
            
              Symplocárpus fœtidus or Spathyèma fœtida.
                Leaves heart-shaped, short-petioled, becoming 1-2 ft. long; spathe variegated with
                purple and yellowish green; fruit a globular or oval mass 2-3 in. broad. Wet ground
                and bogs.
            
          
          
            4. ÁCORUS (SWEET FLAG. CALAMUS)
            Herbs with aromatic rootstocks, 2-edged sword-like leaves, and 2-edged simple stems
              bearing on one edge the cylindrical spadix, which is densely covered with flowers
              containing 6 sepals, 6 stamens, and a solitary 2-3-celled ovary.
            
              Ácorus Cálamus. Stem leaf-like and prolonged far beyond the
                spadix. Margins of streams, swamps, etc. (See Plant Structures, p.
                219, Fig. 197.)
            
          
        
        
          V. COMMELINACEÆ (SPIDERWORT FAMILY)
          Herbs with jointed and leafy stems, leaves flat and sheathing at base, 3 green sepals,
            3 ephemeral petals, 6 stamens, a single style, and a superior 2- or 3-celled ovary
            becoming a pod.
          
            1. TRADESCÁNTIA (SPIDERWORT)
            Upright and nearly simple plants, with narrow leaves, blue flowers usually in
              terminal umbels, and blue-bearded filaments.
            
              Tradescántia Virginiàna. Smooth or somewhat hairy, often tall
                and slender; leaves lance-linear, tapering from base to tip. Rich ground. This
                represents a group of species rather than a single one.
            
          
        
        
          VI. MELANTHACEÆ (BELLWORT FAMILY)
          Like the Liliaceœ, but with rootstocks (instead of tubers), leaves
            always alternate, 6 stamens on the base of the perianth, and 3 styles (sometimes united
            at base).
          
            Uvularia. Leaves perfoliate; perianth segments acuminate; pod
              flat on top.
            Oakesia. Leaves sessile; perianth segments not acuminate; pod
              acutish.
          
          
            1. UVULÀRIA (BELLWORT)
            Herbs, with short rootstocks, rather low stems naked below and forking above, oblong
              and perfoliate leaves with smooth margins, yellowish drooping flowers solitary on
              terminal peduncles, narrowly bell-shaped perianth of separate spatulate and pointed
              divisions, much shorter stamens with long anthers, and a blunt 3-lobed pod.
            
              Uvulària perfoliàta. Glaucous throughout. ½-1½ ft. high, with
                1-3 leaves below the fork; leaves glabrous; perianth granular-pubescent within;
                stamens shorter than the styles, pointed at tip. Rich woods.
              
              Uvulària grandiflòra. Not glaucous; stem naked below the fork
                or with a single leaf; leaves whitish-pubescent beneath; perianth smooth within;
                stamens longer than the styles, obtuse at tip. Rich woods.
            
          
          
            2. OAKÈSIA
            Like Uvularia, but rootstock slender, stem acutely angled, leaves
              sessile and clasping and with scabrous margins, 1 or 2 terminal flowers (soon
              appearing opposite the leaves), obtuse or acutish perianth divisions, and a pod
              acutish at each end, 3-angled and acutely winged.
            
              Oakèsia sessilifòlia or Uvulària
                  sessilifòlia. Leaves lance-oblong, acute at each end, pale beneath, sessile
                or partly clasping; anthers obtuse; pod short-stalked. Low woods.
            
          
        
        
          VII. LILIACEÆ (LILY FAMILY)
          Herbs mostly from bulbs, with parallel-veined leaves, regular flowers, perianth of 6
            divisions, 6 stamens on the receptacle or perianth tube, a single undivided style
            (sessile stigmas in Tulipa), and a superior 3-celled ovary becoming a
            pod. (See Plant Structures, p. 245.)
          
            * Bulbous plants.+ Stems leafy, especially above.
              
                1. Lilium. Flower bell-shaped or funnel-form, the divisions
                  spreading or recurved above.
              
            + + Stem 1- or 2-leaved at or toward the base, naked above.
              
                2. Tulipa. Stem 1- or 2-leaved above the ground and bearing
                  an erect large flower.
                3. Erythronium. Stem 2-leaved from the ground and bearing a
                  nodding flower.
              
            + + + Stem naked; leaves linear or nearly so.++ Flowers in umbels.
              
                4. Allium. Umbel of flowers from a 1- or 2-leaved scarious
                  sheath; onion-scented.
              
            ++ ++ Flowers in racemes or spikes.
              
                5. Ornithogalum. Perianth parted to the base; flowers
                  white.
                6. Camassia. Perianth parted to the base; flowers
                  blue.
                7. Hyacinthus. Perianth bell-shaped, 6-cleft, with spreading
                  lobes.
              
            ** Plants with tuberous rootstocks or fibrous roots; basal leaves often in
                large clumps.
              
                8. Hemerocallis. Flowers yellow; leaves grass-like.
                9. Funkia. Flowers blue or white; leaves ovate or
                  heart-shaped, net-veined between the ribs.
              
          
          
          
            1. LÍLIUM (LILY)
            Herbs with scaly bulbs, simple stems, numerous scattered or whorled narrow sessile
              leaves, one to several large showy flowers, funnel-form or bell-shaped colored
              perianth with separate spreading or recurved divisions, and long filaments and
              style.
            
              * Flowers white.
                
                  1. Lílium cándidum (COMMON WHITE LILY). Stem 2-3 ft. high, with numerous
                    scattered, mostly linear leaves; flowers bell-shaped, few to many, 2-3 in. long.
                    Cultivated from the Old World. (See Plant Structures, p. 221,
                    Fig. 201.)
                
              ** Flowers nodding, orange-red, and black-spotted inside; leaves
                  scattered.
                
                  2. Lílium tigrìnum (TIGER LILY). Stem 4-5 ft. high, with lanceolate leaves bearing
                    bulblets in their axils; flowers numerous and mostly nodding, open
                    funnel-shaped, the perianth divisions rolled back. Cultivated from China and
                    Japan.
                
              *** Flowers erect, orange-red, and purple-spotted inside; leaves in
                  whorls.
                
                  3. Lílium Philadélphicum (WILD LILY). Stem 1-2 ft. high, with lanceolate or linear leaves,
                    mostly in whorls of 5-8; flowers 1-3, open bell-shaped, the sepals widely
                    separate and with slender stalks. Dry or sandy ground.
                
            
          
          
            2. TÙLIPA (TULIP)
            Low bulbous herbs, with basal cluster of few leaves, a simple naked stem bearing a
              single large erect flower, bell-shaped perianth of separate broad divisions which are
              neither recurved nor spreading, and 3 short sessile stigmas.
            
              Tùlipa Gesneriàna (COMMON TULIP). Leaves 3-6, broad; flower mostly in shades of red and yellow, the
                perianth segments very obtuse. Cultivated from Asia Minor.
            
          
          
            3. ERYTHRÒNIUM (DOG-TOOTH VIOLET)
            Low herbs, with a deep bulb, 2 smooth and shining flat elliptical or lanceolate
              leaves sheathing the base of the naked stem, which bears a single nodding flower,
              perianth of 6 separate and recurved or spreading divisions, and a long style.
            
              Erythrònium Americànum (YELLOW ADDER-TONGUE). Leaves purple and white-spotted; flowers light
                yellow. Rich ground. (See Plant Relations, p. 144, Fig. 144; or
                  Plant Structures, p. 250, Fig. 231.)
              Erythrònium álbidum (WHITE DOG-TOOTH VIOLET). Leaves less or not at all spotted;
                flowers pinkish-white. Rich ground.
            
          
          
            4. ÁLLIUM (ONION. GARLIC)
            Strong-scented herbs, with coated bulb, basal cluster of leaves, naked stem bearing a
              terminal umbel of small flowers, colored perianth of distinct (or nearly so)
              divisions, and a 3-lobed pod.
            
              Állium tricóccum (WILD LEEK). Stem 4-12 in. high, from clustered bulbs, bearing an erect umbel of
                numerous greenish-white flowers; leaves 2 or 3, elliptic-lanceolate, 5-9 in. long,
                appearing in early spring and dying before the flowers appear. Rich woods.
              Állium cérnuum (WILD ONION). Stem ½-2 ft. high, from clustered bulbs, bearing a loose nodding
                umbel of few to many rose-colored flowers; leaves linear, flattened and sharply keeled, 1 ft. long; sepals oblong-ovate, acute,
                shorter than the stamens.
              Állium Canadénse (WILD GARLIC). Stem 1 ft. high or more, from a solitary fibrous-coated bulb,
                bearing a densely bulbiferous or few-flowered umbel; leaves narrowly linear; sepals
                narrowly lanceolate, obtusish, equaling or exceeding the stamens. Moist
                meadows.
            
          
          
            5. ORNITHÓGALUM (STAR-OF-BETHLEHEM)
            Low bulbous herbs, with basal cluster of linear leaves, naked stem bearing a
              spreading cluster of white flowers, and perianth with spreading divisions.
            
              Ornithógalum umbellàtum. Stem 4-9 in. high; flowers 5-8 on
                long and spreading pedicels; sepals green in the middle on the outside. Cultivated
                from Europe, and often escaped. (See Plant Structures, p. 247,
                Fig. 228.)
            
          
          
            6. CAMÁSSIA or QUAMÁSIA
            Bulbous herbs with basal cluster of linear leaves, simple naked stem bearing a raceme
              of pale blue flowers, perianth of 6 spreading divisions, a long and slender style, and
              a 3-angled ovary.
            
              Camássia Fràseri or Quamásia hyacínthina
                  (EASTERN CAMASS. WILD
                  HYACINTH). Stem 1 ft. high or more; flowers with bracts longer
                than the pedicels, ⅓-½ in. long. Rich ground.
            
          
          
            7. HYACÍNTHUS (HYACINTH)
            Bulbous herbs with basal cluster of linear leaves, simple naked stem bearing a raceme
              of blue flowers, funnel-shaped or bell-shaped 6-cleft perianth with spreading lobes,
              and stamens inserted on the tube of the perianth.
            
              Hyacínthus orientàlis. The common cultivated hyacinth from the
                Mediterranean region, made to vary greatly in color, and single or double.
            
          
          
            8. HEMEROCÁLLIS (DAY LILY)
            Tall herbs, with fleshy-fibrous roots, long linear 2-ranked leaves at the base of the
              tall stem which bears at the summit several large yellow flowers, lily-like
              funnel-form perianth with short tube and spreading 6-parted limb, stamens with long
              slender filaments inserted on the tube, long slender style, and a 3-angled pod.
            
              Hemerocállis fúlva. Flowers tawny orange, the inner perianth
                divisions wavy. Cultivated from Europe, and often escaped.
            
          
          
            9. FÚNKIA
            Herbs with a basal cluster of large ovate-heart-shaped ribbed and petioled leaves,
              naked stem bearing a raceme of white or blue flowers, funnel-form 6-cleft perianth
              with lobes hardly spreading, stamens inserted on the tube, and an oblong prismatic
              pod.
            
              Fúnkia subcordàta (WHITE DAY LILY). Flowers white and long, tubular funnel-form.
                Cultivated from Japan and China. (See Plant Structures, p. 248,
                Fig. 229.)
            
          
        
        
        
          VIII. CONVALLARIACEÆ (LILY-OF-THE-VALLEY FAMILY)
          Like the Liliaceœ, but with fibrous roots or thickened rootstocks,
            broad and often net-veined leaves, perianth divisions distinct or united, 1 or 3 styles,
            and fruit a berry.
          
            * Leaves parallel-veined, mostly alternate.+ Perianth of separate
                divisions; stamens on the receptacle, or nearly so.
              
                1. Clintonia. Flowers in an umbel on a naked stem.
                2. Disporum. Flowers single or few, hanging at the end of
                  leafy spreading branches.
                3. Smilacina. Flowers in terminal racemes on a leaf-bearing
                  stem; perianth 6-parted.
                4. Maianthemum. Flowers in racemes or a 2-leaved stem;
                  perianth parts and stamens 4.
              
            + + Perianth bell-shaped or tubular; stamens on the tube.
              
                5. Convallaria. Flowers nodding in a 1-sided raceme;
                  perianth bell-shaped.
                6. Polygonatum. Flowers nodding in the axils of the leaves;
                  perianth tubular.
              
            ** Leaves net-veined, all in one or two whorls on an otherwise naked stem.
              
                7. Trillium. Perianth of 3 green sepals and 3 colored
                  petals.
              
          
          
            1. CLINTÒNIA
            Herbs with slender creeping rootstocks, a basal cluster of 2-4 large oblong or oval
              ciliate leaves sheathing the base of a naked stem bearing an umbel of rather large
              flowers, a bell-shaped perianth of separate divisions, stamens inserted at their base,
              and an undivided style.
            
              Clintònia boreàlis. Stem and leaves 5-8 in. long; umbel
                3-6-flowered; flowers greenish yellow, ¼-½ in. long; berry blue. Cold moist
                woods.
              Clintònia umbellàta. Flowers half as large as in the last,
                white with green or purplish dots; umbel many-flowered; berry black. Rich
                woods.
            
          
          
            2. DÍSPORUM
            Low downy herbs, with creeping rootstocks, erect leafy stems branched above, sessile
              ovate thin and transversely veined leaves, slender terminal peduncles bearing one or
              two greenish-yellow drooping flowers, a narrowly bell-shaped perianth with narrow
              divisions, long and slender filaments, an undivided style, and a red and pointed
              berry.
            
              Dísporum lanuginòsum. Leaves taper-pointed, downy beneath;
                perianth ½ in. long, soon spreading. Rich woods.
            
          
          
            3. SMILACÌNA or VÁGNERA (FALSE
                SOLOMON'S SEAL)
            Herbs with simple leafy stems from thick or rather slender rootstocks, alternate
              veiny leaves which are sessile or nearly so, a terminal cluster of white flowers, a 6-parted spreading perianth, an undivided short thick
              style, and a globular berry.
            
              Smilacìna racemòsa or Vágnera racemòsa.
                Minutely downy, 1-3 ft. high; leaves numerous, oblong to lanceolate, abruptly
                somewhat petioled; flowers 1/12 in. long, on very short pedicels in a compound
                cluster; berries pale red with purple spots. Moist woods and thickets.
              Smilacìna stellàta or Vágnera stellàta.
                Nearly glabrous, 1 ft. high or less; leaves 7-12, oblong-lanceolate, slightly
                clasping; flowers 1/6-1/4 in. long, on solitary pedicels in a simple few-flowered
                cluster; berries blackish. Moist ground.
            
          
          
            4. MAIÁNTHEMUM or UNIFÒLIUM
            Like Smilacina, but stem low, with 2 or 3 cordate leaves, flowers
              in a small simple cluster, each consisting of a 4-parted perianth, 4 stamens, and a
              2-celled ovary.
            
              Maiánthemum Canadénse or Unifòlium
                Canadénse. Pubescent or glabrous, 3-5 in. high; leaves lanceolate to ovate,
                sessile or nearly so. Moist woods.
            
          
          
            5. CONVALLÀRIA (LILY OF THE
                VALLEY)
            Low glabrous herbs, with slender rootstocks, 2 oblong basal leaves whose long
              sheathing petioles inwrap one another and appear stalk-like, a naked angled stem
              bearing a one-sided cluster of white and sweet-scented nodding flowers, a bell-shaped
              and 6-lobed perianth (lobes recurved), stamens included and inserted on the base of
              the perianth, a stout undivided style, and a red berry.
            
              Convallària majàlis. Very commonly cultivated, and native in
                the southern Alleghanies.
            
          
          
            6. POLYGONÀTUM (SOLOMON'S SEAL)
            Herbs, with thick and knotted rootstocks, simple erect or curving stems which are
              naked below and bear above alternate sessile or half-clasping veiny leaves, axillary
              nodding greenish flowers, a cylindrical perianth 6-lobed at summit, stamens inserted
              on the perianth tube, a single style, and a globular berry.
            
              Polygonàtum biflòrum. Smooth except the oblong, nearly sessile
                leaves; stem slender, 1-3 ft. high; peduncles 1-3-flowered; filaments rough,
                inserted toward summit of perianth tube. Rich woods.
              Polygonàtum gigantèum or Polygonàtum
                  commutàtum. Smooth throughout; stem stout, 2-7 ft. high; leaves ovate, partly
                clasping, or the upper nearly sessile, many-nerved; peduncles 2-8-flowered;
                filaments smooth, inserted at middle of perianth tube. Meadows and river
                banks.
            
          
          
            7. TRÍLLIUM (WAKE-ROBIN)
            Low herbs, with a short thick rootstock, a simple naked stem bearing at summit a
              whorl of 3 broad ribbed and net-veined leaves, a terminal large flower, 3 spreading
              green sepals, 3 white or purple petals, short filaments, 3 styles, and an ovate-angled
              or winged berry. (See Plant Structures, p. 246, Fig. 227.)
            
              * Ovary and fruit 6-angled.+ Flower sessile, dark purple.
                
                
                  1. Tríllium séssile. Leaves sessile, ovate, often spotted;
                    sepals spreading; petals sessile; fruit globose. Rich woods.
                  2. Tríllium recurvàtum. Leaves narrowed at base into a
                    petiole, ovate to obovate; sepals reflexed; petals narrowed at base into a
                    stalk; fruit ovate. Rich woods.
                
              + + Flower on a pedicel; leaves broadly rhombic-ovate.++ Pedicel longer
                  than flower; filaments shorter than anthers.
                
                  3. Tríllium eréctum. Pedicel 1-3 in. long, more or less
                    inclined or turned downward; petals ovate to lanceolate, ¾-1½ in. long,
                    brown-purple, white, greenish, or pinkish; styles stout, spreading, or recurved;
                    fruit ovate. Rich woods.
                  4. Tríllium grandiflòrum. Pedicel erect or ascending;
                    petals oblanceolate, 1½-2½ in. long, white turning rose-color or marked with
                    green; styles very slender, erect or nearly so; fruit globose. Rich
                    woods.
                
              ++ ++ Pedicel short, recurved, or strongly turned downward; filaments about
                  equaling anthers.
                
                  5. Tríllium cérnuum. Petals white or pink, ovate to
                    lanceolate, ½-1 in. long, wavy and recurved-spreading; styles stout and
                    recurved; fruit ovate. Rich woods.
                
              ** Ovary and fruit 3-lobed; pedicel erect or inclined; leaves petioled.
                
                  6. Tríllium nivàle. Small, 2-4 in. high; leaves oval or
                    ovate, obtuse; petals oblong, obtuse, white; styles long and slender; fruit
                    flattened globose. Rich woods.
                
            
          
        
        
          IX. SMILACEÆ (SMILAX FAMILY)
          Chiefly woody-stemmed plants climbing or supported by tendrils, with broad 3-9-ribbed
            and net-veined leaves, small flowers (staminate and pistillate on different plants) in
            axillary umbels, perianth of 6 divisions, 6 stamens, and a 3-celled ovary becoming a
            berry.
          
            1. SMÌLAX
            Shrubby or herbaceous, with usually heart-shaped simple leaves, small greenish or
              yellowish flowers, and a bluish-black berry. (See Plant Relations,
              p. 61, Fig. 51.)
            
              Smìlax herbàcea (CARRION FLOWER). Stems herbaceous, not prickly, usually climbing high; leaves ovate
                or rounded, heart-shaped or truncate at base, 7-9-nerved; peduncles much longer than
                the petioles and sometimes the leaves, bearing 20-40 carrion-scented flowers. Moist
                ground or near water.
              Smìlax rotundifòlia (COMMON GREENBRIER). Stems woody and armed with scattered prickles; leaves broad,
                usually slightly heart-shaped, 5-9-nerved, the 3 middle ribs the most conspicuous;
                peduncles shorter or scarcely longer than the petioles. Thickets, especially among
                brambles.
            
          
        
        
        
          X. AMARYLLIDACEÆ (AMARYLLIS FAMILY)
          Herbs with leaves and naked stem from a bulb, a 6-parted colored perianth, 6 stamens, a
            single style, and an inferior 3-celled ovary becoming a pod.
          
            * Perianth tubular, with a distinct crown on the throat.
              
                1. Narcissus. Stem with 1 or more flowers; stamens included
                  in the cup.
              
            ** Perianth not tubular, and with no crown.
              
                2. Galanthus. Stem usually with a single small nodding
                  flower; perianth divisions unlike, the 3 inner shorter and notched; anthers
                  pointed.
                3. Leucoium. Stem with 1-7 nodding flowers; perianth
                  divisions alike; anthers blunt.
              
          
          
            1. NARCÍSSUS
            Herbs with a basal cluster of linear leaves, a simple stem bearing 1 or more flowers
              from a scarious sheath, a perianth with cylindrical tube and 6 widely spreading lobes,
              and a conspicuous crown on the throat of the perianth.
            
              Narcíssus Pseudo-Narcíssus (DAFFODIL). Stem
                with 1 large yellow flower with a short and broad tube, and a large bell-shaped
                crown (as long as the perianth lobes or longer) with a wavy-toothed or crisped
                margin. Cultivated from Europe.
              Narcíssus poetícus (POET'S NARCISSUS). Stem with 1 white flower with a crown edged with pink and scarcely
                projecting from the yellowish throat. Cultivated from Southern Europe.
              Narcíssus Jonquílla (JONQUIL). Stem with
                2-5 small yellow and very fragrant flowers with slender tube, and lobes spreading
                horizontally and much exceeding the crown. Cultivated from southern Europe.
            
          
          
            2. GALÁNTHUS (SNOWDROP)
            Low herb, with a pair of pale linear basal leaves, a slender stem usually bearing a
              single small flower on a nodding pedicel, a perianth of 6 oblong and separate sepals
              (the 3 inner shorter, less spreading, and notched), and pointed anthers.
            
              Galánthus nivàlis. Stem 3-6 in. high, bearing a delicate
                drooping white flower, the inner divisions tipped with green. Common in
                cultivation.
            
          
          
            3. LEUCÓIUM (SNOWFLAKE)
            Like Galanthus, but larger, the stem more leafy at base, and
              bearing 1-7 flowers on nodding pedicels, the perianth divisions oval and all alike,
              and the anthers blunt.
            
              Leucòium vérnum. Stem about 1 ft. high, mostly 1-flowered.
                Cultivated from Europe.
            
          
        
        
        
          XI. IRIDACEÆ (IRIS FAMILY)
          Herbs with erect 2-ranked leaves, a 6-cleft petal-like perianth, 3 distinct or united
            stamens, a single 3-cleft style, and an inferior 3-celled ovary becoming a many-seeded
            pod.
          
            * Stems leafy.
              
                1. Iris. Perianth of 3 outer recurving and 3 inner erect or
                  incurring divisions; stamens separate.
                2. Sisyrinchium. Perianth deeply cleft into spreading
                  similar divisions; stamens united to the top.
                3. Belamcanda. Perianth parted to the base into nearly equal
                  spreading divisions; stamens separate.
              
            ** Leaves and flowers from a bulb.
              
                4. Crocus. Perianth with a long and slender tube.
              
          
          
            1. ÌRIS (IRIS. FLAG. FLOWER-DE-LUCE)
            Tall herbs with thick rootstocks, tall and often branching stems with sword-shaped
              leaves and large showy flowers, a 6-cleft perianth with tube prolonged beyond the
              ovary and large lobes (the 3 outer spreading or reflexed, the 3 inner smaller and
              erect), separate stamens, petal-like style branches, and an angled pod.
            
              Ìris versícolor (LARGE BLUE FLAG). Stem stout, 1-3 ft. high; flowers violet-blue,
                variegated with green, yellow, or white, and purple-veined, 2-3 in. long. Wet
                places. (See Plant Relations, p. 126, Fig. 132; or Plant Structures, p. 251, Fig. 232.)
            
          
          
            2. SISYRÍNCHIUM (BLUE-EYED GRASS)
            Low slender herbs, with fibrous roots, grass-like or lanceolate leaves, 2-edged or
              winged stems, a cluster of delicate blue flowers from a 2-leaved sheath, a 6-parted
              perianth with spreading divisions, stamens united to the top, and a globular pod. Many
              species have been described, but they were formerly mostly included in the
              following:
            
              Sisyrínchium angustifòlium. Stem 4-12 in. high; flowers
                delicate blue, becoming purplish (rarely white), the divisions of the perianth more
                or less notched and bristle-pointed, and ciliate. Moist meadows.
            
          
          
            3. BELAMCÁNDA or GEMMÍNGIA (BLACKBERRY LILY)
            Tall herbs, with rootstock and leaves as in Iris, loosely many
              flowered, a 6-parted orange-yellow and purple-spotted spreading perianth, separate
              stamens, and a pear-shaped pod which opens and discloses the blackberry-like cluster
              of globose, black, and fleshy-coated seeds.
            
              Belamcánda Chinénsis or Gemmíngia Chinénsis.
                The branching stems 3-4 ft. high. Cultivated from China and Japan, and sometimes
                escaped.
            
          
          
          
            4. CRÒCUS
            Low bulbous herbs, with a basal cluster of leaves with revolute margins, the flower
              arising directly from the bulb-like rootstock, a perianth with long slender tube and 6
              roundish lobes (fully spreading only in sunshine), and the ovary and pod seldom raised
              above ground. Several species are cultivated, varying widely in color (often
              variegated) and in time of blooming.
            
              Cròcus vérnus. Leaves 2-4, equaling the flowers, whitish
                beneath; perianth segments 1-1½ in. long, lilac or white and often striped with
                purple. Cultivated from Europe.
            
          
        
        
          XII. ORCHIDACEÆ (ORCHIS FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate leaves, very irregular and often showy flowers, 3 petal-like
            sepals, 3 petals (the lower one different from the others and called the lip), a central column composed of blended stamens and style,
            and an inferior 1-celled ovary becoming a pod with innumerable very minute seeds. (See
              Plant Structures, p. 249; also Figs. 235-237; also Plant Relations, p. 127, Fig. 133; also Figs. 137-142.)
          
            * Bulbous, with naked stem and 1 or 2 basal leaves; lip not spurred.+
                Basal leaves 2.
              
                1. Liparis. Flowers purplish; petals thread-like; lip flat,
                  entire, obovate.
              
            + + Basal leaf solitary.
              
                2. Calopogon. Leaf grass-like; sepals and petals spreading;
                  lip dilated at summit and bearded on the upper side.
                3. Arethusa. Leaf linear; sepals and petals arching over the
                  column; lip dilated at tip, not bearded.
                4. Calypso. Leaf ovate, thin; flower solitary; lip an
                  inflated sac, larger than the rest of the flower.
              
            ** Roots fleshy, fibrous; basal leaves 2; lip spurred.
              
                5. Orchis. Leaves large, obovate; lip turned downward;
                  sepals and petals forming a hood.
              
            *** Brownish or yellowish herbs with branched and coral-like rootstocks and no
                green leaves.
              
                6. Corallorhiza. Flowers small, dull, racemed.
              
            **** Leafy plants with tufted, fibrous roots and few showy flowers.
              
                7. Cypripedium. Sepals and petals spreading; lip a large,
                  inflated sac.
              
          
          
            1. LÍPARIS or LEPTÓRCHIS (TWAYBLADE)
            Low bulbous herbs, with 2 basal leaves, a short naked stem bearing a raceme of few
              purplish or greenish flowers, linear sepals, thread-like spreading petals, flat entire
              lip, and an elongated incurved column.
            
              Líparis liliifòlia or Leptórchis liliifòlia.
                Leaves ovate; petals reflexed; lip ½ in. long, wedge obovate, abruptly short
                pointed, brown-purplish. Moist woods.
            
          
          
          
            2. CALOPÒGON or LIMODÒRUM
            Bulbous herbs, with naked stem sheathed below by the base of the single grass-like
              leaf and bearing several large flowers, distinct and spreading nearly similar sepals
              and petals, lip on the upper or inner side of the flower distant from the column,
              raised on a stalk, dilated at summit, and strongly bearded on the upper side, column
              slender and winged at apex.
            
              Calopògon pulchéllus or Limodòrum tuberòsum.
                Stem about 1 ft. high, 2-6-flowered; flowers 1 in. broad, pink-purple; lip
                beautifully bearded with white, yellow, and purple hairs. Bogs.
            
          
          
            3. ARETHÙSA
            Low bulbous herb, with the solitary linear leaf hidden in the sheaths of the stem
              until after flowering, a single terminal large rose-purple flower, nearly similar
              sepals and petals united at base and arching over the column, lip dilated and recurved
              toward the tip, and column petal-like and dilated at apex.
            
              Arethùsa bulbòsa. Flower erect, 1-2 in. long; lip
                bearded-crested down the face. Bogs.
            
          
          
            4. CALÝPSO
            A small bulbous bog herb, with a single ovate thin leaf, a short naked stem bearing a
              large and showy (variegated purple, pink, and yellow) flower, nearly similar spreading
              pointed sepals and petals, a sac-shaped inflated lip larger than the rest of the
              flower, and a broadly winged petal-like column.
            
              Calýpso boreàlis or Calýpso bulbòsa. Stem
                3-5 in. high; lip woolly-hairy inside. Cold bogs and wet woods.
            
          
          
            5. ÓRCHIS
            Low herbs, with fleshy-fibrous roots, 1 or 2 basal leaves, a naked stem bearing a few
              showy flowers, nearly equal sepals and petals, and lip turned downward and spurred
              below.
            
              Órchis spectábilis. Stem 4-7 in. high; leaves 2,
                oblong-obovate and shining, 3-6 in. long; sepals and petals united to form the
                vaulted hood, pink-purple, the undivided lip white. Rich woods.
            
          
          
            6. CORALLORHÌZA (CORAL-ROOT)
            Brownish or yellowish herbs, with much-branched and coral-like rootstocks, no green
              leaves, a raceme of small dull flowers, oblique perianth of nearly similar sepals and
              petals, lip spreading at apex and bearing a pair of projecting ridges, and a 2-edged
              straightish column.
            
              Corallorhìza odontorhìza. Stem bulbous-thickened at base, 6-16
                in. high, 6-20 flowered; lip entire, thin, broadly ovate or obovate, abruptly
                contracted into a stalk-like base. Rich woods.
            
          
          
            7. CYPRIPÈDIUM (LADY-SLIPPER.
                MOCCASIN FLOWER)
            Herbs with tufted fibrous roots, large many-nerved leaves sheathing at the base,
              solitary or few large and showy flowers, spreading sepals, usually narrow petals, lip
              a large inflated sac, and a declined column.
            
            
              Cypripèdium parviflòrum. Stem 1-2 ft. high; leaves oval and
                pointed; sepals and wavy-twisted petals brownish, the former ovate to lanceolate;
                lip flattish from above, bright yellow, 1 in. long or less. Bogs and damp
                woods.
              Cypripèdium pubéscens or Cypripèdium
                  hirsùtum. Like the last, but taller and pubescent; leaves broadly oval and
                acute; sepals elongated lanceolate; lip flattened laterally, 1½-2 in. long, pale
                yellow. Bogs and damp woods.
              Cypripèdium acaùle. Downy, with naked stem 8-12 in. high,
                bearing 2 oblong leaves at base, a green bract at top, and a single flower; sepals
                and petals greenish, shorter than the drooping rose-purple (rarely white) veiny lip,
                which is nearly 2 in. long and has a closed fissure down its whole length in front.
                Dry or moist woods. (See Plant Relations, p. 132, Fig. 137; or Plant Structures, p. 253, Fig. 236.)
            
          
        
        
          XIII. SAURURACEÆ (LIZARD-TAIL
              FAMILY)
          Herbs with jointed stems, alternate entire leaves, naked flowers in spikes, 6 or 7
            stamens, and 3-5 more or less separate pistils becoming somewhat fleshy in fruit.
          
            1. SAURÙRUS (LIZARD-TAIL)
            Marsh herbs, with heart-shaped ribbed petioled leaves, a long slender terminal spike
              of white flowers, and carpels united at base and becoming wrinkled in fruit.
            
              Saurùrus cérnuus. Spike nodding at the end; filaments long and
                slender. Swamps. (See Plant Structures, p. 219, Fig. 195.)
            
          
        
        
          XIV. JUGLANDACEÆ (WALNUT FAMILY)
          Large trees with alternate pinnately compound leaves, staminate and pistillate flowers
            on the same plant, the former in aments with an irregular calyx, the latter solitary or
            in a small cluster with a regular 3-5-lobed calyx, stamens 3-40, and fruit a bony nut
            invested by a hull.
          
            Juglans. Stamens 12-40; hull not splitting; nut rough.
            Carya. Stamens 3-10; hull splitting into 4 pieces; nut
              smooth.
          
          
            1. JÙGLANS (WALNUT)
            Trees with odd-pinnate leaves of many serrate leaflets, long lateral staminate
              aments, solitary or clustered pistillate flowers (with 4-toothed calyx and 4 small
              petals), 12-40 stamens, 2 short styles, a 2-4-celled ovary, and a rough irregularly
              furrowed nut inclosed in a hull which does not open. The embryo (chiefly of
              cotyledons) sweet and edible. (See Plant Relations, p. 82, Fig.
              76.)
            
              Jùglans cinèrea (BUTTERNUT. WHITE WALNUT). Tree 50-75 ft. high, with gray bark; the
                petioles and branchlets downy with clammy hairs; leaflets 5-8 pairs, downy
                especially beneath; fruit oblong, clammy, pointed, the nut deeply sculptured and
                rough with ragged ridges. Rich woods.
              
              Jùglans nìgra (BLACK WALNUT). Tree often 90-150 ft. high, with rough brown bark; leaflets 7-11
                pairs, smooth above, the lower surface and the petioles minutely downy; fruit
                spherical, roughly dotted, the nut corrugated. Rich woods.
            
          
          
            2. CÁRYA or HICÒRIA (HICKORY)
            Trees with pinnate leaves, slender lateral and clustered staminate aments, pistillate
              flowers in clusters of 2-5 (with 4-toothed calyx and no petals), 3-10 stamens, 2 or 4
              short styles, a 2-4-celled ovary, and a smooth nut inclosed in a hull which splits
              into 4 pieces.
            
              Cárya álba or Hichòria ovàta (SHELL-BARK or SHAG-BARK HICKORY). Tree
                70-90 ft. high or more, with trunk covered with shaggy bark, which peels off in
                rough strips; leaflets 5-7, serrate, the lower pair much smaller; fruit globular;
                nut white, flattish, globular with thin shell.
            
          
        
        
          XV. SALICACEÆ (WILLOW FAMILY)
          Trees or shrubs with alternate undivided leaves, staminate and pistillate flowers in
            aments on different plants, no calyx or corolla, 2-30 stamens, a 1-celled ovary, and
            fruit a pod containing numerous seeds with long silky down. (See Plant
              Structures, p. 255.)
          
            Salix. Bracts of the ament entire; stamens few; buds with a
              single scale.
            Populus. Bracts of the ament cut-lobed at apex; stamens
              numerous; buds scaly.
          
          
            1. SÀLIX (WILLOW)
            Trees or shrubs, generally growing along streams, with lithe branches, mostly long
              and pointed leaves, 1 flower to each bract of the ament, and 2 stamens. (See Plant Structures, p. 219, Fig. 196, and p. 257, Fig. 240.)
            
              Sàlix cordàta. Shrub 4-10 ft. high; leaves lanceolate, rounded
                or tapering at base, sharply serrate, smooth; stipules usually large and
                conspicuous, serrate; pods glabrous, tapering, pointed, slender-stalked; flowers
                slightly earlier than the leaves. Along streams.
            
          
          
            2. PÓPULUS (POPLAR. ASPEN)
            Trees with broad and more or less heart-shaped or ovate-toothed leaves, scaly buds,
              one flower to each bract of the ament, 8-30 or more stamens, and 2-4 elongated
              styles.
            
              Pópulus tremulòides (AMERICAN ASPEN). Small tree 20-50 ft. high, with smooth greenish-white bark;
                leaves roundish heart-shaped, with a short sharp point and small regular teeth,
                smooth on both sides, with downy margins, on slender petioles laterally flattened;
                bracts of the ament cut into 3 or 4 deep linear divisions, fringed with long hairs;
                stamens 6-20.
              Pópulus grandidentàta. Tree 60-75 ft. high, with smoothish
                gray bark; leaves roundish ovate, with large and irregular teeth, when young densely
                covered with white silky wool, at length smooth on both sides; scales cut into 5 or
                6 unequal small divisions slightly fringed; petioles and stamens as in the last.
                Rich woods and borders of streams.
              
              Pópulus monilífera or Pópulus deltoìdes
                  (COTTONWOOD). Tree 75-150 ft. high; leaves broadly deltoid, with
                numerous crenate teeth and narrowly acuminate, sometimes ovate, rarely heart-shaped,
                or elongated petioles; scales cut-fringed, not hairy; stamens 60 or more. Borders of
                streams. (See Plant Relations, p. 70, Fig. 61.)
            
          
        
        
          XVI. BETULACEÆ (BIRCH FAMILY)
          Trees or shrubs with alternate simple straight-veined leaves, staminate flowers in
            elongated aments, fertile flowers in long or short aments, 1-5 sepals or none, 2-8
            stamens, and a 2-celled ovary becoming a nut (with or without a wing).
          
            Betula. Stamens 2; scales thin, 3-lobed, falling with the winged
              nuts.
            Alnus. Stamens 4; scales thick, entire, persisting after the
              nuts have fallen.
            Corylus. Stamens 8; the large bony nut inclosed in a leafy
              involucre.
          
          
            1. BÉTULA (BIRCH)
            Trees or shrubs with outer bark usually separable in sheets and that of the
              branchlets dotted, scaly buds, long and drooping terminal and lateral staminate aments
              with peltate scales (with calyx of 1 scale and 4 stamens), oblong or cylindrical,
              usually terminal, pistillate aments, 3-lobed scales (with a single naked 2-celled
              ovary), 2 or 3 flowers to each scale of the ament, and fruit a broadly winged and
              scale-like nutlet. (See Plant Relations, p. 71, Fig. 62.)
            
              * Trees with dark-brown close bark and sessile very thick fruiting
                  aments.
                
                  1. Bétula lénta (SWEET or BLACK BIRCH). Tree 50-75 ft. high, with very
                    sweet aromatic bark and reddish bronze-colored spray; leaves thin, ovate, more
                    or less heart-shaped, acuminate, sharply and finely serrate; wing of fruit not
                    broader than body. Rich woods.
                
              ** Trees with chalky-white bark separable in thin sheets, and pendulous
                  slender-stalked and smooth fruiting aments.
                
                  2. Bétula papyrífera (PAPER or CANOE BIRCH. WHITE BIRCH). Tree 50-75 ft. high; leaves ovate, taper-pointed,
                    sharply serrate; wing of fruit much broader than body.
                
              *** Tree with greenish-brown bark and soft downy-stalked fruiting aments.
                
                  3. Bétula nìgra (RIVER or RED BIRCH). Tree 50-75 ft. high, with reddish
                    twigs; leaves ovate, acutish at both ends, irregularly serrate, whitish downy
                    beneath; petioles, peduncles, and oblong aments tomentose; fruit broadly winged.
                    Banks of streams.
                
              **** Shrubs with brownish bark, small thick leaves, and smooth erect fruiting
                  aments.
                
                  4. Bétula pùmila (LOW BIRCH). Shrubs 2-8 ft. high; leaves obovate, roundish, or orbicular, pale
                    beneath, finely reticulated; wing of fruit mostly narrower than body.
                    Bogs.
                
            
          
          
          
            2. ÁLNUS (ALDER)
            Shrubs or small trees with flowers in terminal aments and developed before the
              leaves, elongated and drooping staminate aments (3 flowers to each scale, a 3-5-parted
              calyx, and as many stamens), ovoid or oblong pistillate aments (2 or 3 flowers to each
              fleshy scale, calyx of 4 small scales, and a 2-celled ovary), and a wingless fruit.
              (See Plant Structures, p. 257, Fig. 241.)
            
              Álnus serrulàta or Álnus rugòsa. A shrub
                forming dense thickets; leaves obovate, acute at base, sharply and minutely serrate,
                thickish; scales of the fertile ament becoming thick and woody in fruit. Borders of
                streams and swamps.
            
          
          
            3. CÓRYLUS (HAZELNUT)
            Shrubs with toothed leaves, staminate flowers in drooping cylindrical aments
              (consisting of 8 stamens), pistillate flowers several in a scaly bud (consisting of a
              single 2-celled ovary), and fruit a globular bony nut inclosed in a leafy cup
              consisting of 2 enlarged bracts.
            
              Córylus Americàna. Forming thickets; leaves roundish
                heart-shaped; involucre open above down to the nut, the 2 broad inclosing bracts
                cut-toothed and almost distinct.
            
          
        
        
          XVII. FAGACEÆ (BEECH FAMILY)
          Trees with alternate simple leaves, staminate flowers in slender aments or small heads,
            fertile flowers 1 or 2 inclosed in a small cup which becomes hard and more or less
            surrounds the nut, 4-7-lobed calyx, no petals, and 3-20 stamens.
          
            Quercus. Staminate flowers in slender aments; nut roundish, not
              completely inclosed by the cup.
            Fagus. Staminate flowers in a small head; nuts sharply
              triangular, completely inclosed by the prickly cup.
          
          
            1. QUÉRCUS (OAK)
            Trees with greenish or yellowish flowers, staminate flowers in slender aments (with
              2-8-lobed calyx and 3-12 stamens), pistillate flowers scattered or somewhat
              clustered), a nearly 3-celled ovary inclosed by a scaly involucre which becomes a hard
              cup around the base of the nut or acorn.
            
              Quércus álba (WHITE OAK). Large trees with pale, often scaly bark; mature leaves smooth, pale
                beneath, bright green above, obovate or oblong, obliquely cut into 3-9 oblong or
                linear lobes; cup saucer-shaped, much shorter than the ovoid or oblong acorn. (See
                  Plant Relations, p. 69, Fig. 60; or Plant
                  Structures, p. 255, Fig. 238.)
            
          
          
            2. FÀGUS (BEECH)
            Tall trees with close and smooth gray bark, horizontal spray, undivided strongly
              straight-veined leaves, staminate flowers in small heads on drooping stalks (with a
              bell-shaped 5-7-cleft calyx and 8-16 stamens), pistillate flowers usually in pairs at
              the apex of a short stalk (with calyx of 6 slender lobes), a 3-celled ovary with 3 thread-like styles, and sharply 3-sided nuts,
              usually 2 in each 4-valved prickly involucre.
            
              Fàgus ferrugínea or Fàgus Americàna (AMERICAN BEECH). Tree 75-100 ft. high; leaves
                oblong, ovate, taper-pointed, often coarsely toothed; prickles of the fruit mostly
                recurved or spreading.
            
          
        
        
          XVIII. ULMACEÆ (ELM FAMILY)
          Trees with alternate serrate pinnately veined leaves, 4-9 cleft calyx, no petals, 4-9
            stamens, 2 styles, and a 1-2-celled ovary becoming a winged or berry-like fruit.
          
            Ulmus. Flowers preceding the leaves; fruit winged all
              around.
            Celtis. Flowers appearing with the leaves; fruit
              berry-like.
          
          
            1. ÚLMUS (ELM)
            Large trees with purplish or yellow flowers in lateral clusters preceding the leaves,
              a 5-9-lobed calyx, as many stamens with long slender filaments, 2 short styles, and a
              fruit winged all around. (See Plant Relations, p. 67, Fig. 58; p.
              68, Fig. 59; p. 75, Fig. 65; also Plant Structures, p. 220, Fig.
              198; p. 256, Fig. 239.)
            
              Úlmus Americàna (AMERICAN or WHITE ELM). A large tree, usually with spreading branches
                and drooping smooth branchlets; leaves obovate-oblong or oval, abruptly pointed,
                sharply serrate, smooth above and pubescent beneath or soon smooth; flowers in close
                clusters, on slender drooping stalks; fruit ovate, smooth except the margins. Rich
                moist soil.
              Úlmus fúlva (SLIPPERY or RED ELM). A tree 45-60 ft. high, with very mucilaginous
                inner bark; branchlets downy; leaves ovate-oblong, taper-pointed, serrate, downy
                beneath and very rough above; flowers nearly sessile; fruit orbicular. Rich
                soil.
            
          
          
            2. CÉLTIS (HACKBERRY)
            Small or large trees resembling elms, but flowers appearing with the leaves, and
              fruit fleshy inclosing a stone (drupe).
            
              Céltis occidentàlis. Leaves reticulate, heart-shaped, ovate,
                or lanceolate, taper-pointed, sharply serrate; fruit reddish or yellowish, becoming
                dark purple, as large as small cherries, sweet and edible. Woods and river
                banks.
            
          
        
        
          XIX. MORACEÆ (MULBERRY FAMILY)
          Trees or shrubs with alternate leaves, staminate and pistillate flowers in separate
            clusters, 4-parted calyx becoming fleshy in fruit, no petals, 4 stamens opposite the
            sepals, 2 slender styles, and a 2-celled ovary becoming an akene covered by the fleshy
            calyx.
          
            1. MÒRUS (MULBERRY)
            Trees with broad-toothed leaves, flowers in separate axillary spikes, the whole
              pistillate spike becoming a thick oblong and juicy compound fruit.
            
            
              Mòrus rùbra (RED MULBERRY). Large tree; leaves heart-shaped, serrate, rough above and downy
                beneath, often lobed on young shoots; fruit dark purple, long. Rich woods.
            
          
        
        
          XX. ARISTOLOCHIACEÆ (BIRTHWORT
              FAMILY)
          Low herbs or twining shrubs with long-petioled heart-shaped leaves, conspicuous lurid
            calyx, no petals, 6-12 stamens, and a 6-celled ovary which forms a globular pod.
          
            1. ÁSARUM (WILD GINGER)
            Herbs with aromatic creeping rootstocks, a pair of kidney-shaped basal leaves, a
              solitary short-stalked flower close to the ground, a bell-shaped 3-cleft calyx, 12
              stamens with pointed tips, a short 6-lobed style, and a rather fleshy globular
              pod.
            
              Ásarum Canadénse. Soft-hairy; leaves (often with satin sheen)
                more or less pointed, 4-5 in. broad when full-grown; calyx lobes widely and abruptly
                spreading, brown-purple inside. Hillsides in rich woods.
            
          
        
        
          XXI. POLYGONACEÆ (BUCKWHEAT FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate entire leaves, stipules in the form of sheaths above the swollen
            joints of the stem, 3-6-cleft calyx, no petals, 4-8 stamens, and a 1-celled ovary
            usually becoming a 3-angled nut-like fruit (akene).
          
            * Sepals 6, the outer row reflexed, the inner erect and enlarging in fruit.
              
                1. Rumex. Stigmas 3; coarse weeds.
              
            ** Sepals 5, equal and erect in fruit.
              
                2. Polygonum. Leaves oblong to lanceolate; embryo curved
                  around one side of the seed.
                3. Fagopyrum. Leaves triangular heart-shaped; embryo in the
                  center of the seed.
              
          
          
            1. RÙMEX (DOCK)
            Coarse herbs with often large leaves, clusters of small mostly greenish flowers,
              calyx of 6 sepals (3 outer spreading in fruit, 3 inner larger and somewhat colored,
              enlarged after flowering, veiny, and closing over the nut-like fruit), 6 stamens, and
              3 styles.
            
              Rùmex críspus (CURLED DOCK). Smooth, 3-4 ft. high; leaves with strongly wavy-curled margins,
                lanceolate and acute, lower ones truncate at base; flowers in long slender crowded
                racemes which are leafless above. Common in cultivated and waste ground. Weed from
                Europe.
              Rùmex Acetosélla (SHEEP SORREL). Low, 6 to 12 in. high, with sour herbage; leaves narrow-lanceolate
                or linear, at least the lower ones halberd-form; flowers small, in a terminal naked
                spray-like cluster. Common everywhere.
            
          
          
          
            2. POLÝGONUM (KNOTWEED. SMARTWEED)
            Herbs with conspicuous stipules sheathing the prominent joints of the stem, small
              flowers, a 5-parted often petal-like calyx, 4-9 stamens, 2 or 3 styles, and a
              triangular or lens-shaped akene.
            
              Polýgonum aviculàre. Slender and smooth, mostly prostrate or
                ascending, leafy throughout; leaves oblong to lanceolate, acutish; sheaths 2-lobed
                or lacerate; flowers in axillary clusters or in spikes with leafy bracts; sepals
                very small, green with pinkish margins; stamens 8 (rarely 5); styles 3; nut dull and
                minutely granular. Yards and waste places.
              Polýgonum Persicària (LADY'S THUMB). Nearly smooth, 1-1½ ft. high; leaves lanceolate, pointed, roughish,
                often with a dark spot near the middle; sheaths bristly; flowers greenish-purple, in
                dense erect oblong spikes; stamens mostly 6; style 2- or 3-cleft; nut flattened or
                triangular, smooth and shining. Waste and damp places. Weed from Europe.
            
          
          
            3. FAGOPỲRUM  (BUCKWHEAT)
            Smooth erect herbs with triangular heart-shaped or halberd-shaped leaves, terminal
              clusters of white flowers often tinged with green or rose color, a petal-like 5-parted
              calyx, 8 stamens, and 3 styles.
            
              Fagopỳrum esculéntum or Fagopỳrum Fagopỳrum.
                Flower with 8 honey glands between the stamens; nut acute, smooth and shining. Old
                fields and thickets. Cultivated from Europe.
            
          
        
        
          XXII. PORTULACACEÆ (PURSLANE FAMILY)
          Herbs with entire fleshy leaves, 2 separate or united sepals, 5 petals, 5-20 stamens, a
            2-8-parted style, and a 1-celled pod.
          
            Portulaca. Stamens 7-20; pod opening by a lid.
            Claytonia. Stamens 5; pod splitting into 3 pieces.
          
          
            1. PORTULÀCA (PURSLANE)
            Low herbs, with scattered leaves, sessile flowers, 2-cleft calyx, 5 or 6 ephemeral
              petals, 7-12 stamens, a 5- or 6-parted style, and a globular pod opening by a lid.
            
              Portulàca oleràcea. Prostrate and smooth; leaves obovate or
                wedge-form; petals pale yellow. Cultivated and waste ground.
            
          
          
            2. CLAYTÒNIA (SPRING-BEAUTY)
            Low herbs in early spring from a small deep tuber, with a pair of opposite leaves, a
              loose cluster of rose-color or white (deeper-veined) flowers, 2 distinct ovate sepals,
              5 petals, 5 stamens, and a 3-cleft style.
            
              Claytònia Virgínica. Leaves linear-lanceolate, 3-6 in. long.
                Moist open woods. (See Plant Relations, p. 196, Fig. 164 b.)
            
          
        
        
        
          XXIII. CARYOPHYLLACEÆ (PINK FAMILY)
          
            Herbs with opposite entire leaves, usually 5 sepals (united or separate), 5
                petals, 10 stamens (sometimes fewer), 2-5 styles, and a 1-celled ovary becoming a
                pod.
              * Sepals united into a tube or cup; petals on slender stalks.+ Calyx with
                scaly bracts or small leaves at base.
              
                1. Dianthus. Calyx mostly cylindrical; styles 2.
              
            + + Calyx naked.
              
                2. Saponaria. Calyx round or 5-angled, obscurely nerved;
                  styles 2.
                3. Silene. Calyx 5-toothed, 10-nerved; styles 3.
                4. Lychnis. Calyx 5-toothed, 10-nerved; styles 5, rarely
                  4.
              
            ** Sepals distinct or nearly so; petals without slender stalks.
              
                5. Stellaria. Petals 2-cleft; styles usually 3.
              
          
          
            1. DIÁNTHUS (PINK. CARNATION)
            Ornamental herbs, with stems swollen at the joints, showy flowers, a cylindrical
              striate 5-toothed calyx with scaly bracts or small leaves at base, petals with slender
              stalk-like base, 10 stamens, and 2 styles.
            
              Diánthus barbàtus (SWEET WILLIAM. BUNCH PINK). Leaves
                oblong-lanceolate, green; flowers of various colors and sessile in a very
                flat-topped cluster; petals sharply toothed. Cultivated from Europe.
              Diánthus plumàrius (COMMON PINK). A low and tufted plant, with small narrow whitish leaves; flowers
                solitary at the ends of the branches, white or pink, or variegated; petals cut into
                a fringe of slender lobes. Cultivated from Europe.
              Diánthus Caryophýllus (CARNATION. CLOVE PINK). Stems hard or almost woody below;
                leaves long-linear and grass-like, whitish; flowers solitary at the ends of
                branches, of various colors (white, pink, red, yellow, and variegated); petals
                toothed or entire. Cultivated from Europe.
            
          
          
            2. SAPONÀRIA
            Coarse herbs with terminal clusters of large flowers, and characters of Dianthus, but with no bracts or small leaves at the base of the calyx.
            
              Saponària officinàlis (BOUNCING BET). A stout plant; leaves oval-lanceolate; large rose-colored
                (commonly double) flowers in flattish clusters; petals crowned with an appendage at
                the top of the stalk. Roadsides. From Europe.
            
          
          
            3. SILÈNE (CATCHFLY)
            Herbs with solitary or clustered flowers, a 5-toothed calyx, 5 petals with slender
              stalk-like base, 10 stamens, 3 styles, a 1-3-celled ovary, and a pod opening at apex
              by 3 or 6 teeth.
            
            
              Silène stellàta (STARRY CAMPION). Stems about 3 ft. high; leaves ovate-lanceolate, in whorls of 4;
                flowers white and in a large open terminal cluster; calyx bladdery-inflated,
                bell-shaped; petals cut into a fringe. Wooded banks of streams.
              Silène Pennsylvánica or Silène Caroliniàna
                  (WILD PINK). Plants 4-8 in. high,
                sticky-hairy, especially the calyx; basal leaves narrowly spatulate, tapering into
                hairy petioles; stem-leaves lanceolate; flowers clustered, short-stalked; calyx
                elongated, not inflated; petals wedge-form, slightly notched, pink. Sandy
                soil.
              Silène Virgínica (FIRE PINK). Slender, 1-2 ft. high, sticky-hairy; leaves spatulate, or the upper
                oblong-lanceolate; flowers few and loosely clustered; calyx cylindrical, not
                inflated; petals oblong, 2-cleft, deep crimson. Open woods.
            
          
          
            4. LÝCHNIS (COCKLE)
            Herbs resembling Silene, but with 5 (rarely 4) styles, and pod
              opening by as many or twice as many teeth.
            
              Lýchnis Githàgo or Agrostémma Githàgo (CORN COCKLE). Covered with long soft hairs;
                leaves long-linear; flowers purple-red; calyx-lobes like the leaves, longer than the
                broad petals. In wheat-fields.
            
          
          
            5. STELLÀRIA or ALSÌNE (CHICKWEED)
            Herbs with solitary or clustered white flowers, a calyx of 4 or 5 separate sepals, 4
              or 5 deeply 2-cleft petals which are not slender-stalked, 3-10 stamens, 3 styles, and
              an ovoid pod splitting into 6 pieces.
            
              Stellària mèdia or Alsìne mèdia (COMMON CHICKWEED). Stems weak and spreading;
                leaves ovate or oblong, the lower on hairy petioles: petals shorter than the calyx;
                stamens 3-10. Damp ground. Introduced from Europe.
              Stellària pùbera or Alsìne pùbera (GREAT CHICKWEED). Stems weak and spreading;
                leaves ovate or oblong, all sessile; petals longer than the calyx; stamens 10.
                Woods.
            
          
        
        
          XXIV. ANONACEÆ (CUSTARD-APPLE
              FAMILY)
          Trees or shrubs with alternate entire leaves, solitary axillary flowers, 3 sepals, 6
            petals (in 2 rows), numerous stamens in a globular mass, and few separate pistils
            forming large pulpy fruits.
          
            1. ASÍMINA (PAPAW)
            Shrubs or small trees with dark dull-purple flowers solitary from the axils of last
              year's leaves, and 1-4 large oblong yellowish-pulpy fruits containing several
              horizontal flat seeds.
            
              Asímina tríloba. Plants 10-20 ft. high, with young shoots and
                opening leaves rusty-brown; leaves obovate-lanceolate, pointed; flowers appearing
                with the leaves; petals veiny, round-ovate; fruit 3-4 in. long, sweet and edible.
                Rich soil.
            
          
        
        
        
          XXV. RANUNCULACEÆ (CROWFOOT FAMILY)
          Herbs with flower parts all distinct, 3-15 sepals, petals 3-15 or wanting, numerous
            stamens or rarely few, and many or few pistils becoming either pods, akenes, or berries.
            (See Plant Structures, p. 259.) When the petals are wanting the calyx
            is often colored like a corolla.
          
            * Sepals 4, petal-like; petals none or small; akenes numerous and long-tailed
                by the styles; leaves all opposite.
              
                1. Clematis. Climbing by the leaf stalks, or erect
                  herbs.
              
            ** Sepals 3-20; stamens mostly numerous; akenes numerous or several in a head
                or spike; leaves alternate or basal, the upper sometimes opposite or whorled.+
                Petals none; sepals petal-like.++ All but the lower leaves opposite or
                whorled.
              
                2. Anemone. Involucre leaf-like, remote from the flower;
                  leaves compound or dissected; pistils very numerous.
                3. Hepatica. Involucre close to the flower, of 3 sepal-like
                  bracts; leaves basal; pistils several.
                4. Anemonella. Basal leaves and involucre compound; akenes
                  4-15, many ribbed.
              
            ++ ++ Leaves alternate, compound.
              
                5. Thalictrum. Sepals usually 4, petal-like or greenish;
                  akenes few.
              
            + + Petals more or less showy; sepals usually 5; akenes numerous.
              
                6. Ranunculus. Petals 5, yellow (in ours); akenes in a
                  head.
              
            *** Pods or berries few; leaves alternate.+ Flowers regular, not in
                racemes; sepals petal-like.
              
                7. Isopyrum. Sepals 5, white; petals none; leaves
                  compound.
                8. Caltha. Sepals 5-9, yellow; petals none; leaves
                  simple.
                9. Aquilegia. Petals large hollow spurs projecting between
                  the sepals; leaves compound.
              
            + + Flowers irregular, in racemes; sepals petal-like.
              
                10. Delphinium. Upper sepal spurred and inclosing the long
                  spurs of 2 petals.
              
            + + + Flowers regular, very large, not in racemes; sepals not petal-like.
              
                11. Pæonia. Pistils 2 or more, becoming leathery
                  pods.
              
          
          
            1. CLÉMATIS (VIRGIN BOWER)
            Climbing herbs or vines with opposite leaves, solitary or clustered flowers, 4
              colored sepals, numerous stamens, and numerous pistils which ripen into a head of
              akenes with long plumose tails.
            
            
              Clématis Virginiàna (COMMON VIRGIN BOWER). Climbing over shrubs; leaves with 3 ovate,
                acute, cut or lobed leaflets; flowers white and rather small, in loose spray-like
                clusters, the staminate and pistillate on different plants. Stream banks,
                etc.
              Clématis Viórna (LEATHER-FLOWER). Stems
                climbing; leaflets 3-7, ovate or oblong, 2-3-lobed or entire, uppermost often
                simple; flowers large, solitary and nodding on long stalks; calyx at length
                bell-shaped, the purplish sepals very thick and leathery. Rich soil.
            
          
          
            2. ANEMÒNE (ANÉMONE)
            Herbs with basal leaves, those of the stem 2 or 3 together and opposite or whorled
              remote from the flower, solitary flowers on 1 or few stalks, few or many petal-like
              sepals, no petals (or mere rudiments), numerous stamens, and numerous pistils ripening
              into a head or thick spike of akenes, which are pointed or tailed and flattened but
              not ribbed.
            
              * Head of fruits with long feathery tails.
                
                  1. Anemòne pàtens Nuttalliàna or Pulsatílla
                      hirsutíssima (PASQUE-FLOWER). Low, and densely covered
                    with long silky hairs; leaves 3-divided, the lateral divisions 2-parted, the
                    middle one stalked and 3-parted, the segments cleft into narrow lobes; lobes of
                    stem-leaves all united at base into a shallow cup; a solitary peduncle bearing
                    an erect large flower which is developed before the leaves; sepals 5-7, purplish
                    or whitish. Prairies.
                
              ** Fruits merely beaked.
                
                  2. Anemòne cylíndrica. Slender, 2 ft. high, silky-hairy;
                    stem-leaves long-petioled, 3-divided, the divisions wedge-lanceolate, lateral
                    2-parted, middle 3-cleft, with lobes cut and toothed at apex; flowers 2-6, on
                    very long erect and naked stalks; sepals 5, rather obtuse, greenish-white; head
                    of fruit cylindrical, 1 in. long, the akenes tipped with the stout persistent
                    style. Dry woods.
                  3. Anemòne Virginiàna. Like the last, but often taller,
                    less pubescent or becoming almost smooth; stem-leaves fewer (3), 3-parted, the
                    divisions ovate-lanceolate; flower-stalks elongated, the earliest naked, the
                    others 2-leaved at the middle; sepals acute; head of fruit oval or oblong. Woods
                    and meadows.
                  4. Anemòne nemoròsa or Anemòne
                      quinquefòlia (WIND-FLOWER). Low delicate and smooth
                    plants, with simple stem and basal leaves from a slender rootstock; stem-leaves
                    3, long-petioled, with 3 wedge-shaped or oblong toothed or cut leaves; flower
                    solitary, the stalk not longer than the stem-leaves; sepals 4-7, oval and white
                    (sometimes blue, or tinged with purple outside); pistils only 15-20, oblong,
                    with a hooked beak. Open woods.
                
            
          
          
            3. HEPÁTICA (LIVER-LEAF. HEPATICA)
            Like Anemone, but the stem-leaves simple and in a whorl of 3 close
              to the flower so as to resemble a calyx; the basal leaves heart-shaped and 3-lobed,
              thickish and persistent through the winter, the new ones appearing later than the
              flowers, which are single and on hairy stalks.
            
              Hepática tríloba or Hepática Hepática.
                Leaves with 3 ovate obtuse or rounded lobes; sepals 6-12, blue, purplish, or nearly
                white; akenes several in a small loose head. Woods. Blooming very early.
            
          
          
          
            4. ANEMONÉLLA or SYNDÉSMON
            Low smooth herbs with compound basal leaves and 2 or 3 similar stem-leaves at the
              base of an umbel of white flowers, 5-10 conspicuous sepals, no petals, numerous
              stamens, and 4-15 pistils becoming strongly 8-10-ribbed sessile akenes.
            
              Anemonélla thalictroìdes or Syndésmon
                  thalictroìdes (RUE-ANEMONE). Stem and slender petiole of
                basal leaf rising from a cluster of thickened tuberous roots; leaves ternately
                compound; leaflets roundish, somewhat 3-lobed at end, heart-shaped at base; sepals
                white, rarely pinkish. Woods.
            
          
          
            5. THALÍCTRUM (MEADOW-RUE)
            Herbs with alternate ternately compound leaves, flowers in loose clusters, 4 or 5
              petal-like or greenish sepals, no petals, numerous stamens, and 4-15 pistils ripening
              into grooved or ribbed akenes.
            
              Thalíctrum diòicum. Smooth and pale, 1-2 ft. high; leaflets
                drooping, rounded and 3-7-lobed; flowers purplish and greenish, the pistillate and
                staminate ones on different plants; anthers drooping on fine hair-like filaments.
                Rocky woods.
            
          
          
            6. RANÚNCULUS (CROWFOOT. BUTTERCUP)
            Herbs with alternate leaves, solitary or clustered yellow (sometimes white) flowers,
              5 sepals, 5 flat petals, numerous stamens, and numerous pistils becoming a globose
              head of mostly flattened and pointed akenes. (See Plant Structures,
              p. 222, Fig. 202.)
            
              * Pale-yellow petals shorter than the reflexed sepals.
                
                  1. Ranúnculus abortìvus. Smooth or sometimes hairy,
                    branching, ½-2 ft. high; first basal leaves round-heart-shaped, barely crenate,
                    the succeeding ones often 3-lobed or 3-parted; stem-leaves 3-5-parted, the
                    divisions oblong or narrow wedge form; akenes with a minute curved beak. Open
                    woods and banks of streams.
                  2. Ranúnculus recurvàtus. Hirsute, 1-2 ft. high. basal and
                    stem-leaves nearly alike, long petioled, deeply 3-cleft, large; the lobes
                    broadly wedge-shaped; 2 or 3 cleft, cut and toothed toward the apex; akenes with
                    a long recurved beak. Woods.
                
              * Bright yellow petals twice the length of the spreading sepals.
                
                  3. Ranúnculus fasciculàris. Low, 5-9 in. high, pubescent
                    with close pressed silky hairs; root a cluster of thickened fleshy fibers; basal
                    leaves appearing pinnate; the long-stalked terminal division remote from the 2
                    or 4 sessile lateral ones, itself 3-5-divided; akenes tipped with a slender
                    straight beak. Dry or moist woods.
                
            
          
          
            7. ISOPỲRUM
            Slender smooth herbs with ternately compound leaves, 2- or 3-lobed leaflets, axillary
              and terminal white flowers, 5 petal-like sepals, no petals, 10-40 stamens, and 3-6
              pistils becoming ovate or oblong several-seeded pods.
            
              Isopỳrum biternàtum. Root fibers thickened here and there into
                little tubers; pods usually 4, spreading in fruit. Moist woods.
            
          
          
          
            8. CÁLTHA (MARSH-MARIGOLD)
            Smooth herbs with round and heart-shaped or kidney-shaped large undivided alternate
              leaves, 5-9 broad bright yellow sepals, no petals, numerous stamens, and 5-10 pistils
              with scarcely any styles becoming spreading many-seeded pods.
            
              Cáltha palústris. Stem hollow, furrowed; leaves crenate or
                toothed or nearly entire. Swamps and wet meadows. (See Plant
                  Structures, p. 260, Fig. 243.)
            
          
          
            9. AQUILÈGIA (COLUMBINE)
            Herbs with ternately compound leaves, lobed leaflets, large showy flowers terminating
              the branches, 5 sepals colored like the petals, 5 petals with short spreading lip and
              produced backward into large hollow spurs much longer than the calyx, numerous
              stamens, and 5 pistils becoming erect pods.
            
              Aquilègia Canadénsis (WILD COLUMBINE). Flowers 2 in. long, scarlet, yellow inside, nodding; spurs nearly
                straight. Rocks.
              Aquilègia vulgàris (GARDEN COLUMBINE). Stems 1-3 ft. high, many-flowered; flowers varying from blue to
                purple, white, etc.; spurs hooked. Cultivated from the Old World.
            
          
          
            10. DELPHÍNIUM (LARKSPUR)
            Herbs with palmately divided leaves, flowers in terminal racemes, 5 petal-like sepals
              (the upper one prolonged into a spur at the base), 4 petals (the upper pair continued
              backward into long spurs inclosed in the calyx spur), numerous stamens, and 3 pistils
              becoming many-seeded pods. (See Plant Structures, p. 260, Fig.
              244.)
            
              Delphínium tricórne. Stems simple, ½-3 ft. high; leaves deeply
                5-parted, their divisions 3-5 cleft; raceme few-flowered, loose; flowers bright
                blue, sometimes white; spur straightish, ascending. Woods.
            
          
          
            11. PÆÒNIA (PEONY)
            Herbs with ternately compound leaves, large single flowers, green sepals, large and
              often numerous petals, numerous stamens, and 2 or more pistils becoming leathery pods.
              (See Plant Structures, p. 220, Fig. 200.)
            
              Pæònia officinàlis (COMMON PEONY). Smooth, with large, coarsely divided green leaves; the very large
                flowers red, white, etc.; pods downy. Cultivated from the Old World.
            
          
        
        
          XXVI. BERBERIDACEÆ (BARBERRY FAMILY)
          Shrubs or herbs with alternate leaves, 4 or 6 sepals, 6 or 9 petals, and as many (or
            twice as many) stamens opposite them with anthers usually opening at top by 2 valves,
            and a single pistil becoming a berry or pod.
          
          
            * Shrubs; petals and stamens 6.
              
                1. Berberis. Flowers yellow; fruit a berry.
              
            ** Herbs; petals 6-9; stamens 8-18; flowers white.
              
                2. Jeffersonia. Petals and stamens usually 8; pod opening by
                  a lid.
                3. Podophyllum. Petals 6 or 9; stamens 12 or 18; fruit a
                  large berry.
              
          
          
            1. BÉRBERIS (BARBERRY)
            Shrubs with drooping racemes of yellow flowers, 6 roundish sepals, 6 obovate and
              concave petals, 6 sensitive stamens, and fruit a sour berry.
            
              Bérberis vulgàris (COMMON BARBERRY). Leaves scattered on the new shoots, mostly reduced to triple or
                branched spines and with clusters of the obovate and bristly-toothed new leaves in
                their axils; racemes many-flowered; berries scarlet. Cultivated from Europe, and
                often escaped.
            
          
          
            2. JEFFERSÒNIA (TWIN-LEAF)
            Glabrous herb with fibrous roots, long-petioled basal leaves parted into 2 half-ovate
              leaflets, a naked stem bearing a single white flower, 4 ephemeral sepals, 8 oblong
              petals, 8 stamens, and a pointed ovary becoming a pear-shaped pod which opens by a
              terminal lid.
            
              Jeffersònia diphýlla. Low; flower 1 in. broad, rarely in 3s or
                5s. Woods.
            
          
          
            3. PODOPHÝLLUM (MAY-APPLE. MANDRAKE)
            Herbs with creeping rootstocks, stems with 2 leaves, a solitary white flower, 6
              ephemeral sepals, 6 or 9 obovate petals, twice as many stamens, a large sessile
              stigma, and fruit a large fleshy berry.
            
              Podophýllum peltàtum. Flowerless stems terminated by a large
                round 7-9-lobed centrally peltate leaf (like an umbrella); flowering stems with two
                leaves 5-9-parted into wedge-shaped lobed or toothed divisions, and with the nodding
                flower (about 2 in. broad) from the fork. Rich woods.
            
          
        
        
          XXVII. LAURACEÆ (LAUREL FAMILY)
          Aromatic trees or shrubs with alternate simple leaves, staminate and pistillate flowers
            on different plants, a 6-parted colored calyx, about 9 stamens with anthers opening by 2
            or 4 uplifted valves, and a 1-celled ovary becoming a fleshy fruit with a stone (drupe).
          
            Sassafras. Trees; anthers with 4 valves; fruit blue.
            Lindera. Shrubs; anthers with 2 valves; fruit red.
          
          
            1. SÁSSAFRAS
            Trees with spicy aromatic bark, entire or lobed leaves, greenish-yellow flowers in
              clustered racemes and appearing with the leaves, 6-parted spreading calyx, 9 stamens
              (6 short rudiments in pistillate flower) with 4-celled and 4-valved anthers, and an
              ovoid blue fruit on a rather fleshy reddish stalk.
            
            
              Sássafras officinàlis or Sássafras
                Sássafras. Trees 15-125 ft. high; leaves ovate, entire or some of them 3-lobed.
                Rich woods.
            
          
          
            2. LÍNDERA or BENZÒIN (WILD
                ALLSPICE)
            Spicy shrubs with entire leaves appearing after the lateral umbel-like clusters of
              yellow flowers, 6-parted open calyx, and 9 stamens (15-18 rudiments in pistillate
              flower) in 3 rows with 2-celled and 2-valved anthers, and a globular red fruit.
            
              Líndera Benzòin or Benzòin Benzòin (SPICE-BUSH). Nearly smooth, 6-15 ft. high; leaves oblong-obovate,
                pale underneath. Damp woods.
            
          
        
        
          XXVIII. PAPAVERACEÆ (POPPY FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate leaves, 2 ephemeral or scale-like sepals, 4-12 petals, 6 to many
            stamens, and a 1- or many-celled pod.
          
            * Stamens numerous, distinct; sepals falling when the flower opens; petals
                wide-spreading, regular.+ Pod 1-celled.++ Flower bud erect.
              
                1. Sanguinaria. Petals 8-12; stigma 2-lobed on a short
                  style; juice orange-red.
                2. Argemone. Petals 4-6; stigma 3-6-lobed, almost sessile;
                  pod prickly; juice yellow.
                3. Eschscholtzia. Sepals united into a pointed cap which
                  falls off entire; petals 4; stigmas 4-6, spreading; pod long and slender, grooved;
                  juice colorless.
              
            ++ ++ Flower bud nodding.
              
                4. Stylophorum. Pod bristly; stigma 3-4-lobed, raised on a
                  style; flowers yellow; juice yellow.
              
            + + Pod becoming many-celled.
              
                5. Papaver. Pod globular or oblong; stigmas united into a
                  many-rayed disk-like body; juice milky.
              
            ** Stamens 6 in 2 clusters; sepals scale-like; corolla flattened, closed,
                spurred, or saccate.
              
                6. Dicentra. Corolla cordate or 2-spurred at base.
                7. Corydalis. Corolla with but one petal spurred at
                  base.
              
          
          
            1. SANGUINÀRIA (BLOODROOT)
            Low herb with thick rootstocks full of red-orange juice, a single basal rounded and
              palmate-lobed leaf, a naked stem bearing a single white flower, 8-12 spatulate-oblong
              petals, about 24 stamens, a short style, and a 1-celled oblong swollen pod.
            
              Sanguinària Canadénsis. Open rich woods. (See Plant Relations, p. 195, Fig. 164a.)
            
          
          
          
            2. ARGEMÒNE (PRICKLY POPPY)
            Bristly herbs with sessile lobed and prickly-toothed leaves often blotched with
              white, large showy flowers, 2 or 3 often prickly sepals, 4-6 petals, numerous stamens,
              a sessile radiate stigma, and a 1-celled oblong prickly pod.
            
              Argemòne Mexicàna (MEXICAN POPPY). Plant 1-2 ft. high; stems, leaves, sepals, and pods prickly; petals
                dull yellow to white, sometimes very large. Common in cultivation from tropical
                America.
              Argemòne platýceras. Setose-hispid all over; petals white; pod
                armed with stout spines. Plains.
            
          
          
            3. ESCHSCHÒLTZIA
            Delicate herbs with pale dissected leaves, long-stalked large flowers, sepals united
              into a pointed cap which falls off entire, 4 petals, numerous stamens, and a long
              slender 1-celled pod.
            
              Eschschòltzia Califórnica (CALIFORNIAN POPPY). A top-shaped dilatation at the base of the flower; flowers
                various shades of yellow, or white. Common in cultivation.
            
          
          
            4. STYLÓPHORUM (CELANDINE POPPY)
            Low herb with stems naked below and bearing above 2 (sometimes 1 or 3) pinnately
              parted or divided leaves, a terminal umbel-like cluster of one or few large bright
              yellow flowers, 2 hairy sepals, 4 petals, numerous stamens, a distinct style, and a
              1-celled bristly oval pod.
            
              Stylóphorum diphýllum. Leaves pale beneath, deeply pinnatifid
                into 5 or 7 oblong lobed divisions; basal leaves often with a pair of smaller and
                distinct leaflets. Damp woods.
            
          
          
            5. PAPÀVER (POPPY)
            Herbs with leafy stems, nodding flower-buds, showy flowers, mostly 4 petals, numerous
              stamens, a sessile many-rayed crown-like stigma, and many-celled short and swollen pod
              which opens by pores under the edge of the stigma.
            
              Papàver somníferum (COMMON POPPY). Smooth and pale; leaves clasping, wavy, incised, and toothed; flowers
                mostly white or purple; pod globose. Cultivated from Europe.
            
          
          
            6. DICÉNTRA or BICUCÚLLA
            Delicate smooth herbs with ternately compound and dissected basal leaves, nodding
              flowers in racemes on naked stems, 2 small and scale-like sepals, 4 petals slightly
              cohering in two pairs (outer with spreading tips and spurred or saccate base, inner
              narrow and with crested tips united over the stigma), 6 stamens in two clusters, and
              fruit a pod.
            
              Dicéntra Cucullària or Bicucúlla Cucullària
                  (DUTCHMAN'S BREECHES). Stem and basal leaves
                from a granulate bulb; lobes of leaves linear; corolla white tipped with cream, with
                2 divergent spurs. Rich woods.
              Dicéntra Canadénsis or Bicucúlla Canadénsis
                  (SQUIRREL CORN). Plants from scattered
                grain-like yellow tubers resembling grains of corn; corolla greenish-white tinged with rose, heart-shaped at base (the spurs being
                very short and rounded). Rich woods.
              Dicéntra spectábilis (BLEEDING HEART). Taller and coarser leafy-stemmed plants with large much more
                coarsely compound leaves, and long drooping raceme of red (or white) heart-shaped
                flowers 1 in. long. Cultivated from China.
            
          
          
            7. CORÝDALIS or CAPNOÌDES
            Pale leafy-stemmed herbs, with compound dissected leaves, and racemes of small,
              usually yellow flowers, as in Dicentra, but corolla 1-spurred at
              base.
            
              Corýdalis aùrea or Capnoìdes aùreum (GOLDEN CORYDALIS). Flowers golden-yellow, ½ in.
                long, the slightly decurved spur about half as long; pod spreading or pendent,
                becoming warty. Rocky woods.
            
          
        
        
          XXIX. CRUCIFERÆ (MUSTARD FAMILY)
          Herbs, usually pungent, with alternate leaves, terminal clusters of flowers, 4 sepals,
            4 petals, 6 stamens (4 long and 2 short), and a 2-celled pod. (See Plant
              Structures, p. 261, Fig. 246.)
          
            * Fruit a true pod, splitting lengthwise into two parts, which fall away and
                leave the thin partition.+ Pod flattened parallel to the partition.
              
                1. Dentaria. Stems naked below, from a fleshy rootstock; pod
                  oblong or linear; seeds wingless.
                2. Cardamine. Stems leafy, mostly from fibrous roots; pod
                  oblong or linear; seeds wingless.
                3. Alyssum. Stems leafy; pods round; seeds winged.
              
            + + Pod globular, cylindric, or 4-angled, not flattened.
              
                4. Nasturtium. Pod globular or cylindric; leaves more or
                  less pinnatifid; aquatic or marsh plants.
                5. Erysimum. Pod 4-angled; leaves simple; flowers
                  yellow.
              
            + + Pod short, much flattened contrary to the narrow partition.
              
                6. Capsella. Pod triangular and notched at the top, several
                  or many seeded.
                7. Lepidium. Pod oval, usually with 2 seeds; corolla
                  regular, small.
                8. Iberis. Pod scale-shaped, roundish, or ovate, usually
                  2-seeded; corolla irregular.
              
            ** Fruit somewhat fleshy, not splitting.
              
                9. Raphanus. Seeds separated by partitions.
              
          
          
            1. DENTÀRIA (TOOTHWORT)
            Herbs with long horizontal fleshy pungent rootstocks, simple stems naked below and
              bearing 2 or 3 petioled compound leaves about or above the middle and terminated by a
              single cluster of large white or purple flowers, and lanceolate flat pods.
            
            
              Dentària diphýlla. Rootstock long and continuous, often
                branched; stem leaves 2, similar to the basal ones; leaflets rhombic-ovate or oblong
                ovate, coarsely crenate, the teeth abruptly acute; flowers white. Rich woods.
              Dentària laciniàta. Rootstock tuberous, deep-seated; basal
                leaves often none; stem leaves 3-parted, the lateral segments often 2-lobed, all
                broadly oblong to linear, more or less gash-toothed; flowers white or rose-color.
                Rich woods.
            
          
          
            2. CARDÁMINE (BITTER CRESS)
            Mostly smooth and leafy-stemmed herbs with simple or compound leaves, a terminal
              cluster of white or purple flowers, and a linear flattened pod.
            
              Cardámine rhombòidea or Cardámine bulbòsa
                  (SPRING CRESS). Stems upright from a
                tuberous rootstock, simple; basal leaves round and often heart-shaped; lower stem
                leaves ovate or oblong, the upper almost lanceolate, all often sparingly toothed;
                flowers large, white; pods linear lanceolate, pointed with the slender style. Wet
                meadows and springs. The var. purpùrea is lower, usually somewhat
                hairy, and has rose-purple flowers.
              Cardámine hirsùta. Smooth or with scattered hairs; stems ¼-2
                ft. high, arising from the spreading cluster of basal pinnate leaves; leaflets
                rounded, those of the upper leaves oblong or linear, all toothed, angled or entire;
                flowers small, white; pods linear, very narrow, erect or ascending. Wet
                places.
            
          
          
            3. ALÝSSUM or KÒNIGA
            Low herbs with linear leaves, terminal clusters of white or yellow flowers, and small
              orbicular pods.
            
              Alýssum marítimum or Kòniga marítima (SWEET ALYSSUM). Leaves green or slightly hoary;
                flowers small, white, honey-scented; pod 2-seeded. Cultivated from Europe.
            
          
          
            4. NASTÚRTIUM or RORÌPA (WATER
                CRESS)
            Water or marsh plants with pinnate or pinnatifid leaves, yellow or white flowers, and
              a short linear pod which is not flattened.
            
              Nastúrtium officinàle or Rorìpa Nastúrtium
                  (TRUE WATER CRESS). Stems
                spreading and rooting; leaves with 3-11 roundish or oblong nearly entire leaflets;
                petals white, twice the length of the calyx; pods linear, ascending on slender
                widely spreading stalks. Cultivated from Europe, but escaped into brooks and
                ditches.
            
          
          
            5. ERÝSIMUM
            Herbs with leafy stems, narrow leaves, a terminal cluster of large crowded bright
              orange-yellow flowers, and linear 4-sided pods.
            
              Erýsimum ásperum (WESTERN WALL FLOWER). Rather stout, 1-2 ft. high, minutely hoary;
                leaves lanceolate to linear, entire or toothed; pods nearly erect or widely
                spreading, 3-4 in. long. Moist or dry ground.
            
          
          
            6. CAPSÉLLA or BÚRSA (SHEPHERD'S PURSE)
            Low plants with clustered pinnatifid basal leaves, arrow-shaped sessile stem leaves,
              an elongating raceme of small white flowers, and an obcordate-triangular pod,
              flattened contrary to the narrow partition.
            
            
              Capsélla Búrsa-pastòris or Búrsa
                  Búrsa-pastòris. Excessively common in waste places. A weed from
                Europe.
            
          
          
            7. LEPÍDIUM (PEPPERGRASS)
            Small plants with simple leaves, small white or greenish flowers, and a roundish pod
              much flattened contrary to the narrow partition.
            
              Lepídium Virgínicum. Leaves with tapering base, the upper
                linear or lanceolate and entire, the lower incised or pinnatifid; the orbicular or
                oval pods with a small notch at top; stamens only 2. Common along roadsides.
            
          
          
            8. IBÈRIS (CANDYTUFT)
            Low plants with narrow leaves, flowers in flat clusters (outer petals much larger
              than the inner), and scale-shaped roundish wing-margined and notched pods.
            
              Ibèris sempérvirens. Woody at base, tufted; leaves bright
                green, lanceolate or linear-spatulate, thickish and entire; flowers pure white.
                Cultivated from Europe.
              Ibèris umbellàta. Herbaceous; lower leaves lanceolate, the
                upper linear and entire; flowers purple-lilac (or pale). Cultivated from
                Europe.
            
          
          
            9. RÁPHANUS (RADISH)
            Annual or biennial from a thick root, with a cluster of lyrate root leaves, purple or
              white flowers, and thick pointed pods with the seeds separated by partitions.
            
              Ráphanus satìvus. Cultivated from the Old World for its fleshy
                root.
            
          
        
        
          XXX. CAPPARIDACEÆ (CAPER FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate palmately compound leaves, 4 petals, 6 or more stamens, and a
            1-celled pod.
          
            Cleome. Stamens 6; pod long-stalked.
            Polanisia. Stamens 8 or more; pod not stalked or scarcely
              so.
          
          
            1. CLEÒME
            Smooth herbs with leaves of 3 leaflets, showy bracted racemes of rose-colored or
              white flowers, a 4-cleft calyx, entire petals tapering to a slender stalk, 6 stamens,
              and a linear to oblong long-stalked pod.
            
              Cleòme integrifòlia or Cleòme serrulàta.
                Stems 2-3 ft. high; leaflets narrowly lanceolate to oblong; pod 1-2 in. long, its
                stalk as long as the flower stalk. Open ground.
            
          
          
            2. POLANÍSIA
            Clammy hairy herbs with leaves of 3 leaflets, small flowers in leafy racemes, stalked
              and notched petals, 8-32 unequal stamens, and a linear or oblong veiny swollen
              pod.
            
            
              Polanísia gravèolens. Leaflets oblong; flowers small,
                yellowish-white with purplish calyx and filaments; stamens about 11 and hardly
                longer than the petals; pod slightly stalked. Gravelly soil.
            
          
        
        
          XXXI. CRASSULACEÆ (ORPINE FAMILY)
          Usually fleshy herbs with sessile leaves, flower parts all of the same number or the
            stamens double, and fruit a pod.
          
            Penthorum. Not fleshy; sepals 5; petals none; stamens 10;
              carpels united, forming a 5-beaked pod.
            Sedum. Leaves thick and fleshy; sepals, petals, and separate
              pistils 4 or 5; stamens 8-10.
          
          
            1. PÉNTHORUM (DITCH STONECROP)
            Erect herbs with scattered entire leaves, yellowish-green flowers sessile along the
              upper side of the spreading naked flowering branches, 5 sepals, petals rare if any, 10
              stamens, and 5 pistils united below and forming a 5-angled and 5-horned pod.
            
              Pénthorum sedoìdes. Leaves lanceolate, acute at both ends.
                Open wet ground.
            
          
          
            2. SÈDUM (STONECROP)
            Smooth thick-leaved herbs with flowers sessile along one side of spreading flowering
              branches, the first or central flower mostly with 5 sepals and petals and 10 stamens,
              the others often with 4 sepals and petals and 8 stamens, and 4 or 5 distinct pistils
              ripening into many-seeded pods.
            
              Sèdum ternàtum. Stems spreading, 3-6 in. high; leaves flat,
                the lower in whorls of 3, wedge-obovate, the upper scattered and oblong; flower
                branches 3; petals white. Rocky woods.
            
          
        
        
          XXXII. SAXIFRAGACEÆ (SAXIFRAGE
              FAMILY)
          Herbs or shrubs with alternate and opposite leaves usually without stipules, mostly 10
            stamens, and a 1-5-celled superior or inferior ovary becoming a pod.
          
            * Herbs; ovary superior or nearly so.
              
                1. Saxifraga. Petals entire; stamens 10; ovary
                  2-celled.
                2. Mitella. Petals pinnatifid; stamens 10; ovary
                  1-celled.
                3. Heuchera. Petals entire; stamens 5; ovary
                  1-celled.
              
            ** Shrubs; ovary inferior; leaves opposite.
              
                4. Deutzia. Stamens 10; filaments flat.
                5. Philadelphus. Stamens 20-40.
              
          
          
          
            1. SAXÍFRAGA (SAXIFRAGE)
            Herbs with clustered basal leaves, stems naked or with alternate leaves, a terminal
              cluster of flowers, a 5-cleft calyx, 5 entire petals, 10 stamens, 2 styles, and a
              2-celled ovary becoming a 2-beaked pod or 2 almost separate and divergent pods. (See
                Plant Relations, p. 58, Fig. 48.)
            
              Saxífraga Virginiénsis (EARLY SAXIFRAGE). Low, 4-9 in. high; leaves all basal, obovate, or
                oval-spatulate, crenate-toothed, thickish; flowers in a loose cluster on the naked
                stem; calyx-lobes erect, not half the length of the oblong obtuse white petals. Dry
                rocks and hillsides.
              Saxífraga Pennsylvánica (SWAMP SAXIFRAGE). Large, 1-2 ft. high; leaves all basal, oblanceolate,
                obscurely toothed; flowers in a loose cluster on the naked stem; calyx-lobes
                recurved, about the length of the linear-lanceolate greenish small petals.
                Bogs.
            
          
          
            2. MITÉLLA (MITREWORT. BISHOP-CAP)
            Low and slender herbs with round heart-shaped basal leaves, those on the flowering
              stems opposite, a terminal slender raceme of small flowers, a short 5-cleft calyx, 5
              delicate and pinnatifid petals, 10 included stamens, 2 very short styles, and a
              1-celled ovary becoming a 2-beaked pod.
            
              Mitélla diphýlla. Hairy; leaves heart-shaped, acute, somewhat
                3-5-lobed and toothed; those on the stem 2, opposite, and nearly sessile. Rich
                woods.
            
          
          
            3. HEÙCHERA (ALUM-ROOT)
            Herbs with round heart-shaped basal leaves, those of the stem (if any) alternate,
              greenish or purplish flowers in long clusters, a 5-cleft bell-shaped calyx, 5 small
              spatulate and entire petals, 5 stamens, 2 slender styles, and a 1-celled ovary
              becoming a pod.
            
              Heùchera Americàna. Stems 2-3 ft. high, glandular, and more or
                less hirsute; leaves roundish with short rounded lobes and crenate teeth; flowers
                small, the petals not longer than the calyx lobes; stamens and styles protruding.
                Rocky woods.
            
          
          
            4. DEÙTZIA
            Shrubs with opposite simple leaves; numerous clusters of white or pinkish flowers, a
              5-lobed calyx, 5 petals, 10 stamens with flat filaments, 3-5 slender styles, and an
              inferior 3-5-celled ovary becoming a pod.
            
              Deùtzia grácilis. About 2 ft. high; leaves ovate-lanceolate,
                sharply serrate, bright green and smooth; flowers snow-white; filaments forked at
                the top. Cultivated from Japan.
              Deùtzia scàbra. Tall shrub, rough with fine pubescence; leaves
                pale, ovate, or oblong-ovate, minutely crenate-serrate; flowers dull white or
                pinkish; filaments broadest above and with a blunt lobe on each side just below the
                anther. Cultivated from China and Japan.
            
          
          
            5. PHILADÉLPHUS (SYRINGA)
            Shrubs with opposite often toothed leaves, clustered showy white flowers, calyx with
              top-shaped tube and 4- or 5-parted spreading border, 4 or 5 large rounded petals, 20-40 stamens, 3-5 more or less united styles, and an
              inferior 3-5-celled ovary becoming a pod.
            
              Philadélphus coronàrius. Leaves smoothish and oblong-ovate;
                fragrant cream-white flowers in crowded clusters. Cultivated from southern
                Europe.
            
          
        
        
          XXXIII. GROSSULARIACEÆ (GOOSEBERRY FAMILY)
          Like Saxifragaceæ, but shrubs with alternate palmately veined and
            lobed leaves, 5 stamens, an inferior 1-celled ovary, and fruit a berry.
          
            1. RÌBES (CURRANT. GOOSEBERRY)
            Low sometimes prickly shrubs with lateral clusters of small flowers, a 5-lobed often
              colored calyx, 5 small petals in the throat of the calyx, and 2 separate or more or
              less united styles.
            
              * Flowers 1-3 in a cluster; gooseberries.
                
                  1. Rìbes Cynósbati (WILD GOOSEBERRY). Stems mostly prickly; leaves round heart-shaped, 3-5-lobed;
                    flowers 1-3 in a cluster; stamens and undivided style not longer than the
                    broadly bell-shaped calyx, whose lobes are shorter than the tube; berries large,
                    becoming dull purple, armed with long prickles (rarely smooth). Rocky
                    woods.
                  2. Rìbes Grossulària or Rìbes Uva-críspa
                      (EUROPEAN GOOSEBERRY). Like the last,
                    but a stocky bush with thickish leaves, calyx-lobes longer than the tube,
                    pubescent calyx and ovary, and a large usually finely pubescent berry.
                    Cultivated from Europe.
                  3. Rìbes oxyacanthoìdes (AMERICAN GOOSEBERRY). Like the last, but with very short prickles or
                    none; leaves thinner; stamens and 2-cleft style scarcely equaling the broadly
                    oblong calyx-lobes; ovary and berry smooth, the latter becoming green or
                    reddish.
                  4. Rìbes rotundifòlium. Like the last, but filaments
                    slender and more or less exceeding the narrowly oblong-spatulate calyx-lobes;
                    berry smooth.
                
              ** Flowers in racemes; currants.
                
                  5. Rìbes rùbrum (GARDEN CURRANT). No thorns or prickles. Stems straggling or reclining; leaves
                    heart-shaped and with 3-5 roundish lobes; flowers greenish or whitish, in
                    drooping racemes; calyx flat and open; berries red or white. Cultivated from
                    Europe.
                  6. Rìbes aùreum (GOLDEN, BUFFALO, or MISSOURI CURRANT).
                    Smooth bush with rounded 3-lobed and cut-toothed leaves; short racemes of
                    spicy-scented bright-yellow flowers; tube of yellow calyx much longer than the
                    spreading lobes; berries blackish. Commonly cultivated from the West.
                
            
          
        
        
          XXXIV. ROSACEÆ (ROSE FAMILY)
          Herbs or shrubs with alternate stipulate leaves, usually 5 more or less united sepals,
            as many petals, numerous stamens (with the petals) on the calyx-tube, numerous superior
            ovaries (sometimes inclosed in the calyx-tube), and fruits
            various. (See Plant Structures, p. 262.)
          
            * Pistils not inclosed in calyx-tube at maturity.+ Pistils fleshy in
                fruit.
              
                1. Rubus. Herbs or with soft woody stems; small fleshy
                  fruits crowded on a spongy receptacle.
              
            + + Pistils forming akenes; herbs.
              
                2. Geum. Styles elongated in fruit, forming persistent
                  tails.
                3. Potentilla. Styles not elongated; akenes heaped on a dry
                  receptacle.
                4. Fragaria. Styles not elongated; akenes on a much enlarged
                  pulpy receptacle.
              
            ** Pistils inclosed in the urn-shaped fleshy calyx-tube.
              
                5. Rosa. Prickly shrubs with pinnately compound
                  leaves.
              
          
          
            1. RÙBUS (BRAMBLE)
            Herbs or somewhat shrubby plants with usually compound leaves and mostly white
              flowers, a 5-parted calyx, and usually many small fleshy stone fruits collected on a
              dry or fleshy receptacle.
            
              * Fruit falling off from the dry receptacle; raspberries.
                
                  1. Rùbus strigòsus (WILD RED RASPBERRY). Stems woody, upright, with stiff
                    straight bristles; leaflets 3-5, ovate, pointed, serrate; petals as long as the
                    sepals; fruit light red. Thickets and hills. (See Plant
                      Structures, p. 262, Fig. 248.)
                  2. Rùbus occidentàlis (BLACK RASPBERRY). Whitish all over; stems recurved, armed with hooked
                    prickles, not bristly; leaflets 3 (rarely 5), ovate, pointed, coarsely serrate;
                    petals shorter than the sepals; fruit purple-black. Thickets.
                
              ** Fruit not separating from the juicy receptacle; blackberries.
                
                  3. Rùbus villòsus (COMMON BLACKBERRY). Shrubby, 1-6 ft. high, upright or reclining, armed
                    with stout curved prickles; leaflets 3 (or sometimes 5), ovate, pointed,
                    serrate, the terminal ones conspicuously stalked; spreading petals much longer
                    than the narrow sepals; fruit oblong, blackish. Thickets.
                
            
          
          
            2. GÈUM (AVENS)
            Herbs with pinnately compound or lyrate leaves, a bell-shaped or flattish 5-cleft
              calyx, and numerous akenes crowded on a prominent receptacle and with the long
              persistent styles forming hairy or naked tails.
            
              Gèum álbum or Gèum Canadénse. Smooth or soft
                hairy; stem slender, 2 ft. high; basal leaves of 3-5 leaflets, or simple and rounded
                with a few minute leaflets below; stem leaves 3-divided or lobed or only toothed;
                petals white or pale yellowish, small; head of fruit sessile in the calyx. Open
                woods.
              Gèum vérnum. Somewhat hairy; stems slender, few-leaved; basal
                leaves roundish heart-shaped, 3-5-lobed or some of them pinnate; petals yellow,
                about as long as the calyx; head of fruit conspicuously stalked in the calyx.
                Thickets.
            
          
          
          
            3. POTENTÍLLA (CINQUEFOIL. FIVE-FINGER)
            Herbs or rarely shrubs with compound leaves, solitary or clustered flowers, flat
              5-cleft calyx with as many bractlets at the intervals, and numerous akenes in a head
              with the styles not persisting as a tail. (See Plant Relations, p.
              79, Fig. 72; also Plant Structures, p. 225, Fig. 205.)
            
              * Herbs.+ Flowers in terminal clusters.
                
                  1. Potentílla argùta. Stems erect, usually stout, 1-4 ft.
                    high, brownish-hairy, clammy above; leaves pinnate with 7-11 oval or ovate
                    serrate leaflets, downy beneath; white or yellow flowers rather large, in an
                    upright rather close cluster; stamens mostly 30; akenes glabrous. Rocky
                    ground.
                  2. Potentílla Norvégica or Potentílla
                      Monspeliénsis. Stout, erect, hirsute, ½-2 ft. high; leaves ternate, with
                    obovate or lanceolate serrate leaflets; small yellow flowers in a rather close
                    leafy cluster; stamens 15 (rarely 20). Open ground.
                  3. Potentílla argéntea (SILVERY CINQUEFOIL). Stems ascending, branching above, many-flowered,
                    white woolly; leaves palmate, of 5 leaflets which are wedge-oblong, almost
                    pinnatifid, green above, white with silvery wool beneath; flowers yellow, rather
                    large; stamens 20. Dry fields.
                
              + + Flowers solitary and axillary.
                
                  4. Potentílla Canadénsis (COMMON CINQUEFOIL). Villous-pubescent; stems slender and more or less
                    prostrate, sometimes erect; leaves palmate, of 3 leaflets, but apparently 5 by
                    the parting of the lateral leaflets; leaflets wedge-oblong or obovate, serrate;
                    yellow flowers solitary in the axils. Dry soil.
                
              ** Shrubs.
                
                  5. Potentílla fruticòsa (SHRUBBY CINQUEFOIL). Stem erect, shrubby, 1-4 ft. high, much branched;
                    leaves pinnate; leaflets 5-7, crowded, lanceolate, entire, silky; flowers
                    numerous, with yellow rounded petals; akenes densely hairy. Wet grounds.
                
            
          
          
            4. FRAGÀRIA (STRAWBERRY)
            Low herbs with runners, a cluster of palmate basal leaves, the 3 leaflets obovate and
              serrate, the naked stem terminated by a cluster of white flowers which are nearly as
              in Potentilla but the receptacle in fruit much enlarged and conical,
              becoming pulpy and scarlet and bearing the minute dry akenes scattered over its
              surface. (See Plant Relations, p. 57, Fig. 47.)
            
              Fragària Virginiàna. Calyx erect after flowering; akenes
                imbedded in the deeply pitted fruiting receptacle. Rich woods and fields.
            
          
          
            5. RÒSA (ROSE)
            Shrubby and usually spiny or prickly plants with odd-pinnate leaves and showy
              flowers, an urn-shaped calyx-tube contracted at the mouth and becoming fleshy in
              fruit, 5 broad petals inserted with the numerous stamens into the rim of the
              calyx-tube which bears within and below the numerous hairy pistils which become bony
              akenes.
            
              Ròsa Carolìna. Stems usually tall, 1-7 ft. high, with stout
                straight or more or less curved spines; leaflets 5-9, dull green, finely many
                toothed. Borders of swamps and streams.
              
              Ròsa hùmilis. Stems usually low, 1-3 ft. high, with straight
                slender spines; leaflets mostly 7, smooth and often shining above, coarsely toothed.
                Mostly in dry or rocky soil.
            
          
        
        
          XXXV. POMACEÆ (APPLE FAMILY)
          Trees or shrubs with the characters of Rosaceæ, but with 2-5 styles
            distinct or united at base, an inferior 5-celled ovary, and a fleshy fruit formed by the
            calyx-tube and ovary (pome).
          
            Pyrus. Fruit 2-5-celled, with 2 seeds in each cell.
            Amelanchier. Fruit 10-celled, a single seed in each cell.
          
          
            1. PỲRUS (PEAR. APPLE)
            Trees or shrubs with showy flowers in flat clusters, and a 2-5-celled fruit with 2
              seeds in each cell.
            
              * Fruit with base tapering down to the stalk; pears.
                
                  1. Pỳrus commùnis (COMMON PEAR). A smooth tree with branches inclined to be thorny; leaves
                    ovate with small obtuse teeth; flowers pure white in a simple cluster.
                    Cultivated from Europe. (See Plant Structures, p. 263, Fig.
                    249.)
                
              ** Fruit sunken at both ends, especially at base; apples.
                
                  2. Pỳrus Màlus or Màlus Màlus (COMMON APPLE). A tree with buds and lower
                    surface of leaves (when young) and calyx woolly; leaves ovate or oblong, evenly
                    serrate; flowers white and tinged with pink, in showy simple clusters.
                  3. Pỳrus coronària or Màlus coronària
                      (AMERICAN CRAB APPLE). Tree 20 ft. high, somewhat thorny, with large rose-colored very
                    fragrant flowers; leaves ovate, cut serrate or lobed; styles woolly and united
                    at base; fruit globular. Open woods and thickets.
                
              *** Fruit more or less pear-shaped; flowers solitary or in small sessile
                  clusters; quinces.
                
                  4. Pỳrus Cydònia or Cydònia vulgàris
                      (COMMON QUINCE). A small bushy tree;
                    leaves oval, entire, woolly beneath; flowers very large, white or tinged with
                    red, terminating short leafy shoots; fruit woolly, more or less pear-shaped.
                    Cultivated from Europe.
                  5. Pỳrus Japónica or Cydònia Japónica
                      (JAPAN QUINCE). Thorny smooth and widely
                    branched shrub; leaves oval or wedge oblong; flowers large and showy, scarlet
                    red or sometimes almost white, on side spurs and appearing in great abundance
                    earlier than the leaves; fruit green-speckled, very hard. Cultivated from
                    Japan.
                
            
          
          
            2. AMELÁNCHIER (JUNE-BERRY)
            Small trees or shrubs with racemes of white flowers, calyx-lobes downy within,
              elongated petals, 5 styles united below, and a 5-celled berry-like fruit.
            
              Amelánchier Canadénsis (SERVICE-BERRY. SHAD-BUSH). A tree 10-30 ft. high; leaves ovate and pointed, usually
                somewhat heart-shaped at base, sharply serrate; petals oblong; fruit globular,
                crimson or purplish. Open woods. 
                —The var. oblongifòlia is a smaller tree or shrub 6-10
                  ft. high, with more elliptical and finely serrate leaves, flowers in denser and
                  shorter racemes, and petals somewhat spatulate and shorter. Moist
                ground.
            
          
        
        
          XXXVI. DRUPACEÆ (PLUM FAMILY)
          Trees or shrubs with the characters of Rosaceæ, but with simple
            leaves, a single style, and a superior 1-celled ovary becoming a fleshy fruit with a
            stone (drupe).
          
            1. PRÙNUS (PLUM. PEACH. CHERRY)
            Small trees or shrubs with clusters of flowers, a bell-shaped to tubular 5-cleft
              calyx, 5 spreading petals, and 15-20 stamens.
            
              * Flowers in clusters of 2 or 3; fruit pubescent; peaches, almonds, etc.
                
                  1. Prùnus Pérsica (PEACH). Small trees
                    with lanceolate serrate leaves; flowers pink; fruit thick-fleshed and edible.
                    Cultivated from China.
                
              ** Flowers in umbel-like clusters; fruit covered with a bloom; plums.
                
                  2. Prùnus doméstica (COMMON PLUM). Small trees with large ovate or obovate coarsely serrate
                    leaves, usually pubescent beneath; flowers white; fruit variable but mostly
                    globular or oblong. Cultivated probably from Asia.
                  3. Prùnus Americàna (COMMON WILD PLUM). A thorny tree 8-20 ft. high;
                    leaves ovate, conspicuously pointed, coarsely serrate, smooth when mature;
                    flowers usually white; fruit roundish oval, yellow, orange, or red. Woods and
                    river banks.
                
              *** Flowers in small clusters along the branches or in racemes; fruit without
                  a bloom; cherries.
                
                  4. Prùnus seròtina (WILD BLACK CHERRY). A large tree; leaves 3, oblong or
                    lanceolate oblong, taper-pointed, serrate, shining above; flowers small, white,
                    in long racemes; fruit small, globular, purplish-black. Woods.
                  5. Prùnus Ceràsus (COMMON CHERRY). A low tree with spreading grayish branches; flowers
                    white, in small clusters from lateral buds, mostly earlier than the leaves;
                    leaves ovate or obovate; fruit red of various shades. Cultivated from
                    Europe.
                
            
          
        
        
          XXXVII. CÆSALPINACEÆ (SENNA FAMILY)
          Resembling Papilionaceæ, but the standard smaller than the wings and
            inclosed by them in bud, and stamens distinct.
          
            1. CÉRCIS (REDBUD. JUDAS-TREE)
            Trees with rounded heart-shaped simple leaves, clusters of red-purple flowers
              preceding the leaves, a 5-toothed calyx, 10 distinct stamens, and an oblong flat
              pod.
            
              Cércis Canadénsis. Leaves pointed; pods nearly sessile above
                the calyx. Rich woods. (See Plant Relations, p. 10, Figs. 3a, 3b.)
            
          
        
        
        
          XXXVIII. PAPILIONACEÆ (PULSE FAMILY)
          Herbs, shrubs, or trees with alternate and usually compound leaves, irregular flowers,
            5 sepals more or less united, 5 very dissimilar petals (upper petal or standard larger than the others and inclosing them in the bud, turned back or
            spreading; the 2 lateral petals or wings oblique; the 2 lower petals
            coherent by their edges and forming the keel which usually incloses
            the stamens and pistil), usually 10 variously united stamens (mostly 9 united into a
            tube and the upper one separate), and a 1-celled ovary becoming a more or less elongated
            pod. (See Plant Structures, p. 264, Fig. 250.)
          
            * Anthers of 2 forms; the stamens all united.
              
                1. Lupinus. Leaves palmately 7-11-foliolate; calyx deeply
                  2-lipped; leaflets entire.
              
            ** Anthers uniform; 1 stamen free.+ Leaves palmately compound with 3
                leaflets; pods small.
              
                2. Trifolium. Flowers in a head; pods membranaceous.
                3. Melilotus. Flowers in racemes; pods with thick walls,
                  wrinkled.
                4. Medicago. Flowers in racemes or spikes; pods curved or
                  coiled.
              
            + + Leaves unequally pinnately compound, without tendrils; flowers in
                racemes.
              
                5. Tephrosia. Hoary herbs; pods linear, flat.
                6. Robinia. Trees; pods linear, flat.
                7. Wistaria. Woody twiners; pods elongated and
                  thickish.
              
            + + + Herbs with abruptly pinnately compound leaves terminated by a
                tendril.
              
                8. Pisum. Lobes of the calyx leafy; style flattened
                  laterally, bearded down the inner edge.
                9. Lathyrus. Lobes of the calyx not leafy; style flattened
                  above on the back and front, bearded down one face.
              
            + + + + Twining herbs; leaves pinnately compound, with 3 leaflets and no
                tendrils; pods elongated.
              
                10. Phaseolus. Flowers in racemes; keel spirally
                  coiled.
              
          
          
            1. LUPÌNUS (LUPINE)
            Herbs with palmately 5-15-foliolate leaves, showy flowers in terminal racemes, a
              deeply 2-lipped calyx, a scythe-shaped pointed keel, and an oblong flattened pod.
            
              Lupìnus perénnis. Somewhat hairy; stem erect, 1-2 ft. high;
                leaflets 7-11, oblanceolate; flowers purplish-blue (rarely pale), in a long showy
                raceme; pod broad, very hairy. Sandy soil.
            
          
          
          
            2. TRIFÒLIUM (CLOVER)
            Tufted or spreading herbs with palmately 3-foliolate leaves, usually toothed
              leaflets, small flowers in heads or spikes, a 5-cleft calyx with bristle-like teeth, a
              short and obtuse keel, and a small membranous pod.
            
              Trifòlium praténse (RED CLOVER). Stems ascending, somewhat hairy; leaflets oval or obovate, often
                notched at tip and with a pale spot above; rose-purple flowers sessile in dense
                ovate heads, the corolla elongated-tubular. Meadows, and largely cultivated from
                Europe.
              Trifòlium refléxum (BUFFALO CLOVER). Stems ascending, downy; leaflets obovate-oblong, finely toothed;
                flowers on short stalks in umbel-like round heads, reflexed when old; tubular part
                of corolla short, standard rose-red, wings and keel whitish. Meadows.
              Trifòlium rèpens (WHITE CLOVER). Stems slender, smooth, spreading and creeping; leaflets inversely
                heart-shaped or only notched, obscurely toothed; flowers on stalks in small and
                loose umbel-like heads, reflexed when old; calyx much shorter than the white
                corolla. Fields, everywhere.
            
          
          
            3. MELILÒTUS (SWEET CLOVER)
            Herbs (fragrant in drying) with pinnately 3-foliolate leaves, toothed leaflets,
              flowers much as in Trifolium but in long racemes, and ovoid tough
              and wrinkled pods.
            
              Melilòtus officinàlis (YELLOW MELILOT). Upright, 2-4 ft. high; leaflets obovate-oblong, obtuse;
                flowers yellow. Waste or cultivated ground, from Europe.
              Melilòtus álba (WHITE MELILOT). Leaves truncate; flowers white. Waste or cultivated ground, from
                Europe.
            
          
          
            4. MEDICÀGO (MEDICK)
            Herbs with pinnately 3-foliolate leaves, toothed leaflets, flowers nearly as in Melilotus, but the pod curved or variously coiled.
            
              Medicàgo satìva (LUCERNE. ALFALFA). Upright and smooth; leaflets obovate-oblong, toothed; purple
                flowers in racemes; pods spirally twisted. Cultivated for fodder, from
                Europe.
              Medicàgo lupulìna (BLACK MEDICK). Procumbent and hairy; leaflets wedge-obovate, toothed at apex;
                yellow flowers in short spikes; pods curved into a kidney-form. Waste places, from
                Europe.
            
          
          
            5. TEPHRÒSIA or CRÁCCA (HOARY
                PEA)
            Hoary herbs with odd-pinnate leaves, minutely pointed veiny leaflets, racemes of
              white or purplish flowers, a 5-cleft calyx, round usually silky standard turned back,
              and linear flat pods.
            
              Tephròsia Virginiàna or Crácca Virginiàna.
                Silky-villous with whitish hairs when young; stem erect, simple, 1-2 ft. high, leafy
                to the top; leaflets 17-29, linear-oblong; flowers large and numerous, in an oblong
                dense cluster, yellowish-white marked with purple. Dry sandy soil.
            
          
          
          
            6. ROBÍNIA (LOCUST)
            Tree with odd-pinnate leaves, ovate or oblong leaflets, showy flowers in hanging
              axillary racemes, a short 5-toothed calyx, large round standard turned back, and
              linear flat pods. (See Plant Relations, p. 125, Fig. 131.)
            
              Robínia Pseudacàcia (COMMON LOCUST). Large tree; racemes slender and loose, with fragrant white flowers;
                pods smooth. Commonly cultivated.
            
          
          
            7. WISTÀRIA or KRAÙHNIA (WISTARIA)
            Woody high-climbing twiners with pinnate leaves, lance-ovate leaflets, dense racemes
              of large and showy purple or blue flowers, a somewhat 2-lipped calyx, large roundish
              standard turned back, scythe-shaped keel, and elongated thickish and knobby stalked
              pods.
            
              Wistària frutéscens or Kraùhnia frutéscens
                  (AMERICAN WISTARIA). Downy when young;
                leaflets 9-15; flowers lilac-purple, the wings with one short and one very long
                appendage at the base. Often cultivated.
              Wistària Chinénsis or Kraùhnia Chinénsis
                  (CHINESE WISTARIA). Racemes long and
                pendent, with blue flowers; wings appendaged on one side only. Cultivated from China
                or Japan.
            
          
          
            8. PÌSUM (PEA)
            Smooth and pale herbs with pinnate leaves terminated by a tendril, 1-3 pairs of
              mostly entire leaflets, axillary clusters of showy flowers, a calyx with leafy lobes,
              a rigid style enlarged above and hairy down the inner edge, and flat or flattish pods
              with several globose seeds.
            
              Pìsum satìvum (COMMON PEA). Leaflets commonly 2 pairs; stipules very large, leafy; tendrils
                branching; 2 or more flowers in a cluster; corolla white, bluish, purple, or
                variegated; pods somewhat fleshy. Cultivated from the Old World.
            
          
          
            9. LÁTHYRUS (VETCHLING)
            Herbs with pinnate leaves usually ending in a tendril, axillary clusters of showy
              flowers, calyx-lobes not leafy, style flattened above and bearded down one face, and a
              flat or flattish pod.
            
              * Leaflets a single pair.
                
                  1. Láthyrus odoràtus (SWEET PEA). Stem roughish-hairy, wing-margined; leaflets one pair,
                    oval or oblong; flowers 2 or 3 on a long stalk, fragrant, white with the
                    standard rose-color, or purple, or variously colored. Cultivated from
                    Europe.
                
              ** Leaflets more than one pair.+ Stipules large.
                
                  2. Láthyrus marítimus (BEACH PEA). Stout, smooth, 1 ft. high or more; leaflets 3-5 pairs,
                    thick, ovate-oblong, 1-2 in. long; stipules broadly ovate and halberd-shaped,
                    nearly as large as the leaflets; flowers large (¾ in. long), purple, 6-10 in a
                    cluster. Seashores and shores of Great Lakes.
                
              + + Stipules small.
                
                  3. Láthyrus venòsus. Stout, climbing, usually somewhat
                    hairy; leaflets 4-6 pairs, oblong-ovate, about 2 in. long; stipules very small,
                    half-sagittate, and acuminate; flowers ½-⅔ in. long, purple, many in a cluster.
                    Shaded banks.
                  
                  4. Láthyrus palústris. Slender, smooth or somewhat hairy;
                    stem often winged; leaflets 2-4 pairs, narrowly oblong to linear, acute, 1-2 in.
                    long; stipules small, half-sagittate, lanceolate, sharp-pointed at both ends;
                    flowers ½ in. long, purple, 2-6 in a cluster. Moist places.—The var. myrtifòlius has broader leaflets and stipules.
                
            
          
          
            10. PHASÈOLUS (BEAN)
            Twining herbs with pinnately 3-foliolate leaves, flowers in racemes, 5-toothed calyx,
              spirally coiled keel, style bearded along the upper side, and scythe-shaped or
              straight pods.
            
              Phasèolus vulgàris (KIDNEY, STRING, or POLE BEAN). Leaflets ovate,
                pointed; racemes of white, purplish, or variegated flowers shorter than the leaf;
                pods linear, straight. Cultivated for food from tropical America.
              Phasèolus perénnis or Phaséolus polystáchyus
                  (WILD BEAN). Leaflets roundish-ovate,
                short-pointed; racemes of small purple flowers long and loose; pods drooping,
                scythe-shaped. Thickets.
            
          
        
        
          XXXIX. GERANIACEÆ (GERANIUM FAMILY)
          Herbs or shrubs with lobed or divided leaves, 5 sepals, 5 petals, 10 stamens or less,
            and a deeply lobed ovary whose 5 carpels separate elastically from the elongated axis
            when mature.
          
            Geranium. Herbs; petals similar; stamens 10.
            Pelargonium. Somewhat shrubby; petals dissimilar; stamens less
              than 10.
          
          
            1. GERÀNIUM (CRANESBILL)
            Herbs with forking stems, similar petals, and 10 stamens.
            
              Gerànium maculàtum (WILD CRANESBILL). Stem erect, hairy; leaves 5-parted, the wedge-shaped divisions
                lobed and cut at the end; petals entire, light purple, bearded on the stalked base.
                Open woods and fields.
            
          
          
            2. PELARGÒNIUM (GERANIUM)
            Low and somewhat shrubby, with scented foliage, the 2 upper petals differing from the
              others in size or shape, and less than 10 (commonly 7) stamens with anthers. Natives
              of the Cape of Good Hope.
            
              * Leaves crenate or somewhat lobed.
                
                  1. Pelargònium zonàle (HORSESHOE GERANIUM). Leaves round and crenate, with a deep sinus, and
                    usually with a horseshoe-shaped dark zone; petals narrow, scarlet, pink, or
                    white.
                  2. Pelargònium ínquinans (SCARLET GERANIUM). Soft-downy and clammy; leaves without the zone;
                    petals broadly obovate, originally intensely scarlet.
                  3. Pelargònium capitàtum (ROSE GERANIUM). Softly hairy; the roundish rose-scented leaves
                    moderately lobed; the numerous small rose-purple flowers sessile in a
                    head.
                  
                  4. Pelargònium odoratíssimum (NUTMEG
                      GERANIUM). Soft velvety; the fragrant leaves rounded and
                    crenate, small; the small white flowers on short stalks.
                
              ** Leaves pinnatifid or palmate.
                
                  5. Pelargònium quercifòlium (OAK-LEAVED
                      GERANIUM). Hairy and glandular; leaves deeply
                    sinuate-pinnatifid, with wavy-toothed blunt lobes; petals purple or pink, the
                    two upper much the longest.
                  6. Pelargònium gravèolens (HEAVY-SCENTED GERANIUM). Hairy; the heavy-scented
                    leaves palmately 5-7-lobed or -parted, and the oblong lobes pinnatifid; petals
                    purple or pink.
                
            
          
        
        
          XL. OXALIDACEÆ (SORREL FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate or basal 3-foliolate leaves, regular flowers, 5 sepals, 5 petals,
            10 stamens usually united at base, 5 styles, and a 5-celled ovary becoming a 5-lobed
            pod.
          
            1. ÓXALIS (WOOD-SORREL)
            Herbs with sour juice, and inversely heart-shaped leaflets (closing and drooping at
              night).
            
              Óxalis violàcea (VIOLET WOOD-SORREL). Nearly smooth, from a scaly bulb; leaves all basal; the naked
                stems 5-9 in. high, bearing an umbel of several violet flowers. Rocky ground.
              Óxalis strícta (YELLOW WOOD-SORREL). Smooth or hairy, from running rootstocks; stems leafy,
                branching, bearing axillary flower-stalks longer than the leaves and with 2-6 yellow
                flowers.
            
          
        
        
          XLI. ACERACEÆ (MAPLE FAMILY)
          Trees with opposite simple or compound leaves, small regular flowers, usually a 5-lobed
            colored calyx, petals often none, 3-12 stamens, 2 long styles, and a 2-lobed ovary
            ripening into a pair of winged fruits.
          
            1. ÀCER (MAPLE)
            Trees with palmately lobed leaves. (See Plant Relations, p. 26,
              Fig. 20; also p. 115, Fig. 116. Also Plant Structures, p. 212, Fig.
              186).
            
              Àcer saccharìnum or Àcer Sáccharum (SUGAR or ROCK MAPLE). A large
                tree; leaves 3-5-lobed, with rounded sinuses and pointed sinuate-toothed lobes,
                whitish and smooth or a little downy on the veins beneath; flowers in terminal and
                lateral umbel-like clusters appearing with the leaves, drooping on very slender
                hairy stalks; wings of fruit broad, usually slightly diverging. Rich woods.
                —The var. nigrum (BLACK MAPLE) has leaves scarcely paler beneath, the wider lobes often shorter and
                entire.
              Àcer dasycárpum or Àcer saccarhìnum (WHITE or SILVER MAPLE).
                Ornamental tree; leaves very deeply 5-lobed, with rather acute sinuses, silvery white underneath, the divisions narrow, cut lobed and
                toothed; flowers in lateral umbel-like clusters on short stalks, much preceding the
                leaves; stamens 3-6; fruit with large divergent wings. Moist ground.
            
          
        
        
          XLII. HIPPOCASTANACEÆ (HORSECHESTNUT FAMILY)
          Trees with opposite palmately compound leaves, irregular flowers, a 5-lobed calyx, 4 or
            5 petals, 5-10 stamens, and a 2-3-celled ovary becoming a leathery pod.
          
            1. ǼSCULUS (HORSECHESTNUT. BUCKEYE)
            Trees with obovate serrate leaflets, flowers in terminal crowded clusters, more or
              less unequal petals on slender stalks, usually 7 stamens, 1 style, and a leathery pod
              inclosing 1-3 very large chestnut-like seeds. (See Plant Structures,
              p. 235, Fig. 218.)
            
              Ǽsculus glàbra (OHIO BUCKEYE). A large tree; leaflets 5, nearly smooth; stamens curved, longer
                than the pale-yellow corolla of 4 upright petals; fruit covered with prickles when
                young. Moist ground.
              Ǽsculus flàva or Ǽsculus octándra (SWEET BUCKEYE). A large tree or shrub; leaflets 5
                or 7, smooth or downy underneath; stamens shorter than the yellow corolla of 4
                conniving petals; fruit smooth. Rich woods.
              Ǽsculus Hippocástanum (COMMON HORSECHESTNUT). Tall ornamental tree; leaflets 7; corolla of 5
                spreading petals, white spotted with purple and yellow; stamens declined; fruit
                covered with prickles when young. Cultivated from Asia.
            
          
        
        
          XLIII. BALSAMINACEÆ (BALSAM FAMILY)
          Tender herbs with simple mostly alternate leaves, very irregular spurred flowers, 5 or
            8 distinct stamens, and a 3-5-celled ovary becoming a pod or fleshy fruit.
          
            Impatiens. Leaves not peltate; stamens 5; ovary 5-celled; pod
              elastically bursting.
            Tropæolum. Leaves peltate; stamens 8; ovary 3-lobed; fruit
              fleshy.
          
          
            1. IMPÀTIENS (BALSAM. JEWEL-WEED. TOUCH-ME-NOT)
            Succulent herbs with calyx and corolla colored alike and with a spurred sac, 5
              stamens, a sessile stigma, a 5-celled ovary, and a pod which bursts open elastically
              and projects the seeds.
            
              Impàtiens pállida or Impàtiens aùrea (PALE TOUCH-ME-NOT). Branching stems 1-4 ft. high;
                leaves oval, toothed, petioled; flowers pale yellow, sparingly dotted with
                reddish-brown, the sac inflated and very obtuse (broader than long) and tipped with
                a short incurved spur. Moist ground.
              
              Impàtiens fúlva or Impàtiens biflòra (SPOTTED TOUCH-ME-NOT). Stems and leaves as in the
                preceding; flowers orange, thickly spotted with reddish-brown, the sac acutely
                conical (longer than broad) and tapering into a strongly inflexed spur half as long
                as the sac. Moist ground.
              Impàtiens Balsámina (GARDEN BALSAM). Low, with crowded lanceolate leaves, the lower opposite; showy
                flowers in axillary clusters, varying in shade from white to red and purple, often
                double. Cultivated from India.
            
          
          
            2. TROPÆOLUM (NASTURTIUM)
            Succulent herbs with pungent juice, peltate leaves, solitary axillary flowers, 5
              sepals united at base and on the upper side extended into a long descending spur, 5
              petals (the 2 upper different from the others), 8 dissimilar stamens, a single style,
              and a 3-lobed ovary becoming 3 fleshy fruits each containing a single large seed.
            
              Tropæolum màjus. Leaves roundish and about 6-angled, peltate
                toward the middle; petals all shades of yellow and red, the three lower and longer
                stalked ones fringed at base. Cultivated from South America.
            
          
        
        
          XLIV. VITACEÆ (VINE FAMILY)
          Shrubs usually climbing by tendrils, with alternate simple or compound palmate leaves,
            small flowers, minute calyx, 4 or 5 petals with as many stamens opposite them, a
            2-celled ovary, and fruit a berry usually 4-seeded.
          
            Vitis. Plants climbing by the coiling of naked-tipped tendrils;
              leaves simple.
            Ampelopsis. Plants climbing by sucker-like disks at the tips of
              tendrils; leaves palmately compound.
          
          
            1. VÌTIS (GRAPE)
            Shrubs climbing by the coiling of naked tendrils, with simple rounded and
              heart-shaped leaves, very fragrant clusters of flowers with petals falling off without
              opening, and a short style or none.
            
              Vìtis cordifòlia (FROST GRAPE). Leaves smooth, thin, heart-shaped, little lobed, coarsely and sharply
                toothed; flowers with a mignonette-like fragrance; fruit small, bluish or black,
                very sour. Moist ground.
              Vìtis Labrúsca. A tendril (or flower cluster) opposite every
                leaf; the large entire or lobed leaves and young shoots very cottony, continuing
                rusty woolly beneath; fruit large, dark purple or amber color. Moist ground. The
                original of the most common cultivated American grapes.
            
          
          
            2. AMPELÓPSIS or PARTHENOCÍSSUS
            Shrubs climbing by tendrils fixing themselves by sucker-like disks at the tips, with
              palmately compound leaves, and thick petals expanding before they fall.
            
              Ampelópsis quinquefòlia or Parthenocíssus
                  quinquefòlia (VIRGINIA CREEPER. WOODBINE). Climbing extensively; leaflets 5, lance-oblong, cut-toothed, changing to crimson in autumn; berries
                small, black or bluish. Low or rich ground. (See Plant Relations,
                p. 63, Figs. 53, 54.)
              Ampelópsis tricuspidàta or Parthenocíssus
                  tricuspidàta (JAPAN IVY. BOSTON IVY). Branching profusely and adhering by
                much-branched tendrils; leaves very variable, roundish-ovate and serrate or
                heart-shaped, 3-lobed or even 3-foliolate, shining and thickish. Cultivated from
                Japan.
            
          
        
        
          XLV. TILIACEÆ (LINDEN FAMILY)
          Trees with alternate leaves, 5 sepals, 5 petals, numerous stamens cohering in 5
            clusters, a single style, and a 5-celled ovary becoming a dry and woody globular
            fruit.
          
            1. TÍLIA (LINDEN. BASSWOOD)
            Trees with soft wood, mostly heart-shaped and serrate leaves (oblique and often
              truncate at base), and small clusters of fragrant cream-colored flowers hanging on a
              stalk which is united to a long and narrow leaf-like bract. (See Plant
                Relations, p. 116, Fig. 119; also p. 201, Fig. 168.)
            
              Tília Americàna. Leaves large, green and smooth or nearly so.
                Rich woods.
            
          
        
        
          XLVI. MALVACEÆ (MALLOW FAMILY)
          Herbs or shrubs with alternate leaves, 5 sepals united at base, 5 petals, numerous
            stamens united into a column, and numerous ovaries united into a ring or forming a
            several-celled pod.
          
            Malva. Flowers with a 3-leaved involucre at base; petals
              whitish; fruit a ring of blunt carpels.
            Abutilon. Flowers naked at base; petals yellow; fruit a pod
              separating into numerous beaked carpels.
          
          
            1. MÁLVA (MALLOW)
            Low herbs with a 3-leaved involucre at base of calyx like an outer calyx, inversely
              heart-shaped petals, and numerous ovaries united into a ring around a central axis and
              forming a flattened fruit which separates at maturity into as many kidney-shaped blunt
              carpels.
            
              Málva rotundifòlia (COMMON MALLOW). Stems procumbent; leaves round heart-shaped on very long petioles,
                crenate, obscurely lobed; petals whitish, twice the length of the calyx; carpels
                hairy. Roadsides and cultivated grounds.
            
          
          
            2. ABÙTILON (INDIAN MALLOW)
            Usually tall herbs with large leaves, calyx naked at base, entire petals, and the
              ripe pod separating into 5 or more 2-9-seeded carpels.
            
            
              Abùtilon Avicénnæ or Abùtilon Abùtilon (VELVET LEAF). Tall, 3-5 ft. high; leaves roundish
                heart-shaped, taper-pointed, velvety; flowers (1-3) yellow, on stalks shorter than
                the petioles; carpels 12-15, hairy, beaked. Waste places, from India.
            
          
        
        
          XLVII. VIOLACEÆ (VIOLET FAMILY)
          Herbs with leaves all basal or alternate and with stipules, axillary nodding flowers, 5
            sepals, an irregular 1-spurred corolla of 5 petals, 5 stamens conniving over the pistil,
            a single style, and a 1-celled ovary becoming a pod which splits into 3 divisions.
          
            1. VÌOLA (VIOLET)
            Herbs with sepals extended into ears at base, the lower petal spurred at base, the 2
              lower stamens bearing spurs which project into the spur of the corolla, and a
              club-shaped style. (See Plant Relations, p. 117, Fig. 121; also Plant Structures, p. 229, Fig. 211.) The following species have been
              much subdivided, and represent groups of species rather than single species:
            
              * Stipules never leaf-like.+ Leaves all from the rootstock.++
                  Flowers blue.
                
                  1. Vìola pedàta (BIRD-FOOT VIOLET). Nearly smooth; leaves 3-5-divided, the lateral
                    divisions 2-3-parted, all narrow; flower large, 1 in. broad, pale or deep lilac
                    purple or blue. Sandy soil.
                  2. Vìola palmàta (COMMON BLUE VIOLET). Smooth or hairy; early leaves roundish
                    heart-shaped or kidney-shaped and crenate, the sides rolled inward when young;
                    later leaves palmately or hastately lobed; flowers violet or purple, the lateral
                    petals bearded. Moist or dry ground.—The var. cucullàta
                    has the later leaves merely crenate, not lobed.
                  3. Vìola sagittàta (ARROW-LEAVED VIOLET). Smooth or hairy; leaves varying from oblong
                    heart-shaped to halberd-shaped, arrow-shaped or ovate, toothed; flowers rather
                    large, purple-blue, the lateral petals bearded and the spur short and thick. Dry
                    or moist sandy ground.
                
              
              + + Flowers white.
                
                  4. Vìola blánda (SWEET WHITE VIOLET). Mostly smooth; leaves round
                    heart-shaped or kidney form; petals white mostly with purple veins, small
                    short-spurred, mostly beardless. Damp ground.
                
              + + Stems leafy.++ Flowers yellow.
                
                  5. Vìola pubéscens (YELLOW VIOLET). Soft hairy, 6-12 in. high; leaves very broadly
                    heart-shaped, toothed; stipules entire; petals yellow, the lower ones veined
                    with purple; spur very short. Woods.
                
              ++ ++ Flowers not yellow.
                
                
                  6. Vìola Canadénsis (CANADA VIOLET). Upright, 1-2 ft. high; leaves heart-shaped, pointed,
                    serrate; stipules entire; flowers white or whitish inside, the upper petals
                    mostly tinged with purple beneath, the latter ones bearded. Rich woods.
                  7. Vìola striàta (PALE VIOLET). Stems ascending, 6-10 in. high; leaves heart-shaped, finely
                    serrate; stipules fringe-toothed; flowers cream-colored or white, the lower
                    petals striped with purplish lines, the lateral ones bearded; spur thickish and
                    short. Low grounds.
                
              ** Stipules large, leaf like, pinnatifid.
                
                  8. Vìola trícolor (PANSY). Stem angled
                    and branched, leafy throughout; leaves roundish or the upper oval and the lower
                    heart-shaped, crenate or entire; flowers variable in color or variegated
                    (yellow, white, violet-blue, purple, etc.). Cultivated from Europe.
                
            
          
        
        
          XLVIII. BEGONIACEÆ (BEGONIA FAMILY)
          Herbaceous or shrubby plants with alternate unequal-sided leaves, flowers in clusters
            on axillary stalks, sepals and petals colored alike, numerous stamens, 3 styles, and an
            inferior 3-angled ovary becoming a pod.
          
            1. BEGÒNIA
            Herbaceous or somewhat woody-stemmed plants with separate staminate and pistillate
              flowers. (See Plant Relations, p. 25, Fig. 19.) Many species are in
              cultivation for their foliage or flowers.
            
              Begònia Réx. Leaves all basal from a fleshy rootstock, large,
                obliquely heart-shaped, toothed or wavy-margined, bristly-hairy (especially on
                petioles), silvery-banded or silvery all over above, reddish or purple beneath;
                flowers rather large, pale and rose-colored. Cultivated from Asia for the
                foliage.
            
          
        
        
          XLIX. THYMELÆACEÆ (MEZEREUM FAMILY)
          Shrubs with very tough bark, alternate entire leaves, a petal-like tubular calyx, no
            petals, 8 long stamens, a single slender style, and a 1-celled ovary becoming a 1-seeded
            berry-like fruit.
          
            1. DÍRCA (LEATHERWOOD. MOOSEWOOD)
            Much branched shrub with oval-obovate leaves on very short petioles, clusters of 3 or
              4 light yellow flowers preceding the leaves, calyx with wavy or obscurely 4-toothed
              border, and an oval reddish fruit.
            
              Dírca palústris. Shrub 2-5 ft. high, with brittle wood but
                very tough fibrous bark. Moist rich woods.
            
          
        
        
        
          L. ONAGRACEÆ (EVENING PRIMROSE FAMILY)
          Herbs with 4-parted (sometimes 2-parted) regular flowers, tubular calyx, 8 (or 2)
            stamens, a single style, and an inferior 2-4-celled ovary becoming a pod or berry.
          
            * Calyx-lobes and petals 4; stamens 8.+ Fruit a pod; herbs.
              
                1. Epilobium. Flowers small, not yellow; lower leaves often
                  opposite; seeds silky-tufted.
                2. Œnothera. Flowers often yellow; leaves alternate; seeds
                  naked.
              
            + + Fruit a berry; shrubs.
              
                3. Fuchsia. Flowers showy; the calyx-tube and petals
                  differently colored; leaves opposite.
              
            ** Calyx-lobes and petals 2; stamens 2.
              
                4. Circæa. Petals small, white, inversely heart-shaped;
                  fruit small and bur-like.
              
          
          
            1. EPILÒBIUM (WILLOW-HERB)
            Herbs with nearly sessile leaves, violet, purple, or white flowers, calyx-tube not
              prolonged beyond the ovary, and pod containing numerous silky-tufted seeds. (See Plant Relations, p. 112, Fig. 111; p. 113, Fig. 112; p. 128, Fig. 134.
              Also Plant Structures, p. 212, Fig. 185).
            
              Epilòbium angustifòlium or Chamænèrion
                  angustifòlium (FIRE- WEED). Stem simple, tall, 4-7 ft.
                high; leaves scattered, numerous and large, lanceolate, nearly entire; flowers
                large, purple, in a long raceme. Low grounds, especially in newly cleared
                ground.
            
          
          
            2. ŒNOTHÈRA (EVENING PRIMROSE)
            Herbs with alternate leaves, yellow, white, or rose-colored flowers, calyx-tube
              prolonged beyond the ovary and with reflexed lobes, and pod containing numerous naked
              seeds.
            
              Œnothèra biénnis or Ónagra biénnis (COMMON EVENING PRIMROSE).
                Rather stout and erect, 1-5 ft. high, leafy, more or less hairy; leaves lanceolate
                or broader, 2-6 in. long, acute or acuminate, toothed; yellow flowers in a leafy
                spike, opening in the evening; calyx-tube slender, 1-2½ in. long; pods stout and
                oblong, more or less hairy. Common.
              Œnothèra tríloba or Lavaùxia tríloba. Nearly
                smooth, almost stemless, with leaves and flowers clustered; leaves 2-10 in. long,
                long-petioled, oblanceolate, pinnatifid or toothed; flowers white or rose-colored;
                calyx-tube slender, 2-4 in. long; petals ½-1 in. long; pod ovate, ½-1 in. long,
                strongly winged and veiny. Plains.
            
          
          
            3. FÙCHSIA
            Tender shrubs or even trees with opposite or whorled leaves, showy flowers, tubular
              colored calyx much prolonged beyond the ovary and with spreading lobes, and fruit a
              berry.
            
            
              Fùchsia macrostémma. Leaves toothed, on slender petioles; the
                red to white calyx with tube oblong or short-cylindrical, usually shorter than the
                spreading lobes, which are longer than the obovate violet or blue or deeply colored
                petals; sometimes with doubled flowers. Cultivated from South America.
            
          
          
            4. CIRCÆA (ENCHANTER'S NIGHTSHADE)
            Low herbs with opposite thin leaves on slender petioles, racemes of small whitish
              flowers, tubular calyx with 2 reflexed lobes, 2 inversely heart-shaped petals, 2
              stamens, and a 1-2-celled ovary becoming a small and bur-like fruit.
            
              Circæa Lutetiàna. Taller, 1-2 ft. high; leaves ovate, slightly
                toothed; hairs of the roundish 2-celled fruit bristly. Damp woods.
              Circæa alpìna. Low, 3-8 in. high, smooth and weak; leaves
                heart-shaped, coarsely toothed; hairs of obovate-oblong 1-celled fruit soft and
                slender. Damp woods.
            
          
        
        
          LI. ARALIACEÆ (GINSENG FAMILY)
          Herbs, shrubs, or trees with characters as in Umbelliferœ, but with
            styles usually more than 2 and fruit berry-like.
          
            1. ARÀLIA
            Plants with compound leaves, white or greenish flowers in umbels, oblong or obovate
              petals, and 2-5 styles.
            
              * Stems somewhat woody.
                  1. Aràlia nudicaùlis (WILD SARSAPARILLA). Stem scarcely rising out of the ground, smooth,
                    bearing a single long-stalked leaf (1 ft. high) and a shorter naked flower-stalk
                    with 2-7 umbels; leaflets oblong-ovate, pointed, serrate, 5 on each of the 3
                    divisions. Moist woods.
                  2. Aràlia híspida (BRISTLY SARSAPARILLA. WILD ELDER).
                    Stem 1-2 ft. high, bristly, leafy, ending in a stalk bearing several umbels;
                    leaves twice pinnate; leaflets oblong-ovate, acute, toothed. Rocky and sandy
                    places.
                
              ** Low herbs.
                  3. Aràlia trifòlia or Pànax trifòlium
                      (DWARF GINSENG). Low herb with a deep
                    globular root or tuber; stems 4-8 in. high, bearing a whorl of 3 palmately
                    compound leaves, and a simple umbel on a slender stalk; leaflets 3-5, sessile at
                    the summit of the leaf-stalk, narrowly oblong, obtuse; fruit yellowish. Rich
                    woods.
                
            
          
        
        
          LII. UMBELLIFERÆ (PARSLEY FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate compound leaves having expanded sheathing petioles, small flowers
            in umbels, minute or obsolete calyx, 5 petals, 5 stamens, 2 styles, and an inferior
            2-celled ovary which splits in fruit into 2 seed-like fruits. (See Plant
                Relations, p. 83, Fig. 77; also Plant
              Structures, p. 267, Fig. 253.)
          
            * Fruit prickly or bristly.
                1. Daucus. Bristly; leaves pinnately compound; flowers in
                  large concave umbels; fruit prickly.
                2. Sanicula. Smooth; leaves palmately parted; flowers in
                  small heads; fruit prickly.
                3. Osmorhiza. Smooth or hairy; leaves ternately compound;
                  flowers in small umbels; fruit bristly.
              
            * Fruit smooth; plants smooth.
                4. Zizia. Plant 1-3 ft. high; leaflets broad and toothed;
                  flowers yellow.
                5. Erigenia. Low plant from deep tuber; leaf-segments narrow
                  and entire; flowers white.
              
          
          
            1. DAUCÙS (CARROT)
            Bristly herbs with pinnately compound leaves, leafy and cleft bracts at the base of
              the umbels of white flowers, and oblong fruit bearing rows of barbed prickles.
            
              Daùcus Caròta. Rays of the umbel numerous; umbels becoming
                strongly concave. Cultivated from Europe and running wild everywhere. (See Plant Relations, p. 120, Fig. 126; also Plant
                  Structures, p. 266, Fig. 252.)
            
          
          
            2. SANÍCULA (BLACKSNAKE ROOT)
            Rather tall smooth herbs with few palmately parted leaves, irregular umbels of
              greenish or yellowish flowers in small heads, and globular fruit thickly clothed with
              hooked prickles.
            
              Sanícula Marylándica. Stem 1-3 ft. high; leaves 3-7-parted,
                the divisions mostly sharply cut and serrate; sterile flowers numerous and on long
                stalks; styles longer than the prickles.
              Sanícula Canadénsis. Resembling the last, but with few sterile
                flowers on short stalks, and styles shorter than the prickles.
            
          
          
            3. OSMORHÌZA or WASHINGTÒNIA (SWEET CICELY)
            Glabrous or hairy herbs 1-3 ft. high, from thick aromatic roots, with ternately
              compound leaves, ovate leaflets, white flowers, and linear very bristly fruit with
              prominent tail-like prolongation at base.
            
              Osmorhìza longístylis or Washingtònia
                  longístylis. Smooth or slightly hairy; leaflets 2-3 in. long, variously
                toothed, acuminate; style 1/12 in. long or more.
              Osmorhìza brevístylis or Washingtònia
                  Clàytoni. Villous pubescent; leaves as in the last; style less than half as
                long.
            
          
          
            4. ZÍZIA
            Smooth herbs 1-3 ft. high, with ternately divided leaves (or the basal ones simple),
              broad toothed leaflets, yellow flowers, and ovate to oblong smooth fruit with slender
              ribs.
            
            
              Zízia aùrea. Leaves 2-3-ternate, the basal very long-petioled;
                leaflets ovate to lanceolate, serrate; fruit oblong. Open ground.
              Zízia cordàta. Basal leaves cordate or rounder, crenately
                toothed, rarely lobed; stem-leaves 3- or 5-divided, with leaflets as in the last;
                fruit ovate. Open ground.
            
          
          
            5. ERIGÈNIA (PEPPER-AND-SALT.
                TURKEY PEA)
            A small smooth spring plant with deep round tuber, simple stem, 1 or 2 ternately
              compound leaves, white flowers in a leafy-bracted umbel, and nearly round flattened
              fruit with very slender ribs.
            
              Erigènia bulbòsa. Stem 3-9 in. high; leaf-segments
                linear-oblong. Rich open woods.
            
          
        
        
          LIII. CORNACEÆ (DOGWOOD FAMILY)
          Usually shrubs with opposite (rarely alternate) simple leaves, 4 petals, 4 stamens, a
            single style, and an inferior 2 celled ovary becoming a 1- or 2-seeded fleshy stone
            fruit.
          
            1. CÓRNUS (CORNEL. DOGWOOD)
            Herbs and shrubs with entire leaves, small flowers in open clusters or close heads,
              minutely 4-toothed calyx, and oblong spreading petals.
            
              * Flowers greenish, in a close cluster surrounded by a large and showy
                  4-leaved corolla-like white or pinkish involucre.
                
                  1. Córnus Canadénsis (DWARF CORNEL. BUNCH-BERRY). Stems low and simple,
                    5-7 in. high, from a slender creeping rootstock; lower leaves scale-like, the
                    upper crowded into an apparent whorl of 6 or 4, ovate and pointed; leaves of the
                    involucre ovate; fruit globular, bright red. Damp cold woods.
                  2. Córnus flórida (FLOWERING DOGWOOD). Tree 12-40 ft. high; leaves ovate, pointed; leaves of
                    the involucre large and inversely heart-shaped; fruit oval, bright red. Dry
                    woods.
                
              ** Flowers white, in flat open clusters, with no involucre.
                
                  3. Córnus stolonífera (RED-OSIER DOGWOOD). Shrubs forming clumps, 3-6 ft. high; branches
                    (especially the osier-like young ones) bright red-purple, smooth; leaves
                    opposite, ovate, rounded at base, short-pointed, minutely hairy on both sides,
                    whitish beneath; flowers in small loose clusters; fruit white or lead-color. Wet
                    places.
                  4. Córnus alternifòlia. Shrub or tree 8-25 ft. high;
                    branches greenish streaked with white, the alternate leaves clustered at the
                    ends, ovate, long-pointed, whitish beneath; flower-clusters very broad and open;
                    fruit deep blue on reddish stalks. Hillside thickets.
                
            
          
        
        
          LIV. PYROLACEÆ (PYROLA FAMILY)
          Herbs with evergreen foliage, corolla of separate petals, 10 stamens, anthers opening
            by pores at base, depressed globose 5-lobed pods, and otherwise as in Ericaceœ.
          
          
            Chimaphila. Stems leafy; flowers in a terminal flat-topped
              cluster; style very short.
            Pyrola. Leaves all basal; flowers in a raceme; style
              long.
          
          
            1. CHIMÁPHILA (PIPSISSEWA)
            Low plants with long running underground shoots, evergreen thick and shining leaves,
              fragrant flowers in a terminal cluster, and orbicular widely spreading petals.
            
              Chimáphila umbellàta. Leafy, 4-10 in. high; leaves
                wedge-lanceolate, sharply serrate, not spotted; flowers flesh color. Dry
                woods.
              Chimáphila maculàta (SPOTTED WINTERGREEN). Plant 3-6 in. high; leaves ovate lanceolate, obtuse at base,
                remotely toothed, the upper surface variegated with white. Dry woods.
            
          
          
            2. PÝROLA (WINTERGREEN)
            Low and smooth, with a cluster of rounded evergreen basal leaves, a simple raceme of
              nodding flowers on an upright stem, and concave more or less converging petals.
            
              Pýrola rotundifòlia. Leaves thick and shining; flowering stem
                6-12 in. high, with raceme elongated; lanceolate calyx lobes ½ or ⅓ the length of
                the obovate white petals. Damp or sandy woods.—The var. incarnàta has flesh-colored to rose-purple flowers.
            
          
        
        
          LV. MONOTROPACEÆ (INDIAN-PIPE
              FAMILY)
          Root-parasitic herbs entirely destitute of green foliage, with corolla sympetalous or
            of separate petals, and otherwise as in Ericaceœ.
          
            1. MONÓTROPA (INDIAN PIPE)
            Low and fleshy herbs, tawny, reddish, or white, parasitic on roots, the clustered
              stems springing from a ball of matted rootlets, with scales instead of leaves, the
              summit at first nodding but erect in fruit, corolla of 4 or 5 separate wedge-shaped
              petals, 8-10 stamens, and an ovoid grooved pod.
            
              Monótropa uniflòra (INDIAN PIPE. CORPSE PLANT). Smooth waxy white
                throughout (turning black in drying), 3-8 in. high, 1-flowered. Dark rich
                woods.
              Monótropa Hypópitys or Hypópitys Hypópitys
                  (PINE SAP). Somewhat hairy or downy, tawny,
                whitish or reddish, 4-12 in. high; flowers several in a scaly raceme, the terminal
                one usually 5-parted, the others 3-4-parted. Oak and pine woods.
            
          
        
        
          LVI. ERICACEÆ (HEATH FAMILY)
          Shrubs or small trees with regular sympetalous 4-5-parted flowers, as many or twice as
            many stamens (10 in ours), anthers opening by terminal holes (except Epigœa), solitary styles, and a superior 3-10-celled ovary becoming a pod
            (except Arctostaphylos). (See Plant Relations, p. 200, Fig. 167; also Plant
              Structures, p. 269, Fig. 254; p. 270, Fig. 255; p. 271, Fig. 256.)
          
            * Flowers in axillary clusters; anthers opening through their whole length.
              
                1. Epigæa. Prostrate or trailing, bristly-hairy; corolla
                  tubular with flaring border.
              
            ** Flowers in terminal clusters; anthers opening by terminal holes.
              
                2. Arctostaphylos. Corolla urn-shaped; fruit
                  berry-like.
                3. Kalmia. Corolla bell-shaped, with 10 pockets in which the
                  stamens are lodged; fruit a pod.
              
          
          
            1. EPIGÆA (TRAILING ARBUTUS)
            Prostrate or trailing somewhat woody plant, bristly with rusty hairs, with evergreen
              rounded and heart-shaped alternate leaves on slender petioles, rose-colored flowers in
              small axillary clusters, corolla-tube hairy inside and with a flaring border, anthers
              opening lengthwise, and a globular 5-lobed pod.
            
              Epigæa rèpens. Flowers appearing in early spring, fragrant and
                close to the ground, often hidden by the leaves. Sandy woods or rocky soil.
            
          
          
            2. ARCTOSTÁPHYLOS (BEARBERRY)
            Shrubs with alternate leaves, nearly white flowers in terminal clusters, urn-shaped
              corolla with a short revolute 5-toothed border, included stamens, and a berry-like
              fruit.
            
              Arctostáphylos Ùva-úrsi. Trailing; leaves thick and evergreen,
                obovate or spatulate, entire, smooth; fruit red. Bare ground and rocks.
            
          
          
            3. KÁLMIA (AMERICAN LAUREL)
            Evergreen smooth shrubs with alternate or opposite entire thick leaves, showy flower
              in umbel-like clusters, corolla shallow bell-shaped with 10 pockets in which the 10
              anthers are lodged, and a globose 5-celled pod.
            
              Kàlmia latifòlia (CALICO BUSH. MOUNTAIN LAUREL). Shrub 4-8 ft.
                high, sometimes much higher; leaves mostly alternate, bright green both sides, ovate
                lanceolate, acute; clusters of numerous large and very showy flowers terminal,
                varying from deep rose color to white. Rocky hills and damp soil.
              Kálmia angustifòlia (SHEEP LAUREL). Shrub 1-3 ft. high; leaves mostly opposite or in whorls of 3, pale
                or whitish beneath, light green above, narrowly oblong, obtuse; flower clusters
                lateral, more crimson and smaller than in the preceding. Hillsides.
            
          
        
        
          LVII. VACCINIACEÆ (WHORTLEBERRY
              FAMILY)
          Like Ericaceœ, but ovary inferior and forming an edible berry or
            berry-like fruit.
          
            Gaylussacia. Ovary 10-celled, with a single ovule in each
              cell.
            Vaccinium. Berry 4-5-celled (or imperfectly 8-10-celled),
              many-seeded.
          
          
          
            1. GAYLUSSÁCIA (HUCKLEBERRY)
            Branching shrubs, commonly sprinkled with resinous dots, flowers in lateral racemes,
              white tinged with purple or red, like Vaccinium except that the
              ovary is 10-celled, and the berry-like fruit containing 10 nut-like seeds.
            
              Gaylussácia resinòsa. Hairy when young, 1-3 ft. high; leaves
                oval to ovate, thickly clothed as well as the flowers with shining resinous
                globules, entire; bracts and bractlets reddish; fruit black. Rocky woods and
                swamps.
            
          
          
            2. VACCÍNIUM (BLUEBERRY. CRANBERRY)
            Shrubs with simple leaves, solitary or clustered white or reddish flowers, corolla
              with 4- or 5-cleft revolute border, 8 or 10 stamens with anthers prolonged upward into
              a tube, and a 4- or 5-celled edible berry with many seeds.
            
              * Corolla 5-lobed; anthers protruding and with 2 horns on the back.
                
                  1. Vaccínium stamíneum (DEERBERRY).
                    Diffusely branching, 2-3 ft. high, somewhat hairy; leaves ovate, pale beneath;
                    corolla greenish-white or purplish, shorter than the stamens; berries greenish
                    or yellowish. Dry woods.
                
              ** Corolla 5-toothed; anthers included and with no horns on the back.
                
                  2. Vaccínium Pennsylvánicum (DWARF BLUEBERRY). Dwarfed, 6-15 in. high, smooth; leaves lanceolate or
                    oblong, serrulate with bristle pointed teeth, smooth and shining both sides;
                    berries bluish black. Dry hills.
                  3. Vaccínium vacíllans (LOW BLUEBERRY). Low, 1-2½ ft. high, smooth; leaves obovate or oval,
                    very pale or dull at least beneath, minutely serrulate or entire; berries
                    bluish-black. Dry places.
                  4. Vaccínium corymbòsum (COMMON BLUEBERRY). Tall, 5-10 ft. high; leaves ovate to oblong, entire
                    or serrate, green and smooth on both sides or pale or hairy beneath; berries
                    bluish-black. Swamps and low thickets.
                
              *** Corolla 4-parted; anthers projecting and without horns.
                
                  5. Vaccínium macrocárpon or Oxycóccus
                      macrocárpus (AMERICAN CRANBERRY).
                    Stems very slender and elongated, creeping or trailing, the flowering branches
                    ascending; leaves oblong, obtuse, small, entire, whitened beneath; the pale
                    rose-colored flowers nodding; berries red, sour. Peat bogs.
                
            
          
        
        
          LVIII. PRIMULACEÆ (PRIMROSE FAMILY)
          Herbs with simple leaves, regular sympetalous flowers, 5 stamens opposite the
            corolla-lobes, a single style, a 1-celled ovary with ovules on a free central axis, and
            fruit a pod.
          
            * Leaves all clustered at the base.+ Flowers in an umbel; plants from
                fibrous roots.
                1. Primula. Corolla funnel-form with spreading lobes;
                  stamens included.
                2. Dodecatheon. Corolla-lobes strongly reflexed; stamens
                  forming a slender projecting cone.
              
            + + Flowers solitary; plants from fleshy biscuit-shaped rootstock.
              
              
                3. Cyclamen. Corolla and stamens as in Dodecatheon.
              
            ** Stems leafy.
              
                4. Lysimachia. Flowers yellow; leaves mostly opposite or
                  whorled.
                5. Samolus. Flowers white; leaves alternate.
              
          
          
            1. PRÍMULA (PRIMROSE)
            Herbs with flowers in an umbel, a 5-toothed calyx, a funnel-form corolla with
              spreading lobes, and stamens on the corolla-tube.
            
              Prímula Sinénsis (CHINESE PRIMROSE). Downy plant; leaves round-heart-shaped, 7-9-lobed, variously cut
                or even crisped; calyx large and loose, much inflated; flowers in large and showy
                umbels, purple, rose, or white. Cultivated from China.
              Prímula grandiflòra (TRUE PRIMROSE). Leaves somewhat hairy beneath, wrinkled-veiny, cordate or
                spatulate and tapering into short winged petioles; flowers on slender axillary
                stalks, yellow; calyx tubular or bell-shaped, angled, not truly inflated. Cultivated
                from Europe.
            
          
          
            2. DODECÀTHEON (AMERICAN COWSLIP. SHOOTING STAR)
            Smooth herbs with fibrous roots, a basal cluster of oblong or spatulate leaves, a
              single naked stem bearing a large umbel of showy rose-colored or white flowers nodding
              on slender stalks, deeply 5-cleft calyx with reflexed divisions, corolla with very
              short tube and long and narrow reflexed divisions, and anthers approximate in a
              slender cone.
            
              Dodecàtheon Meàdia. Rich woods, and often cultivated.
            
          
          
            3. CÝCLAMEN
            Herbs with flat tuber-like rootstock, and flowers as in Dodecatheon, but solitary on the stalks.
            
              Cýclamen Europium. Leaves thick and heart-shaped, often marked
                with white above and red or violet beneath; flowers fragrant, rose-colored, pink, or
                white, nodding on the stalk. Cultivated from Europe.
            
          
          
            4. LYSIMÀCHIA (LOOSESTRIFE)
            Herbs with leafy stems, yellow flowers on slender axillary stalks or in racemes,
              5-6-parted calyx, wheel-shaped corolla with entire divisions, and stamens commonly
              united at base.
            
              * Stems erect.
                
                  1. Lysimàchia quadrifòlia. Somewhat hairy; stem simple,
                    1-2 ft. high; leaves in whorls of 4 or 5 (sometimes 2, 3, or 6),
                    ovate-lanceolate; flowers on long slender stalks from the axils of the upper
                    leaves; corolla dark-dotted or streaked. Moist or sandy soil.
                  2. Lysimàchia strícta or Lysimàchia
                      terréstris. Smooth; stem at length branched, very leafy, 1-2 ft. high;
                    leaves opposite, rarely alternate, lanceolate; flowers in a long raceme leafy at
                    base; corolla dark-dotted or streaked. Low grounds.
                
              ** Stems trailing and creeping.
                
                
                  3. Lysimàchia Nummulària (MONEYWORT).
                    Smooth; leaves roundish, small; flowers large, solitary on stalks from the axils
                    of ordinary leaves; corolla not dark-dotted nor streaked. Cultivated from
                    Europe, and often escaped.
                
            
          
          
            5. SÁMOLUS (WATER PIMPERNEL. BROOK-WEED)
            Smooth herbs with alternate entire leaves, racemes of small white flowers, 5-cleft
              calyx, bell-shaped 5-cleft corolla, included stamens, and a globose pod.
            
              Sámolus Valerándi Americànus or Sámolus
                  floribúndus. Stem slender, becoming diffusely branched, 6-12 in. high, leafy;
                leaves obovate or spatulate, the basal ones clustered; racemes often compound. Wet
                places.
            
          
        
        
          LIX. OLEACEÆ (OLIVE FAMILY)
          Trees or shrubs with opposite leaves, 4-cleft calyx or none, regular 4-cleft corolla or
            none, 2 stamens, and a 2-celled ovary becoming a winged fruit or pod.
          
            Fraxinus. Trees; leaves pinnately compound; fruit winged.
            Syringa. Shrubs; leaves entire; fruit a pod.
          
          
            1. FRÁXINUS (ASH)
            Large trees with compound pinnate leaves of 3-15 toothed or entire leaflets, small
              flowers in crowded clusters from the axils of last year's leaves, staminate and
              pistillate flowers on different plants, small calyx, 4 petals or none, usually 2
              stamens, a single style, and fruit flattened and winged at apex.
            
              Fráxinus Americàna (WHITE ASH). Large tree with gray furrowed bark and rusty-colored buds; branchlets
                and petioles smooth; leaflets 7-9, lanceolate to ovate, pointed, pale and either
                smooth or hairy beneath, entire or sparingly toothed; fruit marginless below,
                abruptly dilated into a lanceolate or wedge-linear wing 2 or 3 times as long as the
                cylindrical body. Rich or moist woods.
              Fráxinus pubéscens or Fráxinus Pennsylvánica
                  (RED ASH). Inner face of outer bark of
                branches red or cinnamon-color when fresh; branchlets and petioles velvety-hairy;
                leaflets 7-9, lanceolate to ovate, taper-pointed, pale or more or less hairy
                beneath, almost entire; fruit with the edges gradually dilated into the linear or
                spatulate wing. Low grounds.
              Fráxinus víridis or Fráxinus lanceolàta
                  (GREEN ASH). Smooth throughout; leaflets
                5-9, often wedge-shaped at base and serrate above, bright green both sides; fruit as
                in the red ash. Along streams.
            
          
          
            2. SYRÍNGA (LILAC)
            Tall shrubs with entire leaves, crowded clusters of fragrant flowers, 4-toothed
              calyx, tubular corolla with 4 spreading lobes, and fruit a pod.
            
              Syrínga vulgàris (COMMON LILAC). Bush with ovate and more or less heart-shaped leaves green on both
                sides; flowers lilac or pale violet, varying to white. Cultivated from Europe. (See
                  Plant Structures, p. 58, Fig. 41.)
            
          
        
        
        
          LX. APOCYNACEÆ (DOGBANE FAMILY)
          Herbs or woody plants with opposite entire leaves, regular sympetalous flowers with
            parts in 5s, 2 distinct ovaries or a 2-celled ovary, and fruit a pod.
          
            Apocynum. Erect; flowers in terminal clusters; ovaries and pods
              2.
            Vinca. Trailing or creeping; flowers solitary and axillary;
              ovary and style 1.
          
          
            1. APÓCYNUM (DOGBANE)
            Herbs with upright branching stems, small and pale flowers in flattish clusters,
              bell-shaped 5-cleft corolla, stamens on base of corolla and with anthers converging
              about the stigma, and 2 distinct ovaries united at tip by the stigma and becoming 2
              long slender pods containing seeds with a tuft of long silky hairs at the apex. (See
                Plant Structures, p. 272, Fig. 257.)
            
              Apócynum androsæmifòlium (SPREADING DOGBANE). Branches forking and spreading; leaves ovate, distinctly
                petioled; flower-clusters loose and spreading; corolla pale rose-color, open
                bell-shaped, with revolute lobes, the tube much longer than the divisions of the
                calyx. Borders of thickets.
              Apócynum cannábinum (INDIAN HEMP). Stem and branches upright or ascending; leaves oval to oblong, sessile
                or short-petioled; flower-clusters erect and closely many-flowered; corolla
                greenish-white, with nearly erect lobes, the tube not longer than the divisions of
                the calyx. Moist ground.
            
          
          
            2. VÍNCA (PERIWINKLE)
            Low trailing or creeping plants with axillary and solitary flowers, corolla with
              funnel-form tube and spreading 5-lobed border, stamens on upper or middle part of
              tube, a single curiously capped style, and 2 ovaries which ripen into short
              many-seeded pods containing naked rough seeds.
            
              Vínca mìnor (COMMON PERIWINKLE). Spreading extensively; evergreen; leaves ovate and shining;
                flowers blue (sometimes white), with wedge-shaped lobes. Cultivated from Europe.
                Sometimes wrongly called "myrtle."
            
          
        
        
          LXI. CONVOLVULACEÆ (CONVOLVULUS
              FAMILY)
          Twining or trailing herbs with alternate leaves, 5 separate sepals, 5-lobed sympetalous
            corolla, 5 stamens, a single style, and a superior 2- or 3-celled ovary becoming a
            globular few-seeded pod. (See Plant Structures, p. 270; also p. 273,
            Fig. 258.)
          
            Ipomœa. Style undivided and with a knob-like stigma.
            Convolvulus. Style with 2 slender or oval stigmas.
          
          
            1. IPOMŒA (MORNING GLORY)
            Twining or trailing herbs with showy flowers, funnel-form corolla twisted in bud, and
              an undivided style with knob-like stigma.
            
            
              Ipomœa purpùrea (COMMON MORNING GLORY). Stems hairy; leaves heart-shaped,
                acuminate, entire; peduncles long, bearing a 3-5-flowered umbel-like cluster; calyx
                bristly-hairy below; corolla 2 in. long, purple varying to white; ovary 3-celled.
                Cultivated from tropical America. (See Plant Structures, p. 228,
                Fig. 209.)
              Ipomœa panduràta (WILD POTATO-VINE. MAN-OF-THE-EARTH). Smooth or nearly so,
                trailing or twining, from a huge root; leaves heart-shaped, acuminate; peduncles
                1-5-flowered; sepals smooth; corolla 3 in. long, white with purple in the tube;
                ovary 2-celled. Dry ground.
            
          
          
            2. CONVÓLVULUS (BINDWEED)
            Trailing, twining, or erect herbs with funnel-form to bell-shaped corolla, and a
              single style with 2 slender or oval stigmas.
            
              Convólvulus sèpium (HEDGE BINDWEED). Smooth or somewhat hairy; stem twining or extensively trailing;
                leaves triangular-halberd-shaped or arrow-shaped, acute or pointed, the basal lobes
                obliquely truncate and often toothed or lobed; calyx inclosed in 2 broad leafy
                bracts; corolla white or tinged with rose; stigmas oval. Along streams. (See Plant Structures, p. 273, Fig. 258.)—The var. Americànus is smooth and has pink or rose-purple flowers.—The var. rèpens is hairy, with leaves more narrowly arrow-shaped or
                heart-shaped and the basal lobes obtuse or rounded and entire, and white to
                rose-colored flowers.
              Convólvulus arvénsis (BINDWEED). Stems low,
                prostrate, or twining; leaves ovate-oblong, arrow-shaped, with acute basal lobes;
                calyx without inclosing bracts; corolla white or tinged with red; stigmas very
                slender. Fields, from Europe.
            
          
        
        
          LXII. POLEMONIACEÆ (POLEMONIUM
              FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate or opposite leaves, regular 5-parted sympetalous flowers, 5
            stamens on the corolla-tube, a 3-lobed style, and a superior 3-celled ovary becoming a
            pod.
          
            * Erect or diffuse herbs.
              
                1. Phlox. Corolla tubular with flaring border; leaves
                  opposite, entire.
                2. Polemonium. Corolla bell-shaped; leaves alternate,
                  pinnately compound.
              
            ** Tall-climbing by compound tendrils.
              
                3. Cobæa. Corolla bell-shaped; leaves alternate, pinnately
                  compound.
              
          
          
            1. PHLÓX
            Herbs (rarely a little shrubby) with opposite sessile entire leaves, terminal
              clusters of flowers, narrow tubular calyx, corolla with long tube and 5 flaring lobes,
              and stamens very unequally inserted and included in the tube. (See Plant
                Relations, p. 80, Fig. 74b; also Plant
                Structures, p. 228, Fig. 210b.)
            
              * Herbs with flat leaves.+ Flower clusters oblong.
                
                  1. Phlóx maculàta (WILD SWEET WILLIAM). Smooth or barely roughish; stem erect,
                    1-2 ft. high, spotted with purple; lower leaves lanceolate, the upper broader, tapering to the apex from the broad base;
                    corolla pink-purple, varying to white, with entire lobes. Rich woods and moist
                    ground.
                
              + + Flower clusters flat-topped.
                
                  2. Phlóx pilòsa. Stems slender, nearly erect, 1-1½ ft.
                    high, usually hairy; leaves lanceolate or linear, commonly tapering to a sharp
                    point, hairy; corolla varying from rose-color to white, its lobes obovate and
                    entire. Dry ground.
                  3. Phlóx divaricàta. Stems spreading or ascending, 9-18
                    in. high; leaves oblong or ovate, acutish; lobes of the pale lilac or bluish
                    corolla, obovate and notched at the end or often entire. Rocky damp
                    woods.
                
              ** Somewhat shrubby and creeping; leaves crowded, very narrow, and rigid.
                
                  4. Phlóx subulàta (GROUND or MOSS PINK). In broad depressed mats, hairy at
                    least when young; leaves short, very narrow, and rigid; corolla pink-purple or
                    rose-color with a darker center and wedge-shaped notched (rarely entire) lobes.
                    Dry rocky and sandy ground.
                
            
          
          
            2. POLEMÒNIUM (GREEK VALERIAN)
            Herbs with alternate pinnately compound leaves, flattish clusters of blue or white
              flowers, bell-shaped calyx and corolla, and stamens inserted at the summit of the very
              short corolla-tube.
            
              Polemònium réptans. Smooth or slightly hairy; stems weak and
                spreading, 6-10 in. high; leaflets 5-15, ovate to oblong; a few nodding flowers in a
                cluster; stamens and style included; corolla light blue about ½ in. broad.
                Woods.
              Polemònium cærùleum or Polemònium Van
                  Brúntiæ (JACOB'S LADDER). Stem erect,
                1-3 ft. high; leaflets 9-21, narrowly to broadly lanceolate, mostly crowded; flowers
                numerous in a rather dense cluster; stamens and style mostly protruding beyond the
                bright-blue corolla, which is nearly 1 in. broad. Common in cultivation.
            
          
          
            3. COBÆA
            Herbs tall climbing by compound tendrils on the alternate pinnate leaves with showy
              axillary flowers, calyx of 5 large leaf-like divisions, bell-shaped corolla with short
              and broad spreading lobes, and stamens turned downward.
            
              Cobæa scándens. Smooth; leaflets ovate; corolla dull purple or
                greenish, 2 in. or more long; the long filaments coiling spirally when old.
                Cultivated from Mexico.
            
          
        
        
          LXIII. HYDROPHYLLACEÆ (WATERLEAF
              FAMILY)
          Mostly hairy herbs with alternate leaves, 5-parted calyx, bell-shaped sympetalous
            5-lobed corolla, 5 stamens on the corolla-tube, a 2-cleft style, and a superior 1-celled
            ovary becoming a many-seeded pod.
          
            Hydrophyllum. Flowers in flattish clusters; pod globular,
              1-celled.
            Phacelia. Flowers in one-sided racemes; pod ovoid, incompletely
              2-celled.
          
          
          
            1. HYDROPHÝLLUM (WATERLEAF)
            Herbs with large petioled leaves, flattish clusters of white or pale-blue flowers,
              mostly protruding stamens, and a 1-celled bristly-hairy ovary.
            
              Hydrophýllum Virgínicum. Smoothish, 1-2 ft. high; leaves
                pinnately divided, the divisions 5-7, ovate to oblong, pointed, sharply toothed;
                flower-stalks longer than the petioles of the upper leaves; calyx-lobes bristly.
                Rich woods.
              Hydrophýllum Canadénse. Nearly smooth, 1 ft. high; leaves
                broad, palmately 5-7-lobed, rounded, heart-shaped at base, unequally toothed;
                flower-stalks mostly shorter than the petioles; calyx-lobes nearly smooth. Damp rich
                woods.
              Hydrophýllum appendiculàtum. Hairy; stem-leaves palmately
                5-lobed, rounded, the lobes toothed and pointed, the lowest pinnately divided; calyx
                with a small reflexed lobe in each sinus, bristly; stamens but little protruding.
                Damp woods.
            
          
          
            2. PHACÈLIA
            Herbs with simple or divided leaves, handsome blue, purple, or white flowers in
              one-sided racemes, stamens often protruding, and an imperfectly 2 celled ovary.
            
              Phacèlia bipinnatífida. Stem upright, hairy, 1-2 ft. high;
                leaves long-petioled, pinnately 3-5-divided, the divisions ovate, acute, lobed;
                corolla bright blue, with hairy folds within and entire lobes; stamens and style
                protruding. Shaded rich soil.
              Phacèlia Púrshii. Sparsely hairy, 8-12 in. high; leaves
                pinnately 5-9-divided, the divisions oblong or lanceolate, the upper leaves
                clasping; corolla light blue varying to white, with no folds within, the lobes
                fringed; stamens and style rarely protruding. Shaded rich soil.
            
          
        
        
          LXIV. BORAGINACEÆ (BORAGE FAMILY)
          Mostly rough hairy herbs with alternate entire leaves, 5-parted calyx, regular 5-lobed
            sympetalous corolla, 5 stamens on the corolla-tube, a single style, and a deeply 4-lobed
            superior ovary (except Heliotropium) becoming 4 seed-like nutlets.
          
            * Ovary not lobed.
              
                1. Heliotropium. Corolla tubular with flaring border;
                  stamens included.
              
            ** Ovary deeply 4-parted.+ Smooth plants.
              
                2. Mertensia. Flowers trumpet-shaped, purplish-blue, in
                  terminal clusters.
              
            + + Rough hairy plants.
              
                3. Cynoglossum. Flowers white, purple, or blue; nutlets
                  prickly.
                4. Lithospermum. Flowers yellow; nutlets smooth, white and
                  shining.
              
          
          
            1. HELIOTRÒPIUM (HELIOTROPE)
            Hairy plants with small flowers in one-sided spikes, funnel-form corolla, nearly
              sessile included anthers, short style, and an undivided 4-celled ovary which in fruit
              splits into 4 nutlets.
            
            
              Heliotròpium Peruviànum (COMMON HELIOTROPE). Stems woody; leaves ovate, very wrinkled, veiny; spikes
                in terminal and forking clusters; flowers pale blue-purple and very fragrant.
                Cultivated from Peru.
            
          
          
            2. MERTÉNSIA (LUNGWORT)
            Smooth herbs with pale leaves, handsome purplish-blue (rarely white) flowers in
              terminal clusters, trumpet-shaped corolla much longer than calyx, and fleshy dull and
              roughish nutlets.
            
              Merténsia Virgínica (VIRGINIAN COWSLIP. LUNGWORT. BLUEBELLS).
                Very smooth, pale, erect, 1-2 ft. high; leaves obovate, veiny; corolla 1 in. long,
                rich purple-blue (rarely white), commonly purple in bud and changing to blue when
                open. Rich ground, and often cultivated.
            
          
          
            3. CYNOGLÓSSUM (HOUND'S TONGUE)
            Coarse strong-scented herbs with petioled lower leaves, nearly naked clusters of
              small flowers, funnel-form corolla with tube about equaling the calyx and with closed
              throat and rounded lobes, included stamens, and nutlets covered all over with short
              barbed or hooked prickles.
            
              Cynoglóssum officinàle (COMMON HOUND'S TONGUE). Leafy, clothed with short soft
                hairs, branching above; upper leaves lanceolate, closely sessile by a roundish base;
                corolla reddish-purple, rarely white; nutlets flat on the broad upper face. Waste
                grounds, from Europe.
              Cynoglóssum Virgínicum (WILD COMFREY). Roughish with spreading bristly hairs; stem simple, few-leaved, 2-3
                ft. high; stem-leaves lanceolate-oblong, clasping by a deep heart-shaped base;
                flower clusters raised on long naked stalks; corolla pale blue; nutlets strongly
                convex. Open woods.
            
          
          
            4. LITHOSPÉRMUM (GROMWELL. PUCCOON)
            Herbs with sessile leaves, solitary and axillary or spiked flowers, funnel-form
              corolla with spreading 5-cleft border, nearly sessile included anthers, and smooth and
              ivory-white bony nutlets.
            
              Lithospérmum hírtum or Lithospérmum Gmélini.
                Hispid with bristly hairs, 1-2 ft. high; stem-leaves lanceolate or linear, those of
                the flowering branches ovate-oblong, bristly-ciliate; flowers distinctly stalked,
                crowded, showy; corolla deep orange-yellow, woolly at the base inside; fruiting
                calyx 3-4 times longer than the shining nutlets. Barrens.
              Lithospérmum canéscens (YELLOW PUCCOON). Softly hairy, 6-15 in. high; leaves obtuse, linear-oblong,
                or the upper broader, more or less downy beneath and roughish above; flowers
                sessile; corolla deep orange-yellow, naked at base within; fruiting calyx barely
                twice the length of the nutlets. Sandy plains and open woods.
            
          
        
        
          LXV. VERBENACEÆ (VERVAIN FAMILY)
          Herbs with opposite leaves, tubular 5-toothed calyx, tubular sympetalous corolla with
            flaring 5-cleft border, 4 included stamens, a slender style, and a superior ovary
            splitting into 4 seed-like nutlets in fruit.
          
          
            1. VERBÈNA (VERVAIN)
            Herbs with flowers in spikes or heads, and unequal stamens.
            
              * Anthers not appendaged; flowers small, in narrow spikes.+ Spikes very
                  slender, with fruits scattered; flowers white.
                
                  1. Verbèna urticifòlia (WHITE VERVAIN). Minutely pubescent to nearly smooth, 3-5 ft. high;
                    leaves oval or ovate, acute, coarsely serrate, petioled; flowers very small,
                    scattered on slender at length much elongated spikes. Open ground.
                
              + + Spikes thicker or more densely flowered, with crowded fruits; bracts
                  inconspicuous; flowers blue or purple.
                
                  2. Verbèna angustifòlia. Low, 6-18 in. high; leaves
                    narrowly lanceolate, tapering at base, sessile, roughish, slightly toothed;
                    spikes bearing crowded purple flowers. Dry or sandy ground.
                  3. Verbèna hastàta (BLUE VERVAIN). Tall, 4-6 ft. high; leaves lanceolate or oblong-lanceolate,
                    taper-pointed, cut-serrate, petioled, the lower often lobed and sometimes
                    halberd-shaped at base; spikes erect, with blue flowers. Waste ground and
                    roadsides.
                  4. Verbèna strícta (HOARY VERVAIN). Downy with soft white hairs, erect, simple or
                    branched, 1-2 ft. high; leaves sessile, obovate or oblong, serrate; spikes
                    thick, somewhat clustered, hairy, with rather large purple flowers. Barrens and
                    prairies.
                
              + + + Spikes thick, sessile, and leafy-bracted; flowers purple.
                
                  5. Verbèna bracteòsa. Widely spreading or prostrate,
                    hairy; leaves wedge-lanceolate, cut-pinnatifid or 3-cleft, short-petioled;
                    spikes single, remotely flowered with large often lobed bracts longer than the
                    small purple flowers. Prairies and waste ground.
                
              ** Anthers of longer stamens glandular-tipped; flowers showy, in heads
                  becoming spicate.
                
                  6. Verbèna Aublètia or Verbèna
                      Canadénsis. Hispid-hirsute, ½-1 ft. high; leaves bipinnately parted, the
                    lobes mostly linear or broader; bracts of the spike mostly longer than the
                    calyx; flowers showy, bluish-purple or lilac, at first in a depressed head, but
                    becoming spicate. Plains and prairies, and one of the several parents of the
                    cultivated verbenas.
                
            
          
        
        
          LXVI. LABIATÆ (MINT FAMILY)
          Herbs with square stems, opposite aromatic leaves, more or less 2-lipped corolla, 2 or
            4 stamens, a single style, and a deeply 4-lobed ovary becoming 4 seed-like nutlets. (See
              Plant Structures, p. 272; also p. 274, Figs. 259 and 260.)
          
            * Stamens 2.
              
                1. Monarda. Calyx tubular; corolla strongly 2-lipped; large
                  flowers in whorled heads.
              
            ** Stamens 4.+ Corolla almost equally 4-lobed; stamens erect, distant.
              
              
                2. Mentha. Flowers small, in axillary clusters or
                  spicate.
              
            + + Corolla 2-lipped, the upper lip concave or arched.++ Inner pair of
                stamens longer than the outer.
              
                3. Nepeta. Anthers approximate in pairs under the upper lip;
                  calyx equally 5-toothed.
              
            ++ ++ Outer pair of stamens longer than the inner.— Calyx deeply
                2-lipped, reticulate-veiny.
              
                4. Brunella. Cluster of sessile flowers forming a close
                  spike or head.
              
            — — Calyx almost equally 4-lobed, obscurely nerved.
              
                5. Synandra. Showy yellowish flowers, axillary.
              
            — — — Calyx 5-10 nerved and 5-10 toothed.
              
                6. Marrubium. Stamens included in the short corolla
                  tube.
                7. Lamium. Stamens ascending under the arched upper lip of
                  the corolla.
              
          
          
            1. MONÁRDA (HORSE-MINT)
            Odorous erect herbs with entire or toothed petioled leaves, rather large flowers in
              whorled heads closely surrounded by bracts, elongated tubular 5-toothed calyx,
              strongly 2-lipped elongated corolla, upper lip erect and entire or notched, lower lip
              3-lobed at apex, and 2 elongated ascending stamens.
            
              * Stamens protruding beyond the upper lip.
                
                  1. Monárda dídyma (OSWEGO TEA. BEE-BALM). Somewhat hairy, 2 ft. high;
                    leaves ovate-lanceolate, acuminate, serrate, the floral ones and the large outer
                    bracts tinged with red; heads solitary or 2 or 3; calyx smooth, nearly naked in
                    the throat; corolla bright red, 2 in. long. Moist woods.
                  2. Monárda fistulòsa (WILD BERGAMOT). Smooth or hairy, 2-5 ft. high; leaves
                    ovate-lanceolate, serrate, the uppermost and outer bracts somewhat whitish or
                    purplish; heads solitary or 2 or 3; calyx very hairy in the throat; corolla
                    purple or purplish-dotted, 1 in. or more long. Dry soil.
                
              ** Stamens not protruding beyond the upper lip.
                
                  3. Monárda punctàta (HORSE-MINT).
                    Minutely downy, 2-3 ft. high; leaves lanceolate, sparsely serrate, tapering at
                    base; floral bracts yellowish and purple; heads axillary or somewhat spicate;
                    calyx downy; corolla yellowish, the upper lip spotted with purple. Sandy
                    ground.
                
            
          
          
            2. MÉNTHA (MINT)
            Fragrant herbs with small purple or whitish flowers in close axillary clusters or
              spicate, bell-shaped or tubular 5-toothed calyx, corolla with short tube and a
              bell-shaped 4-cleft border (upper lobe largest, entire or 2-cleft), and 4 equal and
              distant stamens. (See Plant Structures, p. 229, Fig. 212.)
            
              Méntha víridis or Méntha spicàta (SPEARMINT). Nearly smooth; leaves lanceolate to ovate, unequally
                serrate, sessile or nearly so; flowers in narrow densely crowded spikes, with
                conspicuous narrow bracts. Wet places. From Europe.
              
              Méntha piperìta (PEPPERMINT). Smooth or
                somewhat hairy, very pungent; leaves lanceolate to ovate, acute, sharply serrate,
                petioled; flowers stalked in narrow loose interrupted spikes. Along brooks. From
                Europe.
            
          
          
            3. NÉPETA (CAT-MINT)
            Herbs with tubular obliquely 5-toothed calyx, 2-lipped corolla dilated in the throat,
              upper lip erect and notched or 2-cleft, lower lip spreading and 3-cleft (middle lobe
              largest), 4 stamens (outer pair shorter) ascending under the upper lip, and anthers
              approximate in pairs.
            
              Népeta Catària (CATNIP). Downy, erect,
                branched; leaves heart-shaped, oblong, deeply crenate, whitish-downy beneath, upper
                floral ones small and bract-like; flowers whitish dotted with purple, in rather
                dense clusters. Near dwellings. From Europe.
              Népeta Glechòma or Glecòma hederàcea (GROUND IVY. GILL-OVER-
                  THE-GROUND). Creeping and trailing; leaves all alike,
                petioled, round-kidney-shaped, crenate, green both sides; flowers light blue, few in
                loose axillary clusters. Damp or shady places. From Europe.
            
          
          
            4. BRUNÉLLA or PRUNÉLLA (SELF-HEAL)
            Low herbs with clusters of flowers sessile in the axils of round membranaceous floral
              leaves and forming a close spike or head, tubular-bell-shaped veiny 2-lipped calyx
              (upper lip broad and flat, truncate, with 3 short teeth, lower 2-cleft), 2-lipped
              corolla, the entire upper lip erect and arched, lower lip 3-cleft and
              reflexed-spreading (middle lobe rounded and toothed), and 4 stamens with anthers
              approximate in pairs.
            
              Brunélla vulgàris or Prunélla vulgàris.
                Leaves ovate-oblong, entire or toothed, petioled, hairy or smooth; corolla violet or
                flesh-color (rarely white), not twice the length of the purplish calyx. Woods and
                fields.
            
          
          
            5. SYNÁNDRA
            Hairy herb with long petioled heart-shaped leaves, showy yellowish flowers,
              bell-shaped inflated 4-toothed calyx, 2-lipped corolla with long tube much expanded
              above, upper lip slightly arched and entire, lower lip spreading and 3-cleft (middle
              lobe broadest and notched), and 4 ascending stamens with hairy filaments and anthers
              approximate in pairs.
            
              Synándra grandiflòra or Synándra hispídula.
                About 1 ft. high; lower leaves long-petioled, broadly ovate, heart-shaped, crenate,
                thin; floral leaves sessile, gradually reduced to bracts, each with a single sessile
                flower; corolla 1½ in. long, yellowish-white. Moist shady ground.
            
          
          
            6. MARRÙBIUM (HOREHOUND)
            Whitish-woolly bitter-aromatic herbs with wrinkled-veiny leaves, numerous flowers in
              head-like axillary clusters, tubular 10-toothed calyx (teeth more or less
              spiny-pointed and spreading at maturity), 2-lipped corolla, upper lip erect and
              notched, lower lip 3-cleft and spreading (middle lobe broadest), and 4 stamens
              included in the corolla-tube.
            
              Marrùbium vulgàre. Leaves round-ovate, petioled,
                crenate-toothed; calyx with 10 recurved teeth, the alternate ones shorter; corolla
                small, white. Waste places. From Europe.
            
          
          
          
            7. LÀMIUM (DEAD-NETTLE)
            Low herbs with lowest leaves small and long-petioled, middle leaves heart-shaped and
              doubly-toothed, floral leaves subtending the whorled flower-cluster, tubular calyx
              with 5 awl-pointed teeth, 2-lipped corolla with dilated throat, upper lip arched and
              narrowed at base, lower lip 3-lobed (middle lobe broad and spreading, notched,
              contracted as if stalked at base, the two lateral lobes small and at the margin of the
              throat), and 4 stamens ascending under the upper lip and with anthers approximate in
              pairs. (See Plant Structures, p. 274, Fig. 259.)
            
              * Low; flowers small, purple, in few whorls or heads.
                
                  1. Làmium amplexicaúle. Leaves rounded, deeply
                    crenate-toothed or cut, the upper ones clasping; corolla elongated, upper lip
                    bearded, the lower spotted. From Europe.
                  2. Làmium purpùreum. Like the last, but leaves roundish or
                    oblong, heart-shaped, crenate-toothed, all petioled. From Europe.
                
              ** Taller; flowers larger, in several axillary whorls.
                
                  3. Làmium álbum. Hairy; leaves ovate, heart-shaped,
                    petioled; corolla white, the tube curved upward, lateral lobes of lower lip
                    bearing a long slender tooth. From Europe.
                  4. Làmium maculàtum. Like the last, but leaves more
                    frequently marked with a white spot on the upper surface, and flowers purplish.
                    From Europe.
                
            
          
        
        
          LXVII. SOLANACEÆ (NIGHTSHADE FAMILY)
          Herbs (rarely shrubs) with alternate leaves, regular 5-parted sympetalous flowers, 5
            stamens on the corolla, a single style, and a 2-celled ovary becoming a many-seeded pod
            or berry.
          
            * Fruit a fleshy berry.+ Herbs; corolla wheel-shaped.
              
                1. Solanum. Anthers converging around the style and opening
                  by a terminal hole.
                2. Lycopersicum. Like Solanum, but anthers
                  united at tip and opening lengthwise.
              
            + + Shrubs; corolla funnel-form.
              
                3. Lycium. Flowers clustered in the axils.
              
            ** Fruit a dry pod.
              
                4. Petunia. Calyx deeply 5-parted with leaf-like
                  lobes.
                5. Datura. Calyx tubular-prismatic, 5-toothed.
              
          
          
            1. SOLÀNUM (NIGHTSHADE)
            Herbs or shrubs with wheel-shaped corolla, protruding anthers converging around the
              style and opening by terminal pores, and fruit a berry. (See Plant
                Relations, p. 26, Fig. 21; also Plant Structures, p. 198,
              Fig. 167a.)
            
              * Not at all prickly; anthers blunt.+ Climbing or twining plants.
                
                
                  1. Solànum Dulcamàra (BITTERSWEET).
                    More or less hairy; leaves ovate-heart-shaped, the upper halberd-shaped, or with
                    2 ear-like lobes or leaflets at base; flowers purple or blue, small, in small
                    terminal clusters; berries oval, red. Moist ground and around dwellings. From
                    Europe.
                
              + + Erect herbs.
                
                  2. Solànum nìgrum (COMMON NIGHTSHADE). Low, much branched and spreading, nearly smooth;
                    leaves ovate, wavy-toothed; flowers white in small umbel-like lateral clusters;
                    berries globular, black. Shaded grounds and fields.
                  3. Solànum tuberòsum (POTATO). Erect;
                    leaves pinnate, of several ovate leaflets with minute ones intermixed; flowers
                    blue or white; berries globular, green. Cultivated from Chili for the tubers.
                    (See Plant Relations, p. 76, Fig. 67.)
                
              ** Prickly; anthers acute.
                
                  4. Solànum Carolinénse (HORSE-NETTLE).
                    Hirsute or roughish-pubescent, with usually numerous stout yellowish prickles;
                    leaves oblong or ovate, sinuate-toothed or lobed; flowers violet (rarely white)
                    in simple soon lateral racemes. Sandy soil and waste ground.
                
            
          
          
            2. LYCOPÉRSICUM (TOMATO)
            Herbs with rank-scented foliage, pinnately compound leaves, yellow flowers,
              wheel-shaped corolla with very short tube, anthers converging around the style and
              united by a membrane at their tips and opening lengthwise, and fruit a several-celled
              and many-seeded large berry.
            
              Lycopérsicum esculéntum or Lycopérsicon
                  Lycopérsicon. Hairy; leaves interruptedly pinnate, the larger leaflets cut or
                pinnatifid, ovate and pointed; flower clusters short and forked; berry red or yellow
                and varying much in cultivation. Cultivated from tropical America.
            
          
          
            3. LÝCIUM (MATRIMONY-VINE)
            Shrubby and often spiny plants with small entire leaves, mostly axillary small
              flowers, 3-5-cleft calyx, funnel-form corolla, anthers opening lengthwise, a knob-like
              stigma, and fruit a small berry.
            
              Lýcium vulgàre. Shrub with long recurved-drooping branches,
                often not at all spiny; leaves oblong-lanceolate or spatulate, often clustered; the
                greenish-purple flowers on slender stalks clustered in the axils; berry orange-red.
                About dwellings. From Europe.
            
          
          
            4. PETÙNIA
            Herbs with clammy-pubescent foliage, large and showy flowers, calyx with leaf-like
              lobes much longer than its tube, funnel-form corolla, unequal and included stamens,
              and fruit a pod.
            
              Petùnia nyctaginiflòra. Stout and flowering at evening; leaves
                oval-oblong, narrowed into a distinct petiole; corolla white, the long narrow tube
                3-4 times the length of the calyx. Cultivated from South America.
              Petùnia violàcea. Stems weaker; leaves ovate or oval, sessile
                or very nearly so; corolla violet-purple or rose-red, the shorter, broader, and
                inflated tube hardly twice the length of the calyx. Cultivated from South America,
                and variously modified.
            
          
          
          
            5. DATÙRA (JIMSON-WEED. THORN-APPLE)
            Rank weeds with ovate leaves, large showy flowers in the forks of the branching stem,
              prismatic and toothed calyx, funnel-form corolla with large and spreading plaited
              border, a 2-lipped stigma, and fruit a globular prickly pod.
            
              Datùra Stramònium. Smooth with green stem; leaves
                sinuate-toothed or angled; corolla white, 3 in. long; lower prickles of the pod
                usually shorter. Waste ground. From Asia.
              Datùra Tátula. Mostly taller; stem purple; corolla pale
                violet-purple; prickles of the pod nearly equal. Waste ground. From tropical
                America.
            
          
        
        
          LXVIII. SCROPHULARIACEÆ (FIGWORT
              FAMILY)
          Herbs with a 2-lipped or less irregular corolla, 4 unequal stamens (sometimes 2 or 5)
            on the corolla-tube, a single style, and a superior 2-celled ovary becoming a
            many-seeded pod.
          
            * Upper lip or lobes of the corolla covering the lower in bud.+ Leaves
                alternate.
              
                1. Verbascum. Corolla wheel-shaped; stamens 5, with bearded
                  filaments.
                2. Linaria. Corolla tubular, with a spur at base; stamens
                  4.
              
            + + Leaves opposite.
              
                3. Scrophularia. Corolla somewhat globular, with 4 erect
                  lobes and 1 spreading one.
                4. Collinsia. Corolla 2-cleft, the middle lobe of the lower
                  lip sac-like and inclosing the stamens.
                5. Pentstemon. Corolla tubular; the 5th or sterile stamen
                  about as long as the rest.
              
            ** Under lip or lateral lobes of the corolla covering the upper in bud.+
                Corolla almost regular; stamens 2.
              
                6. Veronica. Flowers blue or white; leaves chiefly
                  opposite.
              
            + + Corolla 2-lipped, the upper lip narrow and inclosing the 4 stamens.
              
                7. Castilleia. Basal leaves mostly entire, the floral ones
                  showy and colored.
                8. Pedicularis. Basal leaves pinnately parted, the floral
                  ones not showy.
              
          
          
            1. VERBÁSCUM (MULLEIN)
            Tall herbs with alternate leaves (those of the stem sessile or decurrent), large
              terminal spikes of flowers, 5-parted calyx, wheel-shaped 5-lobed corolla, 5 stamens
              with woolly filaments, style flattened at tip, and a globular pod.
            
              Verbáscum Thápsus (COMMON MULLEIN). Densely woolly throughout; stem tall and stout, simple, winged by
                the decurrent bases of oblong leaves; flowers yellow (rarely white), in a prolonged
                and very dense cylindrical spike. Fields. From Europe. (See Plant
                  Relations, p. 44, Fig. 36.)
              Verbáscumn Blattària (MOTH MULLEIN). Green and smoothish, slender; lower
                leaves petioled, oblong, serrate, sometimes lyre-shaped, the upper partly clasping;
                flowers yellow or white with a tinge of purple, in a loose raceme; filaments all
                bearded with violet wool. Roadsides and waste ground. From Europe.
            
          
          
            2. LINÀRIA (TOAD-FLAX)
            Herbs with alternate leaves, 5-parted calyx, tubular corolla with a spur at base and
              a prominent palate nearly closing the throat, 4 stamens, and a thin pod opening below
              the summit by 1 or 2 pores.
            
              Linària vulgàris or Linària Linària (BUTTER-AND-EGGS. RAMSTED).
                Erect and smooth, 1-3 ft. high; leaves linear or nearly so, extremely numerous,
                alternate; flowers yellow, with slender spur, in a terminal raceme. Fields and
                roadsides. From Europe. (See Plant Relations, p. 80, Fig. 74d; also Plant Structures, p. 228, Fig. 210d.)
            
          
          
            3. SCROPHULÀRIA (FIGWORT)
            Tall herbs with mostly opposite leaves, small greenish-purple or lurid flowers in a
              loose terminal cluster, deeply 5-cleft calyx, corolla with a somewhat globular tube (4
              upper lobes of the short border erect, the lower one spreading), and 4 declined
              stamens.
            
              Scrophulària Marylándica. Smooth, 3-5 ft. high; stem 4-sided;
                leaves ovate, oblong, or the upper lanceolate, acuminate, cut-serrate, rounded at
                base. Damp ground.
            
          
          
            4. COLLÍNSIA
            Slender branching herbs with opposite leaves, handsome flowers in clusters in the
              axils of the upper leaves, deeply 5-cleft calyx, deeply 2-lipped corolla saccate or
              bulging at base, upper lip 2-cleft with lobes turned backward, and middle lobe of the
              3-cleft lower lip sac-like and inclosing the 4 declined stamens and style.
            
              Collínsia vérna. Slender, 6-20 in. high; lower leaves ovate,
                the upper ovate-lanceolate and clasping by the heart-shaped base, toothed; corolla
                blue and white, twice the length of the calyx. Moist soil.
            
          
          
            5. PENTSTÈMON
            Herbs branching at base, with opposite leaves (upper sessile and mostly clasping),
              mostly showy flowers in a terminal cluster, 5-parted calyx, tubular to bell-shaped
              more or less inflated 2-lipped corolla, upper lip 2-lobed and lower 3-cleft, and 4
              stamens with anthers and a fifth represented by a filament.
            
              Pentstèmon pubéscens or Pentstèmon hirsùtus.
                Stem 1-2 ft. high, sticky-hairy; leaves oblong to lanceolate, 2-4 in. long, the
                lowest and basal ones ovate or oblong, usually toothed; flower cluster narrow;
                corolla dull violet or purple (or partly white), slightly inflated, the throat
                nearly closed by a hairy palate; sterile filament densely bearded. Dry or rocky
                ground.
              Pentstèmon lævigàtus or Pentstèmon
                  Pentstèmon. Stem 2-4 ft. high, mostly smooth except in the flower cluster;
                leaves thicker, glossy; stem leaves ovate to lanceolate, with rounded clasping base,
                2-5 in. long; flower cluster broader; corolla white commonly tinged with purple,
                abruptly and broadly inflated, the throat widely open; sterile filament thinly
                bearded above. Moist or rich soil.—The var. Digitàlis has
                even taller stems, and a larger and more abruptly inflated white corolla.
            
          
          
          
            6. VERÓNICA (SPEEDWELL)
            Herbs with opposite or alternate leaves, blue or white flowers, 4-parted calyx,
              wheel-shaped corolla with 4-parted border, 2 protruding stamens, and a flattened pod
              obtuse or notched at apex.
            
              * Leaves opposite; flowers in axillary racemes, pale blue.
                
                  1. Verónica Anagállis (WATER SPEEDWELL). Smooth, creeping, and rooting at base, then erect;
                    leaves sessile, most of them clasping by a heart-shaped base, ovate-lanceolate,
                    acute, serrate or entire; flowers with purple stripes; pod inflated, round,
                    slightly notched. Brooks and ditches.
                  2. Verónica Americàna (AMERICAN BROOKLIME). Smooth, decumbent at base, then erect, 8-15 in.
                    high; leaves mostly petioled, ovate or oblong, serrate, truncate or slightly
                    heart-shaped at base; pod inflated, round. Brooks and ditches.
                  3. Verónica officinàlis (COMMON SPEEDWELL). Hairy, with prostrate stems; leaves short-petioled,
                    obovate, obtuse, serrate; flowers in densely many-flowered racemes; pod strongly
                    flattened, triangular, broadly notched. Dry hills and open woods.
                
              ** Leaves opposite; flowers in a terminal raceme.
                
                  4. Verónica serpyllifòlia (THYME-LEAVED
                      SPEEDWELL). Much branched at the creeping base, nearly
                    smooth, branches ascending, simple, 2-4 in. high; leaves ovate or oblong,
                    obscurely crenate, the lowest petioled and rounded, the upper passing into
                    lanceolate bracts; flowers whitish or pale blue with deeper stripes; pods flat,
                    rounded, broader than long, obtusely notched. Roadsides and fields.
                
              ** Leaves mostly alternate; flowers appearing axillary and solitary.
                
                  5. Verónica peregrìna (NECKWEED. PURSLANE SPEEDWELL). Nearly smooth or
                    puberulent, erect, 4-9 in. high, branched; lowest leaves petioled, oval-oblong,
                    toothed, the others sessile; upper leaves oblong and entire, larger than the
                    almost sessile whitish flowers; pod round, slightly notched. In damp
                    soil.
                  6. Verónica arvénsis (CORN SPEEDWELL). Hairy, 3-8 in. high; lower leaves petioled, ovate,
                    crenate; uppermost sessile, lanceolate, entire; flowers blue; pod inversely
                    heart-shaped. Cultivated ground. From Europe.
                
            
          
          
            7. CASTILLÈIA (PAINTED-CUP)
            Herbs with alternate entire or cut-lobed leaves, floral leaves usually dilated and
              colored and more showy than the yellow or purplish spiked flowers, tubular flattened
              and usually 2-cleft calyx, 2-lipped corolla with tube included in the calyx, upper lip
              long and narrow and arched and inclosing the 4 unequal stamens, and lower lip short
              and 3-lobed.
            
              Castillèia coccínea (SCARLET PAINTED-CUP). Hairy; stem simple; basal leaves clustered, mostly entire,
                obovate or oblong; stem leaves incised; floral leaves 3-5-cleft, bright scarlet
                (rarely yellow) toward the summit; calyx about as long as the pale-yellow corolla.
                Low sandy ground.
            
          
          
            8. PEDICULÀRIS (LOUSEWORT)
            Herbs with pinnatifid leaves, those of the flower-cluster bract-like, rather large
              flowers in a spike, calyx variously cleft, strongly 2-lipped corolla, upper lip arched
              and flattened and often beaked at apex, lower lip 3-lobed and 2-crested above, and 4
              stamens under the upper lip.
            
            
              Pediculàris Canadénsis (COMMON LOUSEWORT. WOOD BETONY).
                Hairy; stems clustered, 5-12 in. high; leaves scattered, the lowest pinnately
                parted, the others half-pinnatifid; spikes short and dense; calyx split in front;
                upper lip of the greenish-yellow and purplish corolla hooded, incurved, 2-toothed
                under the tip; pod flat, somewhat sword-shaped. Dry open soil.
            
          
        
        
          LXIX. BIGNONIACEÆ (BIGNONIA FAMILY)
          Woody climbers or trees with funnel-form or bell-shaped 5-lobed corolla, 2 or 4 stamens
            on the corolla-tube, a long style, and a superior 2-celled ovary becoming a long pod
            containing winged seeds.
          
            Tecoma. Leaves pinnately compound; woody climbers.
            Catalpa. Leaves simple and large; trees.
          
          
            1. TÉCOMA (TRUMPET-FLOWER)
            Woody climbers with pinnately compound leaves, clustered large flowers, bell-shaped
              5-toothed calyx, funnel-form corolla, 4 stamens, and a long pod with winged seeds.
            
              Técoma radìcans (TRUMPET CREEPER). Leaflets 9-11, ovate, pointed, toothed; calyx yellowish; corolla
                tubular-funnel-form, orange and scarlet, 2½-3 in. long; stamens included; pod
                oblanceolate, 4-5 in. long.
            
          
          
            2. CATÁLPA (CATALPA. INDIAN BEAN)
            Trees with ovate or heart-shaped mostly opposite leaves, clusters of showy flowers,
              deeply 2-lipped calyx, bell-shaped swelling corolla with a wavy spreading irregular
              5-lobed border, 2 or 4 stamens, and very long slender pods with fringe-winged
              seeds.
            
              Catálpa speciòsa. Large and tall tree with thick bark; leaves
                large, heart-shaped, long-pointed; corolla 2 in. long, nearly white, inconspicuously
                spotted, the lower lobe notched; pod thick. Low rich woods.
              Catálpa bignonioìdes or Catálpa Catálpa. Low
                and much branched, with thin bark; leaves similar; corolla smaller, 1½ in. long,
                thickly spotted, the lower lobe entire; pod much thinner. Cultivated from the
                South.
            
          
        
        
          LXX. PLANTAGINACEÆ (PLANTAIN FAMILY)
          Herbs with a basal cluster of ribbed leaves, and naked stems terminating in spikes of
            4-parted sympetalous flowers.
          
            1. PLANTÀGO (PLANTAIN)
            Herbs with 4 sepals, wheel-shaped and 4 lobed corolla, 4 protruding stamens, a single
              slender style with long hairy stigma, and a superior 2-celled pod opening by a
              lid.
            
              * Leaves broad and strongly ribbed, smooth.
                
                
                  1. Plantàgo màjor (COMMON PLANTAIN). Smooth or somewhat hairy; leaves ovate, oblong, oval
                    or slightly heart-shaped, often toothed, abruptly narrowed into a channeled
                    petiole, the strong ribs distinct to the base; spike dense, obtuse; pod ovoid,
                    the lid opening near the middle; seeds reticulated. Roadsides and near
                    dwellings. Introduced from Europe.
                  2. Plantàgo Rugèlii. Leaves as in the last, but thinner;
                    spikes long and slender, tapering at apex; pod cylindrical-oblong, the lid
                    opening much below the middle; seeds not reticulated. With the last.
                
              ** Leaves lanceolate and strongly ribbed, mostly hairy.
                
                  3. Plantàgo lanceolàta (RIBGRASS. ENGLISH PLANTAIN). Mostly hairy; the naked
                    flower-bearing stem slender, ¾-2 ft. high, at length much longer than the
                    lanceolate strongly ribbed leaves; spike dense, very short at first, becoming
                    cylindrical. Common. From Europe.
                
              *** Leaves very narrow and not strongly ribbed; plant more or less
                  white-woolly.
                
                  4. Plantàgo Patagónica or Plantàgo
                      Púrshii. From sparsely hairy to white-woolly; leaves 1-3-nerved, narrowly
                    linear to oblanceolate; spikes cylindrical, very dense, more or less hairy or
                    woolly, with bracts short or much longer than the flowers. Prairies and plains.
                    Very variable, and including several forms which are doubtless separate
                    species.
                
            
          
        
        
          LXXI. RUBIACEÆ (MADDER FAMILY)
          Shrubs or herbs with entire opposite or whorled leaves, regular sympetalous 4-lobed
            corolla, 4 stamens on corolla-tube, a single style, and an inferior 2-celled ovary
            becoming a pod or berry.
          
            * Low herbs.
              
                1. Houstonia. Erect; fruit a pod with numerous seeds.
                2. Mitchella. Trailing evergreen; fruit a scarlet berry with
                  few seeds.
              
            ** Shrubs.
              
                3. Bouvardia. Flowers scarlet, in clusters at the ends of
                  branches; fruit a globular pod.
              
          
          
            1. HOUSTÒNIA
            Small herbs with opposite leaves, clustered or solitary flowers, 4-lobed calyx,
              tubular corolla usually with flaring border, and fruit a pod.
            
              Houstònia cærùlea (BLUETS. INNOCENCE). Small and delicate, 3-5 in. high; leaves spatulate; peduncle
                slender, erect, 1-flowered; corolla with flaring border light blue, pale lilac, or
                nearly white, with a yellowish eye; pod broad and somewhat 2-lobed. Moist and grassy
                places.
              Houstònia purpùrea. Smooth or hairy, 8-15 in. high; leaves
                varying from roundish-ovate to lanceolate; flowers in small terminal clusters; calyx
                lobes longer than the globular pod; corolla funnel-form, purplish. Open
                woods.—The var. ciliolàta is low, with small leaves, those
                of the stem spatulate, the basal ones oblong, ciliate
                and forming a rosette.—The var. longifòlia has lanceolate to
                linear leaves, the basal ones oval or oblong and not ciliate. (See Plant Relations, p. 129, Fig. 135.)
            
          
          
            2. MITCHÉLLA (PARTRIDGE BERRY)
            Smooth and trailing evergreen herb with round and shining petioled leaves, white
              fragrant flowers often tinged with purple and in pairs with their ovaries united,
              4-toothed calyx, funnel-form corolla with lobes densely bearded inside, and scarlet
              berries which remain over winter.
            
              Mitchélla rèpens. Leaves often variegated with whitish lines.
                Dry woods, creeping about the base of trees.
            
          
          
            3. BOUVÁRDIA
            Shrubby plants with opposite or whorled leaves, flowers in clusters at the end of the
              branches, calyx with 4 slender lobes, corolla with a long and slender or
              trumpet-shaped tube and short spreading lobes, 4 anthers almost sessile in the throat,
              and a small globular pod.
            
              Bouvárdia triphýlla. Leaves ovate or oblong, smoothish, in
                whorls of 3 or the upper in pairs; corolla scarlet, minutely downy outside, nearly 1
                in. long. Cultivated from Mexico.
              Bouvárdia leiántha. Leaves more downy; corolla deep scarlet,
                smooth. Cultivated from Mexico.
            
          
        
        
          LXXII. CAPRIFOLIACEÆ (HONEYSUCKLE
              FAMILY)
          Shrubs or herbs with opposite leaves, tubular or rotate 4- or 5-lobed corolla, 4 or 5
            stamens on the corolla-tube, and an inferior 4- or 5- (or 2- or 3-) celled ovary
            becoming a berry, stone-fruit, or pod.
          
            * Corolla wheel-shaped or urn-shaped; stigmas sessile or nearly so; flowers in
                terminal flat-topped clusters; shrubs.
              
                1. Sambucus. Leaves pinnately compound.
                2. Viburnum. Leaves simple.
              
            ** Corolla tubular or bell-shaped; style slender.+ Herbs with axillary
                flowers.
              
                3. Triosteum. Flowers sessile in the axils.
              
            + + Erect or climbing shrubs.
              
                4. Symphoricarpos. Corolla bell-shaped and regular; berry
                  2-seeded.
                5. Lonicera. Corolla tubular and more or less irregular;
                  berry several-seeded.
                6. Diervilla. Corolla funnel-form and nearly regular; pod
                  2-celled, many-seeded.
              
          
          
          
            1. SAMBÙCUS (ELDER)
            Shrubby plants with pinnate leaves, serrate leaflets, numerous small white flowers in
              large clusters, calyx lobes minute or wanting, urn-shaped corolla with broadly
              spreading 5-cleft border, 5 stamens, and a berry-like juicy fruit.
            
              Sambùcus Canadénsis (COMMON ELDER). Stems scarcely woody, 5-10 ft. high with white pith; leaflets 5-11,
                oblong, mostly smooth, the lower often 3-parted, flower clusters flat; fruit black
                purple. Rich open soil.
              Sambùcus racemòsa or Sambùcus pùbens (RED-BERRIED ELDER). Stems woody, 2-12 ft. high
                with warty bark and brown pith; leaflets 5-7, ovate, lanceolate, downy beneath;
                flower clusters convex or pyramidal; fruit bright red. Rocky woods.
            
          
          
            2. VIBÚRNUM (ARROWWOOD)
            Shrubs with simple leaves, white flowers in flat clusters, 5-toothed calyx, deeply
              5-lobed spreading corolla, 5 stamens, and a berry-like fruit.
            
              * Leaves palmately veined, strongly 3-lobed.
                
                  1. Vibúrnum Ópulus (CRANBERRY TREE). Nearly smooth, upright, 4-10 ft. high; leaves 3-5-ribbed,
                    wedge-shaped or truncate at base, the spreading lobes pointed; marginal flowers
                    of the cluster with greatly enlarged flat corollas; fruit light red, globose,
                    acid. Low moist ground. The cultivated snow-ball bush is a form in which the
                    whole flower cluster becomes modified like the marginal flowers.
                
              ** Leaves pinnately veined, coarsely toothed.
                
                  2. Vibúrnum dentàtum (ARROWWOOD).
                    Smooth, 5-15 ft. high; leaves broadly ovate, with numerous sharp teeth; fruit
                    ovoid, blue or purple. Wet places.
                
              *** Leaves pinnately veined, finely serrate.
                
                  3. Vibúrnum Lentàgo (SHEEP BERRY). Tree 10-30 ft. high; leaves ovate, strongly pointed,
                    sharply serrate; flower cluster large; fruit oval, black, sweet. Woods and banks
                    of streams.
                  4. Vibúrnum prunifòlium (BLACK HAW). Tall shrub or small tree; leaves oval, obtuse, finely and
                    sharply serrate, smaller than in the last, 1-2 in. long; fruit similar. Dry or
                    moist ground.
                
            
          
          
            3. TRIÓSTEUM (FEVERWORT)
            Coarse hairy herbs leafy to the top, with large entire pointed leaves narrowed at
              base but connate about the simple stem, sessile flowers solitary or clustered in the
              axils, narrow leaf-like calyx-lobes, tubular 5-lobed corolla scarcely longer than the
              calyx, 5 stamens, and 3-celled ovary becoming a dry stone fruit.
            
              Triósteum perfoliàtum. Soft-hairy, 2-4 ft. high; leaves oval,
                abruptly narrowed below; flowers brownish-purple, mostly clustered in the axils;
                fruit orange-color. Rich woods.
              Triósteum angustifòlium. Smaller, bristly-hairy; leaves
                lanceolate, tapering to the base; flowers greenish-cream-color, mostly single in the
                axils. Rich woods.
            
          
          
          
            4. SYMPHORICÁRPOS (SNOWBERRY)
            Low branching upright shrubs with oval short-petioled leaves downy beneath, white- or
              rose-tinged flowers in spikes or clusters, short calyx teeth, bell-shaped regularly 4-
              or 5-lobed corolla with as many short stamens in its throat, and fruit a berry.
            
              Symphoricárpos racemòsus. Flowers in a loose and somewhat
                leafy spike at the end of the branches; corolla bearded inside; berries large,
                white. Rocky ground. Common in cultivation.
            
          
          
            5. LONÍCERA (HONEYSUCKLE. WOODBINE)
            Erect or climbing shrubs with entire leaves, often showy and fragrant flowers, very
              short calyx teeth, tubular or funnel-form corolla, 5 stamens, and a 2-3-celled ovary
              becoming a berry.
            
              Lonícera sempérvirens (TRUMPET HONEYSUCKLE). Twining shrubs; leaves oblong, smooth, the lower
                petioled, the uppermost pairs connate; flowers in sessile clusters from the axils of
                the upper leaves; corolla trumpet-shaped, nearly 2 in. long, deep red outside,
                yellowish within; stamens and style a little protruding; berry red or orange.
                Thickets. Common in cultivation.
              Lonícera gràta or Lonícera Caprifòlium (AMERICAN WOODBINE). Twining shrubs; leaves
                smooth, whitish beneath, obovate, the 2 or 3 upper pairs united; flowers whorled in
                the uppermost axils, fragrant; corolla whitish with a purple tube 1 in. long, fading
                yellowish, the lower lip narrow, the upper broad and 4-lobed; stamens and style
                conspicuously protruding; berries red. Rocky woods, cultivated.
              Lonícera Tatàrica (TARTARIAN HONEYSUCKLE). Tall erect shrub or straggling shrub; leaves oval,
                heart-shaped, obtuse or acute; flowers in pairs, whitish or bluish-red, produced in
                profusion; berries red and united. Cultivated from Asia.
            
          
          
            6. DIERVÍLLA (BUSH HONEYSUCKLE)
            Low upright shrubs with ovate or oblong pointed serrate leaves, small clusters of
              axillary or terminal flowers, calyx-tube tapering at summit and with slender lobes,
              funnel-form corolla, 5 stamens, and an ovoid pointed pod.
            
              Diervílla trífida or Diervílla Diervílla.
                Shrubs 1-4 ft. high; leaves oblong ovate, taper-pointed; peduncles mostly
                3-flowered; corolla pale yellow, not showy; pod oblong, long-beaked. Rocky
                ground.
              Diervílla flórida (WEIGELA). Shrub 5-8 ft.
                high; leaves ovate-lanceolate, serrate; corolla showy, rose color, funnel-form with
                abruptly narrowed base; ovary very slender and pod linear. Cultivated from Japan and
                China.
            
          
        
        
          LXXIII. CUCURBITÀCEÆ (GOURD FAMILY)
          Mostly tendril-bearing herbs with alternate palmately lobed or veined leaves, often
            sympetalous flowers, mostly 3 stamens usually united by their often tortuous anthers,
            and an inferior 1-3-celled ovary becoming a fleshy fruit
            with a membranous or hard rind.
          
            * Flowers large, on separate stalks in the axils; fruit large and fleshy, with
                a harder rind.+ Tendrils forked.
              
                1. Cucurbita. Corolla large and funnel-form; fruit
                  hollow.
                2. Citrullus. Corolla deeply 5-cleft; fruit not
                  hollow.
              
            + + Tendrils not forked.
              
                3. Cucumis. Corolla of 5, almost separate, acute
                  petals.
              
            ** Flowers small in profuse clusters; fruit prickly.
              
                4. Echinocystis. Corolla open, spreading, of 6 petals united
                  at base; fruit dry and bladdery; tendrils 3-forked.
              
          
          
            1. CUCÚRBITA (PUMPKIN. SQUASH)
            Herbs with forked tendrils, broad leaves, large flowers solitary in the axils, calyx
              with bell-shaped tube, funnel-form 5-cleft yellow corolla, 3 stamens with much curved
              slender anthers united into a small head, and a large fleshy fruit with hard rind.
            
              Cucúrbita Pèpo (PUMPKIN). Stalks and lobed
                leaves rough bristly; flower-tube flaring, the lobes pointed and erect; fruit
                hollow. Cultivated under numerous forms as the field pumpkin, certain squashes, and
                gourds.
            
          
          
            2. CITRÚLLUS (WATERMELON)
            Herbs with forked tendrils, axillary flowers, short bell-shaped calyx-tube, deeply
              5-cleft pale-yellow corolla, anthers lightly cohering, and seeds imbedded in the
              edible pulp.
            
              Citrúllus vulgàris. Prostrate; leaves deeply 3-5-lobed; pulp
                reddish or white, containing dark imbedded seeds. Cultivated from Asia.
            
          
          
            3. CÙCUMIS (MELON. CUCUMBER)
            Herbs with simple tendrils, corolla of 5 almost separate acute petals, separate
              stamens, and large fruit with fleshy rind.
            
              Cùcumis Mèlo (MUSKMELON. CANTALOUPE). Leaves round heart-shaped, the lobes (if any) rounded; fruit
                with smooth rind and sweet flesh, the edible part being the inner rind. Cultivated
                from Asia.
              Cùcumis satìvus (CUCUMBER). Leaves more or
                less lobed, the lobes acute, the middle one more prominent, often pointed; fruit
                rough or spiny when young, smooth when mature. Cultivated from Asia.
            
          
          
            4. ECHINOCÝSTIS or MICRÁMPELIS (WILD CUCUMBER)
            Tall climbing herbs with 3-forked tendrils, thin leaves, very numerous small
              greenish-white flowers, 6 petals united at base into an open spreading corolla,
              anthers more or less united, and a 2-celled ovary which ripens into a fleshy at length
              dry bladdery fruit clothed with weak prickles, the inner part fibrous-netted.
            
            
              Echinocýstis lobàta or Micrámpelis lobàta.
                Leaves deeply and sharply 5-lobed; fruit oval, 2 in. long. Rich soil along streams,
                also cultivated for arbors.
            
          
        
        
          LXXIV. CAMPANULÀCEÆ (CAMPANULA
              FAMILY)
          Herbs with alternate leaves, bell-shaped or wheel-shaped usually blue and showy
            corolla, 5 separate stamens, a single style, and a 3-5-celled ovary becoming a
            many-seeded pod.
          
            Specularia. Flowers sessile in the axils of the roundish
              clasping leaves; filaments hairy.
            Campanula. Flowers on slender stalks or in terminal spikes;
              filaments smooth.
          
          
            1. SPECULÀRIA or LEGOÙZIA (VENUS LOOKING-GLASS)
            Low herbs with axillary blue or purplish flowers, 5-lobed calyx, wheel-shaped 5-lobed
              corolla, hairy filaments, and a 3 celled oblong pod opening on the side by 3
              holes.
            
              Speculària perfoliàta or Legoùzia
                perfoliàta. Somewhat hairy, 3-20 in. high; leaves roundish or ovate, clasping
                by the heart-shaped base, toothed; flowers sessile, solitary or 2-3 together, only
                the upper ones with a conspicuous corolla; pod opening rather below the middle.
                Sterile open ground.
            
          
          
            2. CAMPÁNULA (BELLFLOWER)
            Herbs with terminal or axillary flowers, 5-cleft calyx, usually bell-shaped 5-lobed
              corolla, broad filaments, and a 3- or 5-celled short pod opening on the side by as
              many holes. (See Plant Relations, p. 19, Fig. 13; p. 80, Fig. 74a. Also Plant Structures, p. 228, Fig. 210a).
            
              * Stigmas and cells of the ovary 3.+ Flowers few, on slender stalks;
                  stem-leaves narrow.
                
                  1. Campánula rotundifòlia (HAREBELL).
                    Mostly smooth, slender, branching, 5-12 in. high, 1-10-flowered; basal leaves
                    round-heart-shaped or oval, long-petioled, early withering away; stem-leaves
                    numerous, linear or narrowly lanceolate, entire, smooth; calyx-lobes awl-shaped;
                    corolla bright blue; style straight; pod nodding; its openings below the middle.
                    Shaded rocky ground.
                  2. Campánula aparinoìdes (MARSH BELLFLOWER). Rough backward on the stem-angles and leaf-margins,
                    simple, slender and weak, 8-20 in. high; leaves linear-lanceolate, slightly
                    toothed; flowers on diverging stalks; calyx-lobes triangular; corolla nearly
                    white; style straight; pod erect, its openings below the middle. Wet grassy
                    ground.
                
              + + Flowers in a long spike; stem-leaves broad.
                
                  3. Campánula Americàna (TALL BELLFLOWER). Stem mostly simple, 3-6 ft. high; leaves ovate to
                    lanceolate, taper-pointed, serrate, thin, somewhat hairy, 2½-6 in. long;
                    light-blue flowers in spikes 1-2 ft. long; style declined and upwardly curved, much longer than the wheel-shaped corolla;
                    openings of pod close to the summit. Moist rich soil.
                
              ** Stigmas and cells of the ovary 5.
                
                  4. Campánula Mèdium (CANTERBURY BELLS). Erect, branching, hairy; leaves coarsely toothed;
                    flowers oblong bell-shaped, 2-3 in. long, blue varying to white; calyx with
                    reflexed leafy appendages. Cultivated from Europe.
                
            
          
        
        
          LXXV. CICHORIACEÆ (CHICORY FAMILY)
          Like Compositæ, but all the flowers of the head with strap-shaped
            corollas. In ours the flowers are yellow.
          
            Krigia. Akene flat-topped; pappus a mixture of scales and
              bristles.
            Taraxacum. Akene prolonged into a very slender beak bearing the
              soft white pappus.
          
          
            1. KRÍGIA or ADOPÒGON (DWARF
                DANDELION)
            Small herbs, branched from the base, with chiefly basal and lyrate or toothed leaves,
              small heads of flowers terminating naked stems or branches, several thin involucral
              scales in about 2 rows, short flat-topped akenes, and a double pappus (outer chaffy
              scales, inner delicate bristles).
            
              Krígia Virgínica or Adopògon Caroliniànum.
                Stems several, 1-10 in. high, becoming branched and leafy; earlier leaves roundish
                and entire, the others narrower and often pinnatifid; pappus of 5-7 scales and as
                many bristles. Moist ground.
              Krígia amplexicaùlis or Adopògon Virgínicum.
                Stem 1-2 ft. high; stem-leaves 1-3, oblong or oval, clasping, mostly entire; basal
                leaves on short-winged petioles, often toothed; pappus of 10-15 scales and 15-20
                bristles. Moist ground.
            
          
          
            2. TARÁXACUM (DANDELION)
            Herbs with a basal rosette of pinnatifid leaves, large and solitary heads on slender
              hollow stems, double involucre (outer short scales, inner long and narrow erect scales
              in a single row), and an oblong ribbed akene prolonged into a very slender beak
              bearing the soft white pappus.
            
              Taráxacum officinàle or Taráxacum Taráxacum.
                Smooth or at first hairy; outer involucre reflexed; inner involucre at first erect,
                but reflexed in fruit and exposing the globular head of pappus. Everywhere. From
                Europe. (See Plant Relations, p. 114, Fig. 113; also Plant Structures, p. 213, Fig. 187; p. 277, Fig. 262; p. 278, Fig.
                263.)
            
          
        
        
          LXXVI. COMPOSITÆ (COMPOSITE FAMILY)
          The greatest family of flowering plants, chiefly blooming in summer and autumn, with
            flowers collected in a head which is surrounded by a rosette of bracts (involucre), the marginal flowers (rays) usually with
            strap-shaped conspicuous corollas, the inner flowers
            (forming the disk) tubular and 5-toothed, calyx in the form of hairs,
            bristles, teeth, scales, etc. (pappus), 5 stamens united by their
            anthers, a 2-cleft style, and an inferior ovary becoming a dry seed-like akene. (See Plant Structures, p. 275; also p. 276, Fig. 261.)
          
            * Ray-flowers white or purple.+ Disk flat, yellow.
              
                1. Erigeron. Leaves entire or toothed; pappus of hair-like
                  bristles.
                2. Chrysanthemum. Leaves pinnately cut; pappus none.
              
            + + Disk conical, purplish.
              
                3. Echinacea. Rays very long, rose-purple, drooping; pappus
                  a small-toothed border.
              
            ** Ray-flowers yellow.
              
                4. Rudbeckia. Involucre of spreading leaf-like bracts; disk
                  dark and hemispherical; pappus none.
                5. Senecio. Involucre of narrow erect bracts; disk yellow
                  and flat; pappus of copious soft white hairs.
              
          
          
            1. ERÍGERON (FLEABANE)
            Herbs with entire or toothed leaves, solitary or clustered heads on naked peduncles,
              about equal and narrow involucral scales, white or purple rays, yellow disk, flattened
              akenes, and pappus of hair-like bristles.
            
              Erígeron bellidifòlius or Erígeron
                  pulchéllus (ROBIN'S PLANTAIN). Hairy,
                producing offsets at base; stem simple, rather naked above, bearing few large heads
                on slender stalks; basal leaves obovate and spatulate, sparingly toothed;
                stem-leaves distant, lanceolate-oblong, partly clasping, entire; rays (about 50)
                rather broad, light bluish-purple. Thickets and moist ground.
              Erígeron Philadélphicus (COMMON FLEABANE). Hairy; stem leafy, branching above, bearing several small
                heads; leaves thin, oblong, the upper ones smoothish, clasping by a heart-shaped
                base, mostly entire, the lowest spatulate and toothed; rays innumerable and very
                narrow, rose-purple or flesh-color. Moist ground.
              Erígeron ánnuus (DAISY FLEABANE). Stem stout, 3-5 ft. high, branched, beset with spreading hairs;
                leaves coarsely and sharply toothed, the lowest ovate and tapering into a margined
                petiole; rays numerous, white tinged with purple, not twice the length of the
                bristly involucre. Fields and waste places.
              Erígeron strigòsus or Erígeron ramòsus (DAISY FLEABANE). Stem smaller and simpler,
                roughish like the leaves with minute flattened hairs, or almost smooth; leaves
                entire or nearly so, the upper lanceolate and scattered, the lowest oblong or
                spatulate and tapering to a slender petiole; rays numerous, white, twice the length
                of the minutely hairy involucre. Fields and waste places.
            
          
          
            2. CHRYSÁNTHEMUM (OX-EYE DAISY)
            Herbs with pinnately cut leaves, single or clustered heads, overlapping involucral
              scales, white rays, yellow and flat disk, striate akenes, and no pappus.
            
            
              Chrysánthemum Leucánthemum (MARGUERITE.
                  WHITE DAISY). Stem erect, nearly simple,
                naked above and bearing a single large head; basal leaves spatulate, petioled, the
                others partly clasping, all cut or toothed. Fields and meadows. From Europe.
            
          
          
            3. ECHINÀCEA or BRAUNÈRIA (PURPLE CONE-FLOWER)
            Herbs with chiefly alternate leaves, stout and nearly simple stems naked above and
              terminated by a single large head, lanceolate involucral scales overlapping and
              spreading, very long rose-purple drooping rays, conical purplish disk, thick and short
              4-sided akenes, and pappus a small toothed border.
            
              Echinàcea purpùrea or Braunèria purpùrea.
                Stem smooth or rough-bristly as well as the leaves; leaves rough, often serrate, the
                lowest ovate, 5-nerved, long-petioled, the others ovate-lanceolate; rays 15-20, dull
                purple to whitish, 1-2 in. long or more. Prairies.
              Echinàcea angustifòlia or Braunèria pállida.
                Stem (as well as the leaves) bristly-hairy, slender; leaves lanceolate and
                linear-lanceolate, alternate at base, 3-nerved, entire; rays 12-15, rose-color or
                red, 2 in. long. Prairies.
            
          
          
            4. RUDBÉCKIA (CONE-FLOWER)
            Herbs with alternate leaves, showy terminal heads, leaf-like and spreading involucral
              scales, long yellow rays, hemispherical to oblong dark disk with short chaff, 4-sided
              smooth akenes, and no pappus.
            
              Rudbéckia hírta. Very rough and bristly-hairy throughout;
                stems simple or branched near the base, stout, 1-2 ft. high, naked above, bearing
                single large heads; leaves nearly entire, the upper oblong or lanceolate, the lower
                spatulate; disk dull brown. Dry soil.
            
          
          
            5. SENÈCIO (GROUNDSEL)
            Herbs with alternate leaves, solitary or clustered heads of yellow flowers,
              cylindrical simple involucre of erect more or less united scales, and pappus of very
              numerous soft and slender white hairs. (See Plant Relations, p. 114,
              Fig. 114.)
            
              Senècio lobàtus (BUTTER-WEED). Rather tall;
                leaves smooth or soon becoming so, somewhat fleshy, lyrate or pinnate, the divisions
                or leaflets crenate or cut-lobed, variable; heads small, in a naked flat-topped
                cluster; rays 6-12, conspicuous. Wet ground.
              Senècio aùreus (SQUAW-WEED). Smooth or
                woolly when young, 1-3 ft. high; leaves thin, the basal ones simple and rounded
                (larger ones mostly heart-shaped), crenate-toothed, long-petioled; lower stem-leaves
                lyrate; upper leaves lanceolate, pinnately cut, sessile or partly clasping; heads in
                an umbel-like cluster; rays 8-12. Very common.—The var. obovàtus has thicker basal leaves round-obovate with a wedge-shaped or
                truncate base.—The var. Balsámitæ has lanceolate, spatulate,
                or oblong basal leaves narrowed to a petiole and serrate.
            
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
        INDEX
        
          Abutilon, 52.
          Acer, 49.
          Aceraceæ, 49.
          Acorus, 8.
          Adopogon, 84.
          Æsculus, 50.
          Alder, 22.
          Alfalfa, 46.
          Alisma, 6.
          Alismaceæ, 6.
          Allium, 10.
          Alnus, 22.
          Alsine, 27.
          Alum-root, 39.
          Alyssum, 36.
          Amaryllidaceæ, 15.
          Amaryllis Family, 15.
          Amelanchier, 43.
          American Cowslip, 62.
          American Laurel, 60.
          Ampelopsis, 51.
          Anemone, 29.
          Anemonella, 30.
          Anonaceæ, 27.
          Apocynum, 64.
          Apocynaceæ, 64.
          Apple, 43.
          Apple Family, 43.
          Aquilegia, 31.
          Araceæ, 7.
          Aralia, 56.
          Araliaceæ, 56.
          Arctostaphylos, 60.
          Arethusa, 18.
          Argemone, 34.
          Arisæma, 7.
          Aristolochiaceæ, 24.
          Arrowhead, 6.
          Arrowwood, 80.
          Arum Family, 7.
          Asarum, 24.
          Ash, 63.
          Asimina, 27.
          Aspen, 20.
          Avens, 41.
        
        
          Balsam, 50.
          Balsam Family, 50.
          Balsaminaceæ, 50.
          Barberry, 32.
          Barberry Family, 31.
          Basswood, 52.
          Bean, 48.
          Bearberry, 60.
          Bee-balm, 70.
          Beech, 22.
          Beech Family, 22.
          Begonia, 54.
          Begoniaceæ. 54.
          Begonia Family, 54.
          Belamcanda, 16.
          Bellflower, 83.
          Bellwort, 8.
          Bellwort Family, 8.
          Benzoin, 33.
          Berberidaceæ, 31.
          Berberis, 32.
          Bergamot, 70.
          Betula, 21.
          Betulaceæ, 21.
          Bicuculla, 34.
          Bignoniaceæ, 77.
          Bignonia Family, 77.
          Bindweed, 65.
          Birch, 21.
          Birch Family, 21.
          Birthwort Family, 24.
          Bishop-cap, 39.
          
          Bitter Cress, 36.
          Bittersweet, 73.
          Blackberry Lily, 16.
          Black Haw, 80.
          Blacksnake Root, 57.
          Bleeding Heart, 35.
          Bloodroot, 33.
          Bluebells, 68.
          Blueberry, 61.
          Blue-eyed Grass, 16.
          Borage Family, 67.
          Boraginaceæ, 67.
          Bouncing Bet, 26.
          Bouvardia, 79.
          Bramble, 41.
          Brauneria, 86.
          Brook-weed, 63.
          Brunella, 71.
          Buckeye, 50.
          Buckwheat, 25.
          Buckwheat Family, 24.
          Bur-reed, 6.
          Bur-reed Family, 6.
          Bursa, 36.
          Bush Honeysuckle, 81.
          Butter-and-Eggs, 75.
          Buttercup, 30.
          Butternut, 19.
        
        
          Cæsalpinaceæ, 44.
          Calamus, 8.
          Calico Bush, 60.
          Calopogon, 18.
          Caltha, 31.
          Calypso, 18.
          Camassia, 11.
          Campanula, 83.
          Campanulaceæ, 83.
          Campanula Family, 83.
          Candytuft, 37.
          Cantaloupe, 82.
          Canterbury Bells, 84.
          Caper Family, 37.
          Capnoides, 35.
          Capparidaceæ, 37.
          Caprifoliaceæ, 79.
          Capsella, 36.
          Cardamine, 36.
          Carnation, 26.
          Carrot, 57.
          Carya, 20.
          Caryophyllaceæ, 26.
          Castilleia, 76.
          Catalpa, 77.
          Catchfly, 26.
          Cat-mint, 71.
          Catnip, 71.
          Cat-tail Family, 5.
          Cat-tail Flag, 5.
          Celandine Poppy, 34.
          Celtis, 23.
          Cercis, 44.
          Cherry, 44.
          Chickweed, 27.
          Chicory Family, 84.
          Chimaphila, 59.
          Chrysanthemum, 85.
          Cichoriaceæ, 84.
          Cinquefoil, 42.
          Circæa, 56.
          Citrullus, 82.
          Claytonia, 25.
          Clematis, 28.
          Cleome, 37.
          Clintonia, 12.
          Clover, 46.
          Cobæe, 66.
          Cockle, 27.
          Collinsia, 75.
          Columbine, 31.
          Comfrey, 68.
          Commelinaceæ, 8.
          Compositæ, 84.
          Composite Family, 84.
          Cone-flower, 86.
          Convallaria, 13.
          Convallariaceæ, 12.
          Convolvulaceæ, 64.
          Convolvulus, 65.
          Convolvulus Family, 64.
          Corallorhiza, 18.
          Coral-root, 18.
          Cornaceæ, 58.
          Cornel, 58.
          Cornus, 58.
          Corpse Plant, 59.
          Corydalis, 35.
          Corylus, 22.
          Cottonwood, 21.
          Cracca, 46.
          Cranberry, 61.
          Cranesbill, 48.
          Crassulaceæ, 38.
          Crocus, 17.
          Crowfoot, 30.
          Crowfoot Family, 28.
          
          Cruciferæ, 35.
          Cucumber, 82.
          Cucumis, 82.
          Cucurbita, 82.
          Cucurbitaceæ, 81.
          Currant, 40.
          Custard-apple Family, 27.
          Cyclamen, 62.
          Cynoglossum, 68.
          Cypripedium, 18.
        
        
          Daisy, 86.
          Dandelion, 84.
          Datura, 74.
          Daucus, 57.
          Day Lily, 11.
          Dead-nettle, 72.
          Delphinium, 31.
          Dentaria, 35.
          Deutzia, 39.
          Dianthus, 26.
          Dicentra, 34.
          Diervilla, 81.
          Dirca, 54.
          Disporum, 12.
          Ditch Stonecrop, 38.
          Dock, 24.
          Dodecatheon, 62.
          Dogbane, 64.
          Dogbane Family, 64.
          Dog-tooth Violet, 10.
          Dogwood, 58.
          Dogwood Family, 58.
          Drupaceæ, 44.
          Dutchman's Breeches, 34.
          Dwarf Dandelion, 84.
        
        
          Echinacea, 86.
          Echinocystis, 82.
          Elder, 80.
          Elm, 23.
          Elm Family, 23.
          Enchanter's Nightshade, 56.
          Epigæa, 60.
          Epilobium, 55.
          Ericaceæ, 59.
          Erigenia, 58.
          Erigeron, 85.
          Erysimum, 36.
          Erythronium, 10.
          Eschscholtzia, 34.
          Evening Primrose, 55.
          Evening Primrose Family, 55.
        
        
          Fagaceæ, 22.
          Fagopyrum, 25.
          Fagus, 22.
          False Solomon's Seal, 12.
          Feverwort, 80.
          Figwort, 75.
          Figwort Family, 74.
          Fireweed, 55.
          Five-finger, 42.
          Flag, 16.
          Fleabane, 85.
          Flower-de-Luce, 16.
          Fragaria, 42.
          Fraxinus, 63.
          Fuchsia, 55.
          Funkia, 11.
        
        
          Galanthus, 15.
          Garlic, 10.
          Gaylussacia, 61.
          Gemmingia, 16.
          Geraniaceæ, 48.
          Geranium, 48.
          Geranium Family, 48.
          Geum, 41.
          Gill-over-the-Ground, 71.
          Ginseng Family, 56.
          Gourd Family, 81.
          Gooseberry, 40.
          Gooseberry Family, 40.
          Grape, 51.
          Greek Valerian, 66.
          Gromwell, 68.
          Grossulariaceæ, 40.
          Ground Ivy, 71.
          Groundsel, 86.
        
        
          Hackberry, 23.
          Harebell, 83.
          Hazelnut, 22.
          Heath Family, 59.
          Heliotrope, 67.
          Heliotropium, 67.
          Hemerocallis, 11.
          Hepatica, 29.
          Heuchera, 39.
          Hickory, 20.
          Hicoria, 20.
          Hippocastanaceæ, 50.
          Hoary Pea, 46.
          Honeysuckle, 81.
          Honeysuckle Family, 79.
          Horehound, 71.
          
          Horsechestnut, 50.
          Horsechestnut Family, 50.
          Horse-mint, 70.
          Hound's Tongue, 68.
          Houstonia, 78.
          Huckleberry, 61.
          Hyacinth, 11.
          Hyacinthus, 11.
          Hydrophyllaceæ, 66.
          Hydrophyllum, 67.
        
        
          Iberis, 37.
          Impatiens, 50.
          Indian Bean, 77.
          Indian Mallow, 52.
          Indian Pipe, 59.
          Indian Pipe Family, 59.
          Ipomœa, 64.
          Iridaceæ, 16.
          Iris, 16.
          Iris Family, 16.
          Isopyrum, 30.
        
        
          Jacob's Ladder, 66.
          Jeffersonia, 32.
          Jewel-weed, 50.
          Jimson-weed, 74.
          Judas-tree, 44.
          Juglandaceæ, 19.
          Juglans, 19.
          June-berry, 43.
        
        
          Kalmia, 60.
          Knotweed, 25.
          Koniga, 36.
          Krauhnia, 47.
          Krigia, 84.
        
        
          Labiatæ, 69.
          Lady-slipper, 18.
          Lamium, 72.
          Larkspur, 31.
          Lathyrus, 47.
          Lauraceæ, 32.
          Laurel Family, 32.
          Leatherwood, 54.
          Legouzia, 83.
          Lepidium, 37.
          Leptorchis, 17.
          Leucoium, 15.
          Lilac, 63.
          Liliaceæ, 9.
          Lilium, 10.
          Lily, 10.
          Lily Family, 9.
          Lily of the Valley, 13.
          Lily of the Valley Family, 12.
          Limodorum, 18.
          Linaria, 75.
          Linden, 52.
          Linden Family, 52.
          Lindera, 33.
          Liparis, 17.
          Lithospermum, 68.
          Liver-leaf, 29.
          Lizard-tail, 19.
          Lizard-tail Family, 19.
          Locust, 47.
          Lonicera, 81.
          Loosestrife, 62.
          Lousewort, 76.
          Lucerne, 46.
          Lupine, 45.
          Lupinus, 45.
          Lungwort, 68.
          Lychnis, 27.
          Lycium, 73.
          Lycopersicum, 73.
          Lysimachia, 62.
        
        
          Madder Family, 78.
          Maianthemum, 13.
          Mallow, 52.
          Mallow Family, 52.
          Malva, 52.
          Malvaceæ, 52.
          Mandrake, 32.
          Maple, 49.
          Maple Family, 49.
          Marguerite, 86.
          Marrubium, 71.
          Marsh-marigold, 31.
          Matrimony-vine, 73.
          May-apple, 32.
          Meadow-rue, 30.
          Medicago, 46.
          Medick, 46.
          Melanthaceæ, 8.
          Melilotus, 46.
          Melon, 82.
          Mentha, 70.
          Mertensia, 68.
          Mezereum Family, 54.
          Micrampelis, 82.
          Mint, 70.
          Mint Family, 69.
          
          Mitchella, 79.
          Mitella, 39.
          Mitrewort, 39.
          Moccasin Flower, 18.
          Monarda, 70.
          Monotropa, 59.
          Monotropaceæ, 59.
          Moosewood, 54.
          Moraceæ, 23.
          Morning Glory, 64.
          Morus, 23.
          Mulberry, 23.
          Mulberry Family, 23.
          Mullein, 74.
          Muskmelon, 82.
          Mustard Family, 35.
        
        
          Narcissus, 15.
          Nasturtium, 36, 51.
          Nepeta, 71.
          Nettle, 73.
          Nightshade, 72.
          Nightshade Family, 72.
        
        
          Oak, 22.
          Oakesia, 9.
          Œnothera, 55.
          Oleaceæ, 63.
          Olive Family, 63.
          Onagraceæ, 55.
          Onion, 10.
          Orchidaceæ, 17.
          Orchis, 18.
          Orchis Family, 17.
          Ornithogalum, 11.
          Orpine Family, 38.
          Osmorhiza, 57.
          Oxalidaceæ, 49.
          Oxalis, 49.
          Ox-eye Daisy, 85.
        
        
          Pæonia, 31.
          Painted-cup, 76.
          Pansy, 54.
          Papaver, 34.
          Papaveraceæ, 33.
          Papaw, 27.
          Papilionaceæ, 45.
          Parsley Family, 56.
          Parthenocissus, 51.
          Partridge Berry, 79.
          Pea, 47.
          Peach, 44.
          Pear, 43.
          Pedicularis, 76.
          Pelargonium, 48.
          Penthorum, 38.
          Pentstemon, 75.
          Peony, 31.
          Pepper-and-Salt, 58.
          Peppergrass, 37.
          Peppermint, 71.
          Periwinkle, 64.
          Petunia, 73.
          Phacelia, 67.
          Phaseolus, 48.
          Philadelphus, 39.
          Phlox, 65.
          Pine Sap, 59.
          Pink, 26.
          Pink Family, 26.
          Pisum, 47.
          Plantaginaceæ, 77.
          Plantago, 77.
          Plantain, 77.
          Plantain Family, 77.
          Plum, 44.
          Plum Family, 44.
          Podophyllum, 32.
          Polanisia, 37.
          Polemoniaceæ, 65.
          Polemonium, 66.
          Polemonium Family, 65.
          Polygonaceæ, 24.
          Polygonatum, 13.
          Polygonum, 25.
          Pomaceæ, 43.
          Poplar, 20.
          Poppy, 34.
          Poppy Family, 33.
          Populus, 20.
          Portulaca, 25.
          Portulacaceæ, 25.
          Potato, 73.
          Potentilla, 42.
          Prickly Poppy, 34.
          Primrose, 62.
          Primrose Family, 61.
          Primula, 62.
          Primulaceæ, 61.
          Prunella, 71.
          Prunus, 44.
          Puccoon, 68.
          Pulse Family, 45.
          Pumpkin, 82.
          Purple Cone-flower, 86.
          
          Purslane, 25.
          Purslane Family, 25.
          Pyrola, 59.
          Pyrolaceæ, 58.
          Pyrola Family, 58.
          Pyrus, 43.
        
        
          Quamasia, 11.
          Quercus, 22.
          Quince, 43.
        
        
          Radish, 37.
          Ranunculaceæ, 28.
          Ranunculus, 30.
          Raphanus, 37.
          Redbud, 44.
          Ribes, 40.
          Richardia, 7.
          Robinia, 47.
          Roripa, 36.
          Rosaceæ, 40.
          Rose, 42.
          Rose Family, 40.
          Rubiaceæ, 78.
          Rubus, 41.
          Rudbeckia, 86.
          Rumex, 24.
        
        
          Sagittaria, 6.
          Salicaceæ, 20.
          Salix, 20.
          Sambucus, 80.
          Samolus, 63.
          Sanicula, 57.
          Sanguinaria, 33.
          Saponaria, 26.
          Sarsaparilla, 56.
          Sassafras, 32.
          Saururaceæ, 19.
          Saururus, 19.
          Saxifraga, 39.
          Saxifragaceæ, 38.
          Saxifrage, 39.
          Saxifrage Family, 38.
          Scrophularia, 75.
          Scrophulariaceæ, 74.
          Sedum, 38.
          Self-heal, 71.
          Senecio, 86.
          Senna Family, 44.
          Sheep Sorrel, 24.
          Shepherd's Purse, 36.
          Shooting Star, 62.
          Silene, 26.
          Sisyrinchium, 16.
          Skunk Cabbage, 7.
          Smartweed, 25.
          Smilaceæ, 14.
          Smilacina, 12.
          Smilax, 14.
          Smilax Family, 14.
          Snowberry, 81.
          Snowdrop, 15.
          Snowflake, 15.
          Solanaceæ, 72.
          Solanum, 72.
          Solomon's Seal, 13.
          Sorrel Family, 49.
          Sparganiaceæ, 6.
          Sparganium, 6.
          Spathyema, 7.
          Spearmint, 70.
          Specularia, 83.
          Speedwell, 76.
          Spice-bush, 33.
          Spiderwort, 8.
          Spiderwort Family, 8.
          Spring-beauty, 25.
          Squash, 82.
          Star-of-Bethlehem, 11.
          Stellaria, 27.
          Stonecrop, 38.
          Stylophorum, 34.
          Squirrel Corn, 34.
          Sweet Cicely, 57.
          Sweet Clover, 46.
          Sweet Flag, 8.
          Sweet William, 26, 65.
          Symphoricarpos, 81.
          Symplocarpus, 7.
          Synandra, 71.
          Syndesmon, 30.
          Syringa, 39, 63.
        
        
          Taraxacum, 84.
          Tecoma, 77.
          Tephrosia, 46.
          Thalictrum, 30.
          Thorn-apple, 74.
          Thymelæaceæ, 54.
          Tilia, 52.
          Tiliaceæ, 52.
          Toad-flax, 75.
          Tomato, 73.
          Toothwort, 35.
          Touch-me-not, 50.
          
          Tradescantia, 8.
          Trailing Arbutus, 60.
          Trifolium, 46.
          Trillium, 13.
          Triosteum, 80.
          Tropæolum, 51.
          Trumpet-flower, 77.
          Trumpet-creeper, 77.
          Tulip, 10.
          Tulipa, 10.
          Turkey Pea, 58.
          Twayblade, 17.
          Twin-leaf, 32.
          Typha, 5.
          Typhaceæ, 5.
        
        
          Ulmaceæ, 23.
          Ulmus, 23.
          Umbelliferaæ, 56.
          Unifolium, 13.
          Uvularia, 8.
        
        
          Vacciniaceæ, 60.
          Vaccinium, 61.
          Vagnera, 12.
          Verbascum, 74.
          Verbena, 69.
          Verbenaceæ, 68.
          Venus Looking-glass, 83.
          Veronica, 76.
          Vervain, 69.
          Vervain Family, 68.
          Vetchling, 47.
          Viburnum, 80.
          Vinca, 64.
          Vine Family, 51.
          Viola, 53.
          Violaceæ, 53.
          Violet, 53.
          Virgin Bower, 28.
          Vitaceæ, 51.
          Vitis, 51.
        
        
          Wake-robin, 13.
          Walnut, 19.
          Walnut Family, 19.
          Washingtonia, 57.
          Water Cress, 36.
          Waterleaf, 67.
          Waterleaf Family, 66.
          Watermelon, 82.
          Water Pimpernel, 63.
          Water-plantain, 6.
          Water-plantain Family, 6.
          Weigela, 81.
          Whortleberry Family, 60.
          Wild Allspice, 33.
          Wild Cucumber, 82.
          Wild Ginger, 24.
          Willow, 20.
          Willow Family, 20.
          Willow-herb, 55.
          Wintergreen, 59.
          Wistaria, 47.
          Woodbine, 81.
          Wood-sorrel, 49.
        
        
          Zizia, 57.
        
        THE END
      
    
  
