
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Harding, Samuel Bannister, 1866-1927.. Essentials in mediæval history. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1010
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			

			
				
						THE EMPEROR CHARLEMAGNE.
						Dürer's painting (1510), showing the insignia of later Emperors. Contemporary
							portraits all show Charlemagne without a beard.
					
			


			
			
				
					ESSENTIALS IN MEDIÆVAL HISTORY
								(FROM CHARLEMAGNE TO THE CLOSE OF THE FIFTEENTH
					CENTURY)
				BY
					SAMUEL BANNISTER HARDING, PH.D. PROFESSOR OF EUROPEAN
						HISTORY, INDIANA UNIVERSITY IN CONSULTATION WITH ALBERT BUSHNELL HART,
						LL.D. PROFESSOR OF HISTORY, HARVARD UNIVERSITY


				NEW YORK-:-CINCINNATI-:-CHICAGO
					AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY
			

			
			
				VERSO
				COPYRIGHIT, 1905, 1909, BY SAMUEL BANNISTER HARDING. ENTERED
					AT STATIONERS' HALL, LONDON.  ESSEN.
					MED. HIST. W. P. 2
				
			

		


			
			
				PREFACE
				IN a large number of colleges, the first course in European history
					consists of a general survey of mediæval and modern history; and with the increased
					acceptance by secondary schools of the programme in history prepared by the Committee of
					Seven of the American Historical Association, it is becoming feasible to begin such a
					course with the time of Charlemagne. Even with this limitation, however, it is still a
					problem, in many institutions, how to cover in the limited time at the disposal of the
					instructor the many topics which such a course should comprise. Especially is this the
					case now that the best authorities -- wisely enough -- are insisting upon a fuller and
					more detailed treatment of more recent history, that included (let us say) within the
					limits of the last century and a half. The great problem is, then, how to compress the
					earlier part of the course so as to give adequate time for the more vital things nearer
					our own day.
				One way which has been proposed for accomplishing this is the elimination of a great deal
					of what is usually taught concerning the political history of the Middle Ages. One
					advocate of this method proposes the heroic policy of skipping directly from Charlemagne
					to Otto I. The author of this book believes heartily in the principle underlying this
					proposal, though he doubts the wisdom of its literal application. By careful selection of
					the facts to be taught, and placing them in text-book form in the hands of students, he
					believes that it is possible to accomplish the needful economy of time, while sacrificing
					little of the continuity of the history, or of the just 
					apprehension of the fundamental features of mediæval life and institutions. It is to meet
					such a need, in elementary college classes in mediæval history, that this book is issued
					in this form.
				It is perhaps needless to say that it is not expected that the book will comprise the
					whole of the instruction given, even in an elementary course, in this field. Formal and
					informal lectures by the instructor, collateral reading in the books referred to at the
					close of the chapters, the use of a source book such as that prepared by Ogg or by
					Robinson, the preparation of maps to fix geographical facts, and of occasional essays or
					reports to broaden here and there the narrow trail of classroom instruction, -- all these
					are presupposed as means of equal if not greater value than the text-book itself. The book
					affords what it is hoped will be found to be a clear, scholarly, compact outline, which
					can be filled in in various ways. Its aim is to be accurate in substance and definite in
					statement, to seize the vital and interesting facts, and as far as possible to give that
					concreteness of treatment which is necessary in dealing with matters so remote and alien
					as those which fill the history of the Middle Ages.
				These are the ideas which underlie this little book, and it is hoped that its chapters
					may be as successful elsewhere, as a basis for Freshman instruction in mediæval history,
					as they have already proved to be in Indiana University.
				BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA.
			
			
			
				CONTENTS
				
					I. Introduction: the World in the Year 800
						11
				
				
					EMPIRE AND PAPACY
					II. The Empire of Charlemagne (768-814)
						32
					III. The Later Carolingian Empire (814-911) and the Feudal
							System
						45
					IV. Successors of the Carolingians in Germany and France
						63
					V. The Church in the Middle Ages
						77
					VI. The Franconian Emperors, Hildebrand, and the Investiture
							Conflict (1024-1125)
						98
				
				
					AGE OF THE CRUSADES
					VII. The Christian and Mohammedan East, and the First Crusade
							(1096-1099)
						114
					VIII. The Later Crusades (1099-1291)
						129
					IX. The Hohenstaufen Empire and the Italian Communes
							(1125-1190)
						145
					X. End of the Hohenstaufen Empire (1190-1268)
						162
					XI. Life in the Mediæval Castle, Village, and Town
						171
				
				
					RISE OF NATIONAL STATES
					XII. England in the Middle Ages (449-1377)
						191
					XIII. The Rise of France (987-1337)
						211
					XIV. The Hundred Years' War (1337-1453)
						229
					XV. Development of Modern States (1254-1500)
						246
				
				
					THE RENAISSANCE
					XVI. The Great Church Councils and the Renaissance (1300-1517)
						264
				
				
					INDEX
						285
				
			
			
			
				LIST OF MAPS
				
					Physical Map of Europe
						14, 15
					Conquests of the Mohammedans
						24
					Growth of the Frankish Kingdom
						26
					The Known World in 800
						27
					Europe in the Time of Charlemagne (768-814)
						30, 31
					Partition of Verdun (843)
						47
					Mohammedans, Christians, and Pagans about 600-814 and about
							1100
						62
					Holy Roman Empire in the 10th and 11th Centuries
						64
					Mediæval Monasteries, Bishoprics, and Archbishoprics
						82
					Chief Universities of the Middle Ages
						93
					Territories of the Countess Matilda
						102
					Europe about the Time of the First Crusade (1097)
						112, 113
					Crusaders' States in Syria after the First Crusade
						129
					Saladin's Empire, and the Results of the Fourth Crusade
						138
					Lombard and Tuscan Leagues
						154
					Mediæval Commerce and Textile Industries
						184, 185
					England in 878
						192
					English Possessions in France, 1180-1429
						228
					Growth of the Swiss Cbnfederation
						249
					States of the Empire in 1477
						252, 253
					Spanish States, 1266-1498
						256
					Spread of Printing during the Fifty Years following its Introduction
							into Mainz
						278
				
			
			
   		

    		
    		SELECT LIST OF BOOKS IN ENGLISH
ON MEDIÆVAL HISTORY
Titles marked with an asterisk (*) denote books which are especially valuable.
    			
* Adams, G. B., Civilization during the Middle Ages. N.Y.
Archer, T. A., The Crusade of Richard I. (English History from 
Contemporary Writers.) N.Y.
* Archer, T. A., and Kingsford, C. L., The Crusades. (Nations
Series.) N.Y.
Balzani, Ugo, The Popes and the Hohenstaufen. (Epochs of Church
History.) N.Y.
* Bémont, C., and Monod, G., Medieval Europe, 395-1270. N.Y.
* Bryce, James, The Holy Roman Empire. Enlarged and revised
edition. N.Y.
Burckhardt, Jacob, The Civilisation of the Renaissance in Italy. N.Y.
Cambridge Modern History. (Planned by Lord Acton, and written by
associated scholars.) Vol. I. N.Y.
Chronicles of the Crusades. (Bohn Library.) N.Y.
Commines, Philip de, Memoirs, containing the Histories of Louis XI.
and Charles VIII., Kings of France, and Charles the Bold, Duke
of Burgundy. (Bohn Library.) N.Y.
Cox, G. W., The Crusades. (Epochs.) N.Y.
* Creighton, Mandell (Bishop), History of the Papacy from the Great
Schism to the Sack of Rome. 6 vols. N.Y.
Emerton, Ephraim, Introduction to the Study of the Middle Ages. Boston.
* Emerton, Ephraim, Mediœval Europe, 814-1300. Boston.
Emerton, Ephraim, Desiderius Erasmus. N.Y.
Fisher, Herbert, The Mediœval Empire. 2 vols. N.Y.
Freeman, E. A., Historical Essays. 3 vols. N.Y.
Froissart, Chronicles. (G. C. Macaulay's edition of Berner's 
translation.) N.Y.
Gardiner, S. R., Student's History of England. N.Y.
Gautier, Léon, Chivalry. London.
Gibbon, Edward, The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire. Edited by J. B. Bury. 7 vols. N.Y.
Gilman, Arthur, The Saracens. (Nations Series.) N.Y.
Guizot, F. P. G., History of Civilization. 4 vols. (Bohn Library.)
N.Y.
t Henderson, E. F., History of Germany in the Middle Ages. N.Y.
* Henderson, E. F., Select Historical Documents of the Middle Ages.
N.Y.
Historians' History of the World. 25 vols. N.Y.
Hodgkim, Thomas, Charles the Great. N.Y.
Hutton, W. H., Philip Augustus. N.Y.




Kitchin, G. W., History of France. 3 vols. Oxford.
Lacroix, Paul, Manners, Customs, and Dress during the Middle Ages.
London.
Lacroix, Paul, Military and Religious Life in the Middle Ages. London.
Lane-Poole, Stanley, Saladin. N.Y.
Lea, H. C., History of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages. 3 vols.
Philadelphia.
Lea, H. C., Studies in Church History. Philadelphia.
* Lodge, Richard, The Close of the Middle Ages, 1273-1494. N.Y.
McCabe, Joseph, Abélard. N.Y.
Masson, Gustave, Mediœval France. (Nations Series.) N.Y.
Michelet, Jules, History of France. Translated by G. H. Smith. 2 vols.
N.Y.
Milman, H. H., History of Latin Christianity. 8 vols. in 4. N.Y.
Moeller, Wilhelm, History of the Christian Church. 3 vols. N.Y.
Mombert, J. I., Charles the Great. N.Y.
Mombert, J. I., A Short History of the Crusades. N.Y.
Montalembert, C. F. de T., The Monks of the West, from St. Benedict to
St. Bernard. 7 vols. Edinburgh.
* Munro, D. C. (editor), Essays on the Crusades. N.Y.
* Munro, D. C., and Sellery, G. C. (editors), Medieval Civilization:
Selected Studies from European Authors, translated and edited.
Enlarged edition. N.Y.
* Oman, C. W. C., The Dark Ages, 476-918. N.Y.
Oman, C. W. C., Byzantine Empire. (Nations Series.) N.Y.
Oman, C. W. C., The History of the Art of War: The Middle Ages.
N.Y.
Pennsylvania, University of, Translations and Reprints from the Original
Sources of European History. 6 vols. Philadelphia and New York.
* Poole, Reginald L., Wycliffe and Movements for Reform. (Epochs
of Church History.) N.Y.
* Robinson, J. H., Readings in European History. Vol. I. Boston.
Robinson, J. H., and Rolfe, H. W., Petrarch, the First Modern Scholar
and Man of Letters. (Selections from his correspondence, with
introduction.) N.Y.
Schaff, Philip, History of the Christian Church. 6 vols. N.Y.
* Seignobos, Charles, The Feudal Régime. Translated by E. W. Dow.
N.Y.
Stephens, W. R. W., Hildebrand and his Times. (Epochs of Church
History.) N.Y.
Stillé, C. J., Studies in Mediœval History. Philadelphia.
Symonds, J. A., The Renaissance in Italy. 7 vols. N.Y.
Thatcher, O. J., and McNeal, E. H., Source Book for Mediœval History. N.Y.
Thatcher, O. J., and Schwill, Ferdinand, Europe in the Middle Age.
N.Y.
* Tout, T. F., The Empire and the Papacy, 918-1273. N. Y.
Willert, P. F., The Reign of Louis XI. N.Y.
* Wylie, J. H., The Council of Constance to the Death of John Huss.
	N.Y.
		



			
			
				ESSENTIALS IN MEDIÆVAL HISTORY
				
				
					CHAPTER I.
					
					INTRODUCTION: THE WORLD IN THE YEAR 800
					1. Periods of history
					THE division of history into periods is difficult, for two reasons:
						(1) Changes in history, like changes of the seasons, are gradual, each period merging
						into the next as imperrceptibly as winter into spring. (2) Progress does not take place
						with equal rapidity in all fields: now artistic activity, now scientific thought, now
						industrial development, now political organization, forges ahead, while other activities
						lag behind; now one nation leads, now another. It is difficult to find dates as division
						points which mark important changes in all these various fields, just as it is difficult
						to divide a man's life into periods of childhood, youth, manhood, and old age; yet the
						divisions are real and important.
					2. Scope of the book
					The term "Middle Ages" is often used to cover the whole period from the beginning of
						the barbarian invasions about 375 A.D., or the fall of the Roman Empire in the West in
						476 A.D., to the discovery of America in 1492, or the beginning of the Protestant
						Reformation. In reality three distinct epochs are comprised in this period: (1) The
						period from about 375 to about 800 was an epoch of transition, to which the term "the
						Dark Age" may perhaps be applied; it is the time when the invading Germans and the
						subjects of the Roman Empire were being fused into one people, and when the remains of
						classical civilization, the institutions of the Germanic barbarians, and Christianity
						were combining to form  the culture of mediæval Europe. (2)
						The typical Middle Age begins with the revival of the Western Empire by Charlemagne
						(800) and lasts till about 1300; it is the age of feudalism, of the might of a church
						organization ruling every form of human activity, of great struggles between Popes and
						Emperors. (3) The third division is an epoch of transition, from about 1300 to about
						1500; it is the time of the Renaissance, or "rebirth," when men's minds were made more
						free, and when state, church, art, literature, industry, and society took on new forms.
						The first of these divisions (375-800) is included in the scope of many text-books of
						Ancient History; the second and third, covering the years 800-1500, are dealt with in
						this book.
					For us, history is the study of the achievements of European peoples and of their
						relations with other peoples. India, China, and Japan have civilizations and histories
						of their own, which bear little on European history. In the Middle Ages, America and
						Australia were unknown to Europe; of Africa the Mediterranean regions alone were known;
						and the more distant parts of Asia were revealed only through indirect trade, through
						westward raids of Asiatic hordes, and through vague reports brought back by a few
						adventurous missionaries and traders. It is only since the maritime discoveries of the
						fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, and the accompanying expansion of trade and
						settlement, that Western civilization has passed beyond the limits of Europe and of
						Mediterranean Africa and Asia.
					3. Geography of Europe
					Europe is the smallest of the grand divisions of the earth save Australia, but
						historically it is the most important. It extends from about 36º to 71º north latitude,
						or from about the latitude of Cape Hatteras on the Atlantic coast of the United States
						to that of northernmost Alaska; its climate is much milder than that of the eastern
						parts of North America and Asia in corresponding latitudes. Its coast line is much
						broken; its surface is diversified by mountain and  plain;
						its rainfall is generally plentiful, and there are no deserts except in the extreme
						southeast. The Mediterranean Sea, with its easily navigable waters, unites it to as well
						as separates it from neighboring lands. The position, configuration, and climate of
						Europe have admirably fitted it to receive, develop, and spread to other parts of the
						globe the ancient civilization which arose in Egypt and Mesopotamia.
					Geographically Europe is a peninsula of Asia; this has made it possible for great
						bodies of people at various times to pass from Asia into Europe. In prehistoric times
						there occurred the migrations of the Aryan peoples, conquering and absorbing the
						pre-Aryan races: in the south of Europe settled the Greeks and Latins; in the west were
						established the Celts (Irish, Scots, Britons, Gauls); into the east came the Slavs
						(Russians, Poles, Bohemians, Servians, etc.); and between were located the Germans, with
						their near kin the Dutch and the Scandinavians. Whether the original seat of the Aryans
						was in central Asia or in northern Europe is disputed; it should also be noted that the
						classification into Aryan and non-Aryan peoples is based upon language, and does not
						necessarily imply actual kinship of blood. Nevertheless the Aryan peoples constitute a
						real historic group, with many ideas, institutions, and customs in common, and must be
						marked off from the Semitic races (Jews, Arabs, Phnicians), as well as from the
						so-called Turanian peoples who inhabit central and eastern Asia.
					Freeman,	Historical Geography of Europe. I 8
					Structurally "the characteristic of Europe is to be more full of peninsulas and islands
						and inland seas than the rest of the Old World." It consists of three distinct parts:
						(1) a southern portion comprising the great peninsulas of Greece, Italy, and Spain, and
						cut off from the central mass by an almost unbroken mountain chain (the Pyrenees, and
						the Alps with their eastern continuations); (2) a broad central land mass stretching
						east and west across Europe; 
						
							PHYSICAL MAP OF EUROPE
						
						
						
							PHYSICAL MAP OF EUROPE
						
						 and (3) a northern peninsular portion, separated from the
						central portion by the Baltic Sea, which forms "a kind of secondary Mediterranean." The
						northern and central portions, especially toward the east, are relatively low, and
						consist principally of "naked plains and large lakes, exposed to the freezing influences
						of Asia and the Arctic Ocean." The southern portion, on the other hand, "presents a
						series of very elevated lands, covered with natural obstacles, varied with cuttings and
						declivities, bristling with peaks, scalloped with gulfs, furrowed by numerous rivers,
						cut up into peninsulas, arresting the northern winds, opening up to the winds of Africa
						freshened by the Mediterranean ... The natural accidents of the south, besides being
						favorable to Agriculture and commerce, assure the independence and civilization of their
						inhabitants; whilst the vast frozen plains of the north have only miserable and savage
						populations, brutalized under a single government." 
					Lavallée, Physical Historical, and Military Geography, 51
					4. The nountian systems
					The central mountain system of Europe is the Alps, consisting of from 30 to 50 distinct
						masses, which may be grouped under the two heads of Western Alps and Eastern Alps. (1)
						The Western Alps or Great Alps (the Alps proper) lie in the form of an arc of a circle
						stretching a distance of 348 miles from the Gulf of Genoa to Mt. St. Gothard; they
						comprise three series of parallel ridges, with altitudes of from 3000 to 5000 in the
						western ridge, 9000 to 15,000 in the central, and 5000 to 8000 in the eastern ridge; the
						highest peak is Mont Blanc (15,781 feet), the highest mountain in Europe. They are more
						easily passable by an army coming from France into Italy than from Italy into France.
						The chief passes are the Simplon (6500 feet), over which Napoleon Bonaparte constructed
						an admirable road at the beginning of the nineteenth century; the Great St. Bernard
						(7900 feet), which in spite of its difficulties was used successively by Charlemagne,
						the Emperor Frederick I., and Napoleon; the Little St. Bernard  7100 feet); and the Mont Cenis (6700 feet).ₑ (2) The Eastern Alps stretch from Mt. St. Gothard to the
						Adriatic Sea and continue (the Dinaric Alps) along its eastern coast; their altitudes
						are lower than the Western Alps, and decline as they approach the Adriatic; their chief
						pass is the Brenner, with an altitude of 4700 feet.
					In almost every direction radiate offshoots from this central mountain mass. To the
						south extend the Apennines, forming the Italian peninsula; to the west are the Cevennes
						of southern France; to the north appear the Jura, the Vosges, the Black Forest, and
						other mountains of upper Germany; to the northeast lie the mountains inclosing Bohemia
						-- the Böhmerwald (Bohemian Forest), the Erzgebirge (Ore Mountains), and the
						Riesengebirge (Giant Mountains) -- and the sweeping arc, 700 miles long, of the
						Carpathians; and to the southeast are the wild and precipitous heights of the Balkans,
						and the mountains forming the Grecian peninsula.
					Only a few groups of mountains in Europe are disassociated from the central mass of the
						Alps: the Pyrenees, with an avercage elevation of about 8000 feet, constituting a solid
						rampart between France and the Spanish peninsula, passable for armies at the eastern and
						western ends only; and the Scandinavian Mountains, the Scottish Highlands, the Urals,
						and the lofty Caucasus ridge, of little historical importance.
					5. The river systems
					Three important rivers rise in the neighborhood of Mt. St. Gothard, and flowing in
						different directions empty into different seas: (1) the Rhine, after receiving as
						tributaries the Moselle from the west and the Main from the east, and traversing a
						course of 850 miles, empties into the North Sea (the Meuse, which flows into its delta,
						is practically a ₑ In
							recent years railway tunnels have been driven through the Alps: the Mont Cenis, 7 1/2
							miles long, completed in 1871; the St. Gothard, 9 3/4 miles, completed in 1881; the
							Arlberg, 6 3/4 miles, completed in 1884; and the Simplon, 12 1/2 miles, completed in
							1905.
						 tributary of the Rhine); (2) the Rhone, with the Saône as
						tributary, flows into the western Mediterranean; (3) the Po, which drains the northern
						plain of Italy, empties into the Adriatic Sea. The Volga, with its length of 2100 miles,
						is geographically the most important river of Europe, but historically it counts for
						little because of its location in the vast plains of eastern Russia. The Danube,
						Europe's second river in size, with a length of 1600 miles, ranks historically with the
						Rhine in importance, near whose source it rises, and with which it forms an almost
						continuous land and water route stretching clear across Europe from the Black Sea to the
						North Sea. Additional streams of importance are the Garonne, Loire, and Seine, in
						France; and the Elbe, Oder, and Vistula, in Germany.
					6. Geographical units in Europe
					The tendency of mountains is to separate, of rivers to unite, adjacent peoples.
						Physical geography would divide Europe into the following sections: Spain; France (or
						Gaul) to the Cevennes Mountains; the British Isles; the Rhone-land; the Rhine-land;
						Italy; the Balkan-land; the Danube-land; North Germany; Bohemia; Russia; Scandinavia.
						Each of these twelve regions has had its separate history; and modern political
						divisions follow this grouping with sufficient closeness to show the abiding influence,
						in history, of geographical factors.
					7. Materials for history
					All our knowledge of history is based at last upon (1) material remains, such as ruins,
						monuments, coins, old weapons, armor, household utensils, etc.; (2) official documents,
						and contemporary descriptions (including pictorial representations) by eye-and
						ear-witnesses; and (3) oral (or written) traditions, which come to us from persons not
						in a position to know the facts at first hand. No matter how important an event may have
						been, if no trace of it has been left in one or another of these ways, we can have no
						knowledge of it. For the Middle Ages our source materials consist  chiefly of "annals" and "chronicles" in which men (usually monks) wrote down
						brief accounts of the events of their own times; "capitularies" (decrees of Charlemagne
						and his successors) and other collections of laws; charters conveying grants of lands
						and privileges; a few letters of kings, popes, and other eminent men; lives of saints
						and other persons; and account books and other records of governments, monasteries, and
						individual landlords. For Modern history there is an ever increasing flood of
						parliamentary and congressional debates, statutes, memoirs and letters of statesmen and
						other persons, diaries, daily newspapers, etc. From these materials historians gather
						the facts of history by a slow and careful process of sifting and comparison, designed
						to separate the true from the false; and it is not surprising that -- as new materials
						are discovered and made available, and more careful study is given to the old -- many
						views formerly held are shown to be unfounded, and new ones take their place.
					8. Modes of reckoning time
					The historian must deal with many different systems of reckoning time, used by
						different peoples and in different ages. The Romans started from the founding of Rome;
						the Mohammedans count from the flight of Mohammed from Mecca (the "Hegira," in 622
						A.D.); ₑthe Christians from the
						birth of Christ (the year 1 A.D.), which by a miscalculation was placed four years too
						late; in addition, the years of the reigns of kings, emperors, and popes have been
						used.
					The determination of the length of the year presents many difficulties. The "Julian"
						calendar, arranged by Julius Cæesar, making every fourth year a leap year, was used
						until the end of the Middle Ages; but this made the year eleven minutes fourteen seconds
						too long, and by the sixteenth century the ₑ Also, the Mohammedan year is a lunar year, nearly eleven days
							shorter than ours; so that 34 Mohammedan years are about equal to 33 years of our
							reckoning.
						 difference accumulated since the year of the Council of
						Nicæa (325 A.D.) amounted to nearly ten days. The reformed or "Gregorian" calendar was
						proclaimed by Pope Gregory XIII. in 1582; this not merely struck out ten days from the
						calendar of that year (the day after October 4 becoming October 15), but by directing
						the omission of three leap-year days in every four centuries thereafter, it provided for
						keeping the calendar year for the future in harmony with the solar year. England did not
						accept the reformed calendar until 1752; Russia has not yet accepted it, and is now
						thirteen days behind the other nations in its reckoning of dates. The two calendars are
						distinguished as "old style" (O.S.) and "new style" (N.S.); and to avoid doubt, dates
						after 1582 are sometimes given in both systems: in this book such dates are all given
						according to the "new style." About the time that the Gregorian calendar was adopted in
						the various countries, the beginning of the year was definitely fixed at the first of
						January; in other usages it began with the feast of the Annunciation (March 25) and with
						various other dates, -- so that up to 1752 in England, for instance, there was confusion
						as to whether a given date between January 1 and March 25 belonged to the expiring or
						the beginning year. Within the year, dates were frequently fixed with reference to great
						church festivals -- such as Christmas and Easter -- or by the days of the different
						saints, of which more than two thousand were thus used.
					9. Decay of Roman Empire (180-375 A.D.)
					For two hundred years after the overthrow of the Roman Republic by Julius Cæsar and
						Augustus, the Roman Empire prospered, giving unity of government, law, language, and
						culture to the whole Mediterranean world. Then followed a period of civil war and decay,
						from the death of Marcus Aurelius to the accession of Diocletian (180-284 A.D.). This
						decline was temporarily checked by the reorganization of the empire carried out by
						Diocletian and by Constantine the Great (died 337), whereby the empire was  divided into an eastern and a western half (regularly after
						395), was made entirely despotic, and the capital was removed Constantinople. With
						Constantine also came the end of the persecutions of the Christians, and the recognition
						of Christianity as the official religion of the state.
					But these changes could not long check the decay, which was due (1) to a great decrease
						in population, caused by famines, wars, and pestilence; (2) to unwise laws about taxes,
						by which men became fixed in their stations and occupations, as in hereditary castes,
						and free peasants became serfs, bound to the soil, while slaves rose in the social scale
						and blended with the depressed freemen; (3) to widespread luxury and immorality; and (4)
						to a lack of national feeling, resulting from despotism in the government and the
						general employment in the army of Germanic barbarians, who also were settled by the
						government in large numbers on waste lands within the empire.
					10. Invasions of the Germans (376-476)
					At the end of the fourth century came a more rapid decline, due to the entrance into
						tue Roman Empire of whole nations of German barbarians. The Visigoths, attacked in the
						rear by Huns from Asia, crossed the Danube frontier, overthrew and slew the Emperor
						Valens at Adrianople in 378, and under their young king Alaric ravaged Greece, overran
						Italy, and sacked Rome (410); under Alaric's successors they established a Germanic
						kingdom in Spain and southern Gaul, which lasted for three centuries (to 711). The
						example set by the Visigoths was speedily followed by other nations. The Vandals overran
						Gaul and Spain; and upon the coming of the Visigoths to the latter land, they passed
						over into Africa (429), there to rule for a hundred and five years. The Franks, who were
						settled about the lower Rhine, gradually occupied northern Gaul; the Burgundians,
						passing from the middle Rhine to the Rhone valley, established there a kingdom which
						lasted until 534; the Angles and Saxons, invading HARDING'S M.
							& M. HIST.--2
						 Britain in their piratical vessels (about 449),
						established kingdoms which later consolidated into the kingdom of England. In 451 the
						savage Huns extended their raids into the heart of Gaul, but were turned back by the
						united efforts of Romans and Visigoths; and the death two years later of their leader
						Attila, "the Scourge of God," released Europe from the dread of Asiatic dominion.
					At Rome the last of a line of weak and foolish Emperors of the West came to an end in
						the year 476, when Odoacer, the leader of the German mercenaries in the Roman army,
						deposed young Romulus Augustulus, himself assumed the title of "king," and sent
						ambassadors to lay at the feet of the Eastern Emperor at Constantinople the imperial
						crown and purple robe, professing that one Emperor was enough for both East and
						West.
					11. Ostrogoths and East Romans (476-555)
					For some years Odoacer enjoyed his "kingdom" over the mercenaries in peace; but in 493
						he was defeated and murdered by the king of the Ostrogoths, Theodoric the Great, who had
						come into Italy with his people, commissioned by the Eastern Emperor to overthrow the
						usurper. Theodoric (493-526) had been brought up as a youth at Constantinople, and
						entertained wise and beneficent plans for the union of his Ostrogoths with the Italian
						provincials into one nation; but in spite of his efforts the attempt failed, mainly
						through religious differences, the Ostrogoths (in common with most of the German
						barbarians) being Arian Christians (an heretical sect), while the orthodox Catholic
						religion prevailed in the Roman Empire.
					The reign of the Emperor Justinian (527-565) greatly strengthened the Eastern Empire,
						and also profoundly influenced the West. Justinian was a great builder and civilizer,
						and codified the Roman law into the Code, Digest, and Institutes, which preserved it to influence the world to the present day. He was
						also a great conqueror, and his generals Belisarius  and
						Narses overthrew not only the Vandal kingdom in Africa (533), but also the weakened
						Ostrogothic kingdom in Italy (553). For a few brief years the Roman Empire once more
						ruled Italy, northern Africa, the islands of the western Mediterranean, and even
						southern Spain; never again was its power to touch so high a point.
					12. Rise of Mohammedanism (622-732)
					The beginning of the seventh century saw the rise of a new religion and a new political
						power, through the teachings of Mohammed (571-632), who united the Arabs, rescued them
						from the worship of sticks and stones, and taught them there was but one true God
						(Allah), of whom Mohammed was the Prophet. The teaching of Mohammed was embodied in the
						Koran; it contains Jewish, Christian, and Persian elements, and along with many good and
						noble ideas are mixed baser elements tainted by the ignorance, cruelty, and sensuality
						of seventh-century Arabs.
					
						INTERIOR OF MOSQUE OF CORDOVA, SPAIN.
						Present condition. Built by Mohammedans in the 8th and 10th centuries.
					
					By the year 631 all Arabia had accepted Mohammed's teaching, and fanatical zeal and
						lust of rule urged on a movement of foreign conquest such as the world had never seen.
						In eighty years Mohammedanism conquered more territory 
						than Rome conquered in four centuries: Syria, Persia, Egypt, northern Africa, and Spain
						passed under the rule of the caliphs, successors of Mohammed; but in Gaul, in 732, the
						Mohammedans were checked by the Franks under Charles Martel in the battle of Tours; and
						this defeat, combined with internal dissensions, saved Europe from a further advance of
						their power in this direction.
					
						CONQUESTS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS.
					
					13. Lombards and the papacy (568-774)
					Within fifteen years after the overthrow of the Ostrogoths, a new Germanic people, the
						Lombards, appeared in Italy to take their place. In a short time the Lombards conquered
						the greater part of northern Italy, to which their name (Lombardy) is still given; and
						soon they possessed the greater part, but not all, of the peninsula: officers of the
						Eastern Emperors still ruled a considerable district about the mouth of the river Po
						(Exarchate of Ravenna), together with the district about Rome (Ducatus
							Romanus), and the southern points of the peninsula. The main result of the
						incompleteness of the Lombard conquest was the rise of a new temporal power vested in
						the Pope, who was bishop of Rome and head of the Christian church.
					The Lombards were among the most barbarous of the Germanic nations, and they were long
						viewed by the Romans with the fiercest hatred and loathing, even after they put aside
						their Arianism and accepted Catholic Christianity. Owing to the distance and weakness of
						the Eastern Emperors, power  in the city of Rome gradually
						passed into the hands of its bishops or Popes, among whom Leo I. (440-461) and Gregory
						I. the Great (590-604) were most noteworthy; and in 729 the Pope threw off his
						allegiance to the Emperor as a result of the Emperor's decree against the use of images
						in worship (the Iconoclastic Controversy). At about the same time the Lombards conquered
						the Exarchate of Ravenna (727); it then seemed as if the Pope would escape from the rule
						of the Emperor only to fall under that of the hated Lombards; but from this danger the
						papacy was saved by an appeal to another Germanic people, the most notable of all -- the
						Franks.
					14. Rise of the Franks (481-768)
					Of all the Germanic peoples who pressed into the Continental provinces of Rome, only
						the Franks in Gaul established an enduring kingdom; hence for centuries the history of
						the Frankish power makes the largest part of the history of Europe. Their king Clovis
						(481-511) laid its basis by his consolidation of the Franks under one rule, and his
						conquests of neighboring peoples. Within fifty years after his death, most of Gaul and
						the Rhine valley were under Frankish sway. Many of the descendants of Clovis proved weak
						rulers; and the broils and feuds of the nobles, the turbulence and lawlessness of the
						freemen, produced great disorder. In spite of these evils, and in spite of frequent
						divisions of the territory among the sons of deceased kings, the power of the Franks as
						a people did not decline. Alongside of the "do-nothing" (fainéant)
						Merovingian kings, descendants of Clovis, arose strong "mayors of the palace," who
						exercised the real power. In Austrasia (the kingdom of the East Franks) the mayors of
						the palace became especially strong, for the office was practically hereditary in the
						powerful family of the Pepins (Carolingians), who possessed wide estates and numerous
						followers. Under chiefs of this house the East and West Franks were reunited, with one
						king and one mayor of the palace, and the Mohammedans were beaten back.


					
					
						GROWTH OF THE FRANKISH KINGDOM.
					
					Einhard,
						Charlemagne, ch. 1
					To Charles Martel, the victorious mayor of the palace in the battle of Tours, the Pope
						appealed in vain for aid against the Lombards. In 751, however, Pope Zacharias enabled
						Charles's son, Pepin the Short, to seize the throne, by declaring "that the man who held
						power in the kingdom should be called king and be king, rather than he who falsely bore
						that name": with this warrant the last of the Merovingian kings of the Franks was
						"deposed, shorn, and thrust into a cloister," and Pepin was raised upon a shield in old Teutonic
						(Germanic) fashion and hailed as king in his stead (751-768). Pepin twice marched into
						Italy against the Lombards, at the Pope's request; the second time (756) he forced the
						Lombard king to give hostages, pay tribute, and surrender the Exarchate, which Pepin
						thereupon granted to the Pope. Thus the Pope became an important secular prince, by
						securing  the old imperial dominions in central Italy; and
						thus too was laid the basis of a close connection between the papacy and the Frankish
						monarchy, which to each was to prove of the utmost importance.
					
					
						THE KNOWN WORLD IN
							800
					
					15. Summary: Europe about the year 800
					About 800, the time with which this book begins, the barbarian invasions were
						practically over, the church was rising to a position of supreme power, feudalism was
						giving a new organization to society, and a new Empire was about to be founded in the
						West, to last (in name at least) for a thousand years. The old doctrinal disputes about
						the fundamental beliefs of Christianity were settled; abut a church schism or separation
						was arising between East and West, involving differences of worship and discipline, and
						ultimately leading to the entire rejection of the papal authority in the East. The
						Byzantine or Eastern Roman Empire still ruled Asia Minor, Thrace, portions of ancient
						Greece and southern Italy, and the islands of Crete, Sicily, and Sardinia; but the
						Bulgarians (an Asiatic people) had cut off the lower valley of the Danube, and barbarian
						Slavs formed an alien wedge running completely through the interior of the Balkan
						peninsula and into the Peloponnesus. North of the Danube dwelt Asiatic and Slavic
						peoples; and to the north of these, Finnish tribes: these peoples were still heathen,
						and the slow progress of Christianity among them was one of the features of the Middle
							 Ages. Scandinavia was taking on its threefold form of
						Norway, Denmark, and Sweden; but the worship there of the old Teutonic gods was as yet
						unshaken. In the British Isles, the Teutonic English had settled, been Christianized,
						and were about to unite into a single kingdom; but Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, though
						Christian, were independent Celtic lands. In northern Spain there existed petty
						Christian states which in the next seven centuries were to grow into a powerful monarchy
						and cast out the Mohammedans. But the central political fact in the West was the
						existence of the Frankish kingdom, ruled over by Charlemagne, the grandson of Charles
						Martel.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Why do we not study the history of China in the Middle Ages? (2) Why should the
							term "Middle Ages" be plural? (3) Why is our knowledge of history less certain than
							our knowledge of the physical sciences? (4) What geographical advantages has Europe
							over Asia? over Africa? (5) Why was Europe not so well fitted to originate as to
							develop and spread civilization? (6) In what ways would its history have been
							different if Europe were entirely surrounded by water? (7) What did Greece contribute
							to the civilization of the world? (8) What did Rome contribute? (9) What did the
							Germans add? (10) Summarize the causes of the fall of the Roman Empire. (11) Has
							Mohammedanism done more harm or good in the world? (12) Compare the area of
							Mohammedanism in 800 with its area to-day. (13) Compare the area of Christianity in
							800 with its area to-day.
						Search topics
						(14) Ways in which geography influences history. (15) The passes of the Alps. (16)
							Geographical factors in the development of some European towns. (17) Influence of the
							Roman law. (18) Rise of the mayors of the palace. (19) Alliance between the Franks and
							the papacy. (20) The life of Mohammed. (21) His teachings. (22) The farthest extent of
							Mohammedan conquests. (23) Battle of Tours. (24) The old Teutonic mythology. (25) The
							wanderings and settlements of the Visigoths. (26) The wanderings and settlements of
							the Ostrogoths. (27) Character and work of Theodoric the Great. (28) Settlement of the
							Burgundians. (29) Settlement of the Lombards. (30) The Anglo-Saxon conquest of
							Britain.
					


					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 14, 15, 24, 26, 30, 31; Putzger, Historischer Schul-
								Atlas, maps 13, 13 a; Dow, Atlas of European History, v. vi.;
							Poole, Historical Atlas of Modern Europe, map iv.; Freeman, Historical Geography of Europe, I. chs. i. iv.; George, Relations of Geography and History, chs. i. ii. iv. ix.; Lavallée, Physical, Historical, and Military Geography, bk. iv.
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, 1-64; Bémont and Monod,
								Medieval Europe, 30-32, 37-44, 54-68, 116-118, 125-128, 135-166;
							Church, Beginning of the Middle Ages, 14-44, 62-72, 82-83; Emerton,
							Introduction to the Middle Ages, 27-34, 52-59, 98-102, 111-113, 122-129; Thatcher and
							Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, ch. i.; Duruy, History of the Middle Ages, 17-21, 34-42, 71-105; Hassall, French
								People, chs. i. ii.; Hume, Spanish People, chs. ii. iii.;
							Oman, Dark Ages, 1-32, 180-198, 213-220, 291-295; Still, Studies in Medieval History, 98-126; Munro and Seller, Medieval Civilization, 60-86; Mombert, Charles the Great,
							21-26; Gilman, Saracens, 50-207; Freeman, History and
								Conquests of the Saracens, 31-60, 132-166; Bury, History of the
								Later Roman Empire, II. bk. v. ch. i.; Milman, Latin
								Christianity, II. bk. iv. ch. i.; Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the
								Roman Empire (Bury's ed.), III. 240-256, 285-333, 446-475, IV. 76-92, 100-169,
							461-470, V. 96-106, 311-395, 471-479, 491-494.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings in European History, I. chs. iii. vi.; Thatcher
							and McNeal, Source Book for Mediceval History, nos. 1-6, 43-45;
							Jones, Civilization in the Middle Ages, No. 3; Lane-Poole, Mohammed's Speeches and Table-Talk.
						Illustrative works
						F. Dahn, Felicitas,--The Struggle for Rome; G. P.
							R. James, Attila; Charles Kingsley, Hypatia; W.
							Ware, Julian; Cardinal Wiseman, Fabiola; De
							Genlis, Belisarius.
					


					
					
						EUROPE IN THE TIME OF CHARLEMAGNE 768-814
					
					
					
						EUROPE IN THE TIME OF CHARLEMAGNE 768-814
					
				

				
				
					CHAPTER II.
					

					THE EMPIRE OF CHARLEMAGNE (768-814)
					16. Charlemagne's conquests
					UPON the death of Pepin the Short in 768, his sons Carloman and
						Charles the Great (Charlemagne) succeeded him, ruling jointly; but in 771 Carloman died,
						and thenceforth Charlemagne ruled alone. Charlemagne's reign saw a long series of wars,
						undertaken to extend the limits of the Frankish territory, or to ward off attacks from
						without. During the forty-six years that he ruled (768-814) he sent out more than fifty
						military expeditions, at least half of which he commanded in person. They were directed
						against the Aquitanians and Bretons of France (3 expeditions); the Lombards of northern
						Italy (5); the Saracens, or Mohammedans, of Spain and southern Italy (12); the German
						Thuringians and Bavarians (2); the Avars and Slavs (8); the Danes (2); the Greeks (2),
						and, most of all, against the Saxons (18), descendants of the tribes from which, three
						hundred years earlier, had come the Teutonic conquerors of Britain.,
					For more than two centuries the Franks had waged intermittent warfare with the heathen
						and barbarous Saxons, who dwelt in the trackless forests, swamps, and plains bordering
						on the North Sea, between the rivers Ems and Elbe. Charlemagne resolved to end the
						struggle by Christianizing as well as subjugating these troublesome neighbors; but the
						task required thirty years for its completion (772-804), it was attended by nine
						successive rebellions, and was stained by the one great act of cruelty of Charlemagne's
						reign-the massacre of 4500 prisoners (782). The most troublesome tribes were transported
							 to other parts of the empire, throughout Saxony
						fortresses were established and bishopries founded (around which grew up the first
						towns), and Christianity was forced upon the population at the point of the sword; so
						strict were the laws that converts who ate meat in Lent were condemned to death, unless
						absolved by a Christian priest. Political and religious opposition was at last crushed,
						and within a few generations the Saxons became the most powerful nation in the Frankish
						realm.
					Even more important than the Saxon wars were those with the Lombards. In spite of the
						two expeditions of Pepin the Short (§ 14), the power of the Lombards continued to be a
						menace to the papacy; also the Lombard king harbored pretenders to a share in
						Charlemagne's kingdom. When, therefore, the Pope appealed to Charlemagne in 773 against
						King Desiderius, the Frankish king marched to his assistance. In 774-776 he completely
						conquered the Lombard kingdom and assumed the famous "iron crown," with its narrow
						circlet reputed to have been made from one of the nails of the Crucifixion. He then
						renewed his father Pepin's gift to the Pope of the temporal dominion of Ravenna and
						other parts of Italy, The conquest of Lombardy and the donation of the papal states were
						two of the most important acts of Charlemagne's reign: they brought the king of the
						Franks into closer relations with the papacy, and prepared the way for the revival of
						the Western Empire on a Germanic basis.
					17. Revival of the Empire in the West
					The lands over which Charlemagne ruled in 800 included what are now France,
						Switzerland, Belgium, Holland, more than half of Germany and Italy, and parts of Austria
						and Spain (maps, pp.26,30); and over the "eternal city" of Rome itself he exercised
						supreme authority by virtue of the title "Patricius," given him by the Pope. The extent
						of Charlemagne's power made him already in fact, though not in name, the Emperor of the
						West. The ruler at Constantinople  in the year 800 was a
						woman, the Empress Irene, who had just deposed her son, put out his eyes, and seized the
						power for herself; the West refused to recognize her rule and looked on the throne of
						the empire as vacant. What was more natural than that it should be given to the king of
						the Franks, the real ruler of the West? Charlemagne was quite prepared for this step,
						but by whom should the imperial crown be conferred? By the Pope, who had authorized
						Pepin's assumption of the royal crown? By the people of Rome, as in the ancient days
						when Roman Senate and people were still sovereign? Or should it be accounted something
						which belonged to Charlemagne by virtue of his conquests?
					18. Coronation of Charlemagne (800)
					Whatever solution Charlemagne had in mind, the circumstances of the coronation were not
						of his arranging. The close of the year 800 found him in the city of Rome. As
						Charlemagne prayed at the solemn celebration of Christmas, kneeling by the altar in the
						old church of St. Peter's, Pope Leo III. placed a crown upon his head, while the people
						cried, "To Carolus Augustus, crowned by God, mighty and pacific Emperor, be life and
						victory." According to Einhard, his secretary and biographer, Charlemagne declared that
						"he would not have set foot in the church, . . . although it was a great feast day, if
						he could have foreseen the design of the Pope."
					Einhard,
							Charlemagne, ch. 28
					Bryce, Holy Roman Empire
						(revised ed.), 50
					The coronation of Charlemagne, in the language of an English writer, "is not only the
						central event of the Middle Ages, it is also one of those very few events of which,
						taking them singly, it may be said that if they had not happed, the history of the world
						would have been different."  Of all the mediæval rulers, Charlemagne was the only
						one in whom the Empire of the West could have been restored. Only he, by his genius and
						the splendor of his victories, was able to make the principle of unity of government
						triumph over the tendency towards separation, disorder, and anarchy.


					

					
						CORONATION OF CHARLEMAGNE.
						Fresco (19th century) in Hotel de Ville, Aix-la-Chapelle.
					
					19. Charlemagne's government
					Following the principle adopted by the Germanic conquerors, Charlemagne left to each
						race -- Franks, Burgundians, Romans, Lombards, Goths, Bavarians, Saxons -- its own law,
						making only such changes by his decrees, or "capitularies," as the good of the state and
						society demanded. For in the early Middle Ages there was little attempt at what we
						should call legislation; the "law" of each individual was an inheritance from the past
						of his race, and as much a part of him as the breath which he drew. Taxes paid to the
						state also disappeared with the fall of the Roman Empire; and Charlemagne's needs were
						supplied, like those of most mediæval rulers, chiefly from the proceeds of his own
						estates (villœ), for which elaborate regulations were made; the king
						usually  traveled from vill to vill with his suite, to
						consume the produce arising on each estate. On the other hand, public offices, military
						service, and the like, were unpaid, and the financial needs of the state were less than
						now.
					Under the Merovingians the kingdom had been divided into local districts, ruled by
						officers called "counts," appointed by the king. These were kept by Charlemagne as the
						chief officers of local government; in their hands was placed the military leadership,
						and the administration of justice. To supervise their work, royal commissioners (missi dominici) were sent out each year to inspect the national militia,
						hear complaints against the counts, enforce justice, and guard the interests of the
						king. Usually the commissioners were sent out two and two -- a layman and an
						ecclesiastic.
					The counts were often guilty of great oppression; a capitulary dated 803 reads: "We
						hear that the officers of the counts and some of their more powerful vassals are
						collecting rents and insisting on forced labors, harvesting, plowing, sowing, stubbing
						up trees, loading wagons and the like, not only from the church's servants, but from the
						rest of the people; all which practices must, if you please, be put a stop to by us and
						by all the people, because in some places the people have been in these ways so
						grievously oppressed that many, unable to bear their lot, have escaped by flight from
						their masters or patrons, and the lands are relapsing into wilderness." Hodgkin, Italy and her Invaders, VIII. 298Such
						oppressions led the king to grant "immunities," by which lands and men, especially of
						bishops and abbots, were removed from the jurisdiction of the counts. These immunities
						formed one of the important bases of later feudalism.
					20. The May Field
					Twice a year, in early summer and in the fall or winter, Charlemagne summoned the
						principal men to consult with him concerning the affairs of the empire. To the summer
						meeting, called the "Field of May," came all free men 
						capable of bearing arms, and often the meeting was at once followed by a military
						expedition. A general assembly in his reign is pictured by a modern writer as follows:
						"An immense multitude is gathered together in a plain, under tents; it is divided into
						distinct groups. The chiefs of the groups assemble about the king, and deliberate with
						him; then each of these makes known to his own people what has been decided, consults
						them perhaps, at any rate obtains their assent with as little difficulty as the king has
						obtained his own, for these men are dependent on him just as he is dependent on the
						king. The general assembly is a composite of a thousand little assemblies which, through
						their chiefs alone, are united about the prince." The king's will decided everything, the
						nobles only advised.
					Fustel de Coulanges, VI. 613
					In these assemblies Charlemagne dealt with matters concerning church and state alike;
						whenever he believed that priests or bishops were not performing their duties properly,
						he did not hesitate to correct them. Charlemagne's government was far from being as free
						and orderly as the governments under which most European nations live to-day; yet when
						we consider the difficulties of the time, and compare his government with that of his
						successors, we find him an able administrator as well as a great warrior.
					21. Education and the arts
					The literatures of Greece and Rome had disappeared from use when Charlemagne came to
						the throne, and even the writings of the church scarcely survived. The only "books" were
						costly parchment rolls written by hand. The two centuries from 600 to 800 produced only
						a few credulous lives of saints, and some barren "annals," or dry monastic histories.
						Charlemagne himself learned to speak and read Latin, in addition to his native German,
						and to understand Greek, though not to speak it. He never mastered the art of writing as
						then used, though he kept waxed tablets always by him to practice it.


					
					The Palace School -- a kind of learned academy composed of the chief scholars and
						courtiers about the Emperor -- played an important part in a revival of learning and
						literature. An Englishman named Alcuin was invited to the Emperor's court from York,
						which was then the most learned center in western Europe, and he became the chief
						scholar of the new circle. Others came from Italy, Spain, and other lands; some were
							
							ROYAL PALACE OF CAROLINGIAN TIMES.
							From Viollet-le-Duc.
						 grammarians, some poets, some theologians. Charlemagne discussed with them
						astronomy, shipbuilding, history, the text of the Scriptures, theology, and moral
						philosophy. For the younger members of the royal family and court, there was more formal
						instruction, so that the Palace School may be regarded as a high school, as well as a
						literary and debating club.
					Charlemagne's care for education did not stop with his own court, since we read in the
						capitularies such commands as these: "Let schools be established in which boys may learn
							 to read. Correct carefully the Psalms, the signs in
						writing, the songs, the calendar, the grammar, in each monastery or bishopric, and the
						Catholic books; because often men desire to pray to God properly, but they pray badly
						because of the incorrect books. And do not permit mere boys to corrupt them in reaading
						or writing. If there is need of writing the Gospel, Psalter, and Missal, let men of
						mature age do the writing with all diligence."
					Robinson
							Readings, I 146
					
						CATHEDRAL AT AIX-LA-CHAPELLE.
						The octagon at center of the picture was built by Charlemagne; it is an example of
							the Byzantine style.
					
					Charlemagne was a1so a builder, planing canals, building bridges, and restoring
						churches which were crumbling into ruin. But his work in this direction did little to
						check the artistic deceay of the times. From the old resdence of the emperors at
						Ravenna, a hundred marble columns were taken for Charlemagne's palace at Aachen
						(Aix-la-Chapelle); thither also were transported pictures, mosaics, and precious
						sculptures. Charlemagne thus set a bad example to the ages which followed, and
						contributed to a robbery of the ancient monuments which, in the Middle Ages, caused more
						destruction among them than was caused by all the ravages of time and war.


					
					22. Charlemagne's old age and death (814)
					The ten years following Charlemagne's coronation as Emperor were mainly spent at his
						capital Aachen. The only serious danger of the time came from the Scandinavian "
						Vikings" (creek men), whose piratical raids, beginning in this reign, foreshadowed the
						greater troubles of a century later. Charlemagne's prestige abroad was at its height;
						and to his court came envoys from the renowned Haroun-al-Rashid, caliph of Bagdad, whose
						present of an enormous elephant excited the liveliest interest at the Frankish
						court.
					The last years of the great Emperor's life were clouded by family sorrows. He had been
						married five times and had many children, In arranging for the succession Charlemagne
						followed the old Teutonic practice of dividing the kingdom among his three sons, whom he
						established as sub-kings in his lifetime over portions of his realm. One of the chief
						differences in the position of the monarch, as conceived by the Roman emperors and by
						the barbarian kings, was that the Roman emperors in theory held their power as a trust
						in the name and interest of the state, -- that is, of all, -- while the barbarian kings
						regarded the royal power as private property, to which ordinary rules of inheritance
						could be applied. Charlemagne's arrangement, however, broke down, owing to the fact that
						his two older sons died before him; then Charlemagne placed the imperial crown on the
						head of his third son, Louis, and recognized him as his successor. Four months later, in
						January, 814, the old Emperor died of a fever, being upward of seventy years of age.
					23. Character of Charlemagne
					Few men have left a deeper impression on their times, and around few have clustered so
						many legends. His personality and habits are thus described by his secretary, Einhard:
						-- "Charles was large and strong, and of lofty stature, though not disproportionately
						tall. The upper part of his head was round, his eyes very large and animated, nose a
						little long, hair fair, and face laughing and merry. Thus, 
						his appearance was always stately and dignified, whether he was standing or sitting. He
						took frequent exercise on horse-back and in the chase. He enjoyed natural warm springs,
						and often practiced swimming, in which he was such an adept that none could surpass him;
						and thence it was that he built his palace at Aix-la-Chapelle, and lived there
						constantly during his latter years until his death.
					"He used to wear the national, that is to say, the Frank, dress, -- next his skin a
						linen shirt and linen breeches, and above these a tunic fringed with silk; while hose
						fastened by bands covered his legs, and shoes his feet, and he protected his shoulders
						and chest in winter by a close-fitting coat of otter or marten skins. Over all he flung
						a blue cloak, and he always had a sword girt about him.
					
						ROASTING ON A SPIT.
						From a MS. in the Bocleian Library, Oxford.
					
					"Charlemagne was temperate in eating and partiularly so in drinking, for he abominated
						drunkenness in anybody, much more in himself and those of his household; but he could
						not easily abstain from food, and often complained that fast days injured his health.
						His meals ordinarily consisted of four courses, not counting the roast, which his
						huntsmen used to bring in on the spit; he was more fond of this than of any other dish.
						While at table he listened to reading or music. The subjects of the readings were the
						stories and deeds of olden time; he was fond, too, of St. Augustine's books, and
						especially of the one entitled The City of God.
					"While he was dressing and putting on his shoes, he not only gave audience to his
						friends, but if the Count of the Palace [the HARDING'S M. & M.
							HIST.--3
						 chief judge of the Court] told him of any suit in which
						his judgment was necessary, he had the parties brought before him forthwith, took
						cognizance of the case, and gave his decision, just as if he were sitting on the
						judgment-seat."
					Einhard, Charlemagne, chs. 22-24
							(condensed)
					
						SIGNATURE OF CHARLEMAGNE (790).
						Charlemagne made only the central part of the monogram KAROLVS (=
							Charles); the scribe wrote the rest, together with the words to the left and to the
							right, which are Latin for "Signature of Charles, the most glorious King."
					
					24. Summary
					Pepin the Short (751-768) deposed the last Merovingian "do-nothing" king of the Franks,
						and became the first king of the Carolingian line. His son, Charlemagne, began his sole
						rule in 771 and reigned until 814. He was the central figure of his time, and was one of
						the most remarkable men produced by the Middle Ages. He greatly extended his kingdom
						through successful wars, ruled well in church and state, revived the Empire of the West
						in 800, and checked the decline of learning. With his coronation as Emperor a new age
						begins; force alone no longer rules; and great ideas, such as those which gave strength
						to the Papacy and the Empire, begin to play a part amid the strife of nations.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) What did Clovis contribute to the development of the Frankish power? What did
							Charles Martel contribute? What did Pepin the Short contribute? What did Charlemagne
							contribute? (2) In what consisted the greatness of Charlemagne? (3) Why was the papacy
							more friendly to the Franks than to the other 
							barbarians? (4) Compare the German ideas of law with modern ideas. (5) Was it better
							for the Saxons to receive civilization from the Franks by force, or to work out a
							civilization of their own? (6) Compare the extent of territory ruled over by
							Charlemagne with that ruled by the Eastern Emperor.
						Search topics
						(7) Contemporary accounts of the coronation of Charlemagne. (8) Alcuin. (9) Make a
							list of the other scholars of Charlemagne's court, with the countries of their birth
							and the things for which they are remembered. (10) The home life of the Franks in the
							time of Charlemagne. (11) The wars against the Saxons. (12) The wars against the
							Lombards. (13) Charlemagne's visit to Rome in 774. (14) The massacre of the Saxons.
							(15) Einhard's Life of Charlemagne.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Map, pp. 30, 31; Dow, Atlas, vii.; Freeman, Historical
								Geography, I. ch. v.; Gardiner, School Atlas of English
								History, map 6; Poole, Historical Atlas, map iv.
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, 137-169; Bémont and
							Monod, Medieval Europe, 66-72, 167-210; Emerton, Mediœval Europe, 3-14; Bryce, Holy Roman Empire, chs. iv.
							v.; Henderson, Short History of Germany, I. 22-38 ; Duruy, History of France, chs. xii. xiii.; Emerton, Introduction
								to the Middle Ages, 151-235; Church, Beginning of the Middle
								Ages, 37-39, 88-98, 117-147; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the
								Middle Age, ch. v.; Duruy, Middle Ages, 29-32, 61-66,
							105-137; Stillé, Studies in Medieval History, 58-97; Henderson, Germany in the Middle Ages, 49-81; Mombert, Charles the
								Great, 58-66, 86-153, 241-280, 354-368, 394-407; West, Alcuin, 40-64; Hodgkin, Charles the Great, chs. v. vi.
							xi.-xiii.; Oman, History of the Art of War, 47-62, 76-85; Hodgkin,
								Italy and her Invaders, VIII. 122-164, 190-205, 287-302; Bury, Later Roman Empire, II. bk. vi. ch. xi.; Kitchin, History
								of France, I. 67-149; Historians' History of the World, VII.
							466-556.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. 'ch. vii.; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 7-14, 46-49; Einhard, Life of Charlemagne;
							University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, vol. III. No.
							2, pp. 2-4, vol. VI. No. 5; Henderson, Documents of the Middle Ages,
							189-201; Colby, Selections from the Sources of English History,
							16-19.
						Illustrative works
						G. Griflin, The Invasion; Longfellow, Wayside Inn
							(The Poet's Illustrative Tale, and The Student's Tale).
					


					
					
						THE DESCENDANTS OF CHARLEMAGNE
					

					
						RIVAL LINE IN FRANCE OF THE "ROBERTIANS" 
					

				

				
				
					CHAPTER III.
					
					THE LATER CAROLINGIAN EMPIRE (814-911) AND THE FEUDAL SYSTEM
					25. Louis the Pious (814-840)
					THE power which Charlemagne built up declined rapidly after his
						death. His son Louis was well-meaning and conscientious, but without a spark of the
						genius of his father; his care for religion, however, won for him the surname of "the
						Pious." The chief troubles of Louis's reign arose from his desire to set apart a portion
						of his kingdom for his youngest son Charles (afterwards called Charles the Bald), as he
						had done for the older sons; but the latter resented and three times resisted in arms
						the attempt to deprive them of territories for their young half-brother.
					
						CAROLINGIAN WARRIOR.
						From Musee d'Artillerie, Paris.
					
					26. Battle of Fontenay (841)
					The death of Louis the Pious, in 840, did not end the struggle; and two brothers,
						Charles the Bald and Louis the German, were soon arrayed against their elder brother,
						Lothair. All parts of the empire were represented in the decisive battle, which occurred
						in 841, at Fontenay, in eastern France. Never had so terrible a struggle been seen since
						Charles Martel fought the Saracens at Tours. One of the officers of Lothair's army
						describes the battle in a  rude Latin chant: "May that day
						be accursed!" he cries; "may it no more be counted in the return of the year, but let it
						be effaced from all remembrance! . . . Never was there worse slaughter! Christians fell
						in seas of blood; . . . the linen vestments of the dead whitened all the field like
						birds of autumn."
					Angilbert, quoted in Dareste, France,
							I. 438
					The battle resulted in a complete victory for the two younger brothers, who then bound
						themselves by oaths at Strassburg to mutual aid. The language of these oaths shows the
						tongues used in the two armies. On the one side the oath began, "In Godes minna ind in
						thes christianes folches ind unser bedhero gealtnissi. . . ." On the other it read, "Pro
						Deo amur et pro christian poblo et nostro commun salvament. . . ." In English this
						clause would be, "For the love of God and for the common safety of the Christian people
						and ourselves . . ." The first can be recognized as in the language from which the
						German of to-day is derived; the second is midway between Latin and modern French.
					27. Partition of Verdun (843)
					After long negotiations a treaty was concluded by the three brothers at Verdun in 843.
						Louis received the eastern third of the empire, beyond the rivers Aar and Rhine; Charles
						the western third, lying west of the Rhone and Scheldt; and Lothair the strip between,
						with Italy and the imperial title. This sweeping partition is the first step in the rise
						in western Europe of territories corresponding to national states. We must not, however,
						press this point too far. "These three countries were not states, for a state is an
						organized political entity; there were no states, properly speaking (at least no great
						states), before the close of the Middle Ages. Nor were they nations; a nation is a
						definitely formed, conscious, and responsible person." Territories, however, were marked out by this
						treaty in which national states were in time to arise. Charles's portion corresponds
						roughly to modern France, and Louis's to Germany;  the
						middle strip contained no elements of nationality, and its parts, together with Italy,
						were for ten centuries the object of conquests and the seat of European wars.
					Lavisse, General View, 37
					
						PARTITION OF VERDUN (843).
					
					28. The later Carolingians (843-887)
					The history of the later descendants of Charlemagne makes a confused and uninteresting
						story. The stock itself was enfeebled, and the quarrels and incompetence of rival rulers
						are not more noteworthy than the speed with which all three lines became extinct. (1)In
						Italy, Lothair died in 855, and his kingdom was divided among his three sons; the
						eldest, though ruling only a small fraction of the territory of Charlemagne, was
						nevertheless called Emperor. None of the sons of Lothair left male heirs, r  so their territories passed upon their deaths to their
						cousins of France and Germany. (2) In Germany we see the same subdivision among three
						sons, followed by extinction of the male line, the last of the legitimate descendants of
						the eastern house being Charles the Fat. (3) In France, Charles the Bald upon his death
						in 877 left but one son, to whom descended the whole of his kingdom. This king ruled for
						but two years, and his two sons, who ruled jointly,ₑ died within five years thereafter. The nobles then chose as
						ruler Charles the Fat (884-887), the last of the three sons of Louis the German, in
						whose hands for a few brief years nearly the whole of Charlemagne's empire was
						reunited.
					29. Raids of the Northmen
					The rule of Charles the Fat was as weak as it was short. Since the days of Charlemagne,
						the danger from the Northmen had become more pressing. From their homes in Norway,
						Sweden, and Denmark, these heathen searovers came each year, in fleets of from a hundred
						to three hundred vessels, to plunder and destroy. Their invasions may be looked upon as
						the last wave of the Germanic migrations. The scantiness of their harvests (due to the
						rigorous climate of the north), a lust for booty, the love of warfare and adventure, and
						political changes then taking place at home -- all impelled these hardy seamen to set
						forth. England, Scotland, Ireland, and even Italy suffered from their attacks, as well
						as France and Germany. In their light ships they would ascend the rivers far into the
						heart of the land, and then seize horses to carry them swiftly to more distant scenes of
						plunder. In the latter part of the ninth century their invasions took on a new
						character, and became an emigration and colonization. In England half the kingdom passed
						into their hands, and was known as the Danelaw (878). In France monasteries and cities
						were ₑ A third son, Charles
							the Simple, was born in 879, a few months aiter the death of his father.
						 pi1laged and burned, great stretches of country fell out
						of culitivation, and a large part of the population perished through massacre and
						starvation. Twice Paris itself was sacked. In 885-886 it was again besieged; and in
						spite of the heroic defense conducted by its count and bishop, the "cowardly, unwieldy,
						incompetent" king, Charles the Fat, bought the besiegers by the payment of a large sum
						of money.
					30. Last of the Carolingians (887-987)
					The weakness of Charles the Fat led to his deposition in 887, and the division of the
						empire among many "little kings " In Italy two rival families struggled in vain to found
						an Italian kingdom. In Provence, or Lower Burgundy, and in Upper Burgundy, kingdoms were
						founded which soon united to form the kingdom of Burgundy, or Arles. In all these
						regions the rule passed from the hands of the Carolingians. In Germany the power passed
						into the hands of an illegitimate branch of the Carolingian house. Arnulf, nephew of
						Charles the Fat, began the revolt that overthrew the latter, and for twelve years ruled
						there as king. In him something of the old Carolingian vigor and courage revived; but
						his son, Louis the Child, who succeeded him, died in 911, leaving no son, brother, or
						uncle; and the rule of the descendants of Charlemagne in Germany came permanently an
						end.
					In France only there existed, after 888, a legitimate representative (Charles the
						Simple) of the great house founded by the heroic mayors of the palace, and here the
						Carolingian rule continued, with many vicissitudes, for another century. Count Odo --
						the count who so bravely conducted the defense of Paris -- was chosen king in France in
						888, though he was not of the Carolingian house; but in Aquitaine the desire of the
						nobles for a separate government led them to support the Carolingian prince, Charles the
						Simple, and refuse to recognize Odo; and after Odo's death (in 898) Charles was  received as king by the whole realm. But the downfall the
						Carolingians here was only postponed. In the end (987), the family of Odo triumphed over
						the last representative of the house of Charlemagne, and in France as elsewhere rulers
						not of the Carolingian house sat on the throne.
					31. Rise of feudalism
					Chief of the forces which broke up the unity of the Carolingian empire was feudalism.
						In its nature this was both a system of land tenure and a form of military, political,
						and social organization. In its origin it was a result of the persistent and growing
						state of anarchy which the Germanic invasions began, and which Charlemagne's rule only
						temporarily checked. The growing weakness of the government obliged men everywhere to
						take upon themselves the burden of their own defense. Every lofty hilltop, every
						river-island and stronghold, became the site of a tower or castle, whose lord ruled the
						surrounding population. Later these castles were looked upon by the lower classes as
						centers of oppression, but at first they were often viewed with different sentiments:
						they were then "the sure places of deposit for their harvests and their goods; in case
						of incursions they gave shelter to their wives, their children, themselves; each strong
						castle constituted the safety of a district."
					Fustel de
							Coulanges, VI. 682
					Three elements are found in the fully developed feudal system, each with a separate
						history. These are: (1) the personal element -- vassalage; (2) the landed element -- the
						benefice, or fief; (3) the political element -- the rights of sovereignty exercised by
						the great seigneurs.
					32. Vassalage
					(1) The personal element is that of which the roots go deepest into the past. Under the
						Roman Empire, when oppressive government and barbarian raids made difficult the position
						of the poorer freemen, many became the dependents of rich men, and rendered services in
						return for maintenance and protection. Among the Germans of the  time of Tacitus, free-born warriors considered it an honor to ter the comitatus, or military following, of a successful chief. In the Frankish
						kingdom such relationships multiplied, and the Carolingian government sought to use the
						institution of personal dependence as a means to enforce military and other duties. A
						capitulary of Charles the Bald, in 847, went so far to order "that each freeman in our
						kingdom choose the lord that he wishes." About the year 900, the system of independent
						freemen had practically disappeared in western Europe, and society had become "a chain
						of vassals, in which subjection had its degrees, and mounted from man to man up to the
						king."
					The process by which a freeman became the vassal of another was called "commendation."
						Kneeling before the seigneur, or lord, the prospective vassal placed his hands in the
						hands of the other, and "commended himself" to him, promising to serve him honorably in
						such ways as a freeman should, so long as he should live. There were three purposes
						especially for which men went into vassalage: to escape the exactions of unrighteous
						lords; to avoid the military and judicial services due the government; and to secure
						protection against invading Saracens, Northmen, and Hungarians. The tie established by
						commendation was at first purely personal, without reference to landholding, and was not
						hereditary; but in course of time vassalage united with, and became subordinate to, the
						second or landed element of feudalism.
					33. The benefice, or fief
					(2) The benefice,or fief, was an estate in land or other property, the use of which was
						granted in return for stipulated payments or services. Such "usufructuary" tenurese were
						known under the later Roman Empire, and after the Germanic conquest they were greatly
						multiplied. The church especially was instrumental in establishing them. Through gifts
						of pious individuals the clergy had come into possession of vast estates, the surplus
						produce of which could  not be sold because of the almost
						total lack of roads and markets; it was an economic advantage, therefore, to grant away
						portions of this land in return for rents and services. The example set by the clergy
						was followed by great lay proprietors. Often, too, small "allodial" landowners (as those
						were called who owned their land in full proprietorship) surrendered their lands to the
						church, or to some powerful lay-man, and received them back again as a benefice. Thus
						the number of allodial estates constantly decreased, whereas that of benefices
						increased.
					The use made of the benefice by the government converted it from a mere economic device
						into a political one; this change began in the time of Charles Martel, and was connected
						with a reorganization of the Frankish army. To meet the attacks of the Saracens a
						cavalry force was necessary, and the rule that each freeman should supply himself with
						weapons and serve at his own expense could no longer be applied, for the cost of
						providing a horse and heavy arms was too great. Charles Martel, therefore, granted land
						to his chief military followers on condition that they equip and maintain bands of
						cavalry for his service; and since the lands in his control were not sufficient, lands
						of the church were appropriated and used for this purpose. In these grants the personal
						and landed elements of feudalism were always united; for the lands granted by Martel and
						his successors were given only to those who already were, or were willing to become, the
						vassals of the grantor. These, in turn, exacted the same condition from those to whom
						they subgranted portions, and from this time the tendency was to unite vassalage and
						benefice holding. By the end of the ninth century the union became complete, and the
						benefice holder normally was a vassal, and the vassal normally was a benefice holder.
						Benefices thus became "a sort of money with which the kings and the magnates paid for
						the services of which they had need."
					Secretan, Essai
							sur la Féodalité, 98


					

					At first, benefices were granted for life only; but gradually became customary, upon
						the death of a tenant, for the lord to regrant the estate to the tenant's heir. Thus
						most benefices, in the eighth and ninth centuries, were in practice hereditary; and the
						custom, without positive enactment, hardened into law. The earlier term "benefice" then
						gave place to the term "fief," which designates the fully hereditary estate held by a
						vassal on condition of mounted military service.
					34. Seignorial rights of sovereignty
					(3) Political sovereignty, which formed the third element in feudalism, was not present
						in all fiefs, but was an integral part of the system. It consisted of the right
						possessed by the greater lords to do in their territories most of the acts which
						ordinarily are performed by the state -- to hold courts and try causes, to raise money,
						levy troops, wage war, and even coin money. Different lords possessed these rights in
						different degrees, but all the greater lords, both lay and ecclesiastical, possessed
						some of them.
					Such rights were acquired either through a grant of "immunity' by the crown, or through
						usurpation without royal grant. In the preceding chapter (§ 19) it has been seen that,
						to check the oppressions of the counts, immunities were granted, particularly to the
						clergy, exempting the estates of the holders from the visitation and jurisdiction of
						royal officers. Thenceforth the count would have no control over such lands, and the
						functions which he formerly discharged there passed to the immunity holder, and were
						exercised, not as powers delegated by the state, but in his own right and for his own
						profit. In a similar manner, the counts made their offices and functions hereditary,
						along with the benefices which they held. Many lords who were neither royal officer's
						nor possessed of grants of immunity exercised similar rights by usurpation. Thus in
						various ways sovereignty, which should have been possessed entire by the state, was
						split up into many bits, and each great seigneur seized such portions as he could.


					
					35. Spread of the feudal system
					From the union of these three elements (vassalage, fief-holding, and the lord's rights
						of sovereignty) in the eighth and ninth centuries, the feudal system arose. France was
						the land of its earliest and most complete development, but in some form it was found in
						all countries of western Europe. In England after the Norman conquest, and in Palestine
						and the East at the time of the Crusades, the system was introduced from France, with
						some important modifications: in England, in the direction of greater power for the
						crown; in the East, in the way of more complete control by the feudal lords. In Spain,
						and in the Scandinavian countries, the system was of native growth, but never reached
						the completeness which it gained in France and Germany. Until the end of the thirteenth
						century, the system flourished with such vigor that this epoch may be styled
						preëminently the Feudal Age. In the fourteenth century a transformation set in, lasting
						to the close of the Middle Ages, by which feudalism ceased to be a political force, and
						became a mere social and economic survival.
					36. Complications of feudalism
					The theory of the feudal system was comparatively simple, but its practice was
						infinitely complex and confused. The same man often held fiefs from several different
						lords, of different rank, and had vassals under him on each fief. Thus the count of
						Champagne in the thirteenth century held fiefs divided into twenty-six districts, each
						centering in a castle; his lords included the Emperor in Germany, the king of France,
						the duke of Burgundy, the archbishops of Rheims and Sens, the bishops of Autun, Auxerre,
						and Langres, and the abbot of St. Denis, to each of whom he did "homage" and owed
						"service"; portions of his lands and rights he "subinfeudated," on varying terms, to
						more than two thousand vassal knights, some of whom were also vassals for other fiefs
						from his own overlords. Monasteries frequently appear, under feudal conditions, both as
						lords and as tenants  of fiefs; and bishops owed feudal
						service for the lands annexed to their offices.
					the administration of justice usually went with the land and since there were lordships
						above lordships, it might happen that in a given place the "high justice," or right to
						punish the most serious crimes (murder, robbery, arson, etc.) belonged to one lord, the
						"middle justice" to another, and the "low justice" to a third. The right to exercise
						jurisdiction was a profitable right, because of the fines and confiscations which it
						brought; hence the right to administer one or another kind of justice was often made the
						subject of an express grant. Offices -- even those of cook and miller -- were granted as
						fiefs; the right to half the bees found in a certain wood was granted in fief; in the
						thirteenth century money fiefs, or annual pensions in return for vassal service, became
						common. Behind all these grants lay a military reason -- the desire of the lord to
						increase the number of his mounted and heavily armed followers serving at their own
						expense.
					37. Lord and vassal
					To the end of the Middle Ages there existed some allodial or non-feudal estates,
						scattered here and there amid feudalized lands; but the maxim, "No land without a lord,
						no lord without land," expressed the rule. In the fully developed feudal theory, God was
						the ultimate lord of all land. Family names derived from estates become common from the
						eleventh century. Military service, and the tenure of land on this condition, became the
						ground of a new nobility, descending from the king through the various grades of
						marquis, duke, count, viscount, to the lord of a single knight's fee. Each of these,
						save the last, had vassals and subvassals below him, created by the process of
						subinfeudation. Below them all were the peasants, styled "serfs" and "villeins," whose
						little plots of land were held of their lord on condition of manual services and regular
						payments, both of which were regarded as "ignoble." Possession of at least a few
						families  of villeins was almost a necessity to the feudal
						lord, for it was mainly from their labor that he was fed and clothed, and enabled to
						equip himself with his steeds and costly armor.
					
						ACT OF HOMAGE. Seal of the 12th
							century.
					
					The tie which bound the feudal hierarchy together was one of personal contract, based
						on the grant and receipt of land, and witnessed by the "homage" done and "fealty" sworn
						by each vassal to his "suzerain," or lord. By this contract the vassal was pledged to
						render "service" to his lord; the latter was bound to "protect" his vassal. The service
						was preeminently military -- forty days a year, on horseback, at the vassal's expense,
						being the customary limit. The vassal had to attend his lord's court when summoned, to
						aid with counsel and advice; he was obliged also when accused to stand trial by his
						fellow-vassals in this court. In addition, the lord might require payment of "aids" in
						money, on certain exceptional occasions: (1) when the lord knighted his eldest son; (2)
						on the first marriage of his eldest daughter; (3) to ransom his person from captivity;
						and (4) to aid him in setting forth on a crusade.
					38. Feudal inheritance
					Primogeniture, or the succession of the eldest son, was the rule of feudal inheritance,
						as opposed to the equal division among all the children recognized by the Roman an
						Teutonic law. Personal property might be disposed of by will, but feudal land could not;
						in default of a recognized heir it "escheated" to the lord of the fief. On entering upon
						his inheritance, the heir of full age paid a "relief " in money consisting usually of
						one year's revenue of the fief), did homage and fealty, and was then put in possession
						of his estate. If he was a minor, the lord often had the custody of  his person and of the fief, with the right to take the profits, util the heir
						became of age. Finally, the vassal could not sell or otherwise alienate his fief without
						the lord's consent; and over the marriage of the vassal's heir the lord ossessed a
						measure of control.
					
						TOURNAMENT OF THE TWELFTH CENTURY, From a 12th century MS.
					
					39. Feudal warfare
					In case a vassal failed in the discharge of his obligations, he might be convicted of
						"felony," and his fief confiscated. In case the lord failed to protect, or otherwise
						wronged his vassal, the latter might appeal to his lord's suzerain. But ordinarily
						disputes were settled by force; and the clash of ill-defined interests, the hatred borne
						to neighbor and stranger, and the military habits of the time, made private warfare
						almost the normal condition of the Middle Ages. And since war was the chief occupation
						of the feudal class, mimic warfare -- the "joust" and "tournament" -- was their favorite
						amusement.
					Down to the eleventh century, the armor consisted of a leather or cloth tunic covered
						with metal scales or rings, with an iron cap to protect the head. From the beginning of
						the twelfth century, the hauberk was usually worn; this was a HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--4
						 coat of link or chain mail, often reaching to the feet,
						and possessing a hood to protect the neck and back of the head. Plate armor and the
						visored helmet first appear in the fourteenth century. A shield or buckler of wood and
						leather, bound with iron and emblazoned with the knight's coat of arms, was carried on
						the left arm. The weapons were chiefly the lance and the straight sword. The weight of
						the armor made necessary a strong, heavy horse (the dextrarius) to
						carry the warrior in battle; when on a journey he rode a lighter horse (the "palfrey"),
						while a squire or valet led the dextrarius, laden with his armor. No
						number of foot soldiers of the ancient sort could stand before warriors mounted and thus
						equipped, and it is in this military preëminence that we find one of the chief reasons
						for the long continuance of the feudal power.
					40. Resrictions of feudal warfare
					From the close of the tenth century the church exerted itself to check the incessant
						fighting; and two institutions thus arose, called respectively "the Peace" and "the
						Truce of God." By the Peace, warfare upon the church and the weak -- including peasants,
						merchants, women, and pilgrims -- was perpetually forbidden in those districts where the
						Peace was adopted. By the Truce of God, a cessation of warfare was established for all
						classes during the period from Wednesday night to Monday morning of each week, and in
						all holy seasons (Lent, Advent, Whitsuntide, etc.); thus the number of days a year on
						which warfare could be carried on was greatly restricted. Violation of the Peace, or of
						the Truce, was punished with excommunication (§ 58): in some districts, sworn
						associations of the laity and clergy, with special courts, treasuries, and armies, were
						instituted to punish violations; but even thus the Peace and Truce were but imperfectly
						observed.
					As governments grew stronger, dukes, kings, and emperors exerted themselves to put down
						the abuse of private warfare. In Normandy, and in England after the Norman conquest, the
							 crown enforced peace with a strong hand. In France also,
						by the beginning of the fourteenth century, the crown became strong enough to make
						progress in this direction. In Germany the Emperors early proclaimed the public peace
							(Landfrieden); but "robber barons" continued to exist, "fist-right"
						prevailed for long periods, and it was only at the very close of the fifteenth century
						that effectual steps were taken to enforce a permanent peace.
					41. General character of feudalism
					In considering the feudal system as a whole, the following points should be borne in
						mind: (1) Practice often conflicted with theory, many vassals, for instance, becoming
						strong enough to throw off all dependence on their suzerains. (2) Customs varied greatly
						in different regions and at different times. (3) The hereditary principle gradually grew
						stronger, so that in many fiefs female inheritance, and the succession of collateral
						heirs, in default of heirs of the direct line, came to be recognized. (4) The principle
						of monarchy (which implies "sovereignty" over subjects) was in its nature opposed to
						feudalism. (which gave only "suzerainty" over vassals), and monarchs, wherever strong
						enough, undermined feudalism both by direct limitations of feudal prerogatives, and by
						drawing to themselves, or "mediatizing," the vassals of their own tenants. (5) The rise
						of the cities as political organizations, from the eleventh century to the thirteenth,
						also weakened feudalism; for their interests were opposed to those of the feudal lords,
						and they were enabled to combat them by the wealth which they acquired through industry
						and trade. (6) With all its defects feudalism served a useful purpose: it supplied a
						possible form of government at a time when complete anarchy was threatened; it kept
						alive the theory of a king and the state, standing above all feudal magnates, and thus
						furnished a basis on which subsequent generations could erect centralized and efficient
						governments.
					

					
					42. Summary
					The century which followed the death of Charlemagne saw the complete decline of the
						empire he had founded. Feudalism, new barbarian invasions, civil wars, and division of
						the empire sapped the central authority. After a fleeting reunion of the parts under
						Charles the Fat (884-887), there came a final separation of the Carolingian lands into a
						number of different kingdoms. In each of these the tendency was toward further
						separation and a further diminution of the powers of the crown. Society was in danger of
						being reduced to anarchy, and how to check this tendency was one of the problems of the
						immediate future. The gradual rise of the feudal system furnished a rude yet elastic
						bond, in which personal service, landholding, and political allegiance were intertwined;
						the result was a new society, ruled by the heavily armed, mounted knight, intrenched in
						his almost impregnable castle.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Was Louis the Pious a good man? Was he a good ruler? (2) Compare the later
							Carolingian kings with the later Merovingians. (3) How did the weakness of
							Charlemagne's descendants aid the growth of feudalism? (4) What other factors
							coöperated? (5) Compare the ninth century Northmen with the fifth century Franks. (6)
							How does a feudal society differ from a modern state as regards taxation, coining
							money, administration of justice, maintenance of an army, etc.? (7) Why are such
							institutions as the Peace and Truce of God no longer necessary?
						Search topics
						(8) Reformatory measures of Louis the Pious. (9) The treaty of Verdun and its
							significance. (10) Raids of the Northmen in the ninth century. (11) The lord's
							obligations. (12) The vassal's obligations. (13) Description of a battle in the Middle
							Ages. (14) Arms and armor of the knight. (15) Jousts and tournaments. (16) The Peace
							and Truce of God. (17) Forces hostile to feudalism. (18) The advantages and
							disadvantages of feudalism. (19) Non-European feudalism (Japan).
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 47, 30, 31; Freeman, Historical Geography, I. ch. vi.;
							Poole, Historical Atlas, map xxxiii.; Dow, Atlas, vii.


						
						Secondary authorities
						Duruy, History of France, ch. xviii.; Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, chs. viii. ix.; Bémont and Monod, Medieval Europe, chs. xiv.-xvi.; Emerton, Mediœval
								Europe, 21-40; Henderson, Short History of Germany, 38-48;
							Church, Beginning of the Middle Ages, ch. viii.; Thatcher and
							Schwill, Europe in the Miiddle Age, chs. vi. xi.; Oman, Dark Ages, chs. xxiii.-xxv.; Duruy, Middle Ages, chs. x.
							xi.; Henderson, Germany in the Middle Ages, chs. vi. vii.; Stillé,
								Studies in Medieval History, 130-145; Oman, History
								of the Art of War, bk. iii. chs. ii. iii.; Kitchin, France,
							I. 150-159; Keary, Vikings in Western Christendom, chs. v. ix. xv.;
							Boyesen, Norway, 1-44; Jewett, Normans, chs.
							i.-iv.; Emerton, Introduction to the Middle Ages, ch. xiv.; Baldwin,
								Scutage and Knight Service in England, Introduction; Seignobos,
								Feudal Régime; Munro and Sellery, Medieval
								Civilization, 18-33, 159-211; Boutell, Arms and Armour, chs.
							vii.-ix.; Historians' History f the World, VII. 557-594, VIII.
							481-501.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. chs. viii.-ix.; Thatcher and McNeal, ource Book, nos. 15-23,
							180-230, 234-239; University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, vol. IV. No.
							3; Henderson, )ocuments of the Middle Ages, bk. ii. no. v. ; Jones, Civilization ra
							the Middle Ages, Nos. 4, 5. The Song of Roland; Bulfinch, Charlemagne, or Romance of
							le Middle Ages; Gautier, Chivalry.
					
				


				

				
					MOHAMMEDANS, CHRISTIANS, AND PAGANS ABOUT 600-814
				
				
					MOHAMMEDANS, CHRISTIANS, AND PAGANS NEAR END OF 11TH CENTURYBOUT
						600-814
				


				
				
					CHAPTER IV.
					

					SUCCESSORS OF THE CAROLINGIANS IN GERMANY AND FRANCE (911-1024)
					43. Beginning of the tenth century
					THE dissolution of the Carolingian empire, the rise of feudalm, and
						new barbarian invasions made the end of the ninth century a time of confusion and
						disorder. The Viking raids of the Northmen still continued. The Saracens held Sicily
						securely, again and again fastened themselves upon southern and central Italy, and long
						held a post on the coast of Provence. The Slavs beyond the lower Elbe, and in Bohemia
						and Moravia, proved troublesome. From out of far-distant Asia came the Magyars, or
						Hungarians, another of those terrible swarms which, like the Huns, the Avars, and later
						the Turks, threatened to destroy civilization; settling in the rich plains of the middle
						Danube and the Theiss (896), they extended their raids into Italy, Germany, and France.
						Europe seemed relapsing into barbarism and chaos; disorder, weakness, and ignorance
						increased; and not until the middle of the tenth century did improvement come.
					44. Disintegration of Germany
					The worst part of the Hungarian attack fell upon Germany, where the weakness of the
						central power after the fall of the Carolingians threw the burden of defense on local
						counts and dukes. These officers used the opportunity to build up a number of powerful,
						semi-national duchies. Thence-forth, though nominally a monarchy, the German government
						took on the character of a confederation, governed by the hereditary princes who ruled
						the great duchies.
					There were four of these German duchies in the tenth and 
						
							THE HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE IN THE TENTH AND ELEVENTH
								CENTURIES
						
						 elventh centuries, not counting Lotharingia (Lorraine),
						which was sometimes German and sometimes French. (1) In the valley of the Danube, and
						its tributary the Inn, lay the duchy of Bavaria, with Ratisbon (Regensburg) as its
						principal city. (2) To the west, embracing the head waters of the Rhine and Danube and
						taking in what is now eastern Switzerland, was the duchy of Swabia. (3) North of this,
						including the middle course of the Rhine, the valley of the Main, and the lower course
						of the river Neckar, was the duchy of Franconia. (4) North of this again, in the low
						plains drained by the Ems, the Weser, and the lower Elbe, lay the duchy of Saxony.
						Thuringia was loosely connected with Saxony, as Friesland was with Lotharingia. Each of
						the duchies was subdivided into counties; and over the border counties (styled marks, or "marches") the counts acquired such large powers that they
						became practically independent of their dukes. Thus the Ostmark (East
						March) of Bavaria, established as a defense against the Hungarians, developed into Oesterreich (Austria); and the North March of Saxony, into Brandenburg,
						a nucleus of the present kingdom of Prussia.
					45. Early Saxon kings of Germany (919-973)
					On the death of Louis the Child (§ 30), Conrad I., duke of Franconia, was elected king
						(911-918). The Saxon duke, however, proved stronger than King Conrad; and on his
						deathbed Conrad sent the insignia of royalty to Henry, "the Fowler," head of the Saxon
						house, who was there-upon elected king; and for five successive reigns the crown
						remained in this family.ₑ During
						a nine-years' truce with the Hungarians Henry I. (919-936) gave a great impulse to town
						life in Saxony by building numerous fortified places, in which one out of every nine
						free peasants should dwell, to receive and store up a third of the harvests of the other
						eight; he also transformed the Saxon infantry into cavalry, and was thus enabled to
						repulse the next Hungarian attack (933).
					ₑSee table at foot of p.
						98.


					

					The greatest of the Saxon kings was Henry's son, Otto I. (936-973). He ably warred
						against the Hungarians, and inflicted upon them a decisive defeat (955) on the river
						Lech, near Augsburg; after this they gradually settled down to agricultural and pastoral
						life. Under their king, Saint Stephen (979-1038), they were converted to Christianity;
						and in the year 1000 they were received into the family of European nations by the gift
						of a royal crown from the Pope. By their settlement in Europe and acceptance of Roman
						Christianity, the boundary of Western Christendom was shifted far east-ward.
					
						RING SEAL OF OTTO
							I.
					
					Otto's reign saw the beginning of an important German expansion northeastward, at the
						expense of the Slavs, which won for modern Germany some of its most important territory.
						The king of the Bohemians was forced to recognize Otto as his overlord, and his people
						were brought within the circle of German influence. Step by step with the extension of
						German rule, went the progress of Christianity: an archbishopric was established at
						Magdeburg (in 967), and a number of bishoprics dependent on it were erected; and from
						these centers civilization and Christianity slowly radiated among the neighboring Slavs.
						The duke of the Poles had accepted Christianity in 966, and his successor established a
						powerful but unstable kingdom.
					46. Italy and the papacy (887-950)
					The way, meanwhile, was prepared for the extension of German influence in Italy. Since
						the downfall of Charles the Fat (887) Italy had suffered many ills. Saracen and
						Hungarian raids had devastated the land, and whole cities were ruined. Feudalism, which
						in other countries was a defense to the people, here encountered strong opposition from
						the artisan and merchant classes; and municipal governments,  centering about the bishops of the towns, came into existence to combat the
						seigneurs. A series of shadowy kings and emrors arose, seeking to lay the foundations of
						a national monarchy; but, as a writer of the time said, "The Italians always wish to
						have two masters, in order to keep the one in check by the other"; thus no ruler won undisuted
						recognition, and disunited Italy, for nine hundred years, endured the rule of
						strangers.
					Liutprand of Cremona
					Why was not the Pope the head and defender of Italy? The reason was that the papacy was
						suffering from the same anarchy that attacked the empire. Deprived of the protection of
						a strong imperial power, it became a prey to corrupt and greedy local nobles; and
						violence, bloodshed, and scandal prevailed through the greater part of the first half of
						the tenth century.
					47. Revival of the Empire by Otto I (962)
					The disorders in Italy finally forced Otto I. to intervene in 951; and ten years later
						he led an army a second time into Italy. At Milan he now assumed the iron crown of
						Lombardy; and at Rome, on February 2, 962, he was crowned Emperor by the Pope. A few
						days later he confirmed all the grants that had been made to the Popes by Pepin and
						Charlemagne, and decreed that the papal elections should thereafter be conducted with
						the fullest liberty.
					The coronation of Otto revived the imperial title and refounded the empire of
						Charlemagne, to last (at least in name) for about eight centuries and a half longer. The
						new empire differed in some important respects from the former one. France no longer
						made part of it, and imperial interests were confined almost entirely to Germany and
						Italy. The very title used, that of "the Holy Roman Empire of the German nation,"
						indicates its Teutonic nature. The close connection between Germany and Italy, which the
						empire brought about, proved hurtful to both: to Italy it brought the ruin of all hopes
						of nationality and of a native government;  for Germany it
						meant the sacrifice of the substance of power at home for the shadow of dominion beyond
						the Alps. To the papacy alone the connection was of immediate value, for the imperial
						power protected it against the greed and corruption of local nobles.
					48. The later Saxon Emporers (973-1002)
					It was largely the personal qualities of Otto I. -- his energy, courage, and military
						skill -- that made his reign so successful. His son, Otto II. (973-983), struggled with
						fair success against forces which fear of Otto I. had kept in check; but his death at
						the early age of twenty-eight left the throne to his three-year-old son, Otto III.
						(938-1002). In the minority of Otto III., first his mother Theophano (a Byzantine
						princess), and then his grandmother Adelaide, watched over the empire as regents. Again
						there were rebellions, and Slav and Danish invasions, and the royal authority declined.
						In 996 Otto was declared of age, visited Rome with an army, and was crowned Emperor. His
						character was a strange mixture of religious enthusiasm, exalted imperial dreams, and
						practical weakness. His closest friend and teacher was a French monk named Gerbert, who
						had studied in Spain, and whose rare mathematical knowledge made him seem a magician to
						after ages; in 999 Gerbert became Pope, with the name Sylvester II. -- the first French
						Pope. In pursuit of his imperial dreams, Otto abandoned Germany and made Rome his
						capital, where he surrounded himself with high-sounding officials and an elaborate
						ceremonial in imitation of the Byzantine court. Soon the fickle Romans revolted; and
						hurt at their ingratitude, Otto wandered about Italy, until his death in January of the
						next year (1002). The German nobles, meanwhile, multiplied their castles and independent
						jurisdictions, and ruined the land with violence and warfare.
					With the death of Otto III. the male line of Otto the Great came to an end, and there
						was again opportunity for a free  election. The choice fell
						upon the duke of Bavaria (a great-grandson of Henry I.; p. 98), who reigned as Henry II.
						(1002-1024). Abandoning the romantic dreams of Otto III., he concerned himself with
						defending and reorganizing Germany; in Italy he seldom appeared. The liame Henry "the
						Saint," given him by mediæval historians, was merited by the conscientiousness with
						which he performed his religious duties, and the gifts and favors he showered upon the
						church; but he ruled the clergy, not they him.
					From Germany and Italy we must turn to France. There the chief events of the tenth
						century were (1) the establishment of the Northmen on French soil, and (2) the final
						overthrow of the Carolingian dynasty.
					49. Duchy of Normandy founded (911)
					The repulse of the Northmen from Paris, in 886, did not prevent them from settling in
						increasing numbers in the lands about the lower Seine. In 911 their leader was Rolf (or
						Rollo), called "the Ganger" or "the Walker," because his gigantic size prevented his
						finding a horse to carry him. Under his leadership, says an old writer, "the pagans,
						like wolves of the night, fell upon the sheepfolds of Christ; the churches were burned,
						women dragged off captive, the people slain." Many times the invaders had been bought off with gifts of
						money; it was now resolved to follow the example of England and buy them off with a
						grant of land. At a meeting between the French king and Rolf, in 911, it was agreed that
						Rolf should have the lands about the lower Seine as the vassal of the king of France,
						that he should cease his attacks, and that he and his followers should become
						Christians. The name Normandy (Northmen's land) was soon given this region, and the
						Northmen ceased to trouble the kingdom.
					Willian
						of Jumièges
					Rolf and the Norman dukes after him were men of ability, and the race itself was of the
						sturdiest Teutonic stock. With remarkable rapidity the Normans took on their neighbors'
							 religion, language, and customs. Normandy became a
						feudal principality, differing from the other fiefs of northern France only in the
						ability with which it was governed, and the hardy and adventurous character of its
						inhabitants. "O France," exclaims a historian of the eleventh century, "thou wast bowed
						down, crushed to earth. . . . Behold, there comes to thee from Denmark a new race. . . .
						That race shall raise thy name and thy empire, even unto the heavens!"Dudo, History of the Normans In the Norman
						conquest of England and of southern Italy (here-after to be related), in the leading
						part which the Normans played in the Crusades, and in the hardy character of their
						seamen to the end of the Middle Ages, evidences of their superior vigor and daring were
						abundantly given.
					50. Rival dynasties in France (888-987)
					The final overthrow of the Carolingian house in France was effected by a member of the
						family of that Count Odo who won fame in the defense of Paris in 886. The power of this
						family (called Robertians, after an ancestor, Robert the Strong) rested (1) on the
						ability of its heads as warriors and statesmen; (2) on the possession of great estates
						in northern France, more extensive even than those possessed by the Carolingian kings;
						and (3) on the office of "Duke of the French," which gave the holder the military
						supremacy in northern France. The hundred years following the siege of Paris was one
						long contest for the throne between the Carolingians and the Robertians. The successive
						kings of this period are shown in the table on p. 44. The reign of the Carolingian
						Charles the Simple (§ 30) was followed by a period of Robertian rule (922-936), and this
						in turn by the reigns of three Carolingian kings: Louis IV. (936-954), called Louis
						"D'Outre-mer" from his residence "beyond the sea" in England at the time of his
						accession; Lothair (954-986); and Louis V. (986-987), who died of a fall from a horse,
						leaving no child.
					These last Carolingians saw their power grow steadily less. The head of the Robertian
						house at the close of the period  was Hugh Capet, so called
						from the cape or hood which he wore; of his power it was said by one of his chief
						supporters, "Lothair is king in name only; Hugh does not bear the title, but he is king
						in fact." When Lothair's son and successor died without children, the way was clear for
						Hugh to secure the throne.
					51. Capetian dynasty established (987)
					For the past hundred years the throne of France had really been elective, the great
						nobles choosing the king now from one family and now from the other. In the assembly
						called in 987 to settle the succession, it was possible for the archbishop of Rheims,
						the leading clergyman of the kingdom, to use this language: "We are not ignorant that
						Charles of Lorraine [brother of Lothair] has partisans who pretend that the throne
						belongs to him by right of birth. But if the question is put in that fashion, we will
						say that the crown is not acquired by hereditary right, and that he alone should be
						raised to the throne who is distinguished by elevation of character as well as by
							blood." His
						arguments won the day, and Hugh was chosen king "of the Gauls, Bretons, Normans,
						Aquitanians, Goths, Spaniards, and Basques," -- that is, king of all France. The mention
						of these different peoples shows how far they were from being welded as yet into a
						single nation.
					Richer, bk. iv. ch. xi.
					The change of dynasty in France is to be looked upon as entirely the result of a
						combination of persons and circumstances, due to no difference of principles. Yet it was
						an event of prime importance, for it gave to France a line of rulers (lasting to the end
						of the eighteenth century) who transformedd the elective monarchy into an hereditary
						one, and built up, on the foundations laid by the Carolingians, the first strong,
						centralized, modern state.
					52. The Normans in southern Italy
					The energy and daring which produced the Northmen's settlements in England and France
						manifested itself in other exploits. Viking bands from the mother lands Normans of the
						north discovered and settled Iceland (861-875)  and
						Greenland (983), and even visited "Vinland" or America (about the year 1000). In Russia
						(about 862) Swedish Vikings established a dynasty which ruled that land for seven
						hundred years. The Normans, or descendants of the Northmen on French soil, were also to
						make further conquests: the circumstances which established their duke as king of
						England are related in another chapter (§ 158); second in importance only to this was
						their establishment in Southern Italy.
					
						NORSE ART.
						Carved door from an old church in Iceland; now in Copenhagen Museum. From Du
							Chaillu's The Viking Age.
					
					Since the days of Charlemagne, the East-Roman (Byzantine) or Greek Empire had preserved
						an uncertain foothold in southern Italy ,threatened by the growth of feudal lordships,
						by the pretensions of German kings, and by Saracen invasions. Sicily since 878 had been
						almost wholly Saracen, and Sardinia, after 900, was also in Mohammedan  hands. In the first half of the ninth century, Saracens had
						gained a footing in southern Italy, and though they were temporarily dislodged, no
						permanent relief could be hoped for while the neighboring lands were theirs. Early in
						the eleventh century (1017) a new factor entered when a revolted noble enlisted Norman
						adventurers against the Greek governor. Soon other Normans flocked thither, to take
						service under different princes and nobles, selling their swords to the highest bidders.
						Presently they began to establish a power of their own; and in 1071 they took Bari, the
						last possession of the Greek governors in Italy.
					In these conquests five of the twelve sons of a poor Norman noble played principal
						parts. The eldest, William of the Iron Arm, began the work of expelling both the Greeks
						from Apulia and the Saracens from Sicily; his brothers assisted and continued the task.
						The fourth brother, Robert Guiscard (which means "the cunning"), made the greatest name
						for himself. The daughter of the Greek Emperor describes him as he appeared to his
						enemies: "His high stature excelled that of the most mighty warriors. His complexion was
						ruddy, his hair fair, his shoulders broad; his eyes flashed fire. It is said that his
						voice was like the voice of a whole multitude, and could put to flight an army of sixty
						thousand men." Like all the Normans, he was a cruel conqueror, and to this day ruined
						cities bear witness to his ferocity. Before he died (in 1085) all southern Italy
						acknowledged him as lord, save only the lands about the Bay of Naples, and the papal
						duchy of Benevento.
					The conquests of Roger, the youngest of the family, were equally remarkable. On the
						invitation of discontented Christians, he landed in Sicily in the year 1060, and after
						thirty years of untiring warfare he succeeded in conquering the last of that island from
						its Saracen rulers.
					In Italy and Sicily the Norman princes showed the same tolerance for the language,
						laws, customs, and beliefs of the  conquered, and the same
						adaptability to new conditions, that they displayed elsewhere. The result was that on
						the ruins of Greek, Lombard, and Saracen power they erected a strong feudal state which,
						with some inevitable changes, lasted unti the establishment of the present kingdom of
						Italy in the nineteenth century.
					
					53. Summary
					Reviewing the developments of the tenth and eleventh centuries, we see that one of the
						problems presented by the dissolution of the Carolingian empire had been solved; the
						centrifugal tendency had been brought under control, and political disintegration
						checked. Feudalism, with its organization of society on the basis of private contract
						developing into hereditary right, proved a uniting as well as a disintegrating force; it
						served to bind together, however loosely, the fragments of society until other and
						stronger ties could operate. Monarchical government proved another political tie Germany
						under the Saxon kings seemed nearer to attaining national monarchical union than any
						other Carolingian land; but this result the tendencies of the next three centuries were
						to defeat. In France and England the foundations of strong monarchies were laid, in the
						one by the accession of Hugh Capet, in the other by the Norman Conquest. These
						countries, therefore, earlier than any others in the West, were to attain unity and
						strength. The revival of the Holy Roman Empire by Otto the Great (962) gave a fictitious
						unity to Western Christendom by its claims to theoretical subordination of all kingdoms
						to itself; but the imperial supremacy was seldom recognized in fact, and the persistence
						of the Empire was more important for its bearing on men's aspirations and ideals than
						for its influence on practical policies.
					With the checking of political disintegration went on a widening of the area of Western
						civilization. Hungarians, Bohemians, and Poles were formed into Christian kingdoms,  while other Slavonic tribes were absorbed into Germany. The
						Christian kingdoms of Scandinavia -- Norway, Denmark, and Sweden -- arose, and offshoots
						of the Northmen's race established themselves in France, Italy, and England. In Spain,
						Christian principalities slowly gained ground at the expense of the Mohammedans; in
						Russia, civilization and Christianity made their way from Constantinople among the
						native Slavs and their Swedish rulers. The Eastern Empire held its own against the
						Bulgarians, Hungarians, and Servians (a Slavonic people) who beset it on the north, and
						against the Mohammedens who attacked it from the east. Christianity and civilization, in
						short, maintained themselves, and slowly spread from the Mediterranean countries towards
						the farthest confines of Europe.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggetive topics
						(1) Compare the weakness of the Carolingian empire in the ninth and tenth centuries
							with that of Rome in the fourth and fifth. (2) Was the decline due primarily to the
							increase of dangers from without or to decay within? (3) Why did Germany suffer most
							from the Hungarians? (4) Why were the Northmen the chief enemies of France? (5) Why
							should the border counts gain larger powers than the counts in other regions? (6) How
							long had the Saxons been Christians when their duke became king? (7) With what
							movements in our own history may the German expansion eastward be compared? (8)
							Compare the empire of Otto I. with that of Charlemagne. (9) Show on an outline map the
							extent of the empire under the Saxon emperors, marking the German duchies. (10) Was
							the grant of Normandy to Rolf a wise or an unwise step on the part of the French king?
							(11) Did it benefit or injure France? (12) How does the Norman conquest of Southern
							Italy differ from the Northmen's settlement in France?
						Search topics
						(13) The coming of the Hungarians. (14) Henry I.'s fortresses and army
							reorganization. (15) Victory over the Huns on the Lech. (16) Character of Otto I. (17)
							His first expedition to Italy and marriage to Adelaide. (18) Gerbert as scholar and
							teacher. (19) Decline of the Carolingians in France. (20) Hugh Capet. (21) The
							Northmen in Russia. (22) The discovery and settlement of Iceland. (23) The Normans in
							Italy. (24) Robert Guiscard.
					


					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 62, 64, 30, 31; Freeman, Historical Geography, II.
							(Atlas), map 21; Poole, Historical Atlas, maps xxxiv. liv.;
							Gardiner, School Atlas, map 8; Dow, Atlas,
							viii.
						Secondary authorities
						Emerton, Medival Europe, chs. iii.-v.; Bémont and Monod, Medieval Europe, ch. xvii.; Bryce, Holy Roman Empire
							(revised ed.), chs. vii.-ix.; Tout, Empire and Papacy, 12-51;
							Henderson, Germany in the Middle Ages, chs. viii.-x.; Church, Beginning of the Middle Ages, ch. x.; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, ch. viii.; Milman, History of
								Latin Christianity, III. bk. v. chs. xi.-xiii.; Fisher, Medieval
								Empire, I. 94-102; Gibbon, Decline and Fall of the Roman
								Empire (Bury's ed.), VI. chs. lv. lvi.; Gregorovius, Rome in the
								Middle Ages, III. bk. vi. chs. v. vi.; Kitchin, France, I.
							bk. ii. ch. v.; Historians' History of the World, VII. 595-645.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. 194-196, 245-260; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 24-29, 53-56; Henderson, Documents of
								the Middle Ages, Appendix, 442.
						Illustrative works
						C. M. Yonge, The Little Duke; Scheffel, Ekkehard;
							G. W. Dasent, The Vikings of the Baltic.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER V.
					
					THE CHURCH IN THE MIDDLE AGES
					54. Influence of the church
					THE unbroken rule of the church over the lives and spirits of
						mankind, down to the time of the Reformation, is the most striking feature of mediæval
						history. Through the organized church, the barbarians who had overwhelmed the Roman
						Empire were brought into the Christian fold; and it afterwards exerted a powerful force
						among the Western nations toward establishing political unity and promoting uniformity
						of manners, of usages, of law, and of religion. Despite the ignorance, ambition, and
						corruption which crept into it, the church persistently held aloft a higher standard of
						morals than that of the laity, and championed the cause of the poor and oppressed in an
						age of violence and sensuality. Of its head a Protestant historian says, "The papacy as
						a whole showed more of enlightenment, moral purpose, and political wisdom than any
						succession of kings or emperors that mediæval Europe knew."
					Walker, Reformation, 5
					55. The clergy as an order
					Peter Lombard, Sententiæ
					Very early there arose a legal setting off of the clergy from the laity. To the clergy
						alone were committed the conduct of worship, the administration of the sacraments, and
						the government and discipline of the Christian community. As time passed, the
						distinctions between the two classes became deeper, the one being likened to the soul,
						the other to the body. Gradually a hierarchy of orders and offices was formed among the
						clergy. Says the twelfth-century author of a popular text-book: "Seven are the
						ecclesiastical ranks, to wit: doorkeepers, readers, exorcists, acolytes, HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--5
						 subdeacons, deacons, priests; but all are called 'clerks'"
						(i.e. clergy). The
						ceremony of "tonsure" marked the entrance of the candidate into minor orders: in the
						Eastern Church this meant the clipping of the hair over the whole head; in the Roman or
						Latin Church, the top only was shaved, leaving a narrow strip all around. The clergy
						wore garments of peculiar cut, to distinguish them from the laity and one order from
						another. That they might serve God with more singleness of purpose, it was ordered in
						the West, from the fourth century on, that priests and the higher clergy should be
						"celibate," that is, should not marry. 
							THE TONSURE. 
							From a 14th century MS.
						 In the Eastern or Greek Church the practice of celibacy was generally confined
						to the monks, and even in the Latin Church several centuries passed before it became
						universal. To secure independence in administering religious rites, the clergy claimed
						"immunity" from the secular law and the secular courts, so that a clergyman might be
						tried only before ecclesiastical courts, and by church or "canon" law. This privilege,
						known as "benefit of clergy," crept sooner or later into the laws of every nation of
						Europe; and the evils in it were seen when persons who had no intention of becoming
						priests became clerics, or clerks, merely that they might secure protection in their
						misdeeds.


					
					56. The sacraments
					The power of the clergy rested upon the position of the priest as mediator between God
						and man, and as the authoritative teacher in matters of faith and morals. In the
						teaching of the church, the "sacraments" were recognized as the ordinary channels of
						divine grace, and these (with the exception of baptism and matrimony) the clergy only
						could validly administer. The sacraments were seven in number: (1) In the sacrament of
						Baptism the child (or adult) was made a member of the Christian community. (2)
						Confirmation admitted him into full fellowship. (3) The Holy Eucharist (or Lord's
						Supper), administered in the Mass, was the central feature of mediæval worship, for in
						this rite the spirit of the participant was strengthened by the reception of the body
						and blood of the Savior. The term "transubstantiation" was introduced in the thirteenth
						century to designate precisely that the substance of the bread 
							THREE SACRAMENTS: ORDINATION, MARRIAGE, EXTREME UNCTION.
							Part of a triptych painted in the 14th century; Antwerp Museum.
						
						 and the substance of the wine were changed into the
						substance of the body and blood of Christ, only the appearances or "accidents" (such as
						color, taste, etc.) of bread and wine remaining. (4) Penance included confession to the
						priest at least once a year, the performance of various acts to test the reality of
						repentance, and absolution by the priest from the guilt of sin. (5) Extreme Unction was
						the anointing with oil of those about to die; it strengthened the soul for its dark
						journey and cleansed from the remainder of venial sins. (6) Ordination was the rite
						whereby one was made a member of the various grades of the clergy. (7) Matrimony was the
						sacrament by which a Christian man and woman were joined in lawful wedlock.
					The theory underlying the whole system was that the sacraments derived their force from
						the power which Christ gave the Apostles and which they transmitted to their successors.
						Any priest might administer most sacraments, but only bishops could ordain.
					57. Ecclesiastical hierarchy; Priests
					To carry on the work of the church, officers of various ranks were necessary. At the
						bottom of the structure were the parish Priests. The first Christian churches were
						naturally in populous cities; but subordinate churches were soon erected, and offshoots
						arose in country districts. Eventually the whole of Western Christendom was divided into
						"parishes," each with its parish church and parish priest. The priest was appointed by
						the bishop, but laymen who gave lands to found the churches usually reserved to
						themselves and their successors the right of "patronage," that is, of nominating to it
						some ordained clerk.
					58. Bishops
					The parishes, in turn, were grouped into "dioceses," each diocese under the Bishop of
						that "see" (bishopric). The word "bishop" (episcopus) means "overseer"
						and aptly characterized his functions. He watched over the work of the diocese, visiting
						and disciplining the clergy, consecrating  churches, and
						administering the sacraments of confirmation and ordination. The "tithe," or church due
						of one tenth of all the produce of the soil, was paid to his agents, and by him
						apportioned among the parishes. He presided in person (or through his "archdeacon") over
						the ecclesiastical court of the diocese; to this all the clergy, and also laymen in many
						kinds of cases, were amenable. In his "synods," or diocesan councils, ecclesiastical
						legislation was passed. He enforced his judgments and decrees by "excommunication," that
						is, by cutting off the culprit from Christian fellowship: the greater excommunication,
						or "anathema" (accomplished "by bell, book, and candle"), not only cut off the person
						from the rites of the church and thus endangered his soul, but also cut him off from his
						fellows so that none might buy, sell, eat, or transact business with him. The power of
						the bishops over both the clergy and the laity was very great; certain influences,
						however, tended to lessen their authority. Among these were conflicts with the "chapter"
						of the "cathedral" (as the clergy were called who had charge of the worship in the
						bishop's church); for the fact that the members of the chapter (called "canons") came to
						enjoy the right -- at least in theory -- of electing the bishop, greatly strengthened
						their position. The "archdeacon" also sought to make his authority independt of the
						bishop.
					59. Archbishops
					The dioceses were grouped together into "provinces," over each of which was an
						Archbishop. In addition to his powers and duties as bishop of one of the dioceses, the
						archbishop supervised the work of the church throughout his province. His special mark
						of distinction was the "pallium," a narrow band of white wool worn loosely around the
						neck; this could be conferred only by the Pope. The archbishop's cathedral was usually
						in the most important city of the province, so he was spoken of as the "metropolitan."
						In each country there was a tendency for some one archbishop 
						
							MEDIÆVAL MONASTERIES, BISHOPRICS, AND ARCHBISHOPRICS
						
						 to gain preëminence ever the others, and be recognized as
						"primate"; thus the Archbishop of Canterbury was primate bf all England, while the
						Archbishops of Rheims and Mainz claimed preëminence respectively in France and Germany.
						A few archbishops (especially those of Constantinople, Alexandria, Jerusalem, Antioch,
						and Rome) were styled "patriarchs," and held positions of exceptional power and
						dignity.
					Great estates -- usually the gift of pious individuals or of repentant sinners -- came
						to be attached to the episcopal and archiepiscopal "sees." Such estates were often held
						by feudal tenure; and thus the clergy tended to become feudalized equally with the
						laity, and the spiritually minded were scandalized by seeing bishops, clad in coats of
						mail, lead their vassals to battle. High political offices (especially in Germany and
						England) were conferred upon the clergy; and this fact further complicated the relations
						of church and state. On the one side the higher clergy found their independence
						threatened by the temporal powers; on the other their influence was subordinated to that
						of Rome.
					60. Pope and cardinals
					At the head of the whole system stood the Papacy. Many causes contributed to make the
						Bishop of Rome the "universal overseer," or head of the whole Western Church. The
						political importance of Rome, the wealth of the church there, the singular ability and
						moderation which its bishops showed in doctrinal disputes, the martyrdom and burial at
						Rome of Saint Peter and Saint Paul -- all were factors in the Roman headship. Most
						important of all, that headship rested upon the belief that Peter had been made by
						Christ the chief of the Apostles and given "the power of the keys," i.e. the power to bind and to loose (Matthew, xvi. 18-19). Peter was regarded as
						the founder of the bishopric of Rome, and the power given him by Christ he was held to
						have transmitted to his successors.
					To assist the Pope in his work, a clerical council was gradually  ally formed, called theg College of Cardinals. This was at first composed of
						the higher clergy of Rome; later other Italians, and gradually some foreign clergymen,
						were admitted. The importance of the cardinals as an organized body dates from 1059,
						when the chief part in papal elections was confided to them.
					
						ROME IN THE MIDDLE AGES.
					
					61. General councils
					Besides provincial and diocesan synods, General or "Ecumenical" Councils of the whole
						church were called from time to time. The first general council was that held at Nicæa
						in the year 325 to condemn the Arian heresy. The first eight councils were recognized by
						the Greek and Latin churches alike; but beginning with the ninth, in 1123, they were
						really concerned only with the affairs of those who recognized the supremacy of the See
						of Rome. The council held at the Lateran Church in Rome in 1215 is reckoned the twelfth,
						and was one of the most imposing assemblages of the true Middle Ages: 412 bishops and 71
						archbishops were present, with more than 2000 clerics in all. In the fifteenth century,
						troubles in the church revived the use of councils; it then became a burning question
						whether the Pope was above such assemblies, or they above the papacy; that is, whether
						the Pope, or the council of higher clergy representing the church as a whole, finally
						revealed the will of God.


					
					62. Threefold power of the papacy
					By the eleventh century the papacy presented three distinct aspects, for the Pope was
						(1) the bishop in charge of the diocese comprising Rome; (2) the head of the whole Latin
						Church; and (3) a temporal prince ruling "the States of the Church" in Italy. The
						formation of his temporal power took place chiefly after the downfall, in the eighth
						century, of the Byzantine and Lombard rule in central Italy, and was based in part upon
						grants of secular ruler (§§ 14, 16).
					To understand this subject, we must here touch briefly on the relations of the papal
						power to the empire, which were a subject of perpetual controversy in the Middle Ages.
						In the time of Charlemagne, as in the time of Constantine the Great and his successors,
						the head of the state acted also, in a sense, as head of the church. From the time of
						Louis the Pious this relation was gradually reversed: the imperial authorization was no
						longer awaited for papal elections, as was earlier the case; on the other hand, the
						right of the Pope to confer the imperial crown steadily gained recognition. Louis the
						Pious, not satisfied with coronation by his father, received recoronation at the hands
						of the Pope, and permitted his son Lothair to be crowned in the same way. Gradually the
						custom of coronation by the Pope hardened into a right, and Popes claimed to confer or
						withhold the imperial crown at pleasure.
					63. Donation of Constatine and False Decretals
					In the eighth and ninth centuries appeared the forged Donation of Constantine and the
						False Decretals. The former presents Constantine the Great as "cleansed from all the
						squalor of leprosy" by the prayers of Pope Sylvester I.; in gratitude therefor, on the
						fourth day after his baptism, he is said to have resolved to forsake the ancient city
						for a new capital on the Bosphorus, and to have conferred upon the Pope "the city of
						Rome, and all the provinces, districts, and cities of Italy or of the Western regions."
							Henderson, Documents, 322-328The False
						Decretals were a collection,  claimed to have been found in
						Spain, of thitherto unknown letters and decrees of early Popes and councils, from the
						time of Saint Peter to the close of the fourth century; these showed the Popes acting
						from the first as supreme rulers in the church, judging causes in the last resort and
						issuing instructions to the clergy of all grades.
					The general tendency of the Donation of Constantine and the False Decretals was: (1) to
						elevate the spiritual power, especially the papacy, above the secular; (2) to make the
						papacy the supreme authority in the church; and (3) to supply an additional basis for
						the Pope's temporal rule. Both Donation and Decretals are now recognized, by Catholics
						and Protestants alike, to have been forgeries of the clumsiest sort; but the ignorance
						and lack of critical inquiry of the Middle Ages caused them to be accepted without
						question for six hundred years. Protestants and Catholics differ as to the part which
						these forged documents played in the development of the papal power; but a Catholic
						historian admits that "the compilers of the Decretals, by stating as facts what were
						only the opinions or the tendencies of the age, by giving as ancient and authentic
						documents such as were supposititious and modern, and by putting forward as established
						rights and legal precedents claims entirely destitute of such warrant, did, in matter of
						fact, hasten the development and insure the triumph of the very ideas and principles
						they advocate."
					Alzog, Church History, II.
							274
					64. Benedictine monks
					Parish priests, bishops, archbishops, and Pope usually belonged to the "secular"
						clergy, that is, clergy who lived in the "world" (seculum); there was
						also an enormous body of so-called "regulars" who might, under proper circumstances,
						fill any of these offices. The "regular" clergy were those who lived under a "rule" (regula), such as those of the different monastic orders. In the West the
						rule of Saint Benedict (died 543) was the most important monastic ordinance. 
						
							BENEDICTINE MONK.
							From a 13th century MS.
						 It breathed an essentially mild and practical spirit, as opposed to the wild
						extravagances of Eastern zealots, like Simeon Stylites, who dwelt for thirty years on
						the narrow top of a lofty column. Benedict's rule enjoined upon on the brethren the
						three vows of Poverty, Chastity, and Obedience to their abbot, or head. They were to
						labor with their hands, especially at agriculture; were to join in public worship once
						during the night (about two o'clock), and at seven stated "hours" during the day; and
						were encouraged to copy and read books. They ate together in a "refectory," at which
						time one of their number was appointed to read aloud; and they slept together in a
						common dormitory. Each monastery was a settlement complete in itself, surrounded by a
						wall; and the monks were not allowed to wander forth at will. New monasteries were often
						located on waste ground, in swamps, and in dense forests; and by reclaiming such lands
						and teaching better methods of agriculture the monks rendered a great service to
						society. Schools also were maintained in connection with the monasteries.
					
						MONASTERY OF ST. GALL.
						From a plan made in 1596.
					


					

					The house of St. Gall in Switzerland is a type of the great monasteries of the Middle
						Ages. In the tenth century its estates amounted to one hundred and sixty thousand "
						plow-lands"; and a populous community dwelt about its walls, made up of the laborers,
						shepherds, and workmen of various trades employed by the monastery, together with the
						serfs settled on the monastery estates, who were bound to work three days a week for the
						monastery. The convent itself numbered more than five hundred monks.
					65. Monastic reform: order if Cluny (910-)
					The Benedictine monasteries were entirely independent of one another. Theoretically,
						the bishop had the right of visitation and correction over the monasteries in his
						diocese; but frquently the monks secured papal grants of "immunity" which freed them
						from episcopal control. The monasteries often became very wealthy through gifts of lands
						and goods. Then luxury and corruption crept in, and great nobles sought to secure
						control of monastic estates, often by the appointment of "lay" abbots who drew the
						monastery revenues without taking monastic vows. Such periods of decay were followed by
						times of revival, and these in turn by new decline -- and so on to the end of the Middle
						Ages.
					The monastery of Cluny, in eastern France (founded 910), was the center of the reform
						movement in the tenth and eleventh centuries; and the reformed monasteries, unlike the
						Benedictine, were brought into permanent dependence on the abbot of the head monastery,
						their "priors" being appointed by him. The name "congregation" was given to such a union
						of monasteries under a single head; and the congregation of Cluny grew until in the
						twelfth century it numbered more than two thousand monasteries. The strict self-denial
						of these monks, the splendor of the worship in their churches, their zeal for learning
						and education, and a succession of distinguished abbots, account for the great spread,
						throughout Europe, of the Cluniac movement.


					
					66. Other monastic orders (1084-)
					Other monastic orders, zealous for reform, arose in the eleventh century. The
						Carthusians, founded (in 1084) at Grande Chartreuse in the kingdom of Burgundy,
						introduced something of hermit life into the monastery, each monk being provided with a
						separate cell in which he lived a life of meditation, study, and silence. The Cistercian
						order was founded at Cîteaux, in eastern France (in 1098); its rule rejected all luxury
						and splendor, even in the appointments for worship, and required of its members a
						rigidly simple life, with an abundance of agricultural labor, in which sheep raising had
						the predominant part. Its most famous member was Saint Bernard (1091-1153), abbot of
						Clairvaux; and within a hundred years after his death the order numbered eight hundred
						houses, scattered all over Europe. In the thirteenth century arose orders of a new sort,
						the mendicant or begging "friars," of which the chief were the Franciscans and the
						Dominicans (see § 181). It was not until the sixteenth century that the Jesuits
						arose.
					These various orders were distinguished by differences in the color and cut of their
						garments, as well as in their mode of life; thus the Benedictines and Cluniacs wore
						black gowns, the Cistercians and Carthusians white.
					In addition to the organizations for men there were also many for women. The
						"nunneries," or houses of these organizations, were numerous, widespread, and crowded;
						they offered a safe refuge to defenseless women in an age of violence; and nuns who
						possessed talent, high birth, or sanctity might rise as abbesses to positions of honor
						and influence.
					67. Church buildings
					With the growth of the church in riches, external influence, and power, came increasing
						splendor of buildings and ceremonial. The East developed its type of church
						architecture, called the Byzantine, in which the round or polygonal form of building of
						Roman days was enlarged and enriched with side galleries, alcoves, and porches; its most
							 famous example is the church of St. Sophia at
						Constantinople -- now a Mohammedan mosque (p. 261; see another on p. 39). In the West,
						the Roman municipal basilica -- an oblong building with the interior divided
						longitudinally by parallel rows of pillars into two "aisles" and a central "nave" -- was
						at first taken as the model. This developed into the Romanesque type of architecture,
						characterized by the round arch and a general massiveness of effect. Stone superseded
						brick as the building material, and, to decrease the danger of fire, stone vaulting
						replaced the timbered roof. The best examples of this type were produced in the eleventh
						and early twelfth centuries in France.
					
						AMIENS CATHEDRAL.
						Built in 13th century; one of the greatest examples of Gothic architecture.
					
					68. Gothic architecture (1150-)
					The final form assumed by mediæval architecture was the so-called Gothic or pointed
						style, which originated in northern France about the middle of the twelfth century. In
						this the walls are less massive, the windows large and numerous, and the vaulted roof
						raised to prodigious heights on slender, clustered columns. The secret of this
						construction consists in the strong external columns and arched or "flying" buttresses
						which take the concentrated  lateral thrusts of the vast
						pointed arches and relieve the interior columns of all stress except the vertical
						pressure from the roof. The ground plan of the Gothic cathedral was he Latin cross; the
						two arms constituted the "transepts," he "choir" corresponded to the short upright, and
						the "nave" and "aisles" to the lower main part of the cross.
					The window openings were filled with pictures in stained glass, whose rich and varied
						colors added indescribably to the splendor of the interior. Everywhere, within and
						without, the sculptor's art scattered figures of men, animals, and plants -- all
						emblematical of the aspirations, the hopes, and the fears of mediæval religion. Artists
						and sculptors vied with one another in representing the history of humanity and of
						Christianity; along with scenes from the Bible, figures of the saints, and allegorical
						representations of the virtues and vices, were seen fantastic grinning beasts and
						demons, the retinue of the devil. Taken as a whole, such scenes "made up a kind of
						layman's Bible that appealed to the eye and was understood by all."
					69. Church services and worship
					With the growth of ecclesiastical organization, the worship of the church assumed
						definite form. Latin was the language of the West at the time that Christianity was
						introduced, and it became the language of the Roman Church; but in many regions portions
						of the service, as well as sermons, were given in the language of the people. The order
						of service included the reading of selected Scripture lessons, the singing of Latin
						hymns, and the repetition of the creed. Music was improved by the introduction of
						harmony, and by a system of notation from which grew our modern musical notes and
						staffs; but church singing was by the choir only. The chief place in the service was
						given to the celebration of the mass, or Lord's Supper; this was viewed as a perpetual
						sacrifice of Christ, the benefits of which were available not only for those on earth,
						but for departed souls undergoing purification  for sins in
						Purgatory. From the honors shown to martyrs arose the veneration of the saints,
						especially of the Virgin Mary, whose intercession was asked both for the living and for
						the dead. Bones of martyrs, pieces of the cross on which Christ was crucified, and
						similar relics were cherished and venerated, and made to work miracles of healing.
						Christmas, Easter, and a host of other church festivals were celebrated with processions
						and a pomp and splendor of ceremonial which appealed powerfully to the imagination. Rude
						dramatizations of the Incarnation and Redemption were presented; from these, and from
						"miracle plays" and "moralities" the modern drama was developed. Preaching played a less
						prominent part in mediæval religion than it does to-day, though from time to time great
						preachers arose -- like Pope Urban II., Bernard of Clairvaux, and others -- to preach a
						Crusade or a moral reformation. The parish priests, because of the great cost of
						hand-written books and the lack of schools, were usually poorly educated, and refrained
						from preaching.
					70. Rise of universities (1200-)
					To educate the clergy there was need of better organized instruction, and to supply
						this need universities arose. At Salerno, in Italy, there was early a school devoted to
						the study of medicine; at Bologna arose famous teachers of civil and canon law; at Paris
						were schools famed for the teaching of philosophy and theology; at other points also,
						about cathedrals and monasteries, schools were in existence. The thirteenth century saw
						a growth in definiteness of organization in church, in state, and in city communities;
						and, touched by the same movement, these early schools were transformed into the
						universities of the Middle Ages, under papal or royal charter. Abelard (1079-1142), one
						of the most famous scholars of the early Middle Ages, shed a luster over the schools of
						Paris by his intellectual acuteness, rhetorical skill, and romantic history, which even
						his condemnation for heresy did not dim; and the preëminence of the University 
						
							CHIEF UNIVERSITIES OF THE MIDDLE AGES.
						 of Paris lasted unimpaired to the end of the Middle Ages. Instrution
						everywhere was by lectures, owing to the scarcity of books. The course of study included
						the Triviurm (Latin grammar, rhetoric, and logic), and the Quadrivium (arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, and music), after which
						came the higher studies of theology, law, philosophy, and medicine.
					The students were a disorderly, turbulent class, many of them mere boys of ten or
						twelve years, who lodged where they could, lived largely on alms, and being "clerks"
						were punishable only by their university. Latin was the universal language of learning;
						this made it easy to wander from contry to country and to study in different
						universities. The student songs, in rhymed Latin, frequently breathed a most unclerical
						spirit.
					After the days of Abelard, learning was brought entirely 
						into the service of the church, and "scholastic philosophy" prevailed. This may be
						defined as an attempt to extract knowledge from consciousness, by formal reasoning,
						instead of by investigation, observation, and experiment. The great authority in
						philosophy was Aristotle (384-322 B.C.), whose works were known, not
						in the original Greek, but in Latin translations of imperfect Arabic versions obtained
						from Spain. Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274) was the greatest of the mediæval schoolmen, and
						his application of the Aristotelian logic to the problems of theology profoundly
						influenced all later teaching. In the mediæval universities men were trained for the
						service of the church, and their minds were sharpened to a hair-splitting keenness on
						theological subjects;ₑ but the
						physical and historical sciences were little advanced.
					71. Need of reform in the secular clergy
					The reform movement which spread from Cluny as a cente did not stop with the
						purification of the monasteries; it extended as well to the secular clergy, whose
						condition in the tenth and eleventh centuries was deplorable. The three great evils
						complained of were simony, lay investiture, and clerical marriage. (1) Simony was the
						purchas in any way of ecclesiastical office, the word being derived from Simon Magus,
						who sought to buy the gift of the Holy Ghost (see Acts, viii. 17-19). (2) Closely
						connected with this evil was the right exercised by Emperors and princes of "investing"
						newly elected bishops with the ring and staff, which were the symbols of their office,
						and requiring from them homage and fealty for the lands which they held. Accompanying
						the cotrol thus secured were encroachments upon the freedom of ₑ The following questions were debated with
							great logical subtlety: "Whether an angel can be in more than one place at one and the
							same time; whether more angels than one can be in one and the same place at the same
							time; whether angels have local motion; and whether, if they have, they pass through
							intermediate space." (Thomas Aquinas, Summa Theologiæ, I., quest.
							52, 53.) For examples of scholastic method, see University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, vol. III., No. 6.
						 election, so that the higher clergy almost everywhere
						became the appointees of the temporal power. Says a Catholic writer, in speaking of this
						period: "Kings could dispose, absolutely and without control, of all ecclesiastical
						dignities. . . . All1 was venal, from the episcopate, and sometimes even the papacy,
						down to the smallest rural benefice." (3) The whole clergy, with the exception only of the
						monks and of some bishops and priests who were quoted as marvels, openly and freely
						entered into the marriage relation. To free the church from these evils, and
						reinvigorate it, became the special mission of the Cluniac order.
					Montalembert, Monks
						of the West, II. 309
					
					72. Summary
					While decentralizing forces prevailed in the state, the church grew steadily in unity
						and in strength. The papal headship was advanced as the imperial power declined.
						Recurrent waves of monastic reform resulted in the formation of new orders of monks, and
						these produced new efforts to revive and spiritualize the church. Education began to
						spread among the clergy, though confined within the narrow limits of scholasticism, and
						famous universities arose. Gothic architecture was developed, and impressive church
						services were devised.
					The chief problem of the church was how to secure the clergy from local and monarchical
						oppression. Before the eleventh century, men's minds were too much engrossed with the
						practica1 problems presented by the invasions of the Northmen and Hungarians, and the
						decay of civil government, to permit of much speculation on the relations of the
						spiritual and temporal powers. The church also had too much need of the strong arm of
						temporal rulers (such as Otto I.) to rescue and protect it from danger, to permit it to
						quarrel with its champions. By the eleventh century these dangers were past, and men's
						minds began to turn to questions of principles and theory. It was inevitable that the
						two great powers, the temporal and the spiritual, should come into conflict in their
						representatives, the HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--6
						 Empire and the Papacy. It is this conflict which
						constitutes the chief feature of the history of the next two centuries.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Why were there just seven clerical ranks, seven sacraments, etc.? (2) Would the
							Pope have acquired temporal power if Rome had continued to be the residence of an
							Emperor? (3) Was monasticism a good or a bad thing for religion? For society? For the
							state? Give your reasons. (4) Why are there not so many monks to-day as there were in
							the Middle Ages? (5) Why does the church play a less prominent part in modern life
							than it did in mediæval times?
						Search topics
						(6) Contributions of Pope Leo I. (440-461) to the growth of the papacy. (7)
							Contributions of Gregory I. (590-604). (8) Contributions of Nicholas I. (858-867). (9)
							Life of Saint Benedict. (10) The Benedictine rule. (11) The monastery of Cluny. (12)
							Monastic orders for women. (13) Romanesque architecture. (14) Gothic art. (15) Music
							in the Middle Ages. (16) The origin of the drama. (17) Church festivals and pageants.
							(18) Parish priests of the Middle Ages. (19) Church councils to the close of 1215.
							(20) Rise of the universities. (21) The university of Paris. (22) Abelard. (23)
							Student life in the Middle Ages.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 62, 82; Freeman, Historical Geography, I. ch. vii.;
							Poole, Historical Atlas, maps xix. xx. lvii. lxi. lxix.
						Secondary authorities
						Emerton, Mediœval Europe, 465-476, 541-592; Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, ch. vi.; Emerton, Introduction to the Middle Ages, chs. xiii. xvi.; Church, Beginning of the Middle Ages, 133-139; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, chs. xii. xvi. xxii.; Tout, Empire and
								Papacy, 96-100, 198-220, 428-449; Munro and Sellery, Medieval
								Civilization, 129-158; Stillé, Studies in Medieval History,
							ch. xiii.; Lea, Studies in Church History, 46-59, 112-123, 288-298;
							Jessopp, Coming of the Friars, chs. iii.-vi. ; McCabe, Abelard, chs. iii. iv. vi. vii. xiv. xv.; Compayré, Abelard,
							pts. i. ii. iv.; Cutts, Turning Points of General Church History,
							ch. xxx. ; Trench, Medieval Church History, Lecture viii.; Fisher,
								History of the Christian Church, Period V. ch. ii., Period VI. ch.
							i.; Milinan, History of Latin Christianity, II. bk. iii. ch. vi.;
							Alzog, Manual of Church History,  I §§
							82-87, 125-131, 133-142, II. §§ 161-165, 167-169, 192-199; Döllinger, Fables respecting the Popes in the Middle Ages, 104-182; Addis and Arnold, Catholic Dictionary; Schaff-Herzog, Religious
								Encyclopedia, 4 vols.; Cutts, Scenes and Characters of the Middle
								Ages, chs. ii. v.-vii.; Montalembert, Monks of the West,
							Introduction, chs. ii. iv.; Cardinal Gibbons, The Faith of our
								Fathers; Desmond, Mooted Questions of History, chs. iii. iv.;
							Smith, Architecture, Gothic and Renaissance, chs. i. ii. ix.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. chs. ii. iv. xvi.; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 33-42, 251-260; Jones, Civilization in
								the Middle Ages, No. 6; Henderson, Documents of the Middle
								Ages, bk. iii. nos. i.-iv. ; University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, vol. II. Nos. 3, 4, 7, vol. III. No. 5, pp. 24-30,
							No. 4, pp. 1-10, vol. IV. Nos. 2, 4, pp. 23-32.
						Illustrative works
						Scott, Abbot, -- Monastery; Potter, Uncanonized;
							W. W. Newton, Priest and Man, or Abélard and Heloïsa; Reade, Cloister and the Hearth.
						Pictures
						Lacroix, Religious and Military Institutions of the Middle Ages;
							Cutts, Parish Priests and their People in the Middle Ages;
							Parmentier, Album Historique, I.; Perry pictures (Cathedrals).
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER VI.
					

					THE FRANCONIAN EMPERORS, HILDEBRAND, AND THE INVESTITURE CONFLICT
						(1024-1125)
					73. Reform under the Saxon Emperors
					To rescue the church from the evil condition into which it had fallen, something more
						was needed than the zeal of Cluny; namely, the support of temporal and ecclesiastical
						rulers. A beginning was made in this direction under the Saxon Emperors, when Otto I.,
						Otto II., and Otto III. protected the papacy against local Roman factions. Under Henry
						II. the Cluniac monks secured a hold on Germany, and the first energetic action against
						the married clergy was taken by a Pope in the synod of Pavia (1022). It remained,
						however, for the Franconian or Salian Emperors,ₑ who succeeded the Saxons in 1024, to witness the triumph of
						the principles of celibacy and no simony, and to see the storm clouds raised by the
						outcry against lay investiture gather about their own heads.
					ₑ
						
							THE SAXON AND FRANCONIAN (OR SALIAN) KINGS OF GERMANY
						



					
					74. Conrad II. and Henry III. (1024-1056)
					Under Conrad II. (1024-1039), the first of the Franconian or Salian house, little
						progress was made with church reform, but a basis was laid for a closer connection with
						Cluny by the incorporation into the empire (in 1032) of the kingdom of Burgundy, where
						the reform movement was strong.
					
						SEAL OF HENRY III.
						"Heinricus Dei Gratia Romanorum Imperator Augustus."
					
					Under Conrad's son, Henry III. (1039-1056), the mediæval empire reached its highest
						point, and the work of reform was zealously taken up. When he first interfered in Roman
						affairs, in 1046, he found three rivals claiming to be Pope, and each in possession of a
						portion of the city. At a synod called near Rome, all three claimants were deposed for
						simony; and a German bishop of unblemished life and piety was chosen -- the first of a
						series of German Popes. Of those who had filled the papal chair in the three preceding
						centuries, only four had not been born in Rome or the papal states; with these German
						Popes the papacy took on a more international character. The Popes now led in attacking
						clerical marriage and simony. Leo IX. (1048-1054) was the most vigorous of the series,
						traveling about from country to country, holding synods in Italy, Germany, and France --
						everywhere condemning the married and simoniacal clergy.
					75. Rise of Hildebrand
					The greatest service which Leo rendered the reform movement was by bringing the monk
						Hildebrand to Rome as the adviser and chief officer of the papacy. Of lowly German
						origin, but born in Tuscany, Hildebrand received his education and training in a Roman
						monastery of which his uncle was abbot. Gregory VI., one of the three papal contestants
						in 1046, made him his chaplain, and after Gregory's fall Hildebrand followed him into
						Germany. For a time Hildebrand  was an inmate of the
						monastery at Cluny, where he was filled with reformatory zeal; and there Leo IX. found
						him arid took him to Rome.
					
						HILDEBRAND (GREGORY VII.)
						From an old print.
					
					Until his own election to the papacy in 1073, as Gregory VII., Hildebrand was the real
						power behind the papal throne, under five different Popes, covering a period of nearly a
						quarter of a century. Physically he was far from imposing: he was of small stature and
						ungainly figure, with a feeble voice; but he possessed a mind of restless activity,
						uncommon penetration, and an inflexible will. The principles upon which Hildebrand
						wished to guide the papal policy are indicated in a memorandum found among his papers,
						containing the following propositions: (1) The Roman pontiff (Pope) alone may rightly be
						called "universal." (2) He only can depose and reinstate bishops. (3) He only can
						establish new laws for the church, and unite or divide dioceses. (4) No council or
						synod, without his approval, can be called general. (5) No earthly person may call the
						Pope to trial or pronounce judgment on him. (6) No one who appeals to the papacy may
						have sentence passed against him by any other tribunal. 
						(7) The Roman Church has never erred, and never shall err. (8) The Roman Pontiff has the
						right to depose Emperors. (9) He may absolve the subjects of unjust princes from their
						allegiance.
					Henderson, Documents,
							366-367
					In these propositions the supremacy of the Pope over the church and over temporal
						princes is the underlying thought, and Hildebrand's whole conduct was but the
						development and application of these maxims. In carrying out his policy he avoided all
						appearance of revolution, and gave his acts the air of a return to ancient traditions,
						the evidence for which was found in the False Decretals. Hefele, a famous Catholic
						historian, sums up Hildebrand's policy in these words: "Seeing the world sunk in
						wickedness and threatened with impending ruin, and believing that the Pope alone could
						save it, Gregory conceived the vast design of forming a universal theocracy, which
						should embrace every kingdom of Christendom, and of whose policy the Decalogue [Ten
						Commandments] should be the fundamental principle. Over this commonwealth of nations the
						Pope was to preside. The spiritual power was to stand related to the temporal as the sun
						to the moon, imparting light and strength, without, however, destroying it or depriving
						princes of their sovereignty."
					Alzog, Church History, II
								489
					76. Papacy claims independence (1056-1073)
					While Henry III. lived, Hildebrand did not dare shake off the Emperor's control; but
						when Henry died, he left an infant of six years, Henry IV. (1056-1106), to rule under
						the regency of his mother. "The princes," says a chronicler, "chafed at being governed
						by a woman or a child; they demanded their ancient freedom; then they disputed among
						themselves the chief place; at last they plotted the deposition of their lord and king."
						With little now to fear from beyond the Alps, Hildebrand set about organizing new
						safeguards for papal independence. Everywhere he could count upon the reform party as
						favorable to his plans. The Countess Matilda of Tuscany gave him protection and
						resources, and finally donated to the papacy her vast estates, stretching almost to the
							 Gulf of Genoa. New treaties, also, were concluded with
						the Normans, by which Robert Guiscard, in return for a confirmation of his conquests,
						became the Pope's vassal, thus beginning a papal suzerainty over southern Italy which
						was to last for centuries.
					
						TERRITORIES OF THE COUNTESS MATILDA.
					
					Finally, in 1059, the attempt was made to emancipate the papacy from imperial control,
						by a decree concerning papal elections. In the early church the Pope had been chosen,
						like any bishop, by "the clergy and people" of his diocese; but under Charlemagne, the
						three Ottos, and their successors, the Emperor practically appointed to that office. The
						decree of 1059 changed the papal constitution, in effect, by providing that the real
						selection should be in the hands of the College of Cardinals -- that is, the Pope's own
						clerical council. Direful penalties were invoked against all who disobeyed the decree,
						and the text was characteristic of the times. "Eternal anathema and excommunication," it
						read, "be upon the foolhardy person who takes no account of our decree, and attempts in
						his presumption to disturb and trouble the Roman Church! May he endure in this life and
						in the next the wrath of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, and that of the Apostles Peter
						and Paul, whose church he presumes to molest! Let his house be desolate, and no one
						dwell in his tents! Let his children be orphans, and his wife a widow! Let him and his
						sons be outcasts and beg their bread, driven away from their habitations! May the usurer
						consume his goods, and the stranger reap the fruit of his labors! May all the world war
							 against him and all the elements be hostile, and the
						merits of a11 the saints, who sleep in the Lord, confound and inflict visible vengeance
						in this life upon him!"
					Matthews, Mediæval Documents,
								34
					77. Hildebrand as Pope Gregory VII. (1073-1085)
					The time at last came when Hildebrand himself had to don the papal crown. The election
						was irregular and not according to the decree of 1059. The people, assembled in the
						church for the funeral services of the late Pope, raised the cry, "Let Hildebrand be our
						bishop!". One of the cardinals turned to the crowd and recalled how much, since the days
						of Leo IX., Hildebrand had done for the church and for Rome. On all sides the cry was
						then raised, "Saint Peter crowns Hildebrand as Pope!" In spite of his resistance,
						Hildebrand was forthwith arrayed in the scarlet robe, crowned with the papal tiara, and
						seated in the chair of Saint Peter. As Pope he took the name Gregory VII., in memory of
						his early patron.
					
						GOSLAR, BIRTHPLACE OF HENRY IV.
						Present condition.
					
					78. Germany under Henry IV. (1056-1106)
					The claims of Gregory to treat the temporal power as subordinate to the papacy made a
						struggle with the empire inevitable. The imperial power, at this time, was far from
						strong. The minority of Henry IV. was distracted by quarrels for control, in which his
						mother Agnes and 108  the archbishops of Bremen and
						Cologne played the chief parts. Although intelligent and high-spirited, Henry IV. was
						allowed to grow up with alternations of stern repression and careless indulgence; he
						thus arrived at manhood without training to rule, with an undisciplined temper, and with
						a heedlessness of moral restraint which led him into many excesses. Finally his rule was
						weakened by the disaffection of the Saxons, who had been the chief support of the throne
						under the Ottos. In 1073 the discontent ripened into revolt; and although Henry, after
						one humiliating defeat, put down the rebellion, there continued to exist in Germany a
						disaffected party with which Gregory formed alliance.
					79. Investure conflict begun (1075-1076)
					In 1075 Gregory brought the question of investiture into a position of chief
						importance, declaring investiture by laymen, even by kings and Emperors, to be void, and
						causing persons giving it to be excommunicated. To a report that Henry was summoned to
						appear at Rome to justify his actions, the Emperor replied: "Henry, king not by
						usurpation, but by the will of God, to Hildebrand, no longer Pope, but false monk. . . .
						Thou hast attacked me, who as consecrated king and who, according to the tradition of
						the fathers, can be judged by God alone and can be deposed for no crime save the
						abandonment of the faith. . . . Condemned by the judgment of our bishops, and by our
						own, descend! Quit the place which thou hast usurped! Let another take the seat of Saint
						Peter, who seeks not to cover violence with the cloak of religion, and who teaches the
						sound doctrine of Saint Peter!" To this Gregory replied in February, 1076, by
						sentence of excommunication. "Blessed Peter, prince of the Apostles," he wrote, "be thou
						my witness that the Holy Roman Church called me against my will to govern it! . . . As
						thy representative I have received from God the power to bind and loose in heaven and
						upon earth. Full of this conviction, for the honor and defense of  thy church, . . . I deny to King Henry, who with unheard-of pride has risen
						against thy church, the government of Germany and of Italy. I absolve all Christians
						from the oaths of fidelity they have taken or may take to him; and I forbid that any
						person shall serve him as king."
					Matthews, Mediæval
							Documents, 44 (condensed)
					Matthews, Mediæval
						Documents, 42 (condensed)
					
						POPE GREGORY VII., HENRY
							IV., AND COUNTESS MATILDA AT
								CANOSSA.
						From a 12th century MS. in the Vatican Library.
					
					80. Pope's triumph at Canossa (1077)
					"The most powerful of the German princes were already oposed to Henry, and declared
						that unless the excommunication were removed by a certain day, he should be treated as
						deposed and a new king elected. His only hope was to break the alliance between the Pope
						and his enemies at home; and to accomplish this he set off secretly across the Alps, in
						the dead of winter, accompanied only by his wife, his young son, and one attendant. At
						Canossa he found the Pope, already on his way to Germany to arrange the government in
						consultationwith the princes. The Pope at first refused to see him, and for three days
						Henry was obliged to stand as a suppliant -- fasting and barefooted -- without the
						castle gates. At last Gregory yielded to the entreaties of the Countess Maatilda and
						admitted him to reconciliation. The 10f5  excommunication
						was raised, but only on condition that Henry should make his peace with his German
						subjects before a day fixed by the Pope, and on terms which he should lay down (January,
						1077).
					81. Renewed conflict over investiture
						(1077-1081)
					The humiliation of the Emperor at Canossa was the most brilliant victory that the
						papacy ever won over the temporal power; but it was merely an incident in a long
						struggle. Henry's German enemies were displeased that the Pope had removed the
						excommunication, and persisted in electing a new king. Civil war followed, and as Henry
						continued to grant lay investiture, the Pope renewed his excommunication. A strong party
						now rallied to Henry's support, and he caused an assembly of German and Italian bishops
						to declare Gregory deposed and set up an anti-pope. In 1081 Henry mastered his German
						enemies sufficiently to come to Italy with an army. After three years' campaigning all
						Rome, save the strong fortress of St. Angelo, was in his hands: his anti-pope was
						enthroned, and Henry himself was crowned with the imperial crown.
					82. Death of Gregory VII. (1085) and of Henry IV.
							(1106)
					The dauntless Gregory meanwhile had sent for aid to the Norman Robert Guiscard. Henry
						hastily quitted Rome, which was taken and sacked by the Normans; but when these retired,
						the Pope was forced to accompany them into southern Italy. There in May, 1085, Gregory
						VII. died; in his last hours he said, "I have loved justice, and hated iniquity; and
						therefore I die in exile." He had done much to clear the church of the scandals which
						clung to it, and he had raised the papal power to a higher pitch than ever before; but
						he had embroiled the papacy not only with the empire, but with most of the kings of
						Europe. Had his ideas triumphed, Europe would have been left practically under the
						sovereignty of the papacy, distant and disassociated from royal families or national
						feeling -- a single monarchical rule supported by all the terrors of religious
						authority.


					
					After two years, a worthy successor to Gregory came to the papal throne, in the person
						of Urban II., a zealous reformer of French birth. The struggle between papacy and empire
						continued as fiercely as ever in his pontificate, in spite of the call for the First
						Crusade which Urban issued in 1095 (see § 93). The Emperor's oldest son, Conrad, was
						stirred up to rebel against his father; and after Conrad's death another son, Henry, was
						induced to revolt, and was recognized as king by the Pope. This time the old Emperor's
						enemies were completely successful: he was imprisoned, was forced to abdicate, escaped,
						and sought to renew the struggle; but died in August, 1106, in the midst of his
						efforts.
					Henry IV. made many mistakes and committed many faults, but these were in large part
						the results of his unfortunate training. His cause was not wholly just, but he was
						fighting against ecclesiastical absolutism and feudal anarchy. The lower classes of the
						people, particularly the townsmen of the Rhine valley, mourned him, for he was to them a
						generous and devoted leader. Perhaps the hatred which the nobility bore him was due to
						this fact, for they fought as much for their own interests as for the cause of religion
						and papal power.
					83. Settlement of the investiture question
						(1106-1122)
					The Emperor's undutiful son, Henry V., when once on the throne, proved as stanch an
						upholder of the imperial claims his father. The trouble about investiture grew out of
						the fact that the bishops and archbishops, especially in Germany, were not merely
						officers of the church, but by virrtue of the lands attached to their offices they were
						great feudal Princes as well, exercising high influence in the state. It was just as
						impossible for the Emperor to give up al1 means of keeping out undesirable men from
						those positions, as it was for the Pope to permit him, by "investing" bishops, to give
						the sanction for their religious functions. There was room for a real compromise, and
						negotiations at last were begun with that purpose.


					
					At first the Pope (Paschal II.) consented that the great clergy of Germany should
						surrender their fiefs and political influence, and become merely church officers; but to
						this the clergy would by no means agree. Finally, in 1122, an agreement was embodied in
						what is called, from the city where it was concluded, the' Concordant of Worms. The
						Emperor gave up "all investiture by the ring and the staff," and promised that there
						should be "freedom of election and of consecration"; in return, the Pope (now Honorius
						II.) granted that the election of bishops and abbots should take place in the presence
						of the Emperor or of his representative (so that objection might be made to persons
						unsatisfactory to him); and that the person so elected should receive from the Emperor
						"the property and the immunities of his office," and duly fulfill the obligations, such
						as homage, arising therefrom.
					In this settlement the papacy gained the abolition of lay investiture, and so secured
						greater freedom for the church; but some solid advantages remained to the empire, and
						the compromise was one which Gregory VII. would have been loath to approve. It gave,
						indeed, only a breathing spell in the struggle between the world-church and the
						world-state, and new occasions for controversy were not slow to arise; for the two ideas
						were mutually exclusive. In the world-empire of Charlemagne or Otto I. there was no room
						for an independent church; in the world-papacy of Hildebrand there was no room for an
						independent empire or kingdom. The conflict had to continue until one or the other, or
						both, were destroyed.
					84. Final seperation of Greek and Latin churches
							(1054)
					The beginning of Hildebrand's influence in the papacy coincides with the ending of the
						last connection between the churches of the East and of the West. The separation of the
						Roman Empire, in the fourth century, into an eastern and a western half, paved the way
						for a similar "schism" in  the church. As the two halves
						of the empire drifted apart, the churches also drifted away from each other. Latin
						remained the language of the West, while Greek became the official tongue of the East.
						In the eighth century broke out a strife about the use of images (the Iconoclastic
						Controversy), which the Latin Church favored, and the Greek Church, for a time, opposed
						(§ 13). At the close of the same century, the West formally accepted an addition made --
						without due authority, it seemed to the East -- in the Nicene creed (adopted 325 A.D.)
						so that it read, "I believe . . . in the Holy Ghost . . . which proceedeth from the
						Father and the Son (filioque) . . ." The insertion of the word filioque in this passage on the "procession of the Holy Ghost" (as it
						was called) was one of the hardest things for the West to justify to their Eastern
						brethren. Other differences concerned the cut of the tonsure and the bread used in
						celebrating the Eucharist -- the East maintaining the use of leavened bread, and the
						West of unleavened.
					Above all, there was the supremacy claimed by the papacy over the whole church, which
						the East would not admit. In the ninth century, the attempt of Pope Nicholas I. to
						interfere as of right in the Eastern Church and settle a dispute over the office of
						Patriarch of Constantinople, brought the two churches into open conflict. Finally, in
						the yepr 1054, -- at the very time when the papacy was gathering its strength for its
						great conflict with the empire, and the shadow of the Turkish peril was coming upon the
						East, -- the heads of the two churches mutually excommunicated each other, and
						Christians of the East and of the West were thenceforth mortal enemies. Many efforts
						were made to heal the schism, but in vain: the differences as to ceremonies and the
						creed might have been patched up; but there remained the fatal obstacle of the dispute
						over the papal headship.
					

					
					85. Summary
					The middle of the eleventh century saw the papacy feeble and the empire all-powerful;
						the middle of the twelfth found the papacy in the most brilliant period of its history,
						while the empire was sunk in decline. This was the result of the policy so unflinchingly
						pursued by Gregory VII. (1073-1085). With Leo I. (440-461), Gregory I. (590-604), and
						Nicholas I. (858-867), he is to be reckoned one of the founders of the papal power. In
						place of control of the church by the temporal authorities, which had existed in the
						days of Constantine, of Charlemagne, and of Otto the Great, Gregory put forward the
						claim of the spiritual power to control the temporal. A partial success was won at
						Canossa, and a compromise was arranged in the Concordat of Worms; but the struggle was
						not ended. Among the results of Gregory's policy should be noted the seeds of that fear
						and hatred felt by the German people for the Roman court down to the Reformation; and
						the alienation of the Emperor from the church, and of the Eastern and Western churches
						from each other, at the most important moment of all -- the beginning of the period of
						the Crusades.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Was Hildebrand more of a theologian or an ecclesiastical statesman? (2) To what
							extent did desire for power influence him? (3) Was his policy a good one for the
							world? (4) Make a list of the forces supporting Gregory VII. and those supporting
							Henry IV. (5) Why did the Saxons revolt against Henry IV.? (6) Was the interview at
							Canossa a victory for the Pope or for the Emperor? (7) Why was the settlement agreed
							to by Paschal II. rejected? (8) Why are conflicts between church and state less
							frequent to-day than in the Middle Ages?
						Search topics
						(9) The empire under Henry III. (10) The College of Cardinals. (11) Character and
							aims of Hildebrand. (12) Character and aims of Henry IV. (13) The Saxon revolt. (14)
							Henry IV. at Canossa. (15) Countess Matilda and the addition of her territory to the
							Papal States. (16) Excommunication as a papal weapon. (17) Present extent and
							organization of the Greek Church.  (18) The Nicene creed
							in the West. (19) Celebrated concordats. (20) Routes across the Alps used by
							Emperors.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Map, p. 64; Poole, Historical Atlas, maps xxxiv. lxv.; Dow, Atlas, xiii.
						Secondary authorities
						Bémont and Monod, Medieval Europe, 119-124, 286-300 ; Adams Civilization during the Middle Ages, 238-247; Henderson, Short History of Germany, I. 54-75; Bryce, Holy Roman
							Empire, ch. x.; Emerton, Mediœval Europe, chs. vi.-viii.; Tout,
								Empire and Papacy, ch. vi.; Henderson, Germany in the
								Middle Ages, chs. xii.-xiv.; Stillé, Studies in Medieval
								History, 277-296; Lea, Studies in Church History, 355-371;
							Cutts, Turning Points of General Church History, ch. xxxv.;
							Stephens, Hildebrand and his Times; Trench, Medieval
								Church History, lecture ix. ; Fisher, Medieval Empire, I.
							106-134; Milman, History of Latin Christianity, bk. vii. chs.
							i.-iii., bk. viii. chs. i.-iii.; Montalembert, Monks of the West,
							bk. xix.; Alzog, Church History, II. 481-536; Gregorovius, Rome in the Middle Ages, IV. pt. i. 47-300; Historians'
								History of the World, VII. 630-659.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. ch. xiii.; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 57-86; Henderson, Documents of the Middle
								Ages, 350-409.
						Illustrative works
						G. H. Miles, The Truce of God; W. B. Macabe, Bertha; J. E. C. Bischoff, Bertha.
					
				


				

				
					EUROPE ABOUT THE TIME OF THE FIRST CRUSADE (1097)
				
				
				
					EUROPE ABOUT THE TIME OF THE FIRST CRUSADE (1097)
				

				
				
					CHAPTER VII.
					

					THE CHRISTIAN AND MOHAMMEDAN EAST, AND THE FIRST CRUSADE
						(1096-1099)
					86. Byxantine Empire (717-1096)
					AT the beginning of the eighth century, the Byzantine or Greek
						Empire seemed brought to the verge of ruin through attacks by Slavs, Bulgarians, and
						Arabs. When, however, Italy, Egypt, and Africa were lost, the remainder proved easier to
						defend and to govern, so that under the Isaurian Emperors (717-802) an improvement
						began, and under the Macedonian line (867-1057) came a period of conquest and military
						glory, lasting from the middle of the tenth to the first quarter of the eleventh
						century. Crete, Cyprus, northern Syria and Antioch, and even Bulgaria, were for a time
						recovered. Following the death of the last of the Macedonian rulers came a period of
						anarchy lasting for a quarter of a century. Then the Emperor Alexius Comnenus
						(1081-1118) brought in a new period under a new dynasty, when the empire -- more Greek
						and less cosmopolitan, its territory decreased and its civilization stereotyped -- stood
						upon the defensive. But for two hundred years it nevertheless offered a brave and
						constant resistance to Mohammedan attacks.
					Among the causes of weakness in the Byzantine Empire were the endless disputes on
						theological questions carried on by idle monks, and the riots of the fanatical populace
						to which these frequently led. Another cause of weakness was the lack of a regular
						succession to the imperial power: out of one hundred and seven persons who ruled as
						Emperors or associates, from the time of the separation of the Eastern Empire to its  fall (395-1453), only thirty-four died a natural death in
						office; the remainder were assassinated, were mutilated, died in prison or convent, or
						abdicated the throne.
					87. Its prosperity
					The prosperity of the empire was nevertheless real and substantial. The coinage was
						sound, taxation just, manufactures flourishing, and trade widespread. The old
						legislative power of the Senate was suppressed, and the last barriers to the autocracy
						of the Emperor removed; but the administration was well devised, and not oppressive. By
						its orphan asylums, hospitals, and like institutions, the Byzantine Empire anticipated
						much that we regard as modern. Learning of an encyclopedic sort flourished; and there,
						up to the eleventh century, the only truly original Christian art was to be found.
						Diplomacy, with its deceits and intrigues, was developed to a high degree before it was
						taken up by the Venetians and introduced into the Western world. The language of the
						laws and the law courts was now Greek, and Latin ceased to be of practical use.
					War was studied as an art, while in the West it remained a mere matter of hard
						fighting. Native recruits largely replaced the Slavic, Teutonic, and Asiatic mercenaries
						of Justinian's day; but the famous "Varangian" bodyguard of the Emperors, composed of
						Danes and English, was cherished because of its loyalty and bravery. From the eighth to
						the twelfth century only the Byzantines possessed the secret of the "Greek fire"
						(composed of saltpeter, sulphur, charcoal, and bitumen) whose fierce flames, black
						smoke, and loud explosions destroyed hostile fleets and carried terror to the hearts of
						their enemies.
					To impress the common people an elaborate ceremonial was devised, regulating every act
						of the Emperor; and to impress foreign envoys golden lions roared and lashed their tails
						at the foot of the throne, while golden birds sang in a golden tree near by. But despite
						such follies, it is not too much to say HARDING'S M. & M.
							HIST.--7
						 that "in the history of mediæval civilization before the
						eleventh century, Byzantium [Constantinople] played a rôle analogous to that of Athens
						and Rome in antiquity, or Paris in modern times; its influence extended over the whole
						world; it was preëminently 'the city.'"
					Munro and
							Sellery, Medieval Civilization, 223
					88. The Mohammedan World (732-1096)
					Meantime, a new power made its appearance in the world, that of the Mohammedan Arabs,
						whose achievements almost justify the remark that "from the eighth to the twelfth
						century the ancient world knew but two civilizations, that of Byzantium, and that of the
						Arabs." Mohammedan civilization displayed much the greater expansive force, spreading
						over large parts of Asia, northern Africa, and south-western Europe; "from the river
						Indus to the Pillars of Hercules the same religion was professed, the same tongue
						spoken, the same laws obeyed." Its four chief centers were Damascus, in Syria; Bagdad,
						on the river Tigris (founded about 760); Cairo, on the lower Nile (founded about 970);
						and Cordova, in Spain. Greek, Persian, Syrian, Egyptian, Spanish, and Hindu elements
						entered into this civilization along with the Arabic: but the Arabic was the chief
						element, for the Arabian genius combined all into one living creation bearing the stamp
						of its own nature.
					
						DAMASCUS: FOUNTAIN OF ABLUTION
								IN THE GRAND MOSQUE.
						Present condition.
					
					In agriculture, manufactures, commerce, science, and art 
						the Mohammedan world compared favorably with Christian Europe. Agriculture was not
						despised, as it was among the feudal nobles of Europe; and rich Mohammedans reveled in
						gardens of roses, jasmines, and camellias. Irrigation was extensively practiced, and
						grafting became a science. Among new plants introduced into Europe by the Arabs were
						rice, sugar cane, hemp, artichokes, asparagus, the mulberry, orange, lemon, and
						apricot.
					In manufactures Mohammedans excelled: the sword blades of Toledo and Damascus make were
						world-renowned; and equal skill was shown in the manufacture of coats of mail at once
						supple and strong; of vases, lamps, and like articles in copper, bronze, and silver; of
						carpets and rugs which are still unexcelled; and of vessels of fine glass and pottery.
						Sugars, syrups, sweetmeats, essences, and perfumes were of Mohammedan production; paper
						came to Europe through the Mohammedans; and Cordova was long famous for its manufactures
						of skins and fine leather.
					
						OLD ARABIAN MONEY.
					
					Commerce was widely followed, and no one looked down upon this occupation, to which
						Mohammed had been bred. In each city was a "bazaar," or merchants' quarter. The Arab
						sailor ruled the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean, and the Caspian Sea. Caravans threaded
						their way, from oasis to oasis, to the heart of Africa, and across the wilds of Asia to
						China and to India. The compass, first discovered by the Chinese, was known to the Arabs
						long before its introduction into Europe.
					89. Arabian literature and science
					In literature (especially poetry) and in science the Arabs atained a high degree of
						development. The University of Cairo at one time had 12,000 students; in Spain, in the
						tenth  century, a library of 400,000 manuscript volumes
						(each probably a mere part of a complete work) is said to have been gathered. The
						Arabian philosophers were well versed in the writings of Aristotle and the Neoplatonists
						of Alexandria, whose works they read in Arabic translations. In mathematics, Mohammedan
						scholars led the world: trigonometry was much improved, and algebra was practically
						their creation, though its elements were derived from the Greeks and Hindus. The
						introduction of the "Arabic" system of notation, in place of the clumsy Roman numerals,
						is ascribed to them; and the use of the cipher, placed to the right of the digit to give
						"value of position," seems clearly to have been their invention. In optics and astronomy
						the Arabs made considerable advance. In chemistry many of our common terms, such as
						"elixir," "alcohol," "alkali," are of Arabic derivation and record our indebtedness to
						Arabic researches. In medicine the Arabs were skilled practitioners, far in advance of
						Christian Europe; and they seem even to have known something of anæsthetics. Pharmacy
						was practically created by them, and many of their preparations are still in use.
					90. The Seljukian Turks (1058-1076)
					In the eleventh century the religious and political unity of the Mohammedan world was
						broken, and the real power had passed from the hands of the Arabs into those of their
						mercenary soldiers, the Seljukian Turks, so-called from the chief, Seljuk, who first
						united them into one people. They were of Asiatic stock, like the Huns, Magyars, and
						Bulgarians, but unlike the Magyars and Bulgarians, they embraced Mohammedanism instead
						of Christianity. The whole of Asia at this time seemed about to pass into Turkish hands:
						in northern China was established the Manchurian kingdom, from which come the present
						rulers of China (1004); in Afghanistan and India, in the same year, a great Turkish
						state was erected; in the middle of the century (1058) the leader of the Seljukian Turks
						occupied Bagdad, and became  the champion of the orthodox
						caliph, with the title "Sultan of the East and West"; in 1076 the Turks captured the
						holy city of Jerusalem. After 1058 the caliph was merely the religious head of the
						Mohammedan state, and Turkish princes -- of whom, at the end of the century, there were
						a number, rival and independent -- were the veritable sovereigns. The military prowess
						of the Turks spread Mohammedanism over new areas; but they cared little for Arabian
						civilization, and brought a new element into the strife of East and West.
					91. Causes of the Crusades
					That strife was suddenly intensified by the breaking out of the great movement known as
						the Crusades, for which there were several causes. (1) Throughout the Middle Ages the
						terror of the hereafter weighed with more awful force upon mankind than it does to-day:
						in exceptional occurrences a supernatural agency was generally seen, and the writings of
						the times are full of encounters with devils and demons. With this temper of mind went a
						belief in the power of penitential acts to avert divine wrath, and in the
						miracle-working virtue of relics of the saints, especially objects connected with the
						life and death of Christ; hence, after the fourth century, pilgrimages to the holy
						places of Palestine were common. In the year 1064 seven thousand pilgrims, under the
						leadership of the Archbishop of Mainz, went in a single company. This outburst of zeal
						for pilgrimages, it is to be noted, came just at a time when the tolerant rule of the
						Arabs in the East was replaced by the bigotry and fierce contempt of the Turks; it was a
						chief cause of the Crusades.
					
						PILGRIM.
						From a 13th century MS.
					
					(2) The time, too, had now come when the peoples of western Europe might look about for
						wider fields of adventure. The Hungarian and Viking raids were over. Europe was settling
							 down to comparative peace and quiet under its feudal
						governments; the modern nations, with their problems, had not yet arisen; commerce and
						city life were still in their infancy. Thus there was no sufficient outlet at home for
						the spirit of adventure, which in the Middle Ages always ran high.
					(3) The East was regarded as a land of fabulous riches, where not only fame but fortune
						might be won. The hope of gain -- of winning lands and principalities -- was a powerful
						factor in the minds of many, and must be reckoned among the causes of the Crusades. In
						this respect the movement may be looked upon as merely a part of the movement of
						expansion which caused the Norman conquests of southern Italy and England, and the
						German advance eastward beyond the Elbe.
					92. Advance of the Turks (1071-1092)
					The chief object of the Crusades was the rescue of Jerusalem from the hands of the
						infidels; but the first call grew out of the danger which threatened the Eastern Empire.
						In 1071, at Manzikert in Armenia, the Turks defeated the forces of the Eastern Roman
						Empire, and the emperor (Romanus IV.) was taken prisoner. Almost the whole of Asia Minor
						passed into Turkish hands; and one of their chieftains, establishing himself at Nicæa,
						almost within sight of Constantinople, took the title "Sultan of Roum" -- that is, of
						Rome. Several years passed before an Emperor, Alexius Comnenus, found himself free to
						give Asia his attention; then he sent an embassy to the Pope, as the head of Latin
						Christendom, in an effort to enlist western knights for the Turkish war: the result was
						the call to the First Crusade.
					93. Council of Clermont (1095)
					At Clermont, in France, Pope Urban II. held a council in November, 1095, to consider
						investiture and to punish the French king, Philip I., for divorcing his wife. When this
						business was finished the Pope, with burning eloquence, addressed an open-air assembly
						of thousands of French prelates and nobles in their own tongue; and is reported to have
						spoken thus: "Christ himself will be your  leader when you
						fight for Jerusalem. Let not love of any earthly possession detain you. You dwell in a
						land narrow and unfertile. Your numbers overflow, and hence you devour one another in
						wars. Let these home discords cease. Start upon the way to the Holy Sepulcher; wrest the
						land from the accursed race, and subdue it to yourselves. Thus shall you spoil your foes
						of their wealth, and return home victorious, or purpled with your own blood receive an
						everlasting reward." Hearing these words from the head of the church, the people cried:
						"God wills it! God wills it!" "When you go forth to meet the enemy," said Urban, "this
						shall indeed be your watchword, 'God wills it!'"
					Archer
							and Kingsford, Crusades, 30-31
					
						CRUSADER.
						From a 13th century MS.
					
					Many pledged themselves forthwith to undertake the work, and to these a cross of red
						cloth -- the sign of pilgrims to the Holy Land -- was given, to be wornon the breast
						going and on the back returning. The crusader (from crux, a cross) was
						thus given the protection attaching to pilgrims; during his absence no one might trouble
						him for debt, and whoever took his goods was excommunicated. On their part the crusaders
						were considered to have taken a vow to fight the infidels, and not to return until they
						had beheld the Holy Sepulcher.



					
					94. The crusade of the people (1096)
					August 15, 1096, was fixed as the date for departure, but impatient zeal was aroused
						during the winter by popular preachers, of whom the most noted was Peter the Hermit, to
						whom for centuries was wrongly ascribed the original idea of the crusade. In the spring,
						bands of peasants and townsmen, for many of whom any change was a gain, began to
						assemble; they were without arms or provisions, and were incumbered with women and
						children. At Cologne and elsewhere the Jews were massacred in a frenzy of religious
						zeal. Under the leadership of a knight called Walter the Penniless, of Peter the Hermit,
						and others, several successive companies took the road down the valley of the Danube,
						which since the conversion of the Hungarians was the ordinary pilgrim route. Without
						adequate leadership or preparations, the misguided multitudes perished miserably on the
						way, or left their bones to whiten the plains of Asia Minor. Walter and most of his
						followers were slaughtered by the Sultan of Roum, but Peter escaped to await the coming
						of the main crusade.
					95. The crusade of knights (1096-1097)
					In the summer and fall of 1096 the lords and knights set out, armed with coats of mail,
						swords, and lances; they were provided with sums of money, often obtained by the sale of
						their belongings at ruinous prices; and they were accompanied by attendants on foot and
						by carts laden with provisions. The Pope had been asked to lead the crusade in person;
						he declined the perilous office, but commissioned a bishop as his legate. There was no
						general leadership; each crusader went at his own cost, and obeyed only his own will.
						The crusaders naturally grouped themselves about the better known nobles, such as
						Raymond, count of Toulouse; Bohemond, son of Robert Guiscard; Godfrey of Bouillon; and
						Robert of Normandy, brother of the English king William II.
					96. Crusaders at Constinople
					The crusaders assembled at different places, and departed as they were ready, in four
						different companies. The Germans and those from the north of France followed the valley
						of  the Danube; others traversed Italy, crossed the
						Adriatic, and proceeded thence by land to Constantinople. "How great a city it is; how
						noble and comely!" wrote one of their number, of that capital. "What wondrously wrought
						monasteries and palaces are therein! What marvels everywhere in street and square!
						Tedious would it be to recite its wealth in all precious things, in gold and silver, in
						divers shaped cloaks, and saintly relics. For thither do ships bring at all times all
						things that man requires."
					Archer and Kingsford,
						Crusades, 50
					
						CAPTURE OF NICÆA (1097).
						From a church window in the abbey of St. Denis, as pictured in a 12th century
							MS.
					
					The Emperor Alexius had expected a few thousand men in response to his call, where
						scores of thousands came. Mutual hatreds quickly sprang up, and the Emperor was glad, in
						the spring of 1097, to speed the "Franks," as the crusaders were called, out of the city
						and across into Asia Minor. After several weeks' siege, Nicæa surrendered; but it
						passed, not to the crusaders, but to the Greeks. Suffering from thirst and attacked by
						the Turks, the crusaders made their way through Asia Minor, with the loss of most of
						their horses. To add to the difficulties of their situation, quarrels arose between
						rival leaders. In front of Antioch, which they reached in October, 1097, they were
						checked for more than a year, by its strong walls and their lack of skill in the
						construction and operation of siege engines.



					
					97. Letter of a crusader (1098)
					The events of this period, and the sentiments of the crusaders, are indicated in the
						following letter, which Stephen of Blois, a powerful French noble, brother-in-law of the
						English king, wrote from before Antioch in March, 1098: -- "Count Stephen to Adele, his
						sweetest and most amiable wife, to his dear children, and to all his vassals of all
						ranks, -- his greeting and blessing: --
					"You may be very sure, dearest, that the messenger whom I sent left me before Antioch
						safe and unharmed, and through God's grace in the greatest prosperity. Already at that
						time we had been continuously advancing for twentythree weeks toward the home of our
						Lord Jesus. You may know for certain, my beloved, that of gold, silver, and many other
						kinds of riches I now have twice as much as your love had assigned to me when I left
						you.
					"You have certainly heard that, after the capture of the city of Nicæa, we fought a
						great battle with the perfidious Turks, and by God's aid conquered them. Next we
						conquered for the Lord all Romania [i.e. the sultanate of Roum], and
						afterwards Cappadocia. Thence, continually following the wicked Turks, we drove them
						through Armenia, as far as the great river Euphrates. Having left all their baggage and
						beasts of burden on the bank, they fled across the river into Arabia.
					"The bolder of the Turkish soldiers, indeed, entering Syria, hastened by forced
						marches, night and day, in order to be able to enter the royal city of Antioch before
						our approach. The whole army of God, learning this, gave due praise and thanks to the
						omnipotent Lord. Hastening with great joy to Antioch, we besieged it, and very often had
						many conflicts with the Turks; and seven times with the citizens of Antioch, and with
						the innumerable troops coming to its aid, we fought with the fiercest courage, under the
						leadership of Christ. And in all these seven battles, by the aid of the Lord God, we
						conquered  and most assuredly killed an innumerable host
						of them. In those battles, indeed, and in very many attacks made upon the city, many of
						our brethren and followers were killed, and their souls were borne to the joys of
						Paradise.
					"In fighting against these enemies of God, and our own, we have by God's grace endured
						many sufferings and innumerable evils up to the present time. Many have already
						exhausted all their resources in this very holy passion. Very many of our Franks,
						indeed, would have met a temporal death from starvation, if the clemency of God, and our
						money, had not succored them. Before the above mentioned city of Antioch, indeed,
						throughout the whole winter, we suffered for our Lord Christ from excessive cold and
						from enormous torrents of rain. What some say about the impossibility of bearing the
						heat of the sun throughout Syria is untrue, for the winter there is very similar to our
						winter in the West.
					"When the emir of Antioch -- that is, prince and lord -- perceived that he was hard
						pressed by us, he sent his son to the prince who holds Jerusalem, and to the prince of
						Damascus, and to three other princes. These five emirs, with twelve thousand picked
						Turkish horsemen, suddenly came to aid the inhabitants of Antioch. We, indeed, ignorant
						of all this, had sent many of our soldiers away to the cities and fortresses. For there
						are one hundred and sixty-five cities and fortresses throughout Syria which are in our
						power. But a little before they reached the city, we attacked them at three leagues'
						distance with seven hundred soldiers. God fought for us, His faithful, against them. For
						on that day we conquered them and killed an innumerable multitude; and we also carried
						back to the army more than two hundred of their heads, in order that the people might
						rejoice on that account.
					"These which I write you are only a few things, dearest, of the many which we have
						done. And because I am not able to tell you, dearest, what is in my mind, I charge you
						to do right,  to carefully watch over your land, to do
						your duty as you ought to your children and your vassals. You will certainly see me just
						as soon as I can possibly return to you. Farewell."
					University of Pennsylvania, Translations, I. No. 4
							(condensed)
					
						CHURCH OF THE HOLY SEPULCHER.
						Present condition.
					
					98. Capture of Jerusalem (1099)
					Antioch fell in June, 1098, betrayed to the crusaders by one of its inhabitants. Three
						days later an immense army sent by the Seljukian sultan arrived for its relief, and the
						crusaders themselves were forced to stand siege. Through the aid of a vision thrice
						repeated, the Holy Lance, which pierced the side of Christ, was discovered buried in the
						soil: many disbelieved, but others were fired to prodigies of valor by the sacred relic.
						The Turks were beaten off, and the crusaders proceeded southward along the coast.
					Owing to quarrels and delays on the road, it was June, 1099, before they came in sight
						of Jerusalem. A few months before, the caliph of Egypt had wrested the city from the
						Turks; and he now offered free access to the Holy Sepulcher for unarmed pilgrims in
						small numbers. These terms were refused. After several weeks, the city was taken by
						assault (July 15, 1099). Then followed scenes which showed how little the teachings of
						Christ had sunk into the crusaders' hearts. "When our  men
						had taken the city, with its walls and towers," says an eyewitness, "there were things
						wondrous to be seen. For some of the enemy (and this is a small matter) were reft of
						their heads, while others, riddled through with arrows, were forced to leap down from
						the towers; others, after long torture, were burned in the flames. In all the streets
						and squares there were to be seen piles of heads, and hands, and feet; and along the
						public ways foot and horse alike made passage over the bodies of the dead."
					Archer and Kingsford, Crusades, 91
					The vow of the crusaders was fulfilled: but at what a cost of lives, both Christian and
						Mohammedan; of agonies of battle and sufferings on the way; of women made widows, and
						children left fatherless!
					
					99. Summary
					At the beginning of the eleventh century, the Eastern Empire was prosperous and highly
						civilized. The Mohammedan world, under Arabian rule, was cultured and tolerant. The rise
						of the Seljukian Turks (1058) changed political and religious conditions, for
						Mohammedanism became intolerant and aggressive. The Eastern Empire soon lost most of its
						Asiatic possessions. To resist the Turks, Alexius Comnenus sought to enlist mercenary
						soldiers in the West, which was now in a condition to undertake distant enterprises.
						Religious zeal, the spirit of adventure, and greed for booty enabled Pope Urban II. to
						convert the aid sent to Alexius into the First Crusade. The impractical character of the
						times showed itself in the popular movement under Peter the Hermit and Walter the
						Penniless (1096). The crusade of the knights was better managed, and resulted in the
						capture of Jerusalem (1099). But cruelty, jealousy, and self-seeking were as marked
						traits of the leaders as was devotion to religious ideals. In spite of flashes of lofty
						idealism, the crusader in Palestine was little different from the rude, superstitious,
						selfish baron at home.




					
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Which was the more exposed to barbarian attack, the East or the West? (2) What
							advantages were possessed in the Middle Ages by a settled hereditary succession over a
							line of elective rulers? Why are there not the same advantages to-day? (3) Compare the
							coming of the Turks into the East with that of the Germans into the West. (4) Were the
							causes of the Crusades more in external events or in the prevalence of a particular
							state of mind? (5) What motive besides the religious one led Stephen of Blois to the
							Crusade? (6) Why do men not go on crusades to-day? (7) Why did the crusaders slay the
							Mohammedans at Jerusalem?
						Search topics
						(8) Life in Constantinople on the eve of the Crusades. (9) The debt of civilization
							to the Saracens. (10) The Mohammedan heretical sect of the Shiites. (11) The First
							Crusade as seen by a participant. (12) Peter the Hermit in myth and in history. (13)
							Relations of the crusaders with the Eastern Emperor. (14) Bagdad in the Arabian Nights. (15) Works of art in Constantinople. (16) Arabian merchants in
							the Far East.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Map, pp. 112, 113; Poole, Historical Atlas, maps lxxi. lxxii.
							1xxvi. lxxviii; Dow, Atlas, ix.
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, 258-268; Emerton, Mediœval Europe, 358-366; Bémont and Monod, Medieval
								Europe, 159-166, 339-355; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the
								Middle Age, ch. xv.; Tout, Empire and Papacy, 151-184;
							Cornish, Chivalry, 109-124; Stillé, Studies in Medieval
								History, 353-358; Munro and Sellery, Medieval Civilization,
							212-239; Archer and Kingsford, Crusades, 13-92; Mombert, Short History of the Crusades, chs. i.-iii.; Cutts, Scenes of the Middle Ages, ch. i.; Cox, Crusades, chs.
							i.-iv.; Munro, Essays on the Crusades; Gibbon, Decline
								and Fall of the Roman Empire (Bury's ed.), ch. lviii.; Milman, History of Latin Christianity, bk. vii. ch. vi.; Finlay, History
								of Greece, II. 198-226, III. 87-113; Historians' History of the
								World, VIII. 320-357.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. 312-329; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 274-283; University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, vol. 1. Nos. 2, 4.
						Illustrative works
						Scott, Count Robert of Paris; W. S. Davis, God Wills
								It.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER VIII.
					

					THE LATER CRUSADES (1099-1291)
					
						CRUSADERS' STATES IN SYRIA
								AFTER THE FIRST CRUSADE
					
					100. Organization of conquests in Asia
					AFTER the successful termination of the First Crusade, the next task
						was to organize and safeguard the Christian conquests. Jerusalem was made an independent
						kingdom, and the rest was organized into three auxiliary states -- the principality of
						Antioch, and the counties of Edessa and Tripoli. Godfrey of Bouillon was chosen to rule
						at Jerusalem; and he took the title "Defender of the Holy Sepulcher" instead of king,
						being unwilling, it is said, "to wear a crown of gold where Christ had worn a crown of
						thorns." Most of the crusaders departed as soon as their vows were fulfilled; but others
						came to take their places, and gradually the power of the "Franks" was fixed in the
						regions about the four capital cities. The peasants -- who were already, for the most
						part, Christians of various  Eastern faiths -- kept their
						lands, paying tribute to their Latin masters, as they had formerly done to the
						Mohammedans. Above them were placed crusading lords, who held their lands as fiefs, and
						whose castles helped to keep the land in obedience. Feudalism was transplanted
						full-grown into Palestine, and in the course of the twelfth century the feudal usages
						were drawn up into a code called the "Assizes of Jerusalem." The lords were almost all
						French, and French became the language of the Latin East; but Italian merchants came in
						large numbers (from Venice, Genoa, and Pisa especially) to profit by the new facilities
						for trade.
					
						KNIGHT TEMPLAR.
						From a 13th century MS.
					
					101. The military orders
					Besides the constant reënforcements from the West, the Franks depended on three orders
						of knighthood which sprang up especially to defend the Holy Land: (1) the Knights
						Hospitaler of St. John, formed originally to care for sick pilgrims; (2) the Knights
						Templar, so called from their headquarters in the inclosure of the ancient temple of
						Jerusalem; and (3) the Order of Teutonic Knights, which was composed of Germans, whereas
						the members of the others were mostly French. The Hospitalers wore a white cross on a
						black mantle, the Templars a red one on white, and the Teutonic Knights a black cross on
						a white ground. The members of these orders were monks, vowed to poverty, chastity, and
						obedience, and living under a rule; but they were also knights, of noble birth, trained
						to arms, and bound  to perpetual warfare against the
						infidel. They constituted a permanent force of military monks, resident in the Holy
						Land, with their own grand masters, fortresses, domains, and treasuries. In course of
						time they acquired immense possessions in Europe also. After the end of the crusading
						epoch, the Templars were forcibly dissolved and their goods confiscated; the Teutonic
						Knights transferred themselves to the shores of the Baltic Sea, and there continued to
						wage war against the heathen; and the Knights Hospitaler, taking refuge in Cyprus, in
						Rhodes, and finally in Malta, preserved an independent existence until the close of the
						eighteenth century.
					The Crusades continued throughout the twelfth and the greater part of the thirteenth
						century. It is customary to describe them as "First," "Second," and so on; but this
						usage obscures the fact that the warfare was almost continuous, and that there was a
						constant movement of crusaders to and from the Holy Land. At times some exceptional
						occurrence produced an increase of zeal, and it is to the exceptional expeditions that
						the conventional numbers apply, though other movements of almost equal importance must
						be passed by without notice.
					102. The second crusade (1147-1149)
					The so-called Second Crusade took place a half century after the first. It was caused
						by the consolidation of the petty Mohammedan states of Syria under one powerful ruler,
						the Atabek (viceroy) of Mosul. The Latin states were weakened by quarrels of the
						Templars with the Hospitalers, of the French with other nationalities, of the Genoese
						with the Pisans and Venetians, and of newcomers from the West with the older settlers,
						whom they accused of too great favor toward the infidels. These divisions made it easy
						for the atabek, in 1144, to conquer Edessa and massacre its garrison; and news of this
						disaster caused Saint Bernard, abbot of the Cistercian monastery of Clairvaux, to make
						himself the preacher of another crusade. Bernard was a man of rare ability, HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--8
						 education, and devotion, and was the most important
						figure of the twelfth century; in some respects he is the most typical man of the Middle
						Ages. His influence induced two sovereigns, Louis VII. of France and Conrad III. of
						Germany, to take the cross and lead the crusading forces.
					The route of the Second Crusade was the old one, down the Danube valley and across
						Bulgaria to Constantinople. Most of the Germans, under Conrad III., perished in Asia
						Minor, through the attacks of the Turks and the hardships of the way. Of the army under
						Louis VII., those without money to pay for their passage aboard ship continued by land
						and were almost all destroyed. Only a few troops of the two great armies which set out
						from Europe reached Palestine. The whole expedition was a lamentable failure -- a result
						ascribed by some to their sins, by others to treachery of the Greeks, but really due to
						the miserable mismanagement of the leaders.
					103. Saladin, and the fall of Jerusalem (1187)
					The power of the atabeks of Mosul grew to yet greater heights. The emir of Damascus was
						conquered; then Egypt was taken, and the caliphate there was suppressed (1171) by the
						famous Saladin (Salah-ed-Din), nephew of the reigning atabek, who secured all of his
						uncle's dominions, and took the title of sultan. The Christians in Syria now found
						themselves exposed to attacks from one who was wise in counsel, brave in battle, and as
						chivalrous in conduct and sincere in his faith as the best of his Christian foes. In
						July, 1187, Saladin won a great victory over the Franks, taking captive the king of
						Jerusalem and the grand master of the Templars. "So great is the multitude of the
						Saracens and Turks," wrote a Hospitaler, appealing to Europe for aid, "that from Tyre,
						which they are besieging, they cover the face of the earth as far as Jerusalem, like an
						innumerable army of ants." In October Jerusalem itself fell, and the Latin
						states were reduced to a few strongly fortified towns near the coast.
					University of Pennsylvania,
						Translations, I. No. 4


					

					104. Third Crusade organized (1189-1190)
					The loss of Jerusalem caused another great outburst of crusading zeal in Europe. Public
						fasts and prayers were enjoined in the Western Church, and the fullest privileges and
						spiritual benefits were promised those who should go to the relief of the Holy Land. The
						three greatest kings of western Europe -- Richard I. the Lion-Hearted (Cœur de Lion), of
						England; Philip II., surnamed Augustus, of France; and Frederick I. of Germany, called
						Barbarossa (Redbeard) -- took the cross, and assumed the lead of the Third Crusade. The
						Emperor Frederick, who had gone in his youth on the Second Crusade, was the first to
						start on the Third. Thorough organization and strict discipline enabled Frederick to
						lead his army by the Danube route without the customary losses; but while crossing a
						mountain torrent in Asia Minor the old Emperor was drowned (June, 1190), and thereupon
						the German expedition went to pieces.
					The preparations of Richard and Philip were delayed by their mutual hostilities, and it
						was not until after the death of Frederick that they actually started, both expeditions
						going by water. The measures taken against lawlessness and violence are shown by the
						following regulations, drawn up by Richard for the English fleet: "Whoever on board ship
						shall slay another is himself to be cast into the sea lashed to the dead man; if he have
						slain him ashore, he is to be buried in the same way. . . . Let a convicted thief be
						shorn like a prize fighter; after which let boiling pitch be poured on his head and a
						feather pillow be shaken over it so as to make him a laughing stock. Then let him be put
						ashore at the first land where the ships touch."
					Archer,
						Crusade of Richard I., 9-10
					At Messina, in Sicily, the two expeditions met and spent the winter. For the combined
						armies these regulations were issued: "Let no one in the whole army play at any game for
						a stake -- saving only knights and clerks, who, however, are not to lose more than
						twenty solidi [solidus = a  silver coin] in the twenty-four hours. . . . The kings, however, may play at
						their good pleasure. . . . If, after starting on the journey, any pilgrim has borrowed
						from another man, he shall pay the debt; but so long as he is on the pilgrimage he shall
						not be liable for a debt contracted before starting. . . . No merchant of any kind may
						buy bread or flour in the army to sell it again. . . . Merchants, no matter of what
						calling, shall only make a profit of one penny in ten."
					Archer, Crusade of Richard I., 37-39
					105. Third Crusade carried out (1191-1192)
					In Sicily the two kings wrangled; and Richard, following up a quarrel with the Sicilian
						ruler, took Messina and sacked it. Philip at last departed without Richard, and reached
						Acre in Syria in April, 1191. The English, following later, again turned aside -- this
						time to conquer Cyprus, whose king had permitted the plunder of pilgrim vessels on, his
						coast.
					
						PRESENT VIEW OF ACRE.
					
					In June, Richard joined Philip before Acre, the siege of which had already dragged on
						for more than twenty months. "The Lord is not in the camp," wrote one of the besiegers
						before this date; "there is none that doeth good. The leaders strive with one another,
						while the lesser folk starve and have none to help. The Turks are persistent in  attack, while our knights skulk within their tents."Archer and Kingsford, Crusades, 323 The arrival
						of Richard infused new energy into the operations. He was an undutiful son, an
						oppressive king, and (in spite of his superficial chivalry and courtesy) a violent and
						cruel man; but he was a warrior of splendid strength and skill, and one of the best
						military engineers of the Middle Ages. In July, Acre capitulated; when the ransom agreed
						upon was not forthcoming, Richard massacred 2000 hostages left in his hands.
					After the fall of Acre, Philip returned to France, taking an oath not to attack
						Richard's territories in his absence -- an oath which he straightway broke. In the
						subsequent operations in Syria, motives of selfish interest were more prominent than in
						the First Crusade. In January, 1192, Richard advanced almost to within sight of
						Jerusalem, but was forced to retreat. Finally, news came from England that his brother
						John had rebelled against him, in alliance with Philip of France.
					Recalled by this news, Richard set out in October for home. He landed at the head of
						the Adriatic Sea, and sought to make his way in disguise through Germany; but was
						recognized, and was thrown into prison by the duke of Austria, whom he had grievously
						offended on the crusade. He had made an enemy of the Emperor also by allying himself
						with German rebels; so he obtained his liberty only after two years of captivity, and on
						the payment of a ruinous ransom. The remainder of his life (he died in 1199) was spent
						in warfare with Philip of France. Saladin, who had done so much to revive the Mohammedan
						power, died in 1193.
					106. Fourth Crusade (1201-1204)
					The enthusiasm which produced the Crusades was slowly dying out, but the exhortations
						of the papacy could still call it forth to momentary activity. Innocent III., who became
						Pope in 1198, appealed to the princes of Europe, as vassals of Christ, to reconquer for
						Him the Holy Land. No king responded to this call, but a number of knights and nobles
						(mostly French) gathered at Venice for the Fourth  Crusade
						in 1201. It was intended at first to strike at the Mohammedan power in Egypt, as the
						likeliest way to secure the permanent recovery of Palestine; but circumstances led the
						crusaders to turn their arms against Constantinople, and waste their strength in
						fighting Christian foes.
					
						DOGE OF VENICE.
						Costume before the 16th century. From Cesare Vecellio.
					
					Six years earlier the Greek emperor, Isaac Angelus, had been overthrown, blinded, and
						imprisoned through a revolution; and his son came to the West to beg for aid. The
						Venetians, who had contracted to carry the crusaders to the East for a large sum of
						money, cared little for the crusade, but a great deal for their contract. When the
						crusaders found that they were not able to pay the full amount they had agreed upon, the
						Venetian "doge" (duke) Dandolo -- a man ninety years of age and blind, but possessed of
						the highest courage and ambition for his city -- induced their chiefs to turn their arms
						against Constantinople. Pope Innocent III. had already excommunicated the cruaders for
						attacking a Christian town in Dalmatia to aid the Venetians; but it was rightly believed
						that the prospect of extending the papal power over the Greek Church would cause him to
						forget his anger.
					107. Sack of Constantinople.
					After a short siege, Constantinople fell in July, 1203 -- the first time it was ever
						taken by a foreign foe. Isaac Angelus was restored to his throne, but he and his son
						soon perished in a rebellion of the fanatical populace, and the crusaders were forced to
						capture the city a second time. Terrible punishment was now meted out to the vanquished.
							 In three great fires the most populous parts of the
						city were destroyed. Violence and indignity were the lot of the survivors; and Pope
						Innocent III. accused the crusaders of respecting neither age, nor sex, nor religious
						profession. The city was systematically pillaged; even the churches were profaned, and
						stripped of their rich hangings and of their gold and silver vessels. Precious works of
						art -- the accumulation of a thousand years -- were destroyed; statues of brass and
						bronze were broken up and melted for the metal which they contained; and the Venetians
						carried to Venice the four bronze horses which still adorn the front of their Church of
						St. Mark. The more pious gave themselves to the search for holy relics -- a venerable
						and profitable booty. As a result of this sack, Constantinople lost forever that unique
						splendor which had made it the wonder of the World.
					
						ST. MARK'S CHURCH, VENICE.
						Facade remodeled in fifteenth century.
					




					

					108. Latin Empire of Constantinople (1204-1261)
					In the division of the conquered territory the Venetians got the lion's share,
						receiving practically a monopoly of the trade of the empire, together with the
						possession of most of the islands and coast lands of the Ægean and Ionian seas. The
						remainder of the empire (so far as it was in the possession of the crusaders) was
						divided among their chiefs, and a feudal state was erected: of this "Latin Empire" of
						Constantinople, Count Baldwin of Flanders was chosen emperor, while a Venetian priest
						was set as Patriarch over the Greek Church.
					
						SALADIN'S EMPIRE, AND THE RESULTS OF THE FOURTH CRUSADE.
					
					Tout, Empire and Papacy,
						349
					"No feudal state was ever strong, but no feudal state was ever so weak as the Latin
						Empire in the East;" this was chiefly due to the hostility of the Greeks to their new
						masters. In Asia Minor there was from the beginning a rival government which afforded a
						rallying point for the Greek nationality; and when Constantinople was recaptured by the
						Greeks, in 1261, the Latin Empire was overthrown, after half a century of uncertain
						existence. In certain localities  "Frank" feudatories were
						enabled to hold out longer, and the remains of their castles still dot the landscape of
						Greece. The Venetians kept much of their conquests for centuries, and long after the
						Middle Ages they retained something of the power in the eastern Mediterranean which
						Dandolo, their blind old doge, gained for them in the Fourth Crusade.
					109. Crusade against Egypt (1218-1221)
					Throughout the thirteenth century there was much talk of crusades, and Europe was
						systematically and regularly taxed for them, but with very little positive results. In
						1218 an expedition composed mainly of Germans, who made the long voyage around by
						Gibraltar in three hundred ships, was directed against Egypt. The city of Damietta, in
						the delta of the Nile, was taken, and the sultan offered in exchange the kingdom of
						Jerusalem. The offer was rejected; then the crusaders were defeated, and were glad to
						give up Damietta in return merely for a free retreat (1221).
					110. Crusade by Frederick II (1228-1229)
					In 1228-1229 occurred a crusade under the Emperor Frederick II. which resulted in
						restoring Jerusalem for a time to the Christians, although the crusade was hampered by
						Frederick's quarrel with the Pope, who excommunicated him (§ 132) both before and after
						he sailed. Frederick, who was in advance of his age, treated with the sultan instead of
						fighting him; and by skillful negotiation he secured a truce for ten years, and the
						restoration of Bethlehem, Nazareth, and Jerusalem to the Christians (map, p. 129).
					After Frederick's departure, the kingdom of Jerusalem was for fifteen years filled with
						the wars and brigandage of Christians; and the only thing that saved it thus long from
						recapture was the fact that the Mohammedan world also was torn by dissensions. In 1244
						Jerusalem was finally lost to a new Turkish race (the Charismians) fresh from the
						interior of Asia. This calamity produced no great outburst of crusading zeal; the Popes
						were engaged in the last desperate struggle with the Hohenstaufen Emperors (see ch. x.),
						and the peoples and  princes of western Europe were
						beginning to be occupied with problems nearer home.
					111. Last crusades (1248-1291)
					However, in 1248, Louis IX. of France (later canonized as a saint) set out for Egypt
						with a French army. He succeeded only in duplicating the failure of 1218: again Damietta
						was taken; then the army was defeated, King Louis and most of his men were captured, and
						he was forced to ransom himself by the surrender of Damietta and the payment of a large
						sum of money. After his release the king remained for four years (until 1254) in Syria,
						strengthening the few Christian posts that were left.
					In 1270 Louis IX. again undertook a crusade, but was diverted this time to Tunis. There
						he died of the plague, and the army returned to France. Prince Edward of England had
						taken the cross at the same time, and spent two years in Syria, but returned in 1272 to
						take the English crown as Edward I. Acre, the last Christian stronghold in Syria, fell
						in 1291. Thereafter no armies went to Syria or Egypt to attempt the recovery of the holy
						places. Thenceforth the Latin power in the East was represented only by the islands of
						Cyprus and Rhodes. Soon Christendom had to tax its energies to defend Europe itself
						against the Ottoman Turks, the latest and most formidable champions of Mohammedanism.
						The period of the Crusades was at an end.
					112. Results of the Crusades
					The tendency has been to exaggerate the influence of the Crusades and to minimize the
						importance of other factors in changing the institutions and customs of Europe.
						Nevertheless, the migration, year by year, of thousands of persons to and from the
						Mohammedan East, during a period of nearly two centuries, could not but have important
						results for the Christian West.
					(1) In respect to military usages, Europe owed to the Crusades the drum, trumpet,
						tents, quilted armor for the protection of the common soldier, the surcoat worn over the
						knightly coat  of mail, the whole system of armorial
						"bearingss" (heraldic devices on shields, etc.) by which knights proclaimed their family
						and lineage, and many improvements in the art of building and taking fortified places:
						"the siege of great fenced cities like Nicæa, Antioch, or Jerusalem was almost an
						education in itself to the engineers of the West." Among social effects were the
						increased use of baths, the increased use of pepper and other spices in foods, and the
						wearing of the beard.
					Oman, History of the Art of War, 526
					
						STATE BARGE OF VENICE.
					
					(2) On the development of commerce, the Crusades exerted a great influence. Italian
						cities like Venice, Pisa, and Genoa grew rich through the transportation of pilgrims and
						crusaders and their supplies, and through the importation into Europe of the products of
						the East. In the north, such cities as Ratisbon, Nuremberg, and the market towns of
						northern France developed as distributing centers for the importations of Italy, and
						regular routes of inland commerce were established. Money became increasingly necessary;
						banks were established, and means of exchange devised. "It was . . . not simply during
						the Crusades," says the German historian Prutz, "but as a result of them, and of the
						commerce which they had called into being, that money became a power -- we might almost
						say a world power."


					

					(3) A multitude of new natural products and manufacturers -- such as sugar cane,
						buckwheat, rice, garlic, hemp; the orange, watermelon, lemon, lime, and apricot;
						dyestuffs, cottons, muslins, damask, satin, and velvet -- were introduced from the East
						in the Middle Ages; but it is difficult to say which of these came as a result of the
						Crusades, and which from peaceful intercourse with Constantinople, Syria, northern
						Africa, and Spain.
					(4) The political and social organization of Europe was already undergoing profound
						modification, and the Crusades helped on the change. Crusaders often freed their serfs
						to get money, or for the good of their souls. The wealth gained by townsmen in commerce
						enabled them to buy or wrest important rights of self-government from their lords. The
						feudal nobles, especially of France, were greatly weakened by the enormous waste of
						their numbers and resources in the East; and the lower classes and the crown were
						correspondingly strengthened. In Germany, where as a class the nobles would have nothing
						to do with the Crusades, they were neither impoverished nor reduced in numbers, nor was
						their military and political importance diminished; for this reason, among others,
						Germany was later than France in entering upon the path of social progress, industrial
						development, and real national unity.
					(5) The most important influence of all was in the world of thought. The hundreds of
						thousands who made the journey to the Orient had their minds stimulated and their mental
						horizons broadened by beholding new lands, new peoples, and new customs. "They came from
						their castles and their villages," says a French writer, "having seen nothing, more
						ignorant than our peasants; they found themselves suddenly in great cities, in the midst
						of new, countries, in the presence of unfamiliar usages." Thus the way
						was paved for the subtle change in intellectual atmosphere THE LATER CRUSADES (1099-1291) here, beginning in the fourteenth century, which we
						style the Renaissance. This we may reckon the greatest though the most indefinite result
						of the whole crusading movement; but other factors, it must not be forgotten, were
						already working in the same direction.
					Lavisse and Rambaud, Histoire Générale, II. 346
					
					113. Summary
					The conquests made by the crusaders in the Holy Land were organized as a feudal
						kingdom, of which the chief defense was the three crusading orders -- the Knights
						Hospitaler, the Knights Templar, and the Teutonic Knights. The Second Crusade
						(1147-1149), occasioned by the fall of Edessa, was undertaken by Conrad III. of Germany
						and Louis VII. of. France, and ended in failure. The Third Crusade (1189-1192), caused
						by the capture of Jerusalem by Saladin in 1187, was led by the Emperor Frederick
						Barbarossa, King Richard I. of England, and Philip Augustus of France; Acre was taken,
						but Jerusalem remained in the hands of the Mohammedans. The Fourth Crusade (1201-1204)
						was turned by the Venetians against Constantinople, and resulted in the establishing of
						the Latin Empire of the East, which lasted from 1204 to 1261. The Emperor Frederick II.
						led a crusade (1228-1229), which regained Jerusalem through treaty; but it was lost
						again in 1244. In 1248 Louis IX. of France led an unsuccessful crusade against Egypt;
						and in 1270 he led a second crusade against Tunis, equally without result. After 1291
						the crusading movement to the East was at an end. Although the Crusades failed to
						recover permanently the Holy Land, they profoundly influenced Europe, especially through
						the wider outlook and the stimulus to thought which they supplied.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Why were the Latin states in the East organized on a feudal model? (2) To what
							forces was the defense of Palestine left in  the
							intervals between the Crusades? (3) Why did the Second Crusade fail? (4) Compare the
							organization and leadership of the Third Crusade with that of the First. Why did it
							accomplish less? (5) Was the Fourth Crusade more of a religious or a political war?
							(6) Why were the later crusades directed against Egypt? (7) Why did the crusading
							movement come to an end when it did? (8) Did the Crusades on the whole do more good or
							more harm?
						Search topics
						(9) The life of a Knight Templar. (10) Saint Bernard as a preacher of the Second
							Crusade. (11) Relations of Christians and Mohammedans in Palestine. (12) Saladin. (13)
							The sect of the Assassins and the Old Man of the Mountain. (14) Richard the
							Lion-Hearted as a crusader. (15) The "Children's Crusade." (16) The Crusade of
							Frederick II. (17) The Crusade of Louis IX. to Egypt. (18) Effect of the Crusades on
							home realms and estates of crusaders.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 112, 113, 129, 138; Poole, Historical Atlas, maps vi.
							lxxvi. lxxxix.; Dow, Atlas, ix.
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, 268-278; Bémont and
							Monod, Medieval Europe, 355-374; Emerton, Mediœval
								Europe, 367-397; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the Middle
								Age, ch. xv.; Tout, Empire and Papacy, 185-197, 295-303,
							336-357, 450-463; Henderson, Germany in the Middle Ages, ch. xxiii.;
							Munro and Sellery, Medieval Civilization, 248-256; Archer and
							Kingsford, Crusades, chs. xiv. xvii.-xxii. xxiv. xxv. xxviii.;
							Cornish, Chivalry, 125-153; Mombert, Short History of
								the Crusades, chs. v. vii. xiii. xiv. xvii.; Cox, Crusades,
							chs. v.-xv. ; Oman, History of the Art of War, 229-350; Lacroix, Military and Religious Life in the Middle Ages, 104-136; Finlay, History of Greece, IV. ch. iii.; Historians' History of
								the World, VIII. 358-480.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. 330-345; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 281-288; University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, III. No. 1, II. Nos. 2, 4; Henderson, Documents of the Middle Ages, bk. i. no. vi., bk. iii. nos. v. vii.; Chronicles of the Crusades (Bohn); Archer, Crusade of
								Richard I.
						Illustrative works
						Scott, Ivanhoe, -- The Talisman; J. G. Edgar, The Boy
								Crusaders; C. M. Yonge, The Prince and the Page; Marion
							Crawford, Via Crucis; Léon Cahun, The Blue Banner;
							Maurice Hewlett, Richard Yea-and-Nay.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER IX.
					
					THE HOHENSTAUFEN EMPIRE AND THE ITALIAN COMMUNES (1125-1190)
					114. Prelude to Hohenstaufen period (1125-1138)
					WE must now turn to the history of Germany and Italy in the period
						of the Crusades. The death of Henry V. -- the last of the Franconian Emperors -- in 1125
						without a son gave opportunity for a free election for the first time in a century; and
						Lothair II. of Saxony was chosen king of Germany. "It is with good right," says a writer
						of that time, "that we call Lothair the father of his country, for he upheld it
						strenuously and was always ready to risk his life for justice's sake." "In his days,"
						says another, "the service of God increased and there was plenty in all things."Tout, Empite and Papacy, 225 In 1133 Lothair
						led an expedition into Italy to settle a disputed election to the papacy, and was
						crowned Emperor. A second expedition to Italy three years later was successfully
						directed against the Norman, Roger II., who had united southern Italy to Sicily; but in
						the moment of victory the Pope and the Emperor quarreled over the suzerainty of the
						Norman territories. Lothair, who was upward of seventy years of age, died on his way
						back to Germany. Two years later, Roger made a peace with the papacy by which his
						assumption of the title King of Sicily was sanctioned, and he agreed to hold his kingdom
						as a papal fief.
					On the death of Lothair without a son, Conrad, nephew of Henry V., was chosen king at
						an assembly in which the magnates of Franconia and Swabia alone were present. in  his person, the Hohenstaufen house, the most brilliant of
						all the imperial houses, mounted the throne, and for six reigns it guided the destinies
						of Germany and Italy(reigns 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 in table below).ₑ
					115. Guelf and Ghibelline
					The candidate of the Saxons and Bavarians in 1138 was the head of the family of Welf,
						Henry the Proud, duke of Bavaria and Saxony and son-in-law of Lothair; he made himself
						the 
							RUINS OF HOHENSTAUFEN. (From an old
								print.)
						
						ₑTHE HOUSES OF WELF AND
							HOHENSTAUFEN IN GERMANY
						
							THE HOUSES OF WELF AND HOHENSTAUFEN IN GERMANY
						
						 head of the North German opposition to the Hohenstaufen,
						and for three quarters of a century the kingdom was torn by the quarrels of these
						powerful families. Their rival cries, "Hi Welfen!" and "Hi Waiblingen!" (the latter from
						a little village of Swabia near the castle of Hohenstaufen), gave rise to new party
						names. Beginning as a struggle of rival families, the contest became a warfare of
						contending principles. In general, the Hohenstaufen party, or "Ghibelines" (corrupted
						from Waiblingen), stood for the principle of strong monarchical government and for
						imperial rule over Italy; whereas the "Guelf" (or Welf) party represented feudal
						opposition to the monarchy, and the independence of the Italian towns. It was impossible
						for the papacy to avoid taking sides; in Germany its influence was usually, and in Italy
						almost always, on the side of the Guelfs. "Broadly speaking, the Guelfs were papalists,
						the Ghibellines imperialists; the Ghibellines were the party who desired a strong
						government, the Guelfs the party who preferred particularism; the Ghibellines would
						bring in the German, the Guelfs would cry 'Italy for the Italians.'" But these larger issues
						were gradually lost sight of in the feuds of factions; and by the fifteenth century the
						names Guelf and Ghibelline lingered only in Italy, where they came to mean no more than
						party differences in the mode of building battlements, in wearing feathers in the cap,
						in cutting fruit at the table, in habits of yawning, passing in the street, throwing
						dice, gestures in speaking or swearing.
					Fisher, Mediæval Empire, I. 331
					116. Conrad III., first Hohenstaufen Emperor
							(1138-1152)
					A quarrel between Conrad III. and Henry the Proud began almost immediately through
						Conrad's attempt to deprive his Welf rival of his duchies. Dukedoms, like the office of
						count, though originally in the gift of the king, were fast becoming hereditary; this
						attack, therefore, produced civil war. In the midst of the struggle Henry the Proud
						died, leaving as his heir a ten-year-old son, later known as HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--9
						 Henry the Lion; a compromise was then arranged by which
						the duchy of Saxony was restored to the house of Welf, but Bavaria was withheld.
					The great event of Conrad's reign was the German expansion to the northeast, which in
						spite of anarchy and civil war went steadily on. It owed its success to the efforts of
						local rulers; especially was it indebted to a great religious leader, Norbert,
						Archbishop of Magdeburg, the founder of a new order of clergy (the Premonstratensian
						canons), who took the leading part in Christianizing and civilizing the Slavs beyond the
						Elbe.
					117. Italian communes
					Modern historians maintain that it is impossible to establish the descent of the
						municipal governments of the Middle Ages from those of Roman times. In Italy, as
						elsewhere, the Germanic invasions left the ancient cities dismantled and reduced in
						population. Those who continued to dwell on the ancient sites were mere serfs, like the
						peasants of the surrounding country, and were governed by counts or (as in Lombardy) by
						bishops who held the powers of counts.
					Nevertheless many elements of urban life, though not of municipal institutions, were
						preserved; these, with the privileges and immunities granted the count-bishops, and the
						advantages afforded for commerce and industry, led to an earlier revival of city life
						there than elsewhere. Walls were restored or newly erected, and in time city governments
						followed. The union of merchants and artisans in "guilds," for the control of commerce
						and of different trades or crafts, became a precedent for that larger union of the
						inhabitants which eventually wrested freedom and self-government from their rulers.
						Thus, in the eleventh and twelfth centuries the count-bishops of the Lombard cities lost
						their sovereign rights, which passed to the citizens. At the same time war was made upon
						neighboring barons, whose castles threatened the newly won independence of the towns;
						and the feudal nobility were forced to  throw in their lot
						with the municipalities, taking up their residence for part of every year within the
						city walls. Danger from without was thus reduced, but another danger followed: every
						city soon bristled with tall, battlemented towers, the strongholds of rival clans; and
						family, factional, and regional fights, the expression of hereditary hatreds, became
						alarmingly frequent.
					In the communes of Lombardy there were three chief organs of government. The executive
						power in war and peace was in the hands of a board of "consuls," varying in number from
						eight to twenty, chosen for short terms, and paid out of the city treasury. As advisers
						and assistants to the consuls there were secret councils, without whose consent no
						important action could be taken. Behind these stood the general assembly (the Parlamentum) of all the men belonging to the commune; but this, in most
						cities, was convened only on extraordinary occasions.
					These communal governments were free in the sense that they were practically exempt
						from external control; but their citizens were far from enjoying individual liberty. The
						member of a commune was bound to his town as closely as a serf to the soil; he belonged
						all his life to a certain class, to a trade, to a guild, to a parish, to a ward; and the
						details of his private life -- such as the number of trees he might plant in his
						orchard, the number of priests and candles he might employ at funerals -- were all
						precisely regulated.
					118. Civil and canon law
					With the growth of city life, and the discussions aroused by the investiture conflict,
						came the revival of the study of Roman or civil law. Until the twelfth century, the
						written law of Rome, though regarded with superstitious reverence, was imperfectly
						understood; now men awoke to the consiousness that in its precepts were principles
						applicable to the new conditions produced by the rise of city life. At Bologna, the fame
						of Irnerius, who began to lecture on the Code and 149 
						Institutes of Justinian about the year 1110, drew together a body of
						students whiab numbered ten thousand by the close of the century. "Of all the
						centuries," says a writer on the history of law, "the twelfth is the most legal. In no
						age since the classical days of Roman law has so large a part of the sum total of
						intellectual endeavor been devoted to jurisprudence. . . . From every corner of western
						Europe students flocked to Italy. It was as if a new gospel had been revealed. Before
						the end of the century complaints were loud that theology was neglected, that the
						liberal arts were despised, . . . that men would learn law and nothing but law."Pollock and Maitland, English Law, I. 111
					A powerful class of trained lawyers resulted from this study. One of the principles of
						Roman jurisprudence was that "the will of the prince has the force of law ";Institutes, I. ii 6 the lawyers therefore,
						became valuable allies of Emperors and kings in their warfare against feudal and
						clerical opponents, and greatly aided in transforming the feudal sovereignties of the
						Middle Ages into the absolute monarchies of the seventeeth century.
					At the same time with the revival of the study of the civil law, the study of the
						church or canon law also received a powerful impetus, in part because of such contests
						as that over investiture, and in part from the preparation of a text-book on canon law
						called (from its author, a monk named Gratian) the Decretum Gratiani.
						The canon law was based on the teachings of Scripture and the Fathers, the decrees of
						church councils, and the decretals of Popes (not excepting the False Decretals, § 63).
						It became as elaborate and comprehensive a system as the civil law; and canon lawyers
						proved as zealous upholders of the papal claims as civil lawyers were of imperial
						prerogatives.
					119. Accession of Frederick Barbarossa (1152)
					Otto of Freising
					When the princes of Germany met, in 1152, to select a successor to Conrad III., they
						passed by his infant son and chose his nephew Frederick, in whose veins ran Welf as well
							 as Hohenstaufen blood (see genealogy on p. 146). This
						election, taken with the two preceding ones, established it as "the cardinal principle
						of the law of the Roman Empire," to use the language of a contemporary chronicler, "that
						the succession depends not upon hereditary right, but on the election of the
							princes." The German
						kingship was becoming definitely elective, while in France and England the crown was
						becoming definitely hereditary. This difference was due in large part to the fact that
						the German king, after his coronation by the Pope, was also Emperor, and the Popes never
						admitted that the imperial dignity was hereditary, or that the coronation as Emperor was
						to be considered a mere form. Papal influence, therefore, combined with the interest of
						the princes to keep up the custom of election.
					
						FREDERICK I.
						Twelfth century sculpture on wall of a Bavarian monastery.
					
					Frederick I., surnamed Barbarossa, was in many respects the ideal Emperor of the Middle
						Ages. He combined the qualities of a skilled statesman and good general with the virtues
						of a crusader and hero of romance. His greatest ambition, as he wrote the Pope soon
						after his accession, was to restore the grandeur of the Roman Empire in all its ancient
						vigor and excellence. But unlike Otto III., Frederick was no dreamer; he sought to know
						his rights as Emperor, and he used practical means to enforce them: he has well been
						called an "imperialist Hildebrand." His  first task was to
						settle affairs north of the Alps so that he might be free to carry out his imperial
						ambitions in Italy. Bavaria was restored to his cousin Henry the Lion, while its
						dispossessed holder was given a new duchy, that of Austria (Oesterreich), formed from the old Ostmark of Bavaria.
					120. First Italian expedition of Frederick I
							(1154-1155)
					Before these arrangements were completed, Frederick was called into Italy, where the
						ambition of the Norman king was causing trouble, and the Roman populace had rebelled
						against the Pope and set up a commune. The leading spirit at Rome was a visionary
						reformer named Arnold of Brescia -- a man, Saint Bernard once wrote, "whose words are as
						honey, but whose doctrines are poison, whom Brescia cast forth, at whom Rome shuddered,
						whom France has banished, whom Germany will soon hold in abomination, whom Italy will
						not endure." From Lombardy also came complaints of the oppressions suffered by the
						smaller cities from their powerful neighbor Milan. Hastening over the Alps in 1154,
						Frederick taught the Italians, by the destruction of Tortona, one of Milan's allies,
						that the Emperor was still to be feared. At Pavia he assumed the iron crown of Italy,
						and soon after received the imperial crown at Rome from Pope Adrian IV., the only
						Englishman who ever filled the papal office. Rome was reduced to order, and Arnold of
						Brescia, who was handed over to the prefect of the city by Frederick, was hanged and his
						body burned.
					Milman, Latin Christianity, IV.
						238
					Soon after Frederick's return from Italy, a quarrel broke out, which shows the
						difficulty of long preserving harmonious relations between papacy and empire. A legate
						of Adrian IV. delivered a letter to Frederick in which mention was made of the
						"benefits" (beneficia) conferred upon the Emperor by the Pope. When
						objection was made to the letter on the ground that the language used might bear the
						sense of a feudal "benefice" granted by a lord to a vassal, the legate added fuel to the
						fire by asking, "Of whom, then, does he hold the  empire
						but of our lord the Pope?" In a written declaration Frederick replied that "the empire
						is held by us, through the election of the princes, from God alone. . . . Whosoever says
						that we received the imperial crown from the lord Pope as a benefice, goes against the
						divine commandment and the teaching of Peter, and is guilty of falsehood."Matthews, Mediæval Documents, 83 Subsequently
						the Pope explained that the word beneficia in his letter meant
						benefits and not fiefs; but the distrust aroused could not be allayed.
					121. Second Italian expedition of Frederick I
							(1158-1162)
					From 1158 to 1162 Frederick was again in Italy, called thither by the ambitions of the
						Milanese. After a brief resistance, their city submitted. A great "diet," or meeting of
						imperial vassals and communes, was held in the plain of Roncaglia; and in order that the
						Emperor's prerogatives might be known for the future, all holders of rights of
						government and the like were required to show by what warrant they exercised them. With
						respect to the Lombard cities, it was announced that the Emperor's control was no longer
						to be merely nominal, but that their magistrates would be appointed by him with the
						assent of the people.
					Opposition to the execution of these decrees soon manifested itself. At Milan the
						attempt to set up a foreign magistrate in place of the elective consuls led to a new
						revolt, in which the citizens with heroic courage held out for three years. When at last
						famine forced them to yield, Frederick, "hardening his face like a rock," decreed the
						destruction of their city: the loudest complaints against Milan had come from its
						Italian enemies, and it was their hands which carried out the decree.
					122. Papacy and Lombard League (1159-1174)
					The successes of the Emperor in Lombardy aroused apprhensions at Rome. When Adrian IV.
						died, a majority of the cardinals chose as Pope, under the name of Alexnder III.
						(1159-1181), that legate whose bold language had called forth Frederick's declaration
						concerning the imperial office; in ability and lofty ambition he proved a  worthy successor of the great Hildebrand. The minority of
						the cardinals elected an anti-pope favorable to the imperial cause. To the demand that
						the disputed election should be referred to a council of the whole church, Alexander
						replied, "No one has the right to judge me, since I am the supreme judge of all the
						world." Frederick supported his anti-pope, and in 1165 swore never to acknowledge
						Alexander III. or any Pope elected by his party; but by France, England, and the rest of
						Western Christendom Alexander was recognized.
					
						THE LOMBARD LEAGUE (1167)
								AND THE TUSCAN LEAGUE
							(1196).
					
					After four years of exile in France, Alexander returned to Rome, in 1165, only to be
						driven forth two years later by a  force which Frederick
						led over the Alps. The Lombard communes then united in a league against the Emperor; and
						the very cities which had demanded the destruction of Milan now lent aid to rebuild and
						refortify it. Within a few months the chief towns of the plain of the Po, from Milan to
						Venice, from Bergamo to Bologna, were formed into a confederation pledged to mutual
						assistance. Alexander sent his blessing to the confederates, and they in turn supported
						his cause; and a new city, founded to guard the descent into Italy by the western
						passes, was named Alessandria in his honor. Out of hatred to Germany, Italy seemed about
						to arrive at a consciousness of national unity.
					123. Defeat of Frederick I. at Legnano (1176)
					
						MAIL-CLAD GERMAN HORSEMAN.
						From a 12th century MS.
					
					For six years Italy enjoyed practical independence. In Germany, Frederick found
						increasing difficulty in keeping the clergy true to his anti-pope; while the growing
						power of Henry the Lion in the north threatened trouble. Not until 1174 was the Emperor
						able to lead another expedition into Italy. In 1176 came the decisive battle, when the
						imperial army, numbering six thousand, encountered the eight thousand troops of the
						Lombard League at Legnano, not far from Milan. At first the mail-clad German horsemen
						carried all before them; but the guard about the Milanese carroccio, a
						war chariot bearing an altar and the banners of the confederated towns, fought
						desperately, and the Emperor himself was at length unhorsed.  The imperial forces fled, and it was only with difficulty and almost
						unattended that Frederick reached Pavia. "Glorious. has been our triumph," wrote the
						Milanese to Bologna, "infinite the number of the killed among the enemy, the drowned,
						the prisoners. We have in our hands the shield, the banner, cross, and lance of the
						Emperor, and we found silver and gold in his coffers, and booty of inestimable value;
						but we do not consider these things ours, but the common property of the Pope and the
						Italians."
					124. Treaties of Venice (1177) and Constance
						(1183)
					Frederick was now forced to make peace with the Pope, with the communes, and with the
						Norman king, who had supported their cause. At Venice, in 1177, he acknowledged
						Alexander as Pope, and prostrated himself at his feet: it was just one hundred years
						since Henry IV. humbled himself before Gregory VII. at Canossa. The final peace with the
						communes was not concluded until 1183, at Constance, when their rights to elect their
						own officers, to build fortifications, to enter into leagues, to raise troops, and to
						coin money were clearly recognized. Thenceforth the cities of Lombardy were practically
						self-governing republics, the barest overlordship remaining to the Emperor. Under these
						new conditions their commerce flourished more and more; but their political life, under
						the overstimulus of freedom, broke out incessantly into quarrels and riots. In many
						respects the mediæval communes fell short of our ideas of orderly liberty and political
						justice; but it was amid the busy, turbulent life within their walls that the
						Renaissance spirit was developed.
					125. Fall of the house of Welf (1180)
					While Frederick was pursuing the shadow of power in Italy, Henry the Lion was seizing
						its substance in Germany. After his restoration to the duchies of Bavaria and Saxony,
						his calculating leadership raised the power of his family to a yet higher point by
						conquering the Slavic lands between the Elbe and the Oder. Lübeck, the first German town
						to arise on the Baltic Sea, and Munich, the present capital of  Bavaria, owe their existence largely to him. The Emperor long pursued a
						conciliatory policy toward his formidable rival, and assisted him when his Saxon vassals
						rebelled; but the refusal of Henry to aid the Emperor in Italy caused Frederick to
						abandon his policy of conciliation. Henry was cited to appear at different diets to
						answer charges preferred by nobles and clergy under him; and after his fourth citation
						and failure to appear, he was condemned by default, and sentenced to banishment and the
						forfeiture of his lands. The support given the Emperor by the lesser nobles made the
						execution of this sentence easy, and for some years Henry the Lion was forced to live in
						exile in Normandy and England. Ultimately he regained his allodial estates (§ 33), and
						these became the nucleus of the later duchy of Brunswick and electorate of Hanover, from
						which Great Britain in 1714 derived its present line of kings.
					The vacant Saxon duchy (shorn of its western half) was given to a member of the
						Ascanian house, and the name "Saxony" shifted somewhat to the south and east of its old
						location. Bavaria was bestowed on Otto of Wittelsbach, in whose house it still remains;
						but it, too, was weakened by the separation of important districts. These changes marked
						the end of the "stem-duchy" system of territorial organization, and the beginning of
						that policy of division and subdivision which by the end of the Middle Ages made Germany
						a chaos of petty principalities and lordships. Actually the benefit of the downfall of
						Henry the Lion went to the local nobility who supplied the force by which it was carried
						out.
					126. German cities and civilization
					Frederick's reign constitutes one of the most brilliant epochs in the history of
						mediæval Germany. The rural districts advanced in prosperity; forests were cleared, land
						increased in value, and agriculture was improved. The condition of the peasants, both
						serfs and free tenants, was materially bettered. The turbulent life of the nobles was
						somewhat softened and refined, as a result of the intimate connections  with Italy and Burgundy, and of the Crusades. A courtly
						German literature was born in the chivalric lays of the "Minnesingers," at the same time
						that the old heroic songs of the people were consolidated into the great German epic
						styled the Niebelungenlied.
					A stimulus was also given at this time to the growth of city life in Germany. At the
						beginning of the tenth century there was little German commerce; but gradually fairs and
						markets were founded at favored places, trade arose, and centers of population sprang
						up, especially in the Rhine and Danube valleys. Thus localities formerly inhabited only
						by peasants were transformed into towns, with walls and ramparts, weekly markets, guilds
						and other associations, and some rights and privileges against their feudal lords. The
						continued struggle of lay and ecclesiastical powers, together with the Crusades, helped
						on their development. Strassburg, on the middle Rhine, whose original constitution is
						considered to be the earliest municipal code of Germany, may be taken as a type of the
						most important German towns of the twelfth century. The population was probably less
						than ten thousand. The houses were of timber, with thatched roofs, and without chimneys,
						which were rare as yet even in castles. Here and there churches were interspersed, but
						no mighty cathedral dominated the landscape. The whole of this "water-bound plexus of
						walls, moats, houses, streets, gardens, and plowed fields" was under the feudal rule of
						the bishop, to whom the citizens owed many services and dues. Under Frederick Barbarossa
						the towns grew in population, wealth, privileges, and power; but the time was not yet
						come when they, like the cities of Italy, should be practically self-governing
						republics.
					127. Last years of Frederick I. (1184-1190)
					The last years of Frederick's reign were taken up with new Italian plans, with renewed
						quarrels with the papacy, and with the Third Crusade. Constance, the heiress of the
						Norman kingdom of Sicily and Naples, was married to 
						Frederick's son and successor, Henry VI. This aroused the fierce hostility of the
						papacy, for the union of southern Italy with Germany threatened the independence of the
						Papal States. The final conflict to which this led was deferred till the reign of
						Frederick's grandson; but even at this time the relations of Pope and Emperor were
						strained almost to breaking. The fall of Jerusalem before the attacks of Saladin, in
						1187, was the chief factor in preventing an open rupture. For the second time Frederick
						took the cross and departed for the East, where he died as has already been related (§
						104). Later ages, looking back to the splendors of his reign, feigned to believe that he
						was not dead, and applied to him the legend of another Frederick, now identified as a
						count of Thuringia: the vanished ruler, it was said, was sleeping through the ages in a
						rocky cavern of a German mountain; when the ravens ceased to fly about its summit, he
						would awaken and would then return to chastise evil doers and bring back the golden
						age.
					
						CHATEAU OF FREDERICK BARBAROSSA AT KAISERSWERTH.
						A restoration.
					
					
					128. Summary
					Under Frederick Barbarossa, the second of the Hohenstaufen line, the mediæval empire
						attained its greatest glory. In  Germany the monarchy
						triumphed over the house of Welf and divided its feudal territories among the lesser
						nobles. In Italy the imperial control was for a time successfully asserted; but the
						strength of the confederated Lombard towns, and the hostility of the Popes, at length
						obliged the Emperor to renounce his rights. A marriage with the heiress of Sicily and
						Naples sowed the seeds of a new quarrel between papacy and empire. Frederick's reign
						closed with the Third Crusade, in which the Emperor lost his life. Other features of the
						period are the development of the civil and canon law, the growth of Italian and German
						towns, the continued expansion of Germany to the northeast, and the progress of German
						civilization.

					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) On what historical grounds might the Pope claim that the Emperor was his vassal
							for the imperial crown? (2) Why should the Popes oppose the development of a strong
							kingdom in southern Italy? (3) Was a Ghibelline or Guelf policy best for Germany? For
							Italy? (4) Which was of more importance, the imperial attempts to control Italy or the
							quiet expansion of Germany to the northeast? (5) Compare the Italian communes with the
							New England towns. What powers did the former exercise that the latter lack? (6) How
							did the study of Roman law aid monarchical growth? Was this to be desired? (7) Had
							Frederick I. or the Italian communes the more right in their struggle?
						Search topics
						(8) The Italian communes. (9) Revival of the Roman law. (10) The canon law. (11)
							Arnold of Brescia. (12) Pope Alexander III. (13) Henry the Lion. (14) Rise of the
							German cities. (15) The Niebelungenlied. (16) The Minnesingers. (17)
							Personality of Frederick Barbarossa. (18) Home of the Hohenstaufen in Germany. (19)
							Reasons for the greatness of Milan.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 64, 154; Putzger, Atlas, map 17 ; Freeman, Historical Geography, I. ch. viii.; Poole, Historical Atlas,
							maps xxxv. lxv.; Dow, Atlas, xiii.
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, 247-257 ; Bémont and
							Monod, Medieval Europe, ch. xix.; Henderson, Short
								History  of Germany, I. 76-90; Bryce, Holy Roman Empire, ch. xi.; Emerton, Mediœval
							Europe, ch. ix. ; Tout, Empire and Papacy, 217-245; Stille, Studies in Medieval History, 314-323; Henderson, Germany
								in the Middle Ages, chs. xv.-xviii. ; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe
								in the Middle Age, ch. xvii. ; Fisher, Medieval Europe, I.
							325-332; Balzani, Popes and the Hohenstaufen, 1-111; May, Democracy in Europe, I. 288-315; Milman, History of Latin
								Christianity, IV. 266-286, 427-447 ; Testa, The War of Frederick
								I. against the Communes of Italy; Alzog, Church History, II.
							547-663; Historians' History of the World, XIV. 89-109.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. 302-306 ; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 98-110, 301-314; Henderson, Documents of the
								Middle Ages, 211-219, 336-337, 410-418, 420-425.
						Illustrative works
						E. Cornelia Knight, Sir Guy de Lusignan; C. T. Brady, Hohenzollern.
					

					
						A MEDIÆVAL FAIR. (Depicted by
							Parmentier.)
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER X.
					

					END OF THE HOHENSTAUFEN EMPIRE (1190-1268)
					129. Henry VI. (1190-1197)
					HENRY VI., son of Frederick I., proved as ambitious and energetic as
						his father. He secured possession of his wife's Italian inheritance and united it to
						Germany. A rising of the Welf faction was overcome, largely through the fortunate
						accident which put into his power Richard I. of England, the ally of the Welfs (§ 105).
						He proposed to the German princes that they should declare the throne hereditary, in
						return for concessions to them, and almost gained their consent. Finally he planned a
						crusade which was expected to put the whole Latin East under his control, and make him
						overlord of the Greek Empire. Had he lived, he might for a time have established a world
						monarchy which would have realized the dreams of the Middle Ages; but he died of fever
						in 1197, on the eve of his departure for the East, leaving as heir a son (Frederick of
						Sicily) only three years of age.
					All Germany, after Henry's death, "was like a sea lashed by every wind." The partisans
						of the Hohenstaufen chose Henry's brother, Philip of Swabia, as king; but the opposing
						party selected Otto IV. of Brunswick, a son of Henry the Lion. Ten years of civil
						warfare followed, in which the advantage rested now with one party, now with the
						other.
					130. Innocent II and the empire (1198-1216)
					During the division within the empire the papacy grew in power. Innocent III.
						(1198-1216) was in many respects the ablest and most powerful Pope of the Middle Ages.
						He firmly established the Papal States in Italy; and had as vassal kingdoms under him
						Sicily and Naples, Sweden, Denmark, Portugal, Aragon, and Poland. Even the king of  England (John) was forced to surrender his kingdom into the
						hands of the Pope's legate, and receive it back as a fief of the papacy (§ 166). The
						papal suzerainty over the empire, which Frederick Barbarossa so vigorously denied, was
						again asserted, and Innocent claimed the right to decide the dispute which had arisen
						over the last imperial election. His decision was that Philip was unworthy as "an
						obstinate persecutor of the church, and the representative of a house"; while Otto,
						though chosen by a minority, was "himself devoted to the church, of a race devoted to
						the church . . .: him, therefore, we proclaim, acknowledge as king; him then we summon
						to take on himself the imperial crown." Otto, in return, confirmed in their widest
						extent the possessions and privileges claimed by the Roman Church.
					Milman, Latin
						Christianity, IV. 510-514
					After Philip's murder by a private enemy (1208), Otto was for a time universally
						recognized, and was crowned Emperor. Soon he laid claim to unwarranted rights in Italy,
						and defied the Pope's excommunication. In Germany a diet of princes declared him
						deposed; and at their invitation, and with the aid of Innocent III., Frederick of Sicily
						(son of Henry VI.), now seventeen years old, crossed the Alps to claim the German throne
						as Frederick II. About him gathered all the old partisans of the house of Hohenstaufen,
						and with them acted Philip Augustus of France, who had his own interests to further.
						Otto similarly was supported with men and money from his uncle, John of England. The
						decisive battle took place at Bouvines, in northern France, in July, 1214. The issue
						involvdd not merely the possession of the imperial crown, but the French occupation of
						Normandy and other English fiefs in France, and the cause of English liberty against the
						tyranny of King John (§ 166); thus the day of Bouvines has well been called "the
						greatest single day in the history of the Middle Ages." It ended in victory for France
						and the partisans of Frederick II., to whom passed the German and imperial crowns.
					HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--10


					
					131. Accession of Frederick II (1214)
					Frederick II. was already beginning to show the qualities which won for him the name
						"the wonder of the world." From contact with his Greek and Saracen subjects in Sicily he
						gained a culture unknown in the North; but he also developed a toleration, if not
						indifference, in religion, and a looseness of personal morality, which gave his enemies
						openings for attack. He was an impassioned poet, a profound lawgiver, and a subtle
						politician; the spirit which he displayed indeed was more modern than mediæval.
					Frederick was reared as a ward of Innocent III., to whom he had been committed by his
						mother Constance; but the intimate relations thus established did not prevent a
						desperate struggle between papacy and empire. Before his coronation by the Pope in 1220,
						he solemnly swore to abolish all laws prejudicial to the liberties of the church, to
						cede Sicily to his son Henry to be held as a fief of the Holy See and not of the empire,
						to restore to the papacy the inheritance of the Countess Matilda, and to undertake a new
						crusade. These promises were broken almost as soon as made.
					132. Frederick II and the papacy (1225-1239)
					For a time Frederick could urge the pressure of German and Italian affairs as excuse
						for delaying his crusade. In 1227 he assembled an army and embarked, but turned back
						because (as he alleged) of a pestilence which broke out on shipboard. Pope Gregory IX.
						refused to listen to his excuses, and excommunicated him. In June of the next year,
						Frederick again set sail, without receiving the papal absolution, and reached the Holy
						Land; but there the Pope put every obstacle in his way, on the ground that he was an
						excommunicated person.
					Taking advantage of a civil war which broke out among the successors of Saladin,
						Frederick negotiated a treaty which secured to the Christians a truce for ten years with
						the possession of Jerusalem. This politic move, though bitterly denounced by the
						partisans of the Pope, secured greater advantages  than
						had been won by forty years of blind, unreasoning warfare. But when Frederick, still
						excommunicated, placed the crown of Jerusalem upon his head, the patriarch of Jerusalem
						issued an interdict forbidding all religious services in the holy places. After his
						return to Italy Frederick made peace with the Pope (1230); but in 1239 the struggle was
						renewed and was again extended to the Holy Land; and the hostility between the papal
						party and Frederick's agents was partly responsible for the final loss of Jerusalem in
						1244 (§ 110).
					133. Policy of Frederick II (1230-1240)
					The interval between 1230 and 1239 was used by Frederick II. to carry through a
						remarkable series of reforms which made Sicily for a time the strongest and best
						governed kingdom in Europe. In judicial matters the king's courts were put above the
						feudal and ecclesiastical tribunals. The nobles and clergy, along with the townsmen,
						were subjected to taxation. Unauthorized castles, the right of private warfare, trials
						by ordeal, and serfdom on the royal domains were abolished. Education was fostered by
						establishing the University of Naples, and favor was shown to trade and industry. Of
						these measures an English historian says, "The world had seen no court so splendid, no
						system of laws so majestically equitable; a new order of things appeared to be arising,
						an epoch to be commencing in human civilization."
					Milman, Latin Christianity, V. 398
					For some years the crusade and these reforms kept Frederick south of the Alps, while
						his eldest son Henry, who in 1220 had been elected "king of the Romans" (i.e. German king elect), ruled Germany in his father's name. In 1234 the young
						king rebelled against his father, and Frederick went to Germany, where the rising was
						easily put down; thenceforth Henry's younger brother Conrad takes his place in the
						succession.
					Frederick's attention throughout his reign was given more to his Italian possessions
						than to the North, and the policy which he pursued in Germany was directly opposed to
						that  embodied in his Sicilian reforms. In Germany, as a
						result of necessity, he "threw to the winds every national and monarchical tradition,"
						and granted privileges to the nobles and great churchmen by which they became truly
						"lords" of their lands, possessed of all rights and jurisdictions. On the other hand,
						Frederick gave large privileges to the towns, seeking in them a support against the
						papacy and rebellious nobles. The net result of his policy was the enfeeblement of all
						central authority: Germany more and more ceased to be a state, such as England and
						France were becoming, and grew into a confederation of sovereign principalities.
					134. Renewed struggle with the papacy
						(1239-1245)
					Frederick's Sicilian reforms made him, in the eyes of the Pope, an oppressor of the
						clergy; his immoral private life increased the friction with the church; the toleration
						which he showed his Mohammedan subjects, and his use of them as troops in his wars,
						caused him to be suspected as a heretic; and his retention of Sicily and Naples, along
						with Germany and northern Italy, enabled him to hem in the Papal States both on the
						north and on the south. These causes for conflict led in 1239 to an open rupture with
						the Pope; and there began the last stage of the fatal struggle of papacy and empire,
						which brought political ruin to both powers. Gregory IX. renewed his excommunication,
						and absolved Frederick's subjects from their allegiance. Both Pope and Emperor appealed
						to Europe in letters of impassioned denunciation. Gregory called a church council to be
						held at Rome, but Frederick prevented its assembling by capturing the fleet carrying
						most of its members. Gregory died in 1241, and two years later one of Frederick's
						friends (Innocent IV.) was elected Pope. On hearing the news the Emperor is said to have
						exclaimed, "I have lost a good friend, for no Pope can be a Ghibelline." Innocent
						vigorously continued the policy of his predecessor. At this time came a horde of Mongols
						from Asia, who overran Poland and  Hungary, threatened
						Germany, and established a power in Russia (1240) which lasted for two hundred and forty
						years. In 1244 came the final downfall of the kingdom of Jerusalem. In spite of these
						disasters to Christendom, the struggle between papacy and empire continued as fiercely
						as ever. At a church council held at Lyons in 1245, Frederick was pronounced guilty of
						perjury, heresy, and sacrilege; he was declared deposed, and war against the
						Hohenstaufen was turned into a crusade, with the same spiritual rewards as for warring
						against the Saracens.
					135. Defeat and death of Frederick II.
						(1241-1250)
					In Germany, Frederick's enemies stirred up a revolt, and elected an anti-king, but his
						son Conrad managed to hold many of the nobles and most of the cities true to their
						allegiance. In Italy, Frederick maintained himself with success, though Guelfs and
						Ghibellines fought each other with furious hate on every hand. But after a time
						misfortunes came upon him. His camp was captured; then his favorite son Enzio was taken
						captive and imprisoned. Frederick's cause was even yet far from hopeless when, in
						December, 1250, he was attacked by a disease from which, after a short illness, he died.
						An English writer of that time called him " the greatest prince of the world" ; but his
						powers were lost on an age not ripe for them.
					136. Fall of the Hohenstaufens (1250-1268)
					After Frederick's death his reforms were overthrown, and his empire crumbled away in
						the hands of his successors. His son Conrad IV. (1250-1254) was obliged to abandon
						Germany to secure his inheritance in Italy; and for twenty years Germany was given up to
						the anarchy of the Great Interregnum, during which robber barons ruled by "the law of
						the fist," and no king was universally recognized. In Italy, Conrad maintained himself
						until his death in 1254. A half-brother, Manfred, then continued the struggle until he
						fell in battle at Benevento in 1266. There still remained Conradin ("Little Conrad"),
						the fifteen-year-old son of Conrad IV., AGE OF THE
						CRUSADES about whom centered the last desperate resistance of the Hohenstaufen party. To
						secure aid in the struggle, the Pope offered the kingdom of Sicily to an English prince;
						then, in 1265, he concluded a treaty by which Charles of Anjou, brother of the French
						king, was to have the Sicilian crown. In 1268, Charles met and defeated the little army
						which Conradin brought into Italy; and when the young king fell into the hands of his
						enemy, he was cruelly beheaded. In his person perished the last member of the imperial
						house of Hohenstaufen.
					
						CHARLES OF ANJOU INVESTED WITH THE CROWN OF THE TWO SICILIES BY A BULL GIVEN
							BY THE POPE (CLEMENT IV.).
						Fresco pictured in Viollet-le-Duc.
					
					"From whatever point we may view it," says a French historian, "the death of Frederick
						II. and the fall of the house of Hohenstaufen mark the end of one epoch and the
						beginning of another. The Middle Age proper, in the form which it had worn since the
						days of Charlemagne, was now at an end. This is as true in the history of thought and
						the arts as it is in political history. In the course of the long struggle between
						church and empire, a new society had been formed, with different features and a spirit
						that was wanting to the old. From Charlemagne to 
						Frederick II. the papacy and the empire occupy the first place in the history of the
						time; but now the papacy had crushed the empire." The old ideal of two
						powers divinely commissioned to rule the world in conjunction -- the ideal expressed in
						the figures of the "two swords," and of the "two lights," -- the sun and the moon -- was
						now abandoned. The papacy itself for a time sought to be the supreme head in temporal
						affairs as well as in spiritual, and this ideal conception was soon embodied in the
						person of a Pope (Boniface VIII.) who arrayed himself in the papal tiara and the
						imperial robe, and exclaimed, "I am Cæsar -- I am Emperor!" But, though the empire had fallen,
						the national monarchies of Europe were just arising; and with Philip IV. of France, the
						head of the most formidable of these, the papacy soon came into disastrous
						collision.
					Bryce, Holy Roman Empire, 109
					Lavisse and Rambaud, Histoire Générale, II. 231
					
					137. Summary
					The brilliancy of the Hohenstaufen Empire was continued in the short reign of Henry VI.
						(1190-1197); then followed a struggle for the crown, which ended in the triumph of his
						son Frederick II. (1214-1250). The first sixteen years of his reign saw a new contest
						with the papacy, which centered in Frederick's crusade. Following this came, in Sicily
						and Naples, a series of important reforms which strengthened the royal power, while in
						Germany concessions were made to the princes which materially increased their power and
						weakened the crown. The last ten years of the reign were occupied with a new struggle
						with the papacy. After Frederick's death the Pope refused to recognize any of the
						Hohenstaufen house, and the struggle was continued by Conrad IV., Manfred, and finally
						by Conradin. The aid of a French prince, Charles of Anjou, enabled the Pope to overthrow
						the last of the Hohenstaufen family. Charles of Anjou secured the kingdom of Sicily and
						Naples; but Germany, during the Great Interregnum (1254-1273), was practically without a
						king. The papacy  was left victorious over the empire,
						which never recovered the importance it had possessed under the Hohenstaufen rule.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Compare the papal power under Innocent III. with that under Gregory VII. (2) Why
							should Frederick's treaty with the Mohammedans in the Holy Land of itself arouse
							opposition? (3) How do his measures in Sicily show him to have been ahead of his time?
							(4) Was the enfeeblement of the central authority in Germany good or bad for that
							land? (5) Why was the opposition of the Popes to Frederick II. greater than to
							Frederick I.? (6) Was the continuance of the papal warfare against Frederick's
							descendants after his death warranted? (7) State in your own language the significance
							of the overthrow of the Hohenstaufen.
						Search topics
						(8) Treatment of Richard I. of England by Henry VI. (9) Character and aims of
							Innocent III. (10) Character of Frederick II. (11) Crusade of Frederick II. (12)
							Reforms of Frederick II. in Sicily. (13) Development of Germany in his reign. (14)
							Account of a battle in the time of Frederick II. (15) Frederick's use of Saracen
							mercenaries.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 64, 112; Freeman, Historical Geography, I. ch. viii.;
							Poole, Historical Atlas, maps xxxv. lxvi.; Dow, Atlas, xiii.
						Secondary authorities
						Emerton, Mediœval Europe, ch. x.; Henderson, Short
								History of Germany, I. 90-101; Bémont and Monod, Medieval
								Europe, ch. xx.; Tout, Empire and Papacy, 305-335, 358-393,
							478-492; Duruy, History of the Middle Ages, 252-259; Henderson, Germany in the Middle Ages, chs. xix.-xxvi.; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, ch. xiii.; Balzani, Popes and
								the Hohenstaufen; 113-256; Alzog, Church History, II. §§
							220-222; Freeman, Historical Essays, First Series, 283-313; Milmnan,
								History of Latin Christianity, bk. ix. chs. i.-iii., bk. x. chs.
							i. iii.-v.; Historians' History of the World, IX. 85-98, XIV.
							110-131.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. 307-309; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 130-145; Henderson, Documents, 337-344;
							University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, IV. No. 4,
							III. No. 6.
						Illustrative works
						Robert Barr, The Countess Tekla, -- The Strong
								Arm; F. von Hardenberg, Henry of Ofterdingen; G. P. R. Adams,
								The Castle of Ehrenstein; E. L. Hamilton, The Lord of
								the Dark Red Star.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER XI.
					

					LIFE IN THE MEDIÆVAL CASTLE, VILLAGE, AND TOWN
					138. The feudal castle
					IN the Middle Ages almost every defensible hilltop and river island
						was occupied by the frowning castle of some feudal lord. At first the castle was a mere
						inclosure defended by ditch and palisade, with a sort of wooden blockhouse on a natural
						or artificial mound at the center, reached by a wooden bridge over a second ditch or
						moat. The ease with which such defenses could be destroyed by fire led, in the eleventh
						century, to the building of castles of stone; and the engineering skill of the Normans,
						together with the experience gained in the Crusades, made these structures intricate and
						complex. The chateau of Arques, built in Normandy, about 1040, by the uncle of William
						the Conqueror, is a type of the early stone castle. It was built upon a hilltop; was
						defended by a palisade, ditch, and two drawbridges with outer works; and was surrounded
						by a thick "bailey" wall, with battlements, strengthened by strong towers placed at
						intervals. Entrance was gained through a narrow vaulted gateway, placed between two
						towers and defended by doors and "portcullisess," or iron gratings descending from
						above. The inclosure was divided into an "outer ward" and an "inner ward"; it contained
						separate buildings for stables, kitchen, and the like, and was large enough to shelter
						the surrounding population in time of war. At the extremity of the inner ward stood the
						"donjon," or "keep," the most important part of every castle.
					The donjon was often the residence of the feudal lord, though its gloom and cold
						usually led to the erection of a separate "hall" within the inclosure for residence in
						time of  peace. The donjon of Arques was a triumph of
						complicated defenses, consisting of enormous walls eight to ten feet thick, with winding
						passageways and stairs concealed in them, and cunningly devised pit-falls to trap the
						unwary. Here the last defense was made; and in case of defeat the position of the keep
						at one end of the inclosure aided escape through a postern gate directly opposite the
						entrance.
					
						CHATEAU OF ARQUES.
						Restoration of Viollet-le-Duc.
					
					Of more elaborate type than the chateau of Arques was the Chateau Gaillard (Saucy
						Castle), erected on the borders of Normandy by Richard the Lion-Hearted as a defense
						against Philip Augustus of France (p. 173).
					Hurling engines, movable towers, and battering rams were of little avail against such
						formidable castles, and until the introduction of gunpowder they were usually taken only
						by treachery, surprise, starvation, or undermining the walls. As the power of the kings
						increased, especially in France and England, the right of the nobles to erect castles
						was rigidly restricted; luxury, too, came in, and gradually the castle lost its
						character of a fortress and became merely a lordly dwelling place.



					
					139. Chivalry
					The training of the feudal noble, like his habitation, was all for war; but the church
						gave to it a religious consecration, and Chivalry, or the ideals and usages of
						knighthood, was the result. In his earlier years the young noble was left to the care of
						his mother; at about the age of seven he was sent to the castle of his father's lord, or
						to that of some famous knight, and his training for knighthood began. With other lads he
						served his lord and mistress as page, waited at table, and attended them when they rode
						forth to the chase; from them he learned lessons of honor and bravery, of love and
						courtesy; above all he learned how to ride and handle a horse. When he was a well-grown
						lad of fourteen or fifteen, he became a squire. He now looked after the grooming and
						shoeing of his lord's horses, and saw that his lord's arms were kept bright and free
						from rust. In war the squire accompanied the lord, carried his shield and lance,
						assisted in arming him for the battle, and stayed watchfully at hand to aid him in case
						of need.
					
						CHATEAU GAILLARD.
						Restoration of Viollet-le-Duc.
					
					When he reached the age of twenty or twenty-one, and had proved his courage and
						military skill, the squire was made a knight. The ceremony was often quite elaborate.
						First came  a bath -- the mark of purification. Then the
						candidate put on garments of red, white, and black -- red for the blood he must shed in
						defense of the church, white to image the purity of his mind, and black as a reminder of
						death. All night before the altar of the church he watched his arms, with fasting and
						prayer; with the morning came confession, the holy mass, and a sermon on the proud
						duties of a knight. The actual knighting usually took place in the courtyard of the
						castle, in the presence of a numerous company of knights and ladies. The armor and sword
						were fastened on by friends and relatives; and the lord gave the "accolade" with a blow
						of his fist upon the young man's neck, or by touching him with the flat of his sword on
						the shoulder, saying: "In the name of God, and Saint Michael, and Saint George, I dub
						thee knight! Be brave and loyal!" Then followed exhibitions of skill by the new-made
						knight, feasting, and presents. The details of the ceremony varied in different times
						and places. It must also be said that, in practice, chivalry was too often only a
						"picturesque mimicry of high sentiment, of heroism, of love and courtesy, before which
						all depth and reality of nobleness disappeared to make room for the coarsest profligacy,
						the narrowest caste spirit, and a brutal indifference to human suffering."Green, Short History of the English People, ch. iv. §
								3
					140. Daily life of the nobles
					The thick walls and narrow windows of the feudal castle made its apartments cold and
						dark in winter and close in summer, and life was spent as much as possible in the open
						air. War, tournaments, and the chase were the chief outdoor amusements. Falconry -- the
						flying of trained hawks at small game -- became a complicated science, with many
						technical terms, and was practiced with zest by ladies and lords alike; but the chase,
						with hounds, of deer, wild boars, and bears, was the more exciting sport. Within doors
						the chief amusements were chess, checkers, and backgammon.
					The great hall, whether within the donjon or in a separate  building, was the center of this life. About the great fireplace, master, mistress,
						children, and dependents gathered to play games, listen to tales of travel and adventure
						from chance visitors, and carry on household occupations. While the boys were trained to
						be knights, the girls learned to spin, sew, and embroider, to care for wounds, and to
						direct a household; like their brothers, they were often sent away from home for a time,
						and as maids of honor to some noble lady received the finishing touches of their
						education.
					The furniture of the castles was substantial but scanty. Embroidered tapestries hung
						amid the weapons on the walls, and skins were placed underfoot for the sake of warmth.
						Chairs and benches, tables, chests, and wardrobes stood about the hall, and perhaps also
						the great corded bedstead of the master and mistress, with its canopy, curtains, and
						feather bed; but often these occupied a separate chamber. The men servants and
						attendants slept on the floor of the great hall.
					141. Food of the nobles
					The meals were served in the hall, on easily removable trestle tables, and all except
						those actively engaged at the time took their places at the board according to rank. The
						viands were brought, in covered dishes, across the court from the kitchen, which was a
						separate building. Jugs and vessels of curious shapes, often in imitation of animals,
						were scattered about the table. Before each person was placed a knife and spoon, and a
						drinking cup, often of wood or horn. Forks were unknown until the end of the thirteenth
						century, and food was eaten from a common dish with the fingers. Before and after each
						meal, pages brought basins of water with towels for washing the hands. There were no
						napkins; and pieces of bread, or the tablecloth, were used for cleansing the fingers
						during the meal. Dinner, served at midday, was announced by the blowing of horns; it was
						a long and substantial repast, consisting often of as many as ten  or twelve courses, mostly meats and game. Dressed deer, pigs, and other
						animals were roasted whole on spits before an open fire. Roast swans, peacocks, and
						boars' heads are frequently mentioned in mediæval writings; pasties of venison and other
						game were common; and on festal occasions live birds were sometimes placed in a pie to
						be released "when the pie was opened," and hunted down with falcons in the hall at the
						close of the feast. Wine was drunk in great quantities. Pepper, cloves, ginger, and
						other spices were used by the wealthy in both food and drink, even the wines being
						peppered and honeyed. Coffee, tea, and of course all the native products of America
						(tobacco, Indian corn, potatoes, etc.) were unknown.
					142. Costume of the nobles
					Costumes varied with time and place, as also did armor (see § 39). Long pointed shoes,
						called pignaces, were invented by a count of Anjou to hide the
						deformity of his feet, and within a short time the style spread over Europe.
					Dress of the Carolingian pattern was used until the end of the eleventh century, when
						it was displaced by long garments imitated from those worn by the Byzantines; these were
						abandoned in the thirteenth century for other fashions.
					The secrets of dyeing were long in the hands of the Jews; but in the thirteenth century
						the Italians learned the art, and the dyers then formed one of the most important guilds
						in Florence and other cities. Many dyestuffs were introduced into the West at the time
						of the Crusades; but cochineal, which gives a brilliant red, was not known until the
						discovery of Mexico, and the aniline dyes now largely used date from recent years. It is
						not too much to say that the most brilliantly tinted garments of the Middle Ages were
						poor and dull in hue compared with those now within reach of the poorest person.
					143. Life of the peasants
					Writers of the Middle Ages said that God had created three classes -- priests to pray,
						knights to defend society, and peasants whose duty it was to till the soil and support
						by their labor the other classes. The peasants were divided  into serfs and villeins. (1) The serfs were personally unfree, i.e.
						they were "bound to the soil," and owed many special obligations to their lord; but,
						unlike slaves, they possessed plots of land which they tilled, and could not be sold off
						the estate. (2) The villeins were personally free, and were exempt from the most
						grievous burdens of the serf; but they too owed their lords many menial services and
						dues for their land, which took the form of money payments, and gifts of eggs, poultry,
						and the young of their flocks. The grinding of the peasants' meal, baking of their
						bread, pressing of their wine, oil, and cider, all had to be done with the lord's mill,
						oven, and press; and for the use of these, heavy fees were charged. The services
						consisted chiefly in cultivating the "demesne," or that part of the estate which was
						kept in the lord's own hand, and from which he drew the profits; two or three days' work
						a week, with extra work at harvest and other times of need, was the usual amount
						exacted. In course of time the services were precisely fixed or commuted for money
						payments.
					The peasants dwelt in villages, often at the foot of the hill on which stood the lord's
						manor house or castle. Near by was the parish church, with an open space in front and a
						graveyard attached. The peasants' houses usually consisted of but one room, and were
						flimsy structures of wood, or of wattled sticks plastered with mud, and were thatched
						with straw. There were few windows, no floors, and no chimneys; the door was often made
						in two parts so that the upper portion could be opened to permit the smoke to escape.
						The cattle were housed under the same roof with the family. The streets were unpaved,
						and were often impassable with filth. About each house was a small, ill-tended
						garden.
					The lands from which the villagers drew their living lay about the village in several
						great unfenced or "open" fields, normally three. Besides these, there were "common"
						lands to which each villager sent a certain number of cattle or sheep  for pasturage; and the lord's woodland and waste, to which
						they went for fuel, and in which they might turn a limited number of pigs to feed on the
						mast (acorns and nuts). The rights of hunting and fishing belonged to the lord, and were
						jealously guarded.
					
						PLAN OF A VILLAGE WITH OPEN FIELDS.
						From a plan of the Common Field of Burton-Agnes, Yorkshire, England, in Taylor's
								Domesday Studies. The shaded strips, about one tenth of the
							whole, were the parson's share, or glebe.
					
					144. Mediæval agriculture
					The time not taken up with labors on the lord's demesne was used by the peasant in
						tilling his own small holding, in the open fields about the village. A full villein
						holding usually consisted of about thirty acres, scattered in long narrow strips in the
						different fields, intermixed with the holdings of other tenants. The origin of this
						curious arrangement of intermixed holdings in open fields has never been satisfactorily
						explained; but it existed over the greater part of western Europe, and lasted far down
						into modern times. The different strips were separated from one another by "balks" of
						unplowed turf. The plows were clumsy wooden affairs, which penetrated little below the
						surface. They were drawn by teams of from four to eight oxen; but the cattle of the
						Middle Ages were smaller than those produced by scientific breeding to-day.
					A rude rotation of crops was practiced to avoid exhausting the soil. All the strips in
						a given field were planted with a winter grain (wheat) one year, the next year with a
						spring grain (oats), and the third year were plowed and lay fallow;  thus one third of the land was always resting. Under this primitive system
						of agriculture the yield was far less than now: in England, at the close of the
						thirteenth century, wheat yielded as low as six bushels an acre, and nine or ten bushels
						was probably a full average crop.
					
						PEASANTS AND PLOW.
						From a 13th century manuscript.
					
					Bee keeping was more usual than in modern times, not only for the honey, which was used
						instead of sugar for almost all purposes of sweetening, but also for the wax needed to
						make the tall candles in the churches and the seals used on official documents. Every
						great estate, or "manor" as it was called in England, was self-supporting to a
						surprising extent. Ale was home-brewed; wool was spun and cloth woven in the household;
						and the village tanner, blacksmith, and carpenter performed the services beyond the
						powers of the household circle. For salt, and the rare articles that the village did not
						itself produce, the people of the manor resorted to periodical markets and fairs in
						neighboring towns.
					The labor of the peasant was incessant, his food, clothing, and habitation of the
						rudest and poorest. He was ignorant and superstitious, and his oppression made him
						sullen. He was the butt for the wit of the noble classes and the courtly poets, and the
						name " villain" (villein) has been handed down by them to us as the synonym for all that
						is base.
					HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--11



					
					145. Towns in France
					The early history of the towns of Italy and Germany has already been traced (§§ 117,
						126); those of France -- which may be taken as typical of the life of the Middle Ages --
						arose in similar manner. There, as elsewhere, the barbarian invasions, together with the
						rise of feudalism, overthrew the old Roman municipalities and reduced the population to
						serfdom. In the eleventh century movements began which restored personal freedom to the
						populations of the towns, and gave them more or less of the rights of self-government;
						and in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries charters were purchased from the feudal
						lords, or extorted by successful war. The privileges set forth in these ranged from mere
						safeguards against oppression at the hands of the lord's officials, who still composed
						the only municipal government, to grants of administrative and judicial independence
						with a government chosen by the citizens.
					For example, the charter granted the little town of Lorris, in central France, was of
						the former class. It provided (1) that no townsman should pay more than a small quitrent
						for his house and each acre of land, and should pay no toll on grain and wine of his own
						production, nor on his purchases at the Wednesday market; (2) that he should not be
						obliged to go to war for his lord unless he could return the same day; (3) that he
						should not be forced to go outside the town for the trial of his lawsuits, and that
						various abuses connected with the courts should be reformed; (4) that none should be
						required to work for the lord of the town, except to bring wood to his kitchen, and to
						take his wine twice a year to Orleans, and then only those who had horses and carts, and
						after due notice; (5) that no charge should be made for the use of the oven, nor for
						watch-rate, nor for the public crier at marriages, and that the dead wood in the forest
						might be taken by the men of Lorris for their own use; (6) that whoever wished might
						sell his property and freely depart, and that any 
						stranger who remained a year and a day without being claimed by his lord, should be
						free. This charter proved so popular that it was copied, in whole or in part, by
						eighty-three other towns; it was profitable alike to the little towns that received it,
						and to the lords who granted it.
					146. Commune governments
					Towns which secured the right to elect their officers and govern themselves are called
						"communes"; legally they were "artificial persons," or corporations, and entered into
						the feudal structure both as vassals and as suzerains. They were ruled either by a mayor
						and échevins (aldermen), or by a board of "consuls," like the Italian
						communes, without a mayor. The outward signs of a commune were the possession of a
						corporate seal; of a belfry, which served as watch tower, depot of archives, and
						magazine of arms; and of stocks and pillory for the punishment of offenders. Its charter
						was usually the culmination of a long series of disagreements, usurpations, and bloody
						insurrections; and frequent payments to lord and overlord were necessary to preserve its
						hard-won liberties.
					From the twelfth century on, the towns grew in size and importance; and many
						enlightened lords (including the king) founded "new towns" to enrich their domains,
						offering reasonable liberties to attract settlers. These hardy townsmen formed the chief
						part of the class called the Third Estate, or commons, which gradually took its place in
						the political affairs of the kingdom alongside the "estates" of the Clergy and the
						Nobles. In the rise of the Third Estate lay the seeds of a whole series of revolutions,
						which were destined to shake feudal society from top to bottom, and cause its final
						destruction.
					147. Life in the towns
					Mediæval towns were usually surrounded by walls defended by battlements and towers,
						while outside lay the settlements (called faubourgs) of the
						unprivileged inhabitants. In the belfry, watch was kept day and night: its warning bell
						announced the approach of enemies; sounded the alarm  of
						fire, the summons to court and to council, and the hours for beginning and quitting
						work; and rang the "curfew" (couvre feu) at night, which was the
						signal to extinguish lights and cover fires. The streets were narrow and unpaved, and
						slops were emptied from second-story windows -- sometimes even on the head of royalty
						passing by. Extensive gardens belonging to convents and hospitals caused the streets to
						twist and turn, and presented rare glimpses of green amid the wilderness of pointed
						roofs.
					
						BELFRY OF BRUGES.
						
						Built from 1291 to about 1390; 352 feet high.
					
					In the thirteenth century the wealthier citizens began to erect comfortable houses; but
						the ground-floor front was usually taken up by an arched window-opening in which the
						merchant displayed his wares, while in the rear were carried on the manufactures of the
						shop. The shopkeepers grouped themselves by trades: here was the street of tanners,
						there that of the goldsmiths, elsewhere the drapers, cement makers, parchment makers,
						and money changers. Churches, of which great numbers were built in the thirteenth
						century, rose above the shops and houses, which pressed up to their very walls; in towns
						which were the seats of bishops, giant cathedrals of Gothic architecture towered above
						everything else. The business quarters, with their open booths and stalls placed in the
						streets, resembled bazaars, through which pedestrians could with difficulty 182  thread their way; horses and carts were obliged to seek
						less crowded thoroughfares. At mealtime, business ceased, and booths were closed; when
						curfew sounded, the streets became silent and deserted -- save for the watch, making
						their appointed rounds, and the adventurous few whom necessity or pleasure led to brave
						the dangers of the unlighted streets.
					148. Industry and guilds
					Even in the twelfth century the chief occupation of the citizens was still agriculture;
						but industry and commerce developed rapidly under the protection afforded by town walls
						and charters, and the growing power of the king. Industries were carried on entirely by
						hand labor; there were scarcely any machines other than the tools employed by workmen
						from times immemorial. Each trade was organized into a guild, which laid down rules
						for-carrying it on, and had the power to inspect and to confiscate inferior products.
						The guildsmen were divided ihto three classes: apprentices, who served from three to
						thirteen years, and paid considerable sums for their instruction; workmen
						("journeymen"), who had finished their apprenticeship and received wages; and masters,
						who had risen in the trade and had become employers.
					Apprentices and workmen were lodged and fed with the master's family above the shop;
						and it was easy for a frugal workman to save enough to set up as a master in his turn:
						under these conditions antagonism between capital and labor did not exist. The guilds
						had religious and benevolent features also; each maintained a common fund, made up of
						fines assessed against members, which was used for feasting, for masses, for the relief
						of the sick and burial of dead members. Guilds formed of members pursuing a trade, such
						as weaving or dyeing, were called craft guilds; older, richer, and more influential in
						developing the liberties of the towns, were the merchant guilds, the members of which
						engaged in commerce.
					149. Mediæval commerce
					After the Germanic invasions, commerce had almost ceased; there was little demand for
						foreign wares or costly articles of 183 
						
							MEDIAEVAL COMMERCE AND
								TEXTILE INDUSTRIES
							
							13TH TO 15TH CENTURY
						
						
						
							MEDIAEVAL COMMERCE AND
								TEXTILE INDUSTRIES
							13TH TO 15TH CENTURY
						
						 luxury, and the roads were too insecure to make the
						transportation of goods profitable. Under the early feudal régime, where downright
						robbery was not practiced, the lords exacted ruinous tolls at every bridge, market, and
						high way. It was only after the Crusades had stimulated enterprise and created new
						tastes that commerce played an important part in mediæval life. The Italian towns, from
						their central position in the Mediterranean, were the first to feel this quickening
						impulse; and Amalfi, Pisa, Genoa, and Venice became important commercial centers,
						Venice, whose trade was originally confined to salt and fish, the products of its
						waters, developed a vast commerce in the spices, perfumes, sugar, silks, and other goods
						which came from the East by way of the Persian Gulf or Red Sea. In the fourteenth
						century it possessed a merchant marine of three thousand vessels, and each year sent
						large fleets through the Strait of Gibraltar to Flanders and the English Channel. Land
						routes led over the Brenner and Julier passes of the Alps to the upper Danube and the
						Rhine, there joining the Danube route from Constantinople and the Black Sea, and
						enriching with their trade Augsburg, Ratisbon, Ulm, Nuremberg, and a host of towns on
						the Rhine. From Genoa a much-traveled route led through France by way of the river
						Rhone. The great northern market for all this commerce was Bruges, where products of the
						south and east were exchanged for the furs, amber, fish, and woolen cloths of the north:
						merchants from seventeen kingdoms had settled homes there, and strangers journeyed
						thither from all parts of the known world. In the fifteenth century Antwerp wrested from
						Bruges this preëminence, largely as a result of the untrammeled freedom to trade which
						it granted.
					150. Commercial organization
					Great fairs, held periodically in certain places, under the license of the king or of
						some great lord, who profited by the fees paid him, were a necessity in a time when
						ordinary villages were entirely without shops, and merchants,  even in cities and towns, carried only a limited variety and quantity of
						goods. Examples of such fairs were Smithfield (just outside of London) and Stourbridge
						in England; Beaucaire and Troyes in France; Frankfort-on-the-Main and Leipzig in
						Germany. Thither, during the times at which they were held, went merchants and traders
						from all over Europe; and thither, too, resorted the people for miles around to lay in
						their yearly stock of necessaries or to sell the products of their industry.
					In the Middle Ages merchants traded, not as individuals, or as subjects of a state
						which protected their interests abroad, but as members (1) of the merchant guild of
						their town, which often secured special rights and exclusive privileges in other towns
						and countries; or (2) of some commercial company, like that of the Bardi and later the
						Medici of Florence; or (3) of some great confederacy of towns like the Hanseatic League
						of northern Germany.
					151. Hanseatic League (1200-1450)
					The Hanseatic League gradually arose from the union of German merchants abroad and
						German towns at home, and was completely formed by the thirteenth century; its objects
						were common defense, security of traffic by land and sea, settlement of disputes between
						members, and the acquisition and maintenance of trading privileges in foreign countries.
						The chief articles of commerce were herring and other salt fish, which were consumed in
						enormous quantities all over Europe, owing to the rules the church, which forbade the
						eating of meat on Fridays and for the forty days during Lent; other articles of trade
						were timber, pitch, furs, amber, and grain. At its greatest extent, the league included
						more than ninety cities of the Baltic and North Sea regions, both seaports and inland
						towns. Lübeck on the Baltic was the capital of the league, where its congresses were
						held and records kept. Hamburg, Bremen, Cologne, Danzig, and Wisby (on the island of
						Gothland) were important members; and warehouses and 
						trading stations, with extensive privileges, were maintained at Novgorod in Russia,
						Bergen in Norway, Bruges in Flanders, and London in England.
					In the fourteenth century the league was drawn into a series of wars with Denmark, and
						became a great political confederation, with frequent assemblies, a federal tax, and a
						federal navy and military forces. After 1450 came a period of decay, due to the rise of
						foreign competition in trade, the revival of Denmark, the consolidation of the power of
						the German princes, and an unexplained shifting of the herring "schools" from the Baltic
						to more distant feeding grounds; but its final downfall does not come until the Thirty
						Years' War, in the seventeenth century. It is difficult to overestimate the part played
						in northern Europe by this civic league in promoting trade, suppressing piracy and
						robbery, training the people to orderly life and liberty, and spreading comforts and
						conveniences in half-barbarous lands.
					152. General character of the Middle Ages
					Europe of the Middle Ages differed greatly from the Europe of to-day. In many regions
						there was nothing but forest, swamp, and moor, where now are smiling fields and populous
						cities. The population on the whole was much less than now: England, which in 1901 had
						over 30,000,000 inhabitants, had in 1086 only about 2,150,000. The great growth of
						population, however, has been chiefly in towns and modern manufacturing districts, and
						not in the open country, which in many places was as thickly settled in the Middle Ages
						as in modern times.
					Local overpopulation was one cause of frequent famines, when weeds and the bark of
						trees were gnawed for food, and depraved beings ate human flesh. There were no great
						accumulations of wealth; heavy goods could be transported only short distances by land
						on account of the miserable roads; and when crops failed, the surplus of distant
						provinces could not be brought to relieve distress.


					

					The standard of comfort on the whole, even after the introduction of some luxuries from
						the East, was surprisingly low. The manner of living, even among the higher classes, was
						filthy and unsanitary. Floors were covered with rushes, among which bones from the table
						and other refuse were dropped, to be covered with new layers of rushes; and so on, until
						at length the whole decaying mass would be cleaned out. The death rate, especially among
						young children, was very high. In spite of all the glamour of chivalry and romance, the
						Middle Ages, on its material side, must have been a dreary time in which to live.
					Roger of
						Hoveden, Chronicle, year 1165
					Intellectually it was a time of ignorance and superstition. Comets were regarded as
						signs of coming disaster; when one appeared "refulgent, with a hairy crown," it foretold
						the death of a king, while one with "long locks of hair [i.e. a tail],
						which as it scintillates it spreads abroad," foretold the ruin of a nation. "The
						invisible world . . . with its mysterious attraction and horrible fascination was ever
						present and real to every one. Demons were always around him, to smite him with
						sickness, to ruin his pitiful little cornfield [i.e. wheat field] or
						vineyard, or to lure his soul to perdition; while angels and saints were similarly ready
						to help him, to listen to his invocations, and to intercede for him at the throne of
						mercy, which he dared not address directly." It was an age of startling
						contrasts, when the sordidness of its daily life might be relieved with splendid
						exhibitions of lofty enthusiasm or darkened with hideous deeds of brutality. On the one
						hand it was, as Bishop Stubbs says, "the age of chivalry, of ideal heroism, of
						picturesque castles and glorious churches and pageants, camps, and tournaments, lovely
						charity and gallant self-sacrifice "; on the other, it was clouded with dark shadows of
						"dynastic faction, bloody conquest, grievous misgovernance, local tyrannies, plagues and
						famines unhelped and unaverted, hollowness of pomp, disease, and desolation."
					Lea,
						Inquisition of the Middle Ages, I. 60



					
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) In the picture of the chateau of Arques, point out the drawbridges, moat, bailey
							wall, outer ward, inner ward, and donjon. (2) Was the life of a knight more or less
							desirable than that of a wealthy man of to-day? (3) Compare the life of the farmer
							to-day with that of the mediæval peasant. (4) Compare the workingman to-day with the
							guild artisan. 5) Why did towns desire a charter?
						Search topics
						(6) The training of a knight. (7) The life of a boy or girl in a mediæval village.
							(8) The same in a mediæval town. (9) Mediæval system of agriculture. (10) Great fairs
							of the Middle Ages. (11) The struggles of some town in France, such as Laon, Cambray,
							or Beauvais, to secure self-government. (12) The craft guilds. (13) The merchant
							guild. (14) Commerce of Venice in the Middle Ages. (15) The Hanseatic League. (16)
							Mediæval hunting.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, ch. xii.; Emerton, Mediœval Europe, ch. xv.; Bémont and Monod, Medieval
								Europe, 375-390, 483-485; Henderson, Short History of
							Germany, I. ch. v.; Duruy, Middle Ages, ch. xxiii. ; Henderson,
								Germany in the Middle Ages, 415-426; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, chs. xvi. xxii. ; Lodge, Close
								of the Middle Ages, ch. xviii.; Stillé, Studies in Medieval
								History, chs. xiv. xv.; Cutts, Scenes and Characters of the Middle
								Ages, chs. iv. vi. viii. ; Lacroix, Manners, Customs, and Dress
								during the Middle Ages, 56-104, 248-300, -- Military and Religious
								Life, 136-172; Gautier, Chivalry, chs. vi.-viii. xii.-xvi.;
							Cornish, Chivalry, chs. ii.-v. ix. x. xii.-xiv.; Rowbotham, Troubadours and Courts of Love, chs. i. vii. x. xi. xv. xvi.; Gibbins,
								History of Commerce, bk. ii.; Andrews, Old English
								Manor, chs. v. vi.; Jessopp, Coming of the Friars, ch.
							ii.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. chs. xviii. xix.; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 289-293, 320-325; Jones, Civilization
								in the Middle Ages, Nos. 8, 9; University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, II. No. 1; Guizot, History of
								Civilization (Bohn), III. 312-315, 317-322, 392-474; Aucassin and
								Nicolete (Mosher's ed.); Mallory, Morte d'Arthur.
						Pictures
						Parmentier, Album Historique, I. II.; Stacke, Deutsche
								Geschichte (2 vols.); Lacroix, Arts in the Middle Ages, --
								Manners, Customs, and Dress during the Middle Ages, -- Military and Religious Life
								in the Middle Ages, -- Science and Literature in the Middle Ages.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER XII.
					

					ENGLAND IN THE MIDDLE AGES (449-1377)
					153. The Heptarchy (449-802)
					WITH the fall of the mediæval empire, interest shifts to the
						national states, of which England was one of the first to arise. Britain, like all the
						West, formed part of the Roman Empire, and was overrun by Germanic tribes (Angles,
						Saxons, and Jutes) after the year 449: in the course of two centuries they completely
						conquered the eastern and southern parts of the island, to which was given the name
						England (Angle-land). The Celtic Britons were killed, enslaved, or driven into the
						mountains, and the institutions of the German invaders were reproduced with scarcely any
						mixture of British or Roman elements. Even the Christian religion disappeared, along
						with the Latin tongue and the Roman-British civilization.
					Near the close of the sixth century, Christianity was reintroduced -- in the south by
						missionaries sent direct from Rome (597), and in the north by Celtic (Irish)
						missionaries from the island of Iona (off the western coast of Scotland). At the synod
						of Whitby (664), Roman Christianity, with its recognition of the papal headship,
						triumphed over the loosely organized and semi-independent Celtic Church; and the
						ecclesiastic unity thus established helped to pave the way for the union of all England
						under one king.
					In the seventh, eighth, and ninth centuries there were at least seven different
						kingdoms of the English; namely, those of the West Saxons, South Saxons, East Saxons,
						East Anglians (North Folk and South Folk), Mercians (or Middle 
						
							ENGLAND in 878 After the Treaty of Wedmore
						
						 Angles), Northumbrians, and the men of Kent: the names of
						most of these peoples are still preserved in the county names of the regions where they
						ruled (Sussex, Essex, Norfolk, etc.). In the seventh century the kings of Northumbria
						acquired a vague supremacy over the other kingdoms. In the eighth this passed to the
						kings of Mercia. At the beginning of the ninth century it was won by Egbert, king of
						Wessex (802-839), from whom in one line the present sovereign of England traces
						descent.
					154. Invasion of the Danes
					In the year 787 "Danes," or Northmen, began to harry England. As on the Continent, they
						first came merely to plunder; but soon after 850 they began to form settlements. The
						reign of Alfred the Great (871-901) is the most remarkable in this period of England's
						history. He came to the throne at a time when the Danes were overrunning all Wessex.
						"Nine general battles," says a chronicler, "were fought this year (871) south of the
							Thames."
						After seven years of struggle Alfred defeated the Danes and forced them to accept the
						treaty of Wedmore, by which they were baptized as Christians, and received the land
						north of the Thames; the name "Danelaw" was given to this region because there the
						Danish, and not the Saxon, law was in force.
					Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, year 871
					Alfred then reorganized his kingdom, remodeled the army, and erected strong
						earth-walled fortresses. He was fond of learning, and took steps to provide for the
						education of his people. He himself translated a number of works from the Latin into the
						Anglo-Saxon tongue, and gave orders for the compilation of the great Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.
					In the latter part of Alfred's reign the war with the Danes began anew. Under his son
						and his three grandsons, who ruled one after another, the Danelaw was reconquered and
						again joined with the rest of England; but a large admixture of Danish blood continued
						in the north of England, leaving  its marks in the place
						names and in the rude freedom of its inhabitants.
					155. Anglo-Saxon government
					The most prosperous reign of the Anglo-Saxon period was that of Edgar (959-975), who
						was ably assisted in the government by Dunstan, archbishop of Canterbury, the first of a
						long line of ecclesiastical statesmen. Over the "shires," or counties, power was
						exercised by "ealdormen," who corresponded to the counts of the Carolingian empire.
						There was the same tendency as on the Continent for the local rulers to acquire
						independent authority and force the free peasant into serfdom; but the popular
						assemblies in the shires and "hundreds" (as the division next smaller than the shire was
						called) kept alive the practice of self-government, and acted as a check on the power of
						the "thegns," or lords. Over all was the "Witan," or council of wise men; these chose
						the king from the royal family, and assisted him in the work of legislation and
						administration.
					
						KING AND WITAN.
						
						From the Cotton MS.
					
					The modes of trial in Anglo-Saxon England seem strange to  us, but were common to all Germanic peoples, Compurgation was a usual form; in this,
						the person accused swore to his innocence and produced a number of compurgators ("oath
						helpers"), who swore that they believed his oath to be "clean and without guile." In
						serious cases the ordeal was used; this was an appeal to the judgment of God. In the
						ordeal by hot iron the accused had to carry a piece of red-hot iron for a certain
						distance in his bare hand; in the ordeal by hot water he had to thrust his hand into a
						kettle of boiling water. In either case the hand was then bandaged and sealed up for
						three days; if the wound healed properly, the person was declared innocent. In the cold
						water ordeal the accused was thrown into a stream of water, with hands and feet tied to-
						gether; if he floated, he was guilty; but if he sank he was innocent and was to be
						rescued.
					156. Danish conquest and English decay
						(977-1042)
					Edgar's son Ethelred -- called the "Redeless," or "Unready" (which means "lacking
						counsel") -- ruled from 979 to 1016. He was rash, short-sighted, and weak, and in his
						reign there was great disorder and suffering. The invasions of the Danes were renewed,
						and Ethelred bought them off with money payments. At home the Northmen now formed the
						three kingdoms of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark; thenceforth the invaders came as armies
						for the purpose of conquest. The Danish residents in England sympathized with their
						brethren; the great ealdormen, too, fell to treachery and quarreling among themselves.
						The result was that Sweyn (Swegen, or Svend), king of Denmark, conquered the whole of
						England, and Ethelred was obliged, in 1013, to take refuge with his brother-in-law, the
						duke of Normandy. The next year Sweyn died suddenly, and Ethelred was restored, only to
						die in 1016.
					After a brief struggle, Canute (1016-1035), the son of Sweyn, was accepted as king by
						all the English people. Already he was king of Denmark, and in 1028 he made himself king
						of  Norway. In England he ruled as an English king. The
						great ealdormen, who from this time are known as "earls," were kept in order with a
						strong hand, and peace and prosperity were enjoyed by English and Danes alike. While on
						a pilgrimage to Rome, Canute wrote to his English subjects: "I have vowed to God to lead
						a right life in all things, to rule justly and piously my realms and my subjects, and to
						administer just judgment to all. If heretofore I have done aught beyond what is just,
						through headiness or negligence of youth, I am ready with God's help to amend it
							utterly."
					Florence of Worcester's Chronicle, year
								1031
					157. Edward the Confessor (1042-1066)
					Canute's sons, Harold and Hardicanute, ruled after him for seven years. Upon the
						extinction of the Danish line, the Witan chose as king the son of Ethelred, who was
						called Edward "the Confessor" (1042-1066), on account of his piety. He proved but a
						feeble ruler. He had been reared at the Norman court, where ways of life were less rude
						than in England; and the favor which he showed to Normans and Frenchmen angered his
						English subjects. The chief events of his reign centered in the quarrels of the great
						earls, who openly rebelled. Godwin, earl of Wessex, was the most powerful of these;
						after his death his office passed to his son Harold, who proved himself the most capable
						man of the kingdom. When Edward died without children, in 1066, Harold was chosen king
						by the Witan; but William, the duke of Normandy, put forth a claim to the throne and
						prepared an invading army.
					158. The Norman Conquest (1066)
					William the Conqueror, as he is known in history, was the sixth duke of Normandy in
						descent from Rolf. He was only seven years of age when his father died on a pilgrimage
						to Palestine, and the minority of the young duke was one long struggle against his
						Norman barons. With the aid of the French king, William crushed his enemies (1047), and
						then built up a military power which made Normandy  one of
						the strongest governments of Europe. Already Norman adventurers were winning by their
						swords a kingdom in Sicily and southern Italy (§ 52); and when Duke William looked
						abroad for a similar field of conquest, he found it in England.
					
						DEATH OF HAROLD.
						
						From the Bayeux Tapestry. Harold is the second figure from the left.
					
					He secured a promise from Edward the Confessor (his father's cousin) that he should
						succeed to the throne of England; and circumstances enabled him to obtain from Earl
						Harold an oath not to dispute his claim. When Harold was chosen king, William protested;
						and bearing a banner consecrated by the Pope, he landed on the south coast of England in
						September, 1066. Harold had been called to the north to repel an invasion by the king of
						Norway, and returned too late to prevent the landing. The earls of the northern counties
						treacherously refused him aid, and Harold was forced to meet the Normans with only his
						own troops. The battle took place on the ridge later called Senlac, near the town of
						Hastings.
					The strength of the English consisted in their mailed footmen armed with the battle-ax,
						while that of the Normans lay in their archers and mounted men-at-arms; two different
							 modes of warfare were thus contending, as well as two
						peoples and two civilizations. For a long time the issue was in doubt. To draw the
						English from their strong position, William ordered a portion of his troops to pretend
						to flee; this ruse was partly successful, but still the "shield wall" of Harold's guard
						held firm. At last an arrow struck Harold in the eye, piercing to the brain, and after
						this disaster the English were forced from the field (October, 1066).
					159. Norman organization (1066-1087)
					This battle decided the possession of the English crown, and gave England a line of
						rulers which has lasted to this day. William was formally chosen king, and within a few
						months was in tranquil possession of the whole kingdom. There were revolts of the native
						English and also of Norman barons (feudal lords), who rebelled against the iron rule of
						the Conqueror; but these were put down with terrible cruelty. In the main, the customs
						and laws of the English were respected, but the property of those who fought against
						William at Hastings was treated as forfeited, and either granted to new holders or
						confirmed to the old ones on the payment of a heavy fine.
					In either event the tenure established was a feudal one, conditioned on the performance
						of military service, with all the "feudal incidents" of relief, aids, wardship, and
						marriage rights. Feudalism as a system (§§ 31-41) was thus introduced fullgrown into
						England; but William took pains to see that in England it should not become the menace
						to the crown that it was in France. An oath of allegiance to the king, taking precedence
						of all ties to feudal lords, was demanded from all freemen (1086), and the old
						Anglo-Saxon national militia, as well as the old popular assemblies, were continued as a
						check on the power of the lords or barons. It also happened that the lands granted his
						Norman followers, however extensive they might be, were widely scattered, and not in
						compact blocks, as they were in France. Thus it was  made
						more difficult than in France for a vassal to gather men to make war upon his king.
					In order that he might know the resources of the realm, William caused an inquest of
						the lands, their holders, and their value to be made throughout England, the results
						being set down in what is known as Domesday Book. "So very narrowly
						did he cause the survey to be made," says the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle,
						"that there was not a single hide nor a rood of land, nor -- it is shameful to relate
						that which he thought no shame to do -- was there an ox, or a cow, or a pig passed
							by." The
						value to the historian of this minute record, which is still in existence, may easily be
						imagined. William was a stern and a just king, but he was little loved.
					Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, year 1085
					160. Norman succession (1087-1154)
					When William died, in the year 1087, primogeniture, or the right of the eldest son to
						succeed the father, was not an established custom. Robert, his oldest son, secured
						Normandy, but England passed to William Rufus, the second son. This William II. proved a
						harsh, wicked man, and was hated by all. After thirteen years of rule his body was found
						in the New Forest (near Southampton), with an arrow piercing the heart; whether he was
						slain by accident or by design no man can tell.
					William II. left no children, and Henry I. (1100-1135), the third son of the Conqueror,
						secured the throne. This was fortunate for England, as he was a strong ruler who knew
						how to keep the turbulent barons in check. To conciliate his subjects, he issued at his
						coronation a charter of liberties, which became the model for the Great Charter of King
						John (§ 167). The troubles stirred up by his brother, Robert of Normandy, ended with
						Robert's defeat and capture (1106). Normandy was then annexed once more to the English
						crown, with which it remained united for nearly a hundred years. The title "Lion of
						Justice," given to Henry, marks his activity in the punishment of crime. "He made
						peace," says the chronicler,  "for men and deer; whoso
						bare his burden of gold and silver, no man durst say to him aught but good."A.S. Chronicle, 1135
					The just government established by Henry I. died with him. His nephew, Stephen of Blois
						(son of the crusader, § 97), who secured the government after him, lacked firmness and
						good judgment, and the difficulties of his position were increase by the repeated
						efforts of Henry's daughter, Matilda, to win the crown. Civil war and anarchy followed,
						and lawless castles filled the land. The nobles "greatly oppressed the wretched people
						by making them work at their castles, and when the castles were finished they filled
						them with devils and evil men. Then they took those whom they suspected to have any
						goods, by night and by day, seizing both men and women, and they put them in prison for
						theirs gold and silver, and tortured them with pains unspeakable, for never were any
						martyrs tormented as these were. . . . This state of affairs lasted the nineteen years
						that Stephen was king, and ever grew worse and worse. . . . Then was corn [i.e. wheat] dear, and flesh, and cheese and butter, for there was none in the
						land; -- wretched men starved with hunger; some lived on alms who had been erewhile
						rich; some fled the country. Never was there more misery, and never acted heathens worse
						than these."
					Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, year
							1137
					161. Reign of Henry II. (1154-1189)
					The struggle for the crown ended with a treaty by which Stephen recognized Matilda's
						son, Henry of Anjou, as his successor. The next year Stephen died, and Henry II., the
						first of the Angevin or Plantagenet kings, came to the throne. The early kings of this
						house were Henry II. (1154-1189), Richard I. (1189-1199), John (1199-1216), Henry III.
						(1216-1272), Edward I. (1272-1307), Edward II. (1307-1327), and Edward III.
						(1327-1377).
					In right of his father, Henry II. was count of Anjou (in France); in right of his
						mother, he received Normandy and England; by marriage with Eleanor, heiress of
						Aquitaine, he 
						
							MITER, CHASUBLE, AND STOLE
									OF THOMAS À BECKET.
							
							Prerved in the Cathedral of Sens, France.
						 added that broad land to his dominions (map, p. 228). He was a strong king,
						tireless in the transaction of business, with a genius for organization. The abuses of
						Stephen's reign were speedily remedied, and peace and good order restored. His attempt
						to bring the clergy under the jurisdiction of royal courts brought him into conflict
						with the archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas à Becket; and hasty words let fall by the king
						led four of his servants to murder the archbishop. By the people Becket was venerated as
						a martyr; and to secure absolution from the Pope, Henry was obliged to forego some
						rights of jurisdiction which he claimed over "criminous clerks."
					
						CROSS AT MONASTERBRICE, IRELAND.
						
						Erected in 9th or 10th century. Part of the carving represents scriptural
							scenes.
					
					162. Henry's wars
					England's conquest of Ireland began in this reign. In netal work, in sculpture, and in
						the illumination of manuscripts the Irish had attained a degree of culture then
						unsurpassed; but in political development HARDING'S M. & M.
							HIST.--12
						 they lagged behind. Ireland was still in the tribal
						stage, and tribe warred with tribe, chief with chief. In such circumstances it was
						inevitable that the Norman barons of England should intervene. The complete subjugation
						of the island was not effected until long afterward; but from this reign the fortunes of
						Ireland were linked with those of its eastern neighbor.
					Henry II.'s possessions in France led him into almost constant warfare with the French
						king. In 1173 the kings of France and Scotland assisted the barons and the king's oldest
						son (Henry) to rebel; but the rebellion was put down, and the king of the Scots taken
						prisoner. News of the fall of Jerusalem, in 1187, led Henry II. to take the cross; but
						preparations for the crusade were interrupted by a new war with the French king, Philip
						Augustus, who aided the rebellion of Henry's son, Richard -- now through the death of
						his elder brother the heir to the throne. The English king was defeated and forced to
						make peace; and at the head of the list of those allied against him, he read the name of
						his youngest son, John, whom he had supposed faithful. Already sick and worn out, Henry
						II. died three days later. He was a hard, stern man, with the fierce Angevin temper, and
						was little loved; but the value of his work can not be overestimated.
					163. Henry's reforms
					The most important feature of Henry II.'s reign was his judicial, military, and
						financial reforms. The Exchequer, or financial department of the government, was
						definitely organized. The old English militia was revived by a law called the Assize of
						Arms, and every man was obliged to provide himself with arms according to his means. The
						practice was introduced of excusing feudal tenants from military service on payment of a
						sum called "scutage": the money thus obtained was used to hire mercenary troops, who
						were better and more reliable soldiers; at the same time the new plan reduced the
						military strength of the feudal nobles.


					

					The judicial reforms of Henry II. consisted chiefly in the establishment of itinerant
						justices and the introduction of trial and presentment juries. The justices itinerant
						went on circuit, bringing the king's justice into different parts of England; the
						settlement of many important cases was thus made easier, speedier, and more certain. A
						form of jury trial was introduced in civil causes to take the place of trial by
						compurgation and trial by battle. The latter was brought into England about the time of
						the Norman conquest; in it the plaintiff and defendant fought with arms before the
						judges, and God was supposed to make manifest the just cause by enabling its champion to
						triumph.
					164. Trial by jury
					In trial by jury the decision was given in the name of the community by those who had
						the best knowledge of the facts, and the result no longer rested upon superstition,
						accident, or superior force. Centuries passed, however, before jury trial reached the
						developed form of to-day. Trial by ordeal was used a little longer in criminal cases,
						but after 1219 trial by jury was introduced here also. Henry II. also made an important
						improvement in the means provided for the accusation of criminals. It often happened
						that a man was too powerful for an individual to dare accuse him; to remedy this, the
						jury of presentment, which later became the grand jury, was introduced to bring an
						accusation against suspected persons in the name of the community as a whole.
					The trial and presentment juries greatly improved the administration of justice; but
						more important than this was their indirect influence. By participating in the
						administration of justice, Englishmen were trained in a knowledge of the law and in the
						exercise of the rights of self-government. Jurors acted not merely in judicial, but in
						administrative, matters, as representatives of their communities; and when once the
						principle of representation was fixed in local government, it became easy to introduce
						it into central affairs. Thus the  juries introduced by
						Henry II. became, under his successors, the taproot of parliamentary representation.
					165. Richard I. (1189-1199)
					Richard I., Cœur de Lion (the Lion-Hearted), was a good warrior, but a poor ruler. Most
						of his reign was devoted to the Third Crusade and to the defense of his Continental
						possession's; for these purposes, and for his ransom when taken captive while returning
						from the Holy Land (§ 105), England was oppressively taxed. Only seven months of the ten
						years of his reign were passed in England; but the administrative officers trained by
						Henry II. kept the country orderly and peaceful. Richard died of an arrow wound while on
						a characteristic mission, warring to secure a treasure found by one of his vassals in
						Aquitaine.
					166. John (1199-1216)
					The Great Council of England chose Richard's brother John king after him, in preference
						to Arthur, the son of an elder brother Geoffrey. John had been an undutiful son and
						brother; he now proved the worst king that England ever had. His misconduct in Aquitaine
						led his barons there to appeal to King Philip against him, and when he refused to
						appear, his French fiefs were declared forfeited. Soon after, John secured possession of
						his young nephew, Arthur, and basely put him to death. This made it easier for Philip to
						enforce the sentence of forfeiture; and by the close of 1206 all the English possessions
						in France were lost, except Aquitaine.
					John was next involved in a quarrel with Pope Innocent III., and for nearly five years
						England lay under an interdict, all ordinary church services being prohibited. To
						prevent his deposition, John at last made his peace with the Pope, agreeing to hold his
						kingdom as a papal fief and pay an annual tribute. He then hastened to France with such
						forces as he could raise to regain his lost possessions; but at Bouvines, in 1214, his
						ally, Otto IV. of Germany, was overwhelmingly defeated (§ 130), and John returned
						discredited to England. The loss of these Continental possessions was on the whole
						fortunate for England; it  practically completed the
						process, which had long been going on, whereby the barons ceased to be Normans and
						became English.
					
						PORTION OF MAGNA CHARTA.
					
					167. The Great Charter (1215)
					All classes were aroused by John's misgovernment; and during his absence a meeting was
						held at which it was agreed to take up arms unless he granted a charter of liberties,
						similar to that of Henry I. John sought to evade the demand; but the whole nation --
						nobles, clergy, and townsmen -- united in it; and finally, in June, 1215, "in the meadow
						called Runnymede," on the river Thames, John put his signature to the Great Charter (Magna Charta). The demands of the barons were no selfish exaction of
						privileges for themselves; they secured the rights of all. Many of the provisions of the
						charter were of a temporary nature, remedying immediate grievances, but others were
						permanent in their importance. Among the latter are the following:--
					"No free man shall be taken or imprisoned or dispossessed, or outlawed, or banished, or
						in any way destroyed, nor will we go upon him, nor send upon him, except by the legal
						judgment of his peers or by the law of the land.
					"To no one will we sell, to no one will we deny, or delay, right or justice."
					Magna Charta, §§ 39, 40
					When he signed the Great Charter, John had no intention of abiding by it, and within
						three months he was again at open  war with his barons.
						The latter planned to accept the son of the French king as sovereign; but in 1216 John
						died, leaving a son, Henry III., nine years of age. The Great Charter now received the
						first of many confirmations, and peace was rapidly restored.
					168. Henry III. (1216-1272)
					During the first sixteen years of Henry III.'s reign, officers trained in the methods
						of Henry II. directed affairs, and good order and prosperity followed. For twenty-six
						years the king was then under the influence of personal favorites, -- greedy foreigners
						for the most part, -- or carried on the government without ministers. In either case,
						misrule, was the result; heavy taxes were laid to enrich his favorites and carry on
						useless wars in France, and clergy and people groaned under the exactions of papal
						legates. In 1258 the barons rose in rebellion under Earl Simon de Montfort, and brought
						this state of affairs to an end. The government was then under their control for seven
						years, until in 1265 the king's eldest son Edward escaped from the captivity in which he
						was held and raised an army. At Evesham he met and defeated the forces of Earl Simon,
						the latter being among the slain. Although himself of foreign birth, Montfort was a
						consistent advocate of English liberty, and did much to favor the growth of Parliament.
						After 1265 Henry III. was freed from the control of the barons, but only to pass under
						that of his strong and able son, Edward, till the king's death in 1272.
					169. Edward I. (1216-1272)
					Edward I. is the first king since the Norman conquest of whom it can be said that he
						was "every inch an Englishman." He had his father's personal virtues without his vices
						as a ruler; he was the greatest of the Plantagenet kings. He sought to unite under one
						rule the whole of the British Isles, and to accomplish this he waged war against the
						Welsh, until in 1284 that country was annexed to England; soon after arose the usage by
						which the title "Prince of Wales" is usually borne by the heir to the English throne.
						Edward  also intervened in Scotland and secured the
						recognition of his overlordship; disputes, however, followed, and Edward was several
						times forced to lead an army thither; and after his death Scotland regained its
						independence (formally admitted in 1328). The chief result of Edward's aggressions was
						to throw the Scots into alliance with France, and postpone until the eighteenth century
						the constitutional union of the two British kingdoms.
					170. Rise of Parliament
					More important than Edward's military exploits were his constitutional measures.
						Parliament assumed under him the form which it was to bear into modern times. The roots
						of this institution lay deep in the past: the idea of representation in local affairs
						was older than the Norman conquest; and under the Normans, especially in the juries of
						Henry II., it received a wide extension. The first introduction of representatives into
						the Great Council (the feudalized successor to the Anglo-Saxon Witan, § 155) was in
						1213, when "four discreet men" of each county were ordered to be chosen to meet with the
						barons. In 1265 Simon de Montfort added borough or town representatives. In 1295 Edward
						summoned the Model Parliament, which contained the barons, together with representatives
						of counties and towns on a larger scale than before. After this time, elected
						representatives of the people were regularly summoned, along with the nobles and higher
						clergy, and the Great Council becomes the English Parliament. In the next century the
						representatives of towns and counties united to form the House of Commons, while the
						barons, including the bishops and abbots, formed the House of Lords. Parliament was thus
						divided into two houses, and its external structure was complete; but the development of
						its powers was only beginning.
					Edward I. was also active in reforming and systematizing the English laws. The
						thirteenth century was above all things the age of the lawyer and legislator, and in
						this field Edward's  work may well challenge comparison
						with that of Frederick II. of Sicily, and Louis IX. and Philip IV. of France.
					Edward II. proved an unworthy son of his great father; he was frivolous and
						unprincipled, and utterly incapable of carrying on the work begun by Edward I. He
						angered the great barons by the favor which he showed to unfit companions; and after
						many disturbances he was forced to abdicate (1327), and was then murdered in prison.
					171. Edward III. (1327-1377)
					Edward III., son of Edward II., showed the energy and capacity of his grandfather. The
						beginning of the Hundred Years' War with France (ch. xiv.) is the most important event
						of his reign; but constitutional progress was not arrested. Since the days of Henry
						III., the English had resented the exactions of the papacy, and the fact that the Popes
						now resided at Avignon (§ 187), on what was practically French soil, increased the ill
						feeling. Two great statutes were enacted against the papacy in this reign -- the one
						forbidding papal appointments to ecclesiastical positions in England(Statute of
						Provisors), and the other preventing appeals to the papal court (Statute of
						Præmunire).
					
						WYCLIF'S PULPIT IN LUTTERWORTH CHURCH.
					
					About this time John Wyclif, an Oxford professor, successfully attacked the Pope's
						claim to English tribute based on John's submission, condemned the temporal lordship
						exercised by the church, and assailed the  doctrine of
						transubstantiation; with the assistance of others, he also translated the Bible into
						English, and formed a body of "poor priests" to preach among the people. In 1382 he was
						condemned for heresy; but circumstances did not permit of further steps being taken
						against him, and he died peacefully two years later. The importance of Wyclif's teaching
						outlived his own time and the circumstances which called it forth; he was the greatest
						of the "reformers before the Reformation," and the movement which he started, both in
						England and in Bohemia (whither it was transplanted), lasted in some sort down to the
						days of Luther.
					
					172. Summary
					The conquest of Britain by the Angles and Saxons (449-600) established there a Teutonic
						people who have retained their Teutonic language and institutions to the present time.
						The Danish invasions made more marked their Teutonic character; and the Norman conquest
						(1066), while profoundly affecting English institutions by feudalizing and centralizing
						them, left almost untouched the Anglo-Saxon system of local self-government, and did not
						seriously change the nature of the people. Under the Angevin kings (1154-1399), Ireland
						and Wales were acquired and Normandy lost; in the same period a series of legal,
						financial, and judicial reforms improved the administration and strengthened the crown,
						while the rights of the nation were secured in the Great Charter, wrested from King John
						(1215). A representative Parliament arose (1213-1295) and became a regular part of the
						government; and the growth of national consciousness gave rise to a movement to restrict
						papal taxation, appointment, and jurisdiction in England. Long before the reign of
						Edward III. began, the Normans and English in England had become one people, and when
						the Hundred Years' War with France came, they were ready to support their king with the
						enthusiasm of a national spirit.



					
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) What other lands suffered from the attacks of the Northmen or Danes at the same
							time with England? (2) Was the Norman conquest a good or a bad thing for England? (3)
							To what was due the anarchy under Stephen? (4) Show on an outline map the lands ruled
							by Henry II.; show also those lost by John. (5) What advantages had trial by jury over
							the older forms of trial? (6) What issues were involved in the battle of Bouvines? (7)
							Did Magna Charta grant new rights to Englishmen? (8) How did local self-government
							prepare the way for Parliament?
						Search Topics
						(9) Character and work of Alfred. (10) William the Conqueror. (11) Reforms of Henry
							II. (12) Events leading up to Magna Charta. (13) Simon de Montfort. (14) Edward I.
							(15) Life and teachings of John Wyclif. (16) The rise of Parliament.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						Maps, pp. 192, 228; Gardiner, School Atlas, maps 3-14; Poole, Historical Atlas, maps xvi.-xviii.; Dow, Atlas,
							x.
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, 339-350; Bémont and
							Monod, Medieval Europe, ch. xxvii.; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, chs. ix. xviii.; Duruy, Middle
								Ages, 40-42, 159-164, 180-186, 341-357, 385-391; Stillé, Studies
								in Medieval History, 189-235; Gardiner, Students' History of
								England, 26-230; Terry, History of England, 18-349; Ransome,
								Advanced History of England, 19-242; Green, History
								of the English People, I. bks. i.-iii., bk. iv. chs. i.-ii.; Historians' History of the World, XVIII. 30-445; Freeman, William
								the Conqueror; Hughes, Alfred the Great.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. ch. xi.; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 234-239; Henderson, Documents of the Middle
								Ages, bk. i.; University of Pennsylvania, Translations and
								Reprints, I. No. 6, II. No. 1, III. No. 5; Hutton, Simon de
								Montfort and his Cause; Kendall, Source Book of English
								History; Colby, Selections from the Sources of English
								History; Adams and Stephens, Select Documents of English
								Constitutional History, 1-99.
						Illustrative works
						Shakespeare, King John; Scott, Ivanhoe; G. A.
							Henty, The Dragon and the Raven, -- Wulf the
							Saxon; J. G. Edgar, Runnymede and Lincoln Fair, -- How I Won my Spurs; Martin Tupper, Stephen Langton; Mrs. A.
							Payne, Glastonbury; W. H. Herbert, The Wager of
								Battle; Julia Corner, The King and the Troubadour.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER XIII.
					

					THE RISE OF FRANCE (987-1337)
					173. Development of the royal power
					WHEN Hugh Capet came to the throne of France, in 987 (§ 51), feudal
						tendencies had overmastered the monarchy; and what is now France was a bundle of feudal
						fragments, steadily growing farther apart in language, in law, and in political feeling.
						It was the work of the Capetian kings to reunite these fragments, to form a strong
						monarchy, and to impart national enthusiasm. As means with which to work they had
						extensive private estates in northern France, the support of the church and the towns,
						and the moral authority which attached to the office of king. The transformation was
						largely effected through the extension of the royal domain, that is, of those lands
						which were directly under the control of the crown.
					Under the first four Capetian kings little was accomplished; but beginning with Louis
						VI. (1108-1137) rapid progress was made. By purchase, marriage, inheritance, and
						forfeiture, fief after fief was acquired, until at last the royal domain included almost
						the whole of France. To keep what was gained, the principle of hereditary succession to
						the crown was established against that of election (§ 51), partly through the practice
						of electing the son in the father's lifetime as his associate and successor, but more
						through the fortunate fact that, unlike the German imperial houses, the Capetians for
						eleven generations (until 1316) never lacked a son to receive the scepter of the father,
						and that only once was a long regency necessary.


					
					174. The first four capetians (987-1108)
					Hugh Capet (987-996), the founder of the new dynasty, was regarded by the barons who
						made him king as little more than "first among equals," and his reign was occupied
						almost wholly with the struggle to secure his right to the crown. His son Robert
						(996-1031) was more of a monk than a warrior or statesman, and left the royal power
						little stronger than at his accession. Under Henry I. (1031-1060) the domain and the
						authority of the Capetians were reduced to the lowest point. His son Philip I.
						(1060-1108) showed active hostility to Normandy, as a result of the Norman conquest of
						England; and thenceforth French kings sought to separate Normandy from England, and
						sowed dissensions in the English royal family. In the latter part of Philip's reign he
						was hampered by a long quarrel with Pope Gregory VII.; nevertheless he began the
						increase of the royal domain, and prepared the way for greater extensions under his
						successors.
					175. Royal domain reduced to order (1108-1137)
					Louis VI. (1108-1137) is styled "the Fat," but he was the embodiment of martial energy.
						His great task was to reduce to order the petty nobles of the royal domain, who were
						often little better than brigands. The conditions which prevailed in France at this time
						were similar to those which existed in England under Stephen: every lord of a castle
						robbed at will, and some tortured with fiendish cruelty those who fell into their hands.
						Twenty years of hard fighting was necessary before the last of these brigands was
						crushed; and in order that such evils might not again occur, every fortress taken was
						destroyed or intrusted to faithful persons.
					By this policy Louis VI. greatly increased the power of the crown: for the first time,
						the king became master of the royal domain, and could go from Paris to Orleans (p. 228)
						without risk of having his passage disputed by the lord of some petty castle. Louis VI.
						also taught the barons whose fiefs lay outside his domain that "kings have long arms,"
						and at various times asserted his power in Flanders, Aquitaine, and elsewhere.


					
					176. Misfortunes under Louis VII. (1137-1180)
					Louis VII. (1137-1180) finished the task of securing and consolidating the domain, but
						in other respects the growth of the royal power was retarded in his reign. This was
						chiefly owing to two causes: (1) his participation in the Second Crusade (§ 102); and
						(2) the increase of the power of the counts of Anjou.
					The Second Crusade both directly and indirectly was the cause of much misfortune to
						France. The king's absence was untimely, because of discord in the kingdom; but
						fortunately Louis left the government in the charge of Suger, abbot of the monastery of
						St. Denis near Paris, who was an able man, trained in administration under Louis VI.
						Suger, until his death in 1152, was the chief minister of the crown: as abbot, he
						reformed his monastery; as scholar, he wrote the life of Louis VI.; as statesman, in the
						language of one of his correspondents, he "sustained alone the burden of affairs,
						maintained the churches in peace, reformed the clergy, protected the kingdom with arms,
						caused virtue to flourish, and the authority of the laws to rule."
					Zeller, Louis VI. et Louis VII., p. 95
					Before his accession, Louis VII. had married Eleanor, heiress of Aquitaine, thereby
						adding that vast territory to the lands of the crown; but her misconduct on the crusade
						determined him to procure a divorce, which she also desired. A decree was obtained from
						a council of the French clergy, declaring the marriage void by reason of relationship
						within the degrees prohibited by the church. This was followed almost immediately by
						Eleanor's marriage to young Henry of Anjou (§ 161), and the great Aquitanian inheritance
						passed into the control of that house which was the deadliest rival of the Capetian
						kings. From near the mouth of the river Somme to the Pyrenees, the coast was now in the
						hands of the prince who two years later ascended the English throne as Henry II.
						Thenceforth the Capetians had to fight the Plantagenets, or to give up all hope of
						further growth.


					
					177. Philip Augustus (1180-1223)
					For more than twenty years Louis VII. struggled with Henry II., but the task of
						breaking the Angevin power was reserved for his son Philip II. (1180-1223). Unlike his
						antagonist Richard I. of England, Philip had little of the knight-errant in his
						character; he was patient and persevering, a master of statecraft and of diplomacy; he
						knew how to dissimulate, and was unscrupulous in his choice of means. "He was stern,"
						says a contemporary, "toward the nobles who disobeyed him; it pleased him to stir up
						discord among them, and he loved to use in his service men of lesser rank."Lavisse and Rambaud, Histoire Générale, II. 365
						The chronicler Rigord gave him the name Augustus, "because he enlarged the boundaries of
						the state."
					Philip's part in the Third Crusade (§§ 104, 105) was a mere episode of his reign; his
						heart was not in the work; and as soon as the sense of obligation would permit, he
						returned to France. The chief principle of his policy was to stir up dissensions in the
						English royal family and separate the Continental possessions of that house from the
						island kingdom. During the first twenty years of his reign, the ability of Richard the
						Lion-Hearted, and a conflict with the papacy caused by Philip's attempt to divorce his
						first wife, prevented him from accomplishing much. The weakness and wickedness of King
						John, however, gave him his opportunity. In 1202 the English fiefs were declared
						forfeited (§ 166), and castle after castle was taken, including the famous Chateau
						Gaillard built by Richard to guard the Seine. All the English fiefs except Aquitaine
						passed into Philip's hands, and the battle of Bouvines (1214) secured him in possession.
						A vast domain, with an extensive seaboard, thus came into the hands of the French king,
						lifting him far above the level of his greatest vassals.
					178. Development of towns
					The development of the French towns, which was sketched in a preceding chapter (§ 145),
						went on at a rapid rate  under Philip Augustus. His father
						and grandfather, Louis VII. and Louis VI., were half hostile to the rising power of the
						communes; but Philip welcomed the towns as a useful ally against the feudal nobles.
						Communal independence, however, was not part of his plan; if with one hand he granted
						charters of liberties, with the other he extended the royal supremacy.
					
						CATHEDRAL OF NOTRE-DAME,
								PARIS.
					
					Paris, as the chief place of the royal domain, received a special treatment. In the
						time of Julius Cæsar, Paris was a little cluster of huts on a marshy island of the river
						Seine; during the five hundred years of Roman rule it grew to be a provincial capital;
						by making it his ordinary place of residence, Philip Augustus caused it to become the
						first national capital of a modern state. His fostering care increased its area, erected
						new walls, inclosing territory on both banks of the river, paved its streets to do away
						with their ill-smelling and unsanitary mudholes, and completed the erection of the
						cathedral of Notre-Dame, one of the noblest examples of Gothic architecture.
					179. Heretical sects
					In the reign of Philip Augustus was begun a movement to stamp out heresy in the south
						of France, which had imortant results for civilization, for the church, and for the
						royal power. Many heretical sects had sprung up in the 
						eleventh and twelfth centuries. Some, like the Waldenses, founded by Peter Waldo of
						Lyons (about 1178), emphasized the need of a return to the simple life and worship of
						the Apostles. Others, like the Cathari (Manicheans), whose
						Christianity was tinged with Persian doctrines, believed in two coequal Gods, -- one
						good, the other evil, -- declared the material universe to be the creation of the evil
						deity, and rejected the existing order in church and state; the "perfect" members of the
						sect rejected marriage, and were frankly opposed to the whole social organization. The
							Cathari were most numerous in southern France, where they were known
						as Albigenses, from the little town of Albi, near Toulouse.
					Southern France, or Languedoc, at this time was so different from northern France in
						language, customs, and culture as almost to constitute a separate nation. There
						flourished the troubadours, the authors of the earliest poetical literature in the
						popular tongues; there, too, were to be found culture, luxury, and toleration such as
						few other European lands could boast. The ardent nature of the people led many to adopt
						with zeal the teachings of the Albigenses, and soon all classes were infected. Their
						enemies charged them with immoral practices, but the charges seem largely unfounded.
					180. Albigensian Crusade (1209-1229)
					Pope Innocent III. declared the doctrines of the heretics to be ruinous to the church
						and subversive of society; and after two peaceful missionary efforts had failed, and a
						papal legate had been murdered by a knight of Raymond VI., count of Toulouse, the Pope
						issued a call for an armed crusade. Philip Augustus, pleading his preoccupation with
						"two great and terrible lions," John of England and Otto IV. of Germany, refused to take
						part; but a host of lesser lords from the north, among whom Simon de Montfort, father of
						the English earl (§ 168), was preëminent, gathered at the Pope's call. The chief
						direction of the crusade was given to the papal legate Arnold, abbot of Cîteaux.


					
					Moeller, Histoy of the Christian Church, II.
						399
					The war was waged with frightful cruelty; "according to his own admission Arnold raged
						furiously, without sparing rank, sex, or age, with murder, pillage, and fire in Christ's
						name." In part this cruelty is explained by the violent excesses of the
						Albigenses, who had waylaid and slain priests, and driven bishops and abbots from their
						benefices; but fanaticism and lust of lands and booty helped on the movement. Twice the
						count of Toulouse made abject submission, and twice he again took up arms. In 1226,
						Louis VIII., who had ascended the throne three years before, led a great expedition
						against Toulouse; but on the way back he died of fever.
					All parties were now tired of the struggle; and in 1229 a treaty was arranged between
						the French king, Louis IX., and the new count of Toulouse, son of the original count.
						Heresy was to be put down, and the count was to do penance for his support of the
						heretics; part of his estates were to pass at once to the king, and the remainder to go
						at the death of the count to the king's brother Alphonse, who was to marry the count's
						daughter. As it turned out, Alphonse left no heirs, and in 1271 these estates also
						passed into the royal domain. By these wars the domain of the crown was much increased,
						and the royal power given a firmer footing in the south; for southern France itself, the
						result was a decay of its peculiar civilization and the extinction of the troubadour
						poets.
					181. The mendicant orders
					The complete rooting out of heresy in southern France took time and was accomplished
						largely by new agencies -- the Mendicant Orders and the Inquisition. The older orders of
						monks sought to shut out the world, and gave themselves up to prayer and meditation; the
						new mendicant orders were to live and labor in the world, seeking preferably the poorest
						quarters of the towns. The Dominicans, or Preaching Friars (also called Black Friars),
						were founded by Saint Dominic (died 1221), a Spaniard of noble family; the HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--13
						 Franciscans, or Friars Minor (called Gray Friars), were
						founded by Saint Francis, an Italian of mystical temperament. "No human creature since
						Christ," says a modern Protestant writer, "has more fully incarnated the ideal of
						Christianity than Francis. Amid the extravagance, amounting at times almost to insanity,
						of his asceticism, there shines forth the Christian love and humility with which he
						devoted himself to the wretched and neglected -- the outcasts for whom, in that rude
						time, there were few indeed to care." Both orders, after some hesitation, were
						authorized by the papacy, and became its stanch supporters. The Dominicans applied
						themselves especially to preaching and teaching, while the Franciscans turned rather to
						care for the poor and sick.
					lea, Inquisition
						of the Middle Ages, I. 260 
					At first the friars were enthusiastically welcomed. "They went out two by two," says a
						contemporary; "they took neither wallet, nor money, nor bread, nor shoes, for they were
						not permitted to possess anything. They had neither monastery, nor church, nor lands,
						nor beasts. They made use of neither fur nor linen, but wore only tunics of wool,
						terminating in a hood, without capes or mantles or any other garment. If they were
						invited to eat, they ate what they found; if they were given anything, they kept none of
						it for the morrow. Once or twice a year they gathered together for their general
						chapter, after which their superior sent them, two together or more, into the different
						provinces. . . . They were so increased in a little time that there was no province in
						Christendom where they had not their brethren."
					Jacques
								de Vitry, in eller (Philippe Auguste), 80
					182. Foundation of the Inquisition (about 1233)
					When open resistance ceased on the part of the heretics, it became increasingly
						difficult to root them out; the bishops' courts proved insufficient for the task, and
						gradually another means was devised. This was the Inquisition, composed of persons
						especially commissioned to track down and punish heretics, and unhampered by other cares
						or by responsibility to any authority save Rome. From  an
						early day this work was largely turned over to the Dominicans. The procedure of the
						Inquisition was of a kind to tempt those blinded by passion and self-seeking to bring
						accusations on slight pretexts; and so close was the connection between its branches,
						and so complete its records, that neither time nor flight could insure immunity. Names
						of accusers and of witnesses were concealed, and torture (adopted from the secular
						courts) was freely used to elicit confessions. The Inquisition stamped out the last
						embers of the Albigensian heresy, but it left a legacy of tyranny and oppression from
						which the world was long in escaping.
					183. Louis IX. (1226-1270)
					Louis IX., son of Louis VIII., grew up to be the possessor of virtues which won for him
						the title of " Saint," and of abilities which insured the steady growth of the royal
						power; he had all the good qualities of his age and few of its bad ones. Until he
						attained the age of twenty-one (in 1236) the government was carried on by his mother,
						Blanche of Castile, a high-minded, ambitious, capable, and pious woman from whom Louis
						derived his best qualities. The nobles resented her rule because she was a woman and a
						foreigner; and they thought the occasion favorable to regain lost territories and
						privileges. Coalitions were formed and war begun, with the aid of England; but the
						courage and ability of Blanche were more than a match for her enemies. It is not too
						much to say that she saved the monarchy; and until her death, in 1252, she exercised a
						powerful influence on the French government. 
							COFFER OF THE TIME OF SAINT LOUIS, PRESENTED BY HIS GRANDSON TO AN ABBEY.
							Covered with painted designs of royal insignia and allegorical subjects.
								In the Louvre, Paris.
						


					
					The history of Louis's personal reign deals principally with his relations with
						England, his administrative reforms, and his two crusades. His wars with England ended,
						in 1258, with a treaty by which he restored some lands in return for a formal
						renunciation by Henry III. of all right to the territories confiscated by Philip
						Augustus. The high estimation in which Louis was held, even by his enemies, is seen in
						the fact that six years later he was chosen arbitrator between Henry and his rebellious
						subjects.
					
						SAINT LOUIS'S CAPTURE OF
								DAMIETTA, IN EGYPT (1249).
						From an old print.
					
					The administrative reforms and legislation of Saint Louis were very important. He
						reformed the judiciary and abolished the right of private warfare; he also took steps
						which led to the separation of the central government into three branches: (1) the
						Council, for political affairs; (2) the Exchequer, for finance; and (3) the Parlement of
						Paris, for judicial business.  While insisting fully upon
						his rights as king, he nevertheless showed respect for the just rights and privileges of
						the feudal nobles.
					Soon after the fall of Jerusalem in 1244, Louis IX. "took the cross," and was absent
						from France in Egypt and Palestine for six years (§ 111). So far as any practical end
						was concerned, his crusade was a failure; but Louis won wide renown for his courage and
						devotion. In 1270 he led another crusade, which was directed to Tunis because Louis's
						brother, Charles of Anjou, king of Sicily (§ 136), had claims against the Mohammedan
						lord of that land. Soon after he landed, pestilence broke out in the camp, and to it
						King Louis himself fell a victim.
					184. Philip III. (1270-1285)
					Philip III., who succeeded his father, was a well-meaning king, without discernment;
						but he was ruled by councilors trained under Louis IX., and the work of uniting the
						realm and centralizing the government was not interrupted. Charles of Anjou proved the
						evil genius of his nephew Philip, as he had of Louis IX. In 1282 Charles's misgovernment
						of his kingdom of Naples and Sicily caused a rising known as the "Sicilian Vespers";
						with the assistance of the king of Aragon, the rebels established their independence,
						and for a century and a half Sicily was separated from Naples. War between France and
						Aragon followed, and Pope Martin IV. (a Frenchman) gave to it the character of a
						crusade. With a large army, Philip III. crossed the Pyrenees to avenge his uncle's
						injuries; he accomplished little, and on his return died of the plague at Toulouse. The
						turbulent career of Charles of Anjou came to an end a few months earlier.
					185. Philip IV. (1285-1314)
					Under Philip the Fair, as contemporaries called the son of Philip III., wars were waged
						with Aragon, England, and Flanders, but with no great results. Flanders, though a fief
						of the French crown, was so prosperous through its rich agriculture, and the woolen
						manufactures and trade of  its cities, as to make its
						count a semi-independent prince. His alliance with the English led Philip IV. to attempt
						to annex Flanders, but in the battle of Courtrai (1302) the French knights were routed
						by the Flemish tradesmen. This was the first of a long series of battles which taught
						Europe that foot soldiers, if properly armed and handled, were more than a match for
						mounted men-at-arms. The only important additions which Philip IV. made to the royal
						domain were the city of Lyons, on the river Rhone, and the county of Champagne, east of
						Paris -- both made by peaceable methods.
					Philip IV. kept the administration in the hands of men of humble origin, trained in the
						doctrines of the Roman law; and their zeal and loyalty were a constant support. In 1302
						he called the first Estates-General of France -- an assembly corresponding to the
						Parliament of England. Its history differs from that of the English Parliament in that
						the three "estates" (the clergy, the nobility, and the commons, or Third Estate)
						remained distinct; class and local interests, therefore, controlled its action, and it
						never attained the regularity of session and the extensive powers which gave the English
						Parliament its great strength.
					186. Contest with Pope Boniface VIII.
						(1296-1303)
					Of more importance than Philip's wars was his struggle with Pope Boniface VIII. The
						question really at issue was whether the papacy should rule over European states in
						temporal as well as in spiritual matters. Gregory VII., Innocent III., and now Boniface
						VIII., advanced claims which would have made kings and Emperors mere vassals and
						dependents of the papacy; and the papal triumph over the house of Frederick II. (§ 136)
						seemed firmly to establish these principles. But in France, as also in England, a
						national sentiment was arising which enabled the king to maintain his independence. In
						both countries the quarrel arose over a bull issued by Boniface, called from its opening
						words Clericis Laicos, which forbade the payment of taxes by the
						clergy to  the laity. In England, Edward I. brought the
						clergy to terms by withdrawing from them the protection of the law, the administration
						of which they refused to support. In France, Philip answered the Pope's bull by cutting
						off contributions from the French church to the papacy. In the course of the struggle
						with Philip, Boniface issued the bull called Unam Sanctam, in which
						the papal claims to temporal power were stated in their most explicit form. "There are
						two swords," argued Boniface, quoting St. Luke (xx. 38), "the spiritual and the
						temporal; our Lord said not of these two swords, 'it is too much,' but 'it is enough.'
						Both are in the power of the church: the one the spiritual, to be used by the church, the other the material, for the church; the
						former that of priests, the latter that of kings and soldiers, to be wielded at the
						command and by the sufferance of the priest. One sword must be under the other, the
						temporal under the spiritual. . . . The spiritual instituted the temporal power, and
						judges whether that power is well exercised. . . . If the temporal power errs, it is
						judged by the spiritual. To deny this, is to assert, with the heretical Manicheans, two
						coequal principles. We therefore assert, define, and pronounce that it is necessary to
						salvation to believe that every human being is subject to the Pontiff of Rome."Milman, Latin Christianity, VI. 326
					187. Anagni and Avignon
					After the issuing of this bull, preparations were made to excommunicate and depose
						Philip. To prevent this, agents of the French king, acting with the Pope's Italian
						enemies, seized him at Anagni in Italy, and subjected him to great indignities. Boniface
						was now eighty-six years old, and the shock was such that he died within a few weeks
						(1303). He was the last of the great mediæval Popes.
					The affair at Anagni is the counterpart to the humiliation of Henry IV. at Canossa; the
						papacy triumphed over the empire, only to have its own power shattered by the resistance
						of the new national monarchies. For three quarters of a century  France now controlled the papacy as the Emperors had once done. On the
						ground that Rome was unsafe, the seat of the Pope was fixed at Avignon, on the borders
						of France (1305); thus began the period called the "Babylonian Captivity" of the church,
						which lasted until 1377.
					
						PAPAL PALACE, AVIGNON.
						Built 1336-1364. One of the best specimens of mediæval military architecture in
							existence.
					
					188. Succession to the throne (1314-1328)
					The death of Philip IV., in 1314, was followed by the reign, in rapid succession, of
						his three sons -- Louis X. (1314-1316), Philip V. (1316-1322), and Charles IV.
						(1322-1328). The chief interest of these reigns lies in the question of the succession
						to the throne. Louis X. was the first Capetian king to die without a son to succeed him,
						and the question arose for the first time whether a woman could reign in France. An
						assembly of the nobles and clergy decided against Louis's daughter and in favor of his
						brother Philip; thus a new rule was established, in accordance with which no queen has
						ever held sway over France in her own right.


					

					When Charles IV., the last of the Capetians in the direct line, died (in 1328) without
						a son, this rule received a further extension. The councilors of young Edward III. of
						England claimed the throne for him as the nearest male heir, through his mother, who was
						a daughter of Philip IV. A French assembly decided, however, that not only was a woman
						herself debarred from the succession, but she could transmit no claim to her son. This
						is the principle to which the name "Salic law" was afterward given, on the supposition
						that it was based on a provision of the old law of the Salian Franks. In reality it was
						based on the unwillingness of the French nobles to receive a foreigner as king, and at
						the time nothing was said of the Salic law.
					The choice of the nobles fell upon Philip of Valois, the representative of the nearest
						male line of the Capetian house. Under the name of Philip VI. he was received by France,
						and in 1329, and again in 1331, Edward III. acknowledged him as his lord for the fief of
						Guienne, or Aquitaine. Other causes, however, soon led to war between England and
						France, and then the claim of Edward III. to the French throne became a factor in the
						contest which we call the Hundred Years' War.
					
					189. Summary
					From Louis VI. to Philip IV. there was a steady progress in territorial unity and
						governmental efficiency. Philip IV. gave to the government the general form which it has
						continued to bear in spite of subsequent revolutions; France ceased to be a mere feudal
						monarchy and became a modern state, with power centering in the crown. A comparison of
						the development of France with that of Germany and England is instructive. In Germany
						the disintegrating tendencies of feudalism prevailed, a minute territorial division
						resulted, and the Emperor was despoiled of all power, without profit to the people. In
						England, the struggle between the feudal nobles and the crown produced a constitutional
						monarchy  under which popular rights and liberties rapidly
						developed. In France the powers of the crown grew at the expense of the feudal nobles,
						but without gain to the people save through greater security and better government.
					After the fall of the Hohenstaufen house, France becomes the most important country of
						Europe, the part which the Emperors formerly played in Italy being now taken by the
						French kings. The intellectual and artistic influence of France was also great. "Her
						intellect," says the eminent historian Lavisse, "gave expression to the whole
						civilization of that period -- religious, feudal, and knightly. The French wrote heroic
						poems, built castles and cathedrals, and interpreted the texts of Aristotle and the
						Scriptures. Their songs, buildings, and scholastic philosophy verged upon perfection.
						Already independent, already mobile and sprightly, the French mind freed itself from
						tradition and authority. It produced the aerial grace of Gothic art. . . . Christian
						Europe copied French cathedrals, recited French heroic and humorous songs, and thus
						learned the French language. . . . Almost all the universities of Europe were like
						swarms of bees from the hive of Mount St. Genevieve [University of Paris]. A proverb
						said that the world was ruled by three powers, -- the Papacy, the Empire, and Learning;
						the first residing in Rome, the second in Germany, the third in Paris."
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Why should the acquisition of England by the .Norman dukes change their relations
							to the French kings? (2) What does the length of the struggle to reduce the domain to
							order show concerning the power of the crown at this time? (3) What historical
							influences would account for the higher civilization of southern France? (4) Was the
							church responsible for the cruelty which accompanied the Albigensian crusade, or was
							it due to the character of the times? (5) Were the persons who took part in that
							movement more animated by religion or by desire for gain? (6) Why should the friars be
							more successful in combating heresy  than the parish
							priests? than the monks? (7) How had Charles of Anjou come into possession of the
							kingdom of Naples and Sicily? (8) What fundamental difference was there between the
							French Parlement and the English Parliament? (9) Why should the lawyers prove more
							loyal servants of the crown than counselors drawn from the nobles and clergy? (10)
							What preliminary training of the English helped make their Parliament more effective
							than the French Estates-General? (11) Distinguish priests, monks, and friars. (12)
							What was Aquitaine? (13) What was Flanders?
						Search topics
						(14) Character and work of Louis VI. (15) Philip Augustus and the Third Crusade. (16)
							Increase of the royal power under Philip Augustus. (17) The Waldenses. (18) The
							Albigenses. (19) The troubadours. (20) Saint Dominic. (21) Saint Francis of Assisi.
							(22) Louis IX. (23) Contest of Philip IV. and Pope Boniface VIII. (24) Popular feeling
							toward the friars. (25) Early descriptions of Paris. (26) Nature and authority of a
							papal bull.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						See maps, pp. 228, 112; Poole, Historical Atlas, maps liv.-lvi.;
							Gardiner, School Atlas, maps 10-12 ; Freeman, Historical Geography, II. (Atlas), maps 11, 12, 15; Dow, Atlas, xi.
						 Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, 311-332; Bémont and
							Monod, Medieval Europe, chs. xxiv.-xxvi.; Emerton, Mediœval Europe, 413-433 ; Duruy, France, chs. xvii.-xxiii.,
							-- Middle Ages, 174-180, 351-356, 359-384; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, chs. vii. xviii.; Tout, Empire
								and Papacy, 70-92, 274-295, 393-428; Adams, Growth of the French
								Nation, chs. vi.-viii.; Hassall, French People, chs. vi.
							vii.; Masson, Medieval France, i. iii.-viii.; Kitchin, France, I. bk. iii.; Hutton, Philip Augustus; Historians' History
								of the World, XI. chs. ii.-iv.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. ch. x.; Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book, nos. 269-272; Henderson, Documents of the Middle
								Ages, bk. iii. no. viii.; University of Pennsylvania, Translations
								and Reprints, III. No. 6, pp. 7, 14; Joinville, Life of St.
								Louis.
						Illustrative works
						L. Valentine, The Knight's Ransom; H. Conscience, The
								Lion of Flanders; G. P. R. James, Philip Augustus; C. R.
							Maturin, The Albigenses; A. Dumas, The Knight of
								Mauleon; Blisset, The Most Famous Loba; Davis, Falaise of the Blessed Voice.
					


					

					
						ENGLISH POSSESSIONS IN FRANCE, 1180-1429
						
						AFTER 1453 ENGLAND RETAINED ONLY CALAIS, AS ON P.284
					


				

				

				
					CHAPTER XIV.
					
					THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR (1337-1453)
					190. Origin of the war
					MANY causes combined to produce the succession of conflicts between
						England and France which we call the Hundred Years' War. The conquests of Philip
						Augustus left a hostility which lingered in spite of the treaty of 1258 (§ 183); and the
						rejection of the claims of Edward III. to the French throne increased the tension. There
						was also friction over the English possession of Guienne; and in Scotland the French
						aided the young king, David Bruce, while the English supported a rival claimant.
					The final breach resulted from troubles in Flanders, which was a French fief, but
						depended for the prosperity of its towns on the manufacture of cloth made from English
						wool. In 1336 the French king, Philip VI. (1328-1350), recklessly caused the arrest of
						all Englishmen there; and in retaliation Edward III. seized Flemish merchants in his
						kingdom, and forbade the exportation of English wool. The Flemish burghers there upon
						rebelled and formed an alliance with England to secure their accustomed supplies of
						wool; and to satisfy their scruples against warring upon their king, Edward III. took
						the title of king of France -- a title which his successors did not finally abandon
						until the time of George III. Previous wars between England and France had been feudal
						struggles between their kings, the people taking little part: French interference with
						English interests in Flanders now aroused the English Parliament to enthusiastic support
						of the war, and  Edward's claim to the throne of France
						made it a life-and-death struggle for the French monarchy.
					191. Opening of the war (1337-1346)
					The operations of the first few years were carried on by Edward III. in the
						neighborhood of Flanders, and were without appreciable results. In 1340, however, he was
						met off Sluys, while crossing the Channel, by a fleet of French and Genoese vessels,
						which were chained together in order to present a more solid front. Then began "a sore
						battle on both parts; archers and crossbows began to shoot, and men of arms approached
						and fought hand to hand; and the better to come together they had great hooks and
						grappers of iron to cast out of one ship into another, and so tied them fast
							together." The battle lasted from morning until noon, and ended in complete victory for the
						English. Thenceforth, for a generation, the English were masters of the seas, and could
						land their expeditions where they wished.
					Froissart, Chronicles, ch, 50
					In 1346 occurred the first pitched battle of the war. An expedition under the English
						king landed in Normandy and advanced up the valley of the Seine until the flames of the
						villages fired by the English could be seen from the walls of Paris. Without attempting
						to attack the capital, Edward turned northward to join his forces with those of the
						Flemings, while an enormous French army under Philip followed him. Edward crossed the
						river Somme by means of a ford at the river mouth revealed by a peasant, and took up a
						position near the village of Crécy, from which the subsequent battle takes its name.
					
						GENOESE CROSSBOWMAN.
					
					192. Battle of Crécy (1346)
					The English, who consisted chiefly of infantry armed with  the longbow, -- the excellence of which had been demonstrated in the wars of Edward
						I. against the Welsh and Scots, -- were stationed in three divisions on the slope of a
						little hill. The French force outnumbered the English five to one, and consisted chiefly
						of mounted men-at-arms, with a body of hired Genoese crossbowmen. The latter were first
						sent forward to the attack. They were tired with a long day's march, and their crossbow
						strings were slacked with a wetting received in a passing thundershower. They were no
						match for the English longbowmen; and when the shafts of the English began to fall "so
						thick that it seemed as if it snowed," the Genoese broke and fled. At this Philip in
						passion called out, "Slay these rascals, for they trouble us without reason." "And ever
						still," says Froissart, "the Englishmen shot wherever they saw thickest press; the sharp
						arrows ran into the men of arms and into their horses; and many fell, horse and men,
						among the Genoese, and when they were down they could not arise again, the press was so
						thick that one overthrew another."
					Froissart,
								Chronicles, ch. 130
					
						ENGLISH LONGBOWMAN.
					
					A portion of the French finally managed to reach the English knights under the Black
						Prince, son of Edward III., who were on foot in the rear of the archers. In haste
						messengers were sent to inform the king, who with the reserve coolly watched the battle
						from a windmill at the top of the hill. "Return to them that sent you," said Edward,
						"and say to them that they send no more to me as long as my son is alive. And also say
						to them that they suffer him this day to win his spurs; for if God be pleased, I will
						that  this day be his and the honor thereof." On the
						French side there fell the blind old king of Bohemia, who chivalrously caused his horse
						to be led into the fight that he "might strike one stroke" with his sword in the cause
						of his ally.
					Froissart, Chronicles, ch.
						130
					193. Effect of Crécy (1346)
					At nightfall the English lines were still unbroken, while the French were in hopeless
						confusion. Philip fled wounded from the field, leaving behind him among the slain eleven
						princes of France and thousands of lesser rank. The English loss was inconsiderable. The
						victory was due chiefly to the English archers and the tactical skill of King Edward.
						Even if cannon of a small, crude sort were not (as some writers claim) used at Crécy,
						the battle nevertheless foretold, equally with that of Courtrai (§ 185), a new era in
						warfare. "It was a combat of infantry against cavalry, of missile weapons against heavy
						armor and lances, of trained professional soldiers against a combination of foreign
						mercenaries with disorderly feudal levies. And the inevitable result was made the more
						decisive by the utter want of generalship on the part of the French king."Lodge, Close of the Middle Ages, 96
					After the battle, Edward continued his retreat unmolested, and laid siege to the city
						of Calais. In spite of a heroic resistance the town was at last obliged to surrender.
						Although Edward did not, as he at first threatened, put to death the leading townsmen,
						the whole population was expelled and their places taken by English settlers. For two
						hundred years, thenceforth, Calais was an English town, an outpost of England's power
						and trade; and its possession, with that of Dover on the other side the Channel, went
						far to confirm the claim of the English king to be "lord of the narrow seas."
					194. The Black Death (1347-1351)
					After the fall of Calais, a truce was arranged which lasted for several years. In this
						interval the exhaustion caused, by the war was aggravated by a terrible pestilence,
						called the "Black Death," which resembled the bubonic plague of to-day. Arising in Asia,
						it reached Europe by way of  Egypt and Syria, appearing in
						Sicily, Tuscany, and Provence in 1347. During the winter months its progress was
						checked; but the next summer it resumed its march, spreading "from city to city, from
						village to village, from house to house, from man to man." Germany and England
						experienced its ravages in 1349 and 1350; Norway and Russia in 1351.
					Everywhere the mortality was frightful; in some of the provinces of France, two thirds
						of the population perished; during the four years that this plague lasted, at least a
						third of the inhabitants of Europe were carried off. The unsanitary arrangements of the
						Middle Ages -- the complete lack of sewerage systems, the accumulations of filth and
						decaying matter in streets and houses, and the pollution of water supplies --
						sufficiently explain the widespread and great mortality. Where conditions were better,
						as among the monks of Christ Church, Canterbury, the mortality was less. The Black Death
						was only the most terrible of many plagues which devastated Europe in the Middle Ages,
						the recurrence of which gradually ceased with advance in cleanliness and sanitary
						science.
					195. Effects of the Black Death
					The direct and indirect effects of the Black Death were very great. In Germany an
						hysterical religious outbreak occurred, and companies of penitents called Flagellants
						journeyed from place to place, seeking to appease the wrath of God by mutual scourgings.
						In England the decline in the number of laborers gradually produced an abandonment of
						the old manorial system of agriculture; more and more the lands were let out to tenant
						farmers paying money rent instead of services, or else they were put into pasture for
						sheep. Villenage declined, especially after a rising of the peasants in 1381, under Wat
						Tyler; and a system of free labor gradually took its place. To meet conditions produced
						by these changes, the government was obliged more and more to undertake, through
						parliamentary statutes, the regulation of trade and industry; thus the functions of the
						state were enlarged, and  thereby the change from mediæval
						to modern usages and ideas was hastened.
					196. Desolation of France
					In France the influence of the Black Death was complicated by the devastation wrought
						by war and misgovernment. The condition of the people in the second half of the century
						became pitiable in the extreme. On the reduced population the heavy taxes for the
						English war fell with redoubled force. The peasants had to contribute to pay ransoms for
						the deliverance of their lords from captivity, and for the redemption of their own goods
						from destruction. They were forced by both sides to labor without pay in carrying
						supplies, and at siege operations. Often they were tortured to extort money and
						provisions, when they themselves lacked bread for their families. To escape such evils,
						peasants fled in large numbers to the depths of the forests, only to die of famine and
						the attacks of wolves. Many parishes were completely depopulated. Through the joint
						operation of the plague and the war, the rude prosperity which characterized the French
						people at the beginning of the century was brought to an end, and seeds of weakness were
						sown from which the land was slow to recover.
					197. Battle of Poitiers
					Philip VI. died in 1350, before the renewal of the war. His son John (1350-1364) was a
						good knight, but without capacity for government or generalship. In 1355 the war was
						renewed by an expedition of the Black Prince into southern France. The next year the
						prince started to march northward into Normandy; but near Poitiers he was confronted by
						an army many times larger than his own. So hopeless seemed the odds, that he offered
						(but in vain) to surrender his spoil and his prisoners, and to bind himself not to fight
						again for seven years, as the price of a free retreat.
					As at Crécy, the English force consisted principally of archers, while the French were
						mostly mounted and armored knights. The English were stationed on a little plateau  protected by a hedge and by rough and marshy ground. King
						John was persuaded that the strength of the English at Crécy had been due, not to their
						archers, but to the fact that their men-at-arms were dismounted; accordingly, he ordered
						his knights to advance on foot, thus throwing away his chief advantage. The first and
						second divisions of his army failed to come within striking distance of the enemy; and
						upon their retiring, the third division, commanded by the king himself, was left to bear
						the whole weight of the English counterattack. "There was a sore fight," says Froissart,
						"and many a great stroke given and received. ... King John with his own hands did that
						day marvels in arms; he had an ax in his hands wherewith he defended himself and fought
						in the breaking of the press." Refusing to flee, he and his youngest son were taken
						captives by the English.
					Froissart, Chronicles,
						chs. 162-164
					The whole number of prisoners was twice that of their English captors. "That day," says
						Froissart, "whosoever took any prisoner, he was clear his, and might quit or ransom him
						at his pleasure. All such as were there with the prince were all made rich with honor
						and goods, as well by ransoming of prisoners as by winning of gold, silver, plate,
						jewels, that were there found." After the battle the Black Prince entertained the captive king,
						waiting upon him in person at table. But for all this chivalrous display, the English
						shrewdly extracted full advantage from the victory; and pending the acceptance of their
						terms, King John was carried prisoner to London, where for four years he was detained in
						honorable captivity.
					Froissart, Chronicles,
						ch. 166
					198. Internal disorders in France (1356-1360)
					France meanwhile was in a deplorable condition. The govrnment was carried on by the
						king's eldest son, Charles -- the first of the heirs-apparent of France to bear the
						title of Dauphin, derived from the Dauphiné just east of the river Rhone, which was
						annexed to France in 1349. Charles was an untried youth, and demoralization pervaded
							HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--14
						 every branch of the government. The difficulties of his
						position made necessary the frequent assembling of the Estates-General, and the death
						and captivity of so many of the nobles threw the preponderance in these sessions into
						the hands of the Third Estate, or representatives of the towns. Their leader was Stephen
						Marcel, provost of the merchant guild of Paris; and their demands embraced a complete
						reform of the government, including a reduction of the privileges of the nobles and a
						commission of administration appointed by the Estates. When the Dauphin restored some
						dispossessed officials, Marcel gathered a mob and slew them in the Dauphin's presence.
						This was too much for moderate men; a reaction followed, and when the Dauphin brought
						troops to reduce his rebellious capital, Paris stood almost alone.
					
						FRENCH NOBLE, 14TH
								CENTURY.
					
					At this time (1358) there was added to the other miseries of France a great rising of
						the peasants, called the Jacquerie from their nickname of "Jacques Bonhomme." The
						peasants had suffered most from the war and the pestilence; and to their dull minds the
						disasters of Crécy and Poitiers were explainable only on the theory that the nobles had
						betrayed France. The movement was confined to a few provinces in northern France, but it
						was characterized by the utmost ferocity; the peasants seemed turned by their sufferings
						into wild beasts, and the nobles retaliated in like manner. The revolt was soon put
						down, and the lot of the peasant, who was now dreaded as well as despised, became worse
						than before.
					Marcel's policy became steadily more narrowly selfish. He tried to ally Paris with the
						revolted peasants; then he plotted  to put the city into
						the hands of Charles the Bad of Navarre, who claimed the throne against both King John
						and Edward III. While opening the gates to admit Charles, Marcel was assassinated (July,
						1358), and the Dauphin's authority over the city was restored. In spite of his mistakes
						and failures, Marcel is memorable as "the leader of the most notable attempt, before
						1789, to give to France a constitutional form of government."
					199. Treaty of Bretigny (1360)
					A treaty with England was at last concluded at Bretigny in 1360. King John agreed to
						pay a large money ransom, and Edward III. agreed to abandon his claims to the French
						crown in return for the confirmation in full sovereignty of his possession of Calais,
						Ponthieu, and Aquitaine. All questions seemed settled and the war ended by this treaty.
						Four years later King John died at London, whither he had returned on a visit of mingled
						business and pleasure.
					200. Charles V. and Du Guesclin (1364-1380)
					The new king, Charles V. (1364-1380), had as Dauphin gained in experience; as king he
						is known as Charles "the Wise," and was one of the ablest rulers of France in the Middle
						Ages. He was no knight-errant, but a shrewd, practical statesman, who knew how to select
						good generals, and fought no useless battles. During the first five years of his reign,
						peace was kept with England, the abuses of government were remedied, and the country was
						rid of the "free companies" of mercenaries, who in spite of the peace preyed upon the
						inhabitants.
					After France had thus been strengthened, a pretext was found for reasserting suzerainty
						over Aquitaine, and in 1369 war with England began once more. Every advantage now was on
						the side of France. England was tired of the war, Edward III. was old and enfeebled (he
						died in 1377), and the Black Prince was burdened with a disease which carried him off
						the year before his father. The command of the sea was with the French, thanks to the
						fleet of the king of Castile, whom Charles aided against a rival supported by the
						English.  Finally, the French now had a first-class
						general in Bertrand du Guesclin, a low-born Breton who cast aside the old knightly
						traditions of warfare, used professional soldiers instead of the disorderly feudal
						levies, and carried on a cautious campaign of rapid maneuvers, stratagems, and
						ambuscades. As a result, place after place fell into French hands; and in l375, when a
						truce was made, Calais in the north and Bordeaux and Bayonne in the south were the only
						important places left to the English.
					
						FRENCH SHIP, 14TH CENTURY
					
					201. Lull in the war (1380-1414)
					This, however, proved the limit of Charles's success. In 1380 both he and his general,
						Du Gueselin, died. His heir, Charles VI. (1380-1422), was a sickly boy, who became
						insane soon after attaining manhood. The regency during his minority was in the hands of
						his uncles, of whom the leading spirit was the Duke of Burgundy. The new nobles of the
						royal house proved as selfishly feudal and as opposed to the interest of the monarchy as
						were the old nobility; France groaned under their oppressions, and ineffectual
						rebellions of the cities broke out. Fortunately for France, England also experienced the
						evils of a regency and internal dissensions under the son of the Black Prince, Richard
						II. (1377-1399); and the war languished, with long intervals of truce, until 1414.
					202. Burgundians and Armagnacs (1407-1415)
					Civil war meanwhile broke out among the French princes, to lend a deeper shade of
						horror to events. The rivals for control during the insanity of the king were the king's
						cousin,  John of Burgundy (who from his mother inherited
						Flanders and Artois), and the king's younger brother, Louis, Duke of Orleans. In 1407
						this contest reached a climax when the taciturn and surly Burgundy caused the murder of
						his opponent. For a time the adherents of Orleans accepted a reconciliation; but in 1411
						all restraint was thrown off, and civil war began. From the principal leader of their
						party the Orleanists were called Armagnacs, their opponents being Burgundians. In these
						struggles no quarter was given, and both parties devastated the country. The people were
						crushed with taxes, while the princes indulged in wild extravagance; the result was a
						rising of the Parisian mob (called "Cabochiens," from one of its leaders), whose brutal
						excesses disgraced the sober reform movement which they accompanied. Both Armagnacs and
						Burgundians sought aid from England, where Richard II. had been deposed, and Henry IV.
						(1399-1413), of the Lancastrian house, had acquired the crown. Upon the death of Henry
						IV., his son, the English national hero Henry V. (1413-1422) became king; and to quiet
						dynastic struggles he revived the claims of Edward III. to the French throne.
					203. Battle of Agincourt (1415)
					In 1415 Henry V. led an army into Normandy, whence, after some successes, he marched
						northward toward Calais. At Agincourt, near Crécy, his way was blocked by a great French
						army composed mainly of Armagnacs, who at that moment were in control of the government.
						The French seem to have profited neither by the disasters of King John nor the successes
						of Charles V. and Du Guesclin. Again their forces were chiefly dismounted knights,
						weighted with their heavy armor, and packed so closely in the narrow defile that they
						scarcely had room to wield their swords; to make matters worse, the field was newly
						harrowed and ankle-deep with mud. Well might King Henry say, the night before the
						battle, that he "wished not for a single man more" to share 289  the glory! A third English victory, equal to those won at Crécy and
						Poitiers, was the result.
					204. Confusion in France (1415-1429)
					Instead of uniting French parties, the disaster of Agincourt served only to make the
						feuds of the princes more bitter. In 1419 a conference took place between the Dauphin
						Charles, now head of the Armagnac party, and John of Burgundy, at which the latter was
						treacherously slain by the Orleanists. The new Duke of Burgundy, Philip the Good, put
						himself unreservedly on the English side. In 1420 a treaty was signed at Troyes by which
						the shameless French queen, Isabella, disinherited her son the Dauphin, and married her
						daughter Catherine to Henry V. of England, with provision that the latter should rule
						France and become its king after the death of her husband, Charles VI.
					Against this treaty the Dauphin protested. Southern France remained loyal to him, but
						the north, including the capital, passed into English hands. Henry's rule in France,
						however, was short, as he died in 1422; seven weeks later the pathetic life of Charles
						VI. also came to an end. The heir of both kingdoms, by the treaty of Troyes, was a babe
						less than a year old, Henry VI., son of Henry V. and Catherine. Such sentiment of
						nationality as existed in France supported the claims of the Dauphin, now called Charles
						VII. (1422-1461). But his resources were slender, and his court at Bourges was
						distracted by the quarrels and violence of his adherents; during the first seven years
						of his reign, therefore, little progress was made in driving the enemy from the realm.
						The English cause also was weakened by quarrels: the young king's uncle, the Duke of
						Bedford, who acted as regent in France, was an able soldier and wise statesman; but
						another uncle, the Duke of Gloucester, was a selfish politician, whose ambitious schemes
						seriously menaced the English alliance with Burgundy.
					205. Joan of Arc (1429-1431)
					In 1429 a new factor entered the struggle in the person of Joan of Arc. Joan was an
						uneducated peasant maid of northeasten  France, of a
						mystical religious temperament. After reaching the age of fourteen she began to hear
						"voices" and see visions of saints and angels, in which she believed implicitly. She was
						much affected by the troubles of the time. When she was seventeen her "voices" urged her
						to go to the Dauphin, lead him to Rheims to be crowned, and deliver France. After much
						difficulty she reached the king's court, in male attire; and she so impressed Charles
						that he gave her an opportunity to show the reality of her powers. The city of Orleans
						at this time was beset by the English; if it fell, it would carry with it the ruin of
						the French cause. Equipped with armor and a holy banner, the maid set out with a small
						force, and entered Orleans in April, 1429. Blow after blow was struck against the
						English, and within ten days the siege was raised. The French seemed suddenly to have
						become invincible. Success followed success, until in July Joan led Charles to Rheims
						for coronation at the place where his ancestors had been crowned, and thus accomplished
						her mission.
					
						HOME OF JOAN OF ARC.
						
						The sculptures over the entrance date from the restoration of the house in
							1481.
					
					After this, Charles was received with enthusiasm; but the successes won by Joan aroused
						the jealousy of Charles's advisers, and they did all they could to thwart her further
						plans. In September she was wotinded while leading an attack on  Paris. In May of the next year she was taken prisoner by the Burgundians,
						and eventually turned over to the English. To break the spell of her deeds, she was
						accused of sorcery and heresy and tried before the bishop of Beauvais, an English
						partisan. Her condemnation was a foregone conclusion; and at Rouen in May, 1431, --
						wearing the cap of those condemned by the Inquisition, on which were painted devils and
						flames, with the words, "Relapsed heretic, apostate, and idolater," -- she was burned at
						the stake. The nobility and purity of her character were such as to impress even her
						enemies. "We are lost; we have burned a saint!" were the words of an Englishman who
						witnessed her execution. The greatest blot on the fame of Charles VII. is the
						ingratitude he showed in making no effort to rescue from death the brave girl who, more
						than any one else, saved for him the throne of France.
					206. Close of the war (1431-1455)
					The influence of Joan of Are survived her in the energy with which the war was
						continued. In 1435 Philip of Burgundy abandoned the English cause, on condition that he
						be given certain lands and be freed from all homage to Charles VII. during his lifetime;
						and France was thus once more united. A series of reforms also gave to the crown a
						standing army, a force of improved artillery, -- for cannon were becoming effective, --
						and a permanent revenue. While the French government was thus strengthened, England was
						weakened by the death of Bedford, the insanity of King Henry VI., and the growth of the
						dissensions among the English princes which developed into the Wars of the Roses (1455-
						1485). In these circumstances the expulsion of the English from France was only a
						question of time. In 1436 Paris surrendered to one of Charles's generals, the populace
						crying, "Peace, the king, and the Duke of Burgundy!" In 1445-1451 Normandy and the
						greater part of Aquitaine were conquered. Finally, in 1453, Bordeaux surrendered. Only
						Calais remained in English hands, to be kept for a century longer. The  Hundred Years' War, with its enormous injury, both material
						and moral, to both parties, came quietly to an end.
					Instead of winning for the English crown the whole of France, the Hundred Years' War
						thus lost for it possessions which had been held by English kings since the accession of
						Henry II. (1154). For France the struggle had these results: (1) the French king was
						delivered from the anomaly of having a rival king among his vassals; (2) the power of
						the crown was consolidated into almost absolute monarchy; (3) a national sentiment was
						born, which ultimately led to the complete nationality of to-day. But against these
						gains must be balanced fearful losses inflicted upon land and people, the check to
						population, and the brutalization of long-continued and unrestrained warfare.
					
						ENTRY OF CHARLES VII. INTO PARIS.
						
						From a miniature in a 15th century manuscript.
					
					
					207. Summary (1431-1455)
					The Hundred Years' War between England and France began in 1337 and lasted until 1453.
						It was caused by friction  between the two countries in
						Aquitaine, Scotland, and Flanders, and became desperate as a result of the claim
						advanced by Edward III. to the French throne. It comprised three periods of active
						warfare: (1) In the first (1337-1360) occurred the great English victories of Crécy
						(1346) and Poitiers (1356), the terrible ravages of the Black Death (1347-1351), and the
						uprisings of Marcel and the Jacquerie (1358); it closed with the treaty of Bretigny
						(1360). (2) The second period (1369-1380) was marked by the wise leadership of the
						French king, Charles V., and his general, Du Guesclin, which brought the greater part of
						the English possessions into French hands. (3) The third period (1415-1453) saw Henry
						V.'s great victory at Agincourt (1415), the treaty of Troyes (1420), the relief of
						Orleans by Joan of Arc, and the final expulsion of the English from Aquitaine in
						1453.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Is the battle of Sluys to be classed as a real naval battle? (2) What advantage
							did it give the English? (3) What was it that enabled the English to win at Crécy and
							Poitiers? (4) Of what value was Calais to the English? (5) How did the Black Death
							produce a decline of the manorial system? (6) Was King John of France a good soldier?
							Was he a good general? (7) What effect would the excesses of Stephen Marcel have on
							the attitude of future kings toward the Estates-General? (8) What change was to be
							made in the position of the English in Aquitaine by the treaty of Bretigny? (9) Which
							side was responsible for the renewal of the war? (10) Was the treaty of Troyes binding
							on France? (11) Why did Joan of Arc experience such difficulty in obtaining an
							opportunity to show her powers? (12) Was it only jealousy of her that led Charles's
							advisers to oppose her plans? (13) Why were the English determined to prove her a
							heretic? (14) Was it a good or a bad thing for England that it lost its possessions in
							France? (15) Would it have been an advantage to the two countries to have had the same
							king?
						Search topics
						(16) Real causes of the Hundred Years' War. (17) The Black Prince. (18) The English
							archers, their training and prowess. (19) The Black Death. (20) Rising of the English
							peasants in 1381. (21) Stephen Marcel. (22) The Jacquerie. (23) Renewal  of the war in 1369. (24) Bertrand du Guesclin. (25)
							Battle of Agincourt. (26) Joan of Arc. (27) Source of her strength. (28) Attitude of
							the time towards witchcraft. (29) Reforms of government under Charles VII. (30) Arms,
							armor, and warfare in the time of the Hundred Years' War. (31) The Dauphiné.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						See map, p. 228; Poole, Historical Atlas, map lvi.; Gardiner, School Atlas, maps 15-17; Freeman, Historical
								Geography, II. (Atlas), maps 16, 17; Dow, Atlas, xii.
						Secondary authorities
						Duruy, France, chs. xxviii.-xxxiii., -- Middle
								Ages, chs. xxvii. xxviii.; Lodge, Close of the Middle Ages,
							chs. iv. xvi.; Hassall, French People, ch. viii.; Masson, Medieval France, 165-272; Kitchin, France, I. bk.
							iv.; Mackinnon, Growth and Decline of French Monarchy, chs. ii.
							iii.; Michelet, History of France, I. 415-469, II. 79-105, 127-174;
							Terry, History of England, 350-388, 443-464; Gardiner, Student's History of England, 231-320; Ransome, Advanced History
								of England, 299-348; George, Battles of English History, chs.
							v. vi.; Oman, History of the Art of War, bk. viii. chs. i.-iii.;
							Gasquet, The Great Pestilence, 34-57, 194-219; Lea, History of the Inquisition, III. 338-378; F. C. Lowell, Joan of
								Arc; Stoddard, Bertrand Du Guesclin; Historians' History of the
								World, XI. chs. v.-ix.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. ch. xx.; University of Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, II. No. 5; Ashley, Edward III.
								and his Wars; Froissart, Chronicles (Globe ed.), chs. 1.
							cxxviii.-cxxx. clxi.-clxviii.; Murray, Jeanne d'Arc; Colby, Selections from the Sources, nos. 38-40, 42, 45; Adams and Stephens,
								Select Documents, nos. 60, 73, 75, 79, 95, 98, 108; Frazer, English History, 1307-1399, nos. 28-33, 38-43, 50-55; Durham, English History, 1399-1482, nos. 22, 23, 27, 28-38, 41-58.
						Illustrative works
						Catherwood, Days of Jeanne d'Arc; E. Robinson, The
								Maid of Orleans; Samuel L. Clemens (Mark Twain), Personal
								Recollections of Joan of Arc, by the Sieur Louis le Conte; G. P. R. James, The Jacquerie; C. M. Yonge, The Lances of Lynwood;
							J. G. Edgar, Creçy and Poictiers; Dumas, Isabel of
								Bavaria; A. Conan Doyle, The White Company.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER XV.
					

					DEVELOPMENT OF MODERN STATES (1254-1500)
					208. The Great Interregnum (1254-1273)
					THE fall of the Hohenstaufen house (§ 136) was followed in Germany
						by the Great Interregnum (1254-1273), when for a score of years the land was practically
						without a head. Two foreigners -- Richard, Duke of Cornwall, and Alfonso X., king of
						Castile -- claimed the throne by election, but neither secured general recognition. The
						decentralizing forces long at work in Germany seemed completely triumphant. The imperial
						domains passed into the hands of the princes, so that the Interregnum caused the loss of
						the imperial revenues as well as a weakening of the imperial prerogatives. The feudal
						barons, secure in their strong castles, ruled as they pleased; peasants were tortured
						and oppressed, and merchants were robbed at will; "fist-right" -- the rule of the
						strongest -- was the only law the nobles recognized.
					209. Succession of weak Emperors (1273-1313)
					The death of Richard of Cornwall in 1272 gave the princes the opportunity to end the
						Interregnum by a new election. Their choice fell on Rudolph of Hapsburg, a Swabian, from
						whose poverty no danger to their independence was feared. Rudolph I. (1273-1291)
						recognized that it was folly for the Emperor to attempt to control Italy, and devoted
						his attention to building up a family power in Germany; his greatest success was the
						conquest of Austria, which thenceforth belonged to the Hapsburg house. On his death the
						princes passed over his son, and chose another "poor count," Adolf of Nassau
						(1292-1298); but Adolf's attempt to  find in an alliance
						with the lesser nobles and towns a counterpoise to the power of the princes led to his
						deposition.
					Rudolph's son, Albert of Austria (1298-1308), was then elected Emperor, and followed
						the policies of his father; his reign was cut short by murder -- the result of a private
						quarrel. Once more the princes refused to choose the son of the preceding Emperor, and
						French influence procured the election of a petty ruler of western Germany, Henry of
						Luxemburg (p. 252). Abandoning the safe policies of the last three rulers, Henry VII.
						(1308-1313) revived the imperial pretensions, and wasted his energies on an Italian
						expedition which cost him his life. The acquisition of Bohemia for his family, by
						marriage and warfare, was his one substantial gain.
					210. Dispute over imperial election (1314-1347)
					The death of Henry VII. in 1313 was followed by a double election. The right to choose
						the king of Germany (the future Emperor), originally vested in all freemen, had
						gradually been restricted, until by the end of the thirteenth century the idea became
						fixed that there should be just seven persons, constituting an electoral college, who
						possessed the hereditary right to elect. In 1313 two of the seats in the electoral
						college were in dispute; and moreover the notion of submission to a constitutional
						majority was still weak. The Hapsburgs, seeking to regain the power they had lost,
						procured the election of Frederick of Austria by one section of the electors; while the
						opposing electors, passing by the house of Luxemburg, chose Louis, Duke of Bavaria. War
						followed, which ended in the capture of Frederick by his opponent (in the battle of
						Mühldorf, 1322). For political reasons the Pope, John XXII., refused to recognize Louis;
						but the national sentiment of Germany rallied to his support. A Diet held at Frankfort
						in 1338 declared that "he who is elected Emperor or king by the electors of the empire,
						thereby becomes true king and Emperor . . . without the approval, confirmation,
						authorization, or consent of  the Pope or of any other
							person"; and Louis was able to maintain himself until his death in 1347.
					Thatcher and McNeal, Source Book,
						279
					211. Charles IV.: the Golden Bull (1356)
					In the last year of Louis's reign, his opponents procured the election of Charles of
						Bohemia, grandson of Henry VII., as his rival; and eventually Charles received
						recognition from all Germany. He proved not merely the greatest king of the Luxemburg
						house, but one of the wisest rulers produced by Europe in the fourteenth century. His
						policy of building up Bohemia, through the promotion of commerce and the founding of a
						university at Prague, caused one of his successors, the Emperor Maximilian, to say that
						he "was the father of Bohemia, but the stepfather of the empire."
					This charge was based on Charles's persistent refusal to be drawn into Italian
						politics, and on the famous Golden Bull issued by him in 1356. In this document the
						seven electoral votes were definitely decided to belong to the three great Rhineland
						archbishops -- of Mainz, Cologne (in German, Köln), and Treves (in
						German, Trier); and to four secular princes -- the king of Bohemia,
						the Count Palatine of the Rhine, the Duke of Saxony, and the Margrave of Brandenburg
						(map, pp. 252, 253). To prevent future disputes, their territories were made
						indivisible, with succession to males only. The right of coining money and of trying
						cases without appeal was given to the electors, who were placed above all other German
						princes. This arrangement made the constitution of Germany for centuries a federation
						instead of a centralized monarchy.
					212. The Swiss Confederation (1291-1388)
					While the central power in Germany was growing feeble, evidence was given, in the rise
						of the Swiss Confederation, of sturdy vitality in the people. Many legends, such as that
						of which William Tell is the hero, have arisen concerning the origin of the Swiss
						Confederation; but historians have shown these to be pure myths. The real beginning of
						that important movement was the desire of the peasants of the three Swiss mountain
						cantons -- Uri, Schwyz,  and Unterwalden -- to secure
						their independence against their powerful neighbor, the Count of Hapsburg, who claimed
						lordship over them. In 1291 they formed their league, "to aid and defend each other . .
						. against every enemy;" as yet the confederation embraced only the three "forest
						cantons," and provided no means of federal government. The preoccupation of the
						Hapsburgs with Austria left these hardy mountaineers for a time in peace; and when (in
						1315) an attempt was made to subdue them, the Austrian forces were signally routed at
						Morgarten.
					
						GROWTH OF THE SWISS CONFEDERATION.
					
					Soon after, Louis of Bavaria, who was hostile to the Hapsburg house, confirmed the
						immediate dependence of the cantons on the empire. Other cantons then joined the
						confederation, until (by 1353) their number had been raised to "the eight old places,"
						including the prosperous cities of Zurich, Lucerne, and Bern. But danger from the
						Hapsburg lords still continued, and in 1386 a second great battle was  fought at Sempach: in this battle the confederates were
						again victorious; the feudal forces of the Hapsburgs were defeated by the rude
						mountaineers, and their leader slain. After a third battle (at Näfels, in 1388) the
						independent position of the Swiss was secured; and thenceforth to the close of the
						Middle Ages their league grew in numbers and in definiteness of internal organization,
						without hindrance from the imperial power or the Hapsburg house.
					
						CASTLE HAPSBURG. (From an old print.)
					
					213. Rise of modern states
					In government a momentous change was taking place with the rise of modern states. In
						the early Middle Ages there existed the two great world powers -- ideal and often
						visionary -- the papacy and the empire, to which in theory all owed allegiance. In the
						second half of the fifteenth century both these powers were broken, and lingered as mere
						ghosts of their former selves. Then, feudalism was the basis of union in the state; now,
						feudalism as a political force was dead. Then, the nations of Europe had not been
						formed, and governments were characterized by provincial separation, by weakness of
						central control, by absence of legislative, police, and taxing functions, and by
						undeveloped machinery for such powers as were exercised; now, in several countries,
						modern states had arisen, strong in their national support, with enlarged powers and
						differentiated organs, strengthened by a body of well-ordered law, and controlling
						adequately their resources of men and money.



					
					214. France under Louis XI. (1461-1483)
					Of such states, France is the best type. Under Charles VII. (1422-1461), after the
						close of the Hundred Years' War, the government not only recovered from disorder but
						took on new strength; and under his son, Louis XI. (1461-1483), the development
						continued. In character, Louis XI. was unscrupulous, cruel, and fond of cunning
						intrigue. His chief object was to wipe out the last traces of feudal independence and
						make the monarchical power supreme. At the beginning of his reign he was met by a
						formidable league, headed by the dukes of Burgundy and Brittany, and his own brother
						Charles of Berri; although this was called the "League of the Public Weal," the peace
						extorted from the king in 1465 showed that selfish interests predominated. On the rise
						of new difficulties, Louis, in 1469, rashly sought to try his powers of diplomacy in a
						personal interview with Charles the Bold, who had now succeeded his father as Duke of
						Burgundy: at this moment the Burgundian city of Liège revolted, stirred up by the agents
						of the French king; Charles was furious, and Louis escaped from his perilous position
						only by a second humiliating submission. The opportune death of the Duke of Berri, in
						1472, finally broke the coalition of princes and ended open hostilities.
					215. Death of Charles the Bold of Burgandy
						(1477)
					Charles of Burgundy thenceforth found his energies diverted in a new direction. As
						ruler of the duchy and county of Burgundy, of the county of Flanders, and of a number of
						imperial fiefs in the Netherlands, Charles was one of the greatest princes of his day;
						but his territories were scattered and inharmonious (map, p. 252), and were held by
						widely differing titles. The ambition of his life was to consolidate these, and secure
						for himself the title of king. The pursuit of this object led him more and more into
						German politics, and ultimately he came into conflict with the Swiss confederates. In
						this war he was signally defeated at Granson and Morat in 1476; and a little later
						(January, 1477) 
						
							STATES OF THE EMPIRE IN 1477
						
						
						
							STATES OF THE EMPIRE IN 1477
						
						 Charles the Bold met his death at Nancy, at the hands of
						the Swiss pikemen and halberdiers. Again the lesson was enforced, as at Crécy, that foot
						soldiers properly armed and handled were more than a match for feudal cavalry.
					
						MARY OF BURGUNDY.
						
						From the painting by R. van Bruges.
					
					Louis XI. meanwhile was carrying out unchecked his policy of royal aggrandizement.
						Charles the Bold left as heir his daughter Mary, who was soon married to Maximilian of
						Austria; but the duchy of Burgundy and other of Charles's possessions were seized by
						Louis as king of France, on the ground that they could pass only to male heirs. In other
						directions the royal domain was rounded out under Louis XI., until it became almost
						coterminous with France itself. The only great feudal domains left outstanding were
						Brittany and Flanders: the former was finally acquired by marriage early in the
						sixteenth century; the latter had long been drifting away from France, and in 1526 was
						surrendered to the empire -- to be largely reconquered in the next century.
					216. Charles VIII. of France (1483-1498)
					Charles VIII., son of Louis XI., was thirteen years of age when his father's death made
						him king of France. During his minority the government was ably administered 254  by his sister Anne, whom her father had cynically styled
						"the least foolish woman in the world."
					
						MAXIMILIAN OF AUSTRIA.
						
						From an old print.
					
					Upon coming of age, Charles, in 1494, led an army into Italy to enforce claims to the
						kingdom of Naples which he had inherited from the house of Anjou (§ 136). The weakness
						of the mutually hostile Italian states was strikingly revealed by this expedition; it
						was almost a triumphal procession, and Naples fell with scarcely a blow. But soon
						Charles was called back by news of a formidable league formed in his rear by Milan,
						Venice, the Pope, Spain, and the Emperor. Before his death (in 1498) Naples was again
						lost to France, and soon passed into the hands of Ferdinand of Aragon, who already ruled
						Sicily. The expedition of Charles VIII. was nevertheless of great importance: it marks
						the end of the period of national isolation, and introduces a period of international
						leagues and warfare; more especially it marks the beginning of a conflict for the
						control of Italy between France and Spain, which lasted until 1559, and profoundly
						affected the development of the German Reformation.
					217. England: Wars of the Roses (1455-1485)
					England from 1455 to 1485 was torn by the Wars of the Roses, in which the rival houses
						of York and Lancaster contested for the crown. The Yorkist king Edward IV. (1461-1483)
						gave England a strong, capable rule in the intervals of peace; but after his death his
						two little sons HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--15
						 were murdered in London Tower by their uncle, who usurped
						the crown as Richard III. In 1485 Richard was slain at the battle of Bosworth, and his
						opponent of the house of Tudor became king as Henry VII. (1485-1509). The Tudor kings
						became almost despotic; but the nation gladly supported their rule for the sake of the
						peace and good order which it brought.
					
						SPANISH STATES, 1266-1492.
					
					218. Rise of Spain (1469-1516)
					The development of Spain in the fifteenth century was little short of marvelous. During
						the Middle Ages its history lies outside the general history of western Europe, its
						chief features being (1) the gradual decay of the Mohammedan power (§ 12), which passed
						to the Moors (descendants of African Berbers mixed with other peoples), and (2) the rise
						of the Christian states of Castile and Leon, Aragon, Portugal, and Navarre: by 1266 the
						Moors were confined to the kingdom of Granada, where they remained in comparative peace
						for more than two centuries. In 1469 the marriage of Ferdinand  of Aragon and Isabella of Castile laid the basis of the permanent union of
						these countries under a single head; then in 1492 Granada was taken, and the long
						crusade against the Mohamminedans was brought to an end.
					Portugal, meanwhile, for more than half a century, had been taking the lead in Atlantic
						discovery, and in the search for an ocean route to India; and the exertions of Prince
						Henry the Navigator (died 1460) led successively to the discovery of the Madeira
						Islands, the Canary Islands, the Azores, and Cape Verde. In 1486 the Portuguese
						navigator Bartholomew Diaz reached the Cape of Good Hope; and in 1498 Vasco da Gama
						completed the work by reaching India. Seeking to anticipate this result, Queen Isabella
						of Castile, in 1492, consented to fit out the expedition with which Columbus unwittingly
						discovered the New World. To both Spain and Portugal the result of these efforts was the
						acquisition of vast colonial dependencies, and a flood of wealth.
					Sicily had been annexed to Aragon since 1409; and the failure of the French kings to
						maintain their hold on Naples gave Spain that kingdom also (confirmed by treaty in
						1504), thus making Spain the dominant power in Italy. At a later date, fortunate
						marriages joined to Spain's other possessions the Burgundian Netherlands, and the
						Hapsburg lands in Germany. The church in Spain was purified and the monarchical power
						strengthened by a reform movement under Archbishop Ximenes (§ 233). This marvelous
						growth made Spain, in the sixteenth century, the wonder of Europe.
					219. The empire under the Luxemburg line
						(1378-1437)
					Charles IV., the author of the Golden Bull, was succeeded (in 1378) both as king of
						Bohemia and as German Emperor by his eldest son Wenzel, who proved drunken and
						incapable, and was declared deposed as Emperor by the electors in 1400. After a period
						of confusion, in which several claimants were raised up to contest Wenzel's title to the
						imperial crown, his younger brother Sigismund, who by 
						marriage was already king of Hungary, was recognized as ruler of Germany; and after
						Wenzel's death (in 1419), Sigismund succeeded him as king of Bohemia also: from his
						coronation as Emperor at Rome (in 1433) dates the use of the double-headed eagle as the
						imperial ensign.
					
						IMPERIAL ARMS AFTER SIGISMUND'S REIGN.
						From iron work in the State Museum at Frankfort.
					
					Sigismund's rule in Bohemia was long interrupted by a national uprising of the Czechs,
						due to his part in the burning for heresy of John Huss, the greatest religious teacher
						of Bohemia (§ 228). Under their blind leader Ziska and his successor Prokop (Procopius),
						the Bohemians not only successfully resisted crusade after crusade sent against them,
						but devastated large areas of Germany, until dissensions in their ranks permitted the
						triumph of their Catholic foes.
					220. Hapsburg line restored (1438-1519)
					The death of the Emperor Sigismund, in 1437, brought to an end the Luxemburg line; and
						in the person of his son-in-law, Albert II. (1438-1439), the Hapsburg line for a third
						time came to the throne, of which it retained possession continuously for three
						centuries.
					Frederick III. (1440-1493), cousin of Albert, was the last Emperor to be crowned at
						Rome. The weakness of the imperial power did not permit him to take an active part in
						the affairs of Europe; and indeed for twenty-five years he remained secluded on his
						hereditary estates without visiting other parts of Germany; but his long reign and
						patient persistence laid the foundations for the great growth of the Hapsburg power. For
						years the five vowels " A · E · I · O · U" appeared inscribed on all his buildings and
						possessions: these are interpreted to mean, Austriœ est imperare orbi
							universo (in  German, Alles Erdreich
							ist Oesterreich unterthan) -- that is, "the whole world is subject to
						Austria."
					
						TOWN HALL OF THE FREE
								IMPERIAL CITY OF FRANKFORT.
						Present condition; built 1405-1413. Here the imperial elections were held in the
							sixteenth century.
						
					
					In the latter part of Frederick's reign and the earlier portion of that of his son,
						Maximilian I. (1493-1519), attempts were made by the electors to carry through an
						aristocratic reform of the constitution. The old Diet, or Reichstag, was to be developed
						into an effective assembly, meeting annually, in three houses composed of the electors,
						princes, and representatives of the imperial cities; and at the same time an efficient
						system of courts, and an administrative council which was not dependent on the Emperor,
						were to be instituted. These reforms would have done something to end the anarchy of
						Germany, but only by substituting an aristocratic federation of the princes for the
						nominal rule of the Emperor. The movement failed, and the absence of any coercive
						central authority  continued to be one of the features of
						German political organization: this, together with the rivalry of Spain and France in
						Italy, proved of the utmost importance in allowing Protestantism the opportunity to grow
						and spread.
					221. The Eastern Empire (1261-1439)
					While the Holy Roman Empire of the West was becoming, in the language of Voltaire (an
						eighteenth-century Frenchman) "neither holy, nor Roman, nor an empire," the Eastern
						Empire came to an end altogether. The downfall of the Latin power at Constantinople, in
						1261, restored.the Greek Empire, with dominions in both Europe and Asia (see p. 138),
						but its vitality was enfeebled. On the north and west its territory was curtailed by the
						development of the Slavic states of Servia, Bosnia, and Bulgaria; its capital was
						disquieted by the rivalry of Genoese and Venetian traders, and by never-ceasing palace
						intrigues and revolutions; more menacing still was the advent of a new and more
						formidable branch of the Turks in Asia Minor.
					The newcomers were the Ottoman Turks, so called from their sultan, Othman, under whose
						father they first appear in western Asia in the latter part of the thirteenth century.
						The conquest of Nicæa, in 1330, brought them to the Bosphorus, and made them the
						dominant power in Asia Minor. A few years later they crossed the Hellespont and began a
						series of European conquests which culminated (1361) in the capture of Adrianople --
						thenceforth for nearly a century their capital. The strong walls of Constantinople long
						withstood them; but the Eastern Emperors were forced to pay tribute. In another way also
						the Christian populations contributed to their own subjugation: each year the Turks
						demanded a fixed number of children, who were educated by them in the Mohammedan faith,
						and trained to fight as their famous "new troops," or Janizaries.
					The overthrow of the Ottoman sultan, in 1402, by the great Tartar leader Timour
						(Tamerlane), only checked for a time the Turkish conquests. To gain assistance against
						them, the  Greek Emperor and patriarch agreed to a
						submission of the Greek Church to the Latin, at a council held in Italy in 1438-1439;
						but neither the submission nor the assistance was real.
					222. Fall of Constantinople (1453)
					In 1453 Sultan Mohammed II. began the final siege of Constantinople with an
						overwhelming force. Mediæval and modern appliances were used together, the Turkish
						cannon, constructed by foreign engineers, being of larger caliber than ever before used.
						The Greek Emperor, Constantine Palæologus, made an heroic defense; but his people held
						aloof in sullen bigotry because of new negotiations for union with the Latin West. After
						fiftythree days' siege, a final assault was ordered, and the Janizaries forced the gates
						(May 29, 1453). The Greek Emperor was slain after a desperate resistance; the city was
						given up to plunder, and thousands of the population were enslaved. The great Church of
						St. Sophia was robbed of its treasures, its frescoes and mosaics were whitewashed over
						by the puritanic zeal of the Turks, and it was converted into a Mohammedan mosque. The
						Eastern Empire, after surviving the Roman Empire in the West for a thousand years, came
						to an end. Constantinople became the capital of the Turkish dominions; but the Christian
						population was contemptuously tolerated, and before the end of the reign of Mohammed II.
						the city enjoyed more real prosperity than had been its lot for several centuries.
					
						MOSQUE OF ST. SOPHIA.
						
						From a photograph. The tall minarets are Mohammedan additions.
					
					


					
					223. Summary
					After the Great Interregnum (1254-1273), Germany became in reality a confederation of
						many states, and the strength of the Emperor depended largely upon the extent of his
						family possessions; with Frederick III. (1440-1493) the Hapsburgs of Austria secured
						almost hereditary possession of the imperial throne, and laid the foundations of their
						great family power. In France the Hundred Years' War was followed by a rapid recovery of
						the monarchy, which made Louis XI. (1461-1483) practically despotic; his son, Charles
						VIII., by his attempt to conquer the kingdom of Naples (1494), began a series of wars
						which lasted for many years and had profound results. Charles the Bold, Duke of
						Burgundy, planned to unite his dominions into a kingdom between France and Germany; but
						he was defeated and slain by the Swiss confederates (1477), and his plan came to naught.
						England, in the fifteenth century, experienced the civil Wars of the Roses (1455-1485).
						Spain rose rapidly in importance, through its union by the marriage of Isabella of
						Castile and Ferdinand of Aragon (1469), the conquest of the Moorish kingdom of Granada
						(1492), the hold which it acquired upon southern Italy (1504), and its new-found empire
						in the Indies (America). In the East, Christian Europe was curtailed by the capture of
						Constantinople by the Turks, and the final fall of the Eastern Empire (1453). The
						development of modern states in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries was of great
						importance; but even more momentous was the history of the church and the intellectual
						changes of the period, which are treated in the next chapter.

					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) To what body connected with the papacy does the imperial electoral college
							correspond? (2) What advantages had the Swiss in their struggle for independence? (3)
							What advantages had the Hapsburgs? (4) By what right did Louis XI. of France claim the
							duchy of Burgundy after 1477? (5) In what respects did the 262  German constitution at the close of the Middle Ages resemble that of the
							United States under the old Articles of Confederation? (6) What peoples kindred to the
							Ottomans had preceded them in European history? (7) Why did the West not come to the
							assistance of Constantinople in 1453? (8) How did an Englishman (Richard of Cornwall)
							come to claim the German throne? (9) Why were the English civil wars of the fifteenth
							century called the " Wars of the Roses"?
						Search topics
						(10) The imperial electoral college. (11) Origin of the Swiss Confederation. (12)
							Battle of Morgarten. (13) John Ziska and the Bohemian wars. (14) Character of Louis
							XI. of France. (15) Charles the Bold of Burgundy. (16) Expedition of Charles VIII.
							into Italy. (17) Conquest of Spain from the Moors. (18) Character of Maximilian I. of
							Germany. (19) Proposed reform of the German constitution in the time of Maximilian.
							(20) Ottoman Turks. (21) Incidents of the fall of Constantinople. (22) Compare the
							states of Europe in 1500 with those in 800.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						See maps, pp. 249, 252; Putzger, Atlas, maps 18, 38; Freeman, Historical Geography, I. ch. ix. par. 1, ch. viii. par. 1, ch. xii.
							par. 1-2,--II. (Atlas), map 24; Poole, Historical Atlas, maps vii.
							xxxvi.; Gardiner, School Atlas, maps 18, 19; Dow, Atlas, xiv. xv.
						Secondary authorities
						Henderson, Short History of Germany, I. chs. vi. vii.; Durny, France, chs. xxxiv.-xxxvi., -- Middle Ages, chs. xxviii.-xxxi.; Lodge,
								History of Modern Europe, ch. i.; Bryce, Holy Roman
								Empire (revised ed.), chs. xiv. xvii.; Seebohm, Era of the
								Protestant Revolution, pt. i. ; Fisher, Outlines of Universal
								History, Period IV. chs. i.-ii.; Thatcher and Schwill, Europe in
								the Middle Age, chs. xviii. xx.; Tout, Empire and Papacy, ch.
							xx.; Lodge, Close of the Middle Ages, chs. vi. vii. xvi. xxi.;
							Mackinnon, Growth and Decline of French Monarchy, ch. iv. ; Hassall,
								French People, ch. ix. ; Willert, Reign of Louis XI.; Freeman,
							Historical Essays, First Series, 314-372; Kitchin, France, II. bk. i. chs. i.-vi., bk.
							ii. ch. i.; Hume, Spain, Its Greatness and Decay, 1-33, -- Spanish People, chs. iv.-viii. ; Hale, Spain, ch.
							xx.
						Sources
						Robinson, Readings, I. 477-485; Henderson, Documents
								of the Middle Ages, bk. ii. no. x.; Memoirs of Philip de
								Commines (Bohn), bk. i. ch. x. and bk. vi.
						Illustrative works
						Victor HIugo, Notre Dame; Scott, Quentin Durward;
							W. H. G. Kingston, Rocking Stone; W. Alexis, The
								Burgomaster of Berlin; G. P. R. James, Mary of Burgundy, --
								Agnes Sorrel; Anne Lucas, Wenzel's
							Inheritance.
					
				


				
				
					CHAPTER XVI.

					THE GREAT CHURCH COUNCILS AND THE RENAISSANCE (1300-1517)
					224. The Popes at Avignon (1305-1377)
					IN the history of the church the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries
						saw successively (1) a seventy years' "Babylonian Captivity" of the papacy in France,
						(2) a schism which divided the nations of western Europe in their church allegiance for
						forty years, and (3) a series of great church councils which sought to wrest power from
						the hands of the Pope and to remedy a number of church abuses.
					The "Babylonian Captivity" was the result of the triumph of Philip IV. of Frace over
						Pope Boniface VIII. (§ 187); it lasted from 1305 to 1377, during which time the Popes
						resided at Avignon on the river Rhone. The identification of the papacy with one of the
						monarchies of Europe inevitably injured it with the others. When England entered upon
						its long war with France, it treated the papacy as a French ally, refused the tribute
						which John had agreed to pay, and passed statutes forbidding papal apppointments to
						English benefices and appeals to papal courts (§ 171). In Germany it was the feeling
						that the papacy was the organ of France that rallied the national sentiment about Louis
						of Bavaria, and led the Diet to put forth its declaration that the Pope had no right of
						confirmation or rejection over the imperial election (§ 216).
					Still more significant was the appearance of writings attacking the theoretical grounds
						of the papal power. In the Defender of the Peace, by Marsiglio of
						Padua, a partisan of Louis, sovereignty is claimed for the people, the clergy are
						confined  to spiritual functions without power of
						excommunication or other coercive authority, and the rights of the state are asserted
						against the papacy. In these principles we find "the whole essence of the political and
						religious theory which separates modern times from the Middle Ages."
					Poole, Wycliffe and Movements for Reform, 35
					225. The Great Schism (1378-1417)
					The threatened loss of the Papal States through municipal revolts and the encroachments
						of tyrants brought the papacy back to Rome in 1377. Pope Gregory XI. died the next year;
						and in the election which followed, the Roman mob, dissatisfied with the series of
						French Popes residing abroad, demanded "A Roman Pope, or at least an Italian!" The
						majority of the cardinals were French, but their own dissensions and the fear of mob
						violence led them to choose a Neapolitan, Urban VI. Within a few months, Urban's rough
						violence and obstinacy led the cardinals to repent of their choice; and on the ground of
						mob intimidation they then tried to set aside his election, and chose in his stead a
						Genevan, who took the name Clement VII. and set up his papacy at Avignon.
					A schism in the church was thus produced which lasted for forty years. "All our West
						land," wrote the Englishman Wyclif, "is with that one Pope or that other, and he that is
						with that one, hateth the other with all his. . . . Some men say that here is the Pope
						in Avignon, for he was well chosen; and some say that he is yonder at Rome, for he was
						first chosen." France and the Spanish kingdoms supported the Avignon Popes, while
						Germany, England, and Scandinavia adhered to Urban VI. and his successors.
					Arnold, Works of Wyclif, II.
						401-402
					Since French influence was largely responsible for the schism, it was fitting that
						France should take the lead in efforts to heal it. On the advice of the University of
						Paris, the French government tried to organize a movement to compel both Popes to
						abdicate by withdrawing from allegiance to either: but Charles VI. of France was subject
						to insanity,  and Wenzel of Germany was a confirmed
						drunkard; and the attempt at coercion came to nothing. The scandal of the schism then
						forced the Popes themselves to take steps, and an agreement was made for a conference in
						1407 at Savona, near Genoa, to bring about a joint abdication. Both Popes professed the
						greatest zeal for unity, and were probably sincere: but the Roman Pope, Gregory XII.,
						was old and vacillating, and his fears were played upon by his ambitious nephews; while
						the Avignon Pope, Benedict XIII., was too tenacious of the rights of the papacy as
						represented by himself. The conference, therefore, never took place. "One Pope," said a
						contemporary, "like a land animal, refused to approach the shore; the other, like a
						water beast, refused to leave the sea."
					Creighton,
								Papacy, I. 213
					
						PISA: BAPTISTERY, CATHEDRAL,
								AND LEANING TOWER.
						
						Erected 1063-1350.
					
					226. Council of Pisa (1409)
					The failure of these attempts produced a revival of the idea of action through a
						general council of the church, which was zealously urged by two members of the
						University of Paris, Pierre d'Ailly and Jean Gerson. According to the canon law, only a
						Pope could summon a council; the cardinals of both Popes, however, abandoned them, and
						united in calling a council which met at Pisa in 1409, 
						declared both Popes deposed, and elected a new one, who took the name Alexander V.
					227. Council of Constance (1414-1418)
					Instead of ending the schism, this only added a third claimant for the papacy, for
						neither Gregory nor Benedict recognized the act of deposition. On the death of Alexander
						V., in 1410, the cardinals chose as his successor John XXIII., a man of infamous life,
						but who seemed to have the needed political vigor to make good his position. In 1413 the
						capture of Rome by the king of Naples forced John to appeal for aid to the Emperor
						Sigismund; and Sigismund demanded, as the price of his assistance, the summoning on
						German soil of the Council of Constance, which lasted from November, 1414, to April,
						1418.
					All the states of Europe recognized this assembly, and it was thus enabled to succeed
						where the Council of Pisa had failed. It asserted its authority in the most far-reaching
						terms, declaring that it had power "immediately from Christ, and all men, of every rank
						and dignity, even the Pope, are bound to obey it in matters pertaining to (1) the faith,
						(2) the extirpation of the present schism, and (3) the general reformation of the church
						of God in head and members."
					Creighton, Papacy, I.
								333
					228. Heresies condemned
					In carrying out this threefold programme, the council condemned the heresies of Wyclif,
						and burned at the stake John Huss and Jerome of Prague, who headed a movement in Bohemia
						similar to that of Wyclif in England. Huss had come voluntarily to Constance under a
						safe conduct from Sigismund, the violation of which was justified by the plea that faith
						should not be kept with those who are unfaithful to God. Both Huss and Jerome of Prague
						met their deaths with heroic constancy. This action of the council kindled a religious
						war, in which the Hussites not merely maintained themselves but carried devastation into
						the heart of Germany (§ 219).
					229. The Great Schism healed
					In healing the schism the council was more successful than in dealing with heresy.
						Gregory XII., who represented the  line of Urban VI., sent
						envoys from his refuge in northern Italy to offer his abdication; and Benedict XIII.,
						now a fugitive in Spain, was deposed and left without a following. John XXIII., who
						opened the council as president, was appalled by the array of charges brought against
						his character and life, and after ineffectual efforts to avoid his fate, submitted to
						deposition as "unworthy, useless, and harmful." Representatives from the five "nations"
						into which the council was divided were then added to the cardinals, and the united body
						chose as Pope a Roman cardinal who took the name Martin V. All Western Christendom
						recognized him, and the schism came to an end (1417).
					230. The question of reform
					Of the reform question at Constance, a Catholic historian says: "The great majority of
						the assembly were of one mind as to the need of reform. 'The whole world, the clergy, of
						all Christian people, know that a reform of the church militant is both necessary and
						expedient,' exclaims a theologian of the day. . . . But . . . the members of the council
						were neither clear nor unanimous in their views as to the scope and nature of the
						reform." A strong party sought to defer the election of the new Pope until after a
						reform had been effected, but in this they failed. Pope Martin V., after his election,
						speedily showed "that little was to be expected from him" in this matter. "Neither the
						isolated measures afterward substituted for the universal reform so urgently required,
						nor the Concordats [separate agreements] made with Germany, the three Latin nations, and
						England, sufficed to meet the exigencies of the case, although they produced a certain
						amount of good."
					Pastor, History of the Popes, I.
								202-209
					231. Council of Basel (1431-149)
					One of the decrees of the Council of Constance provided for the regular summoning of
						councils in the future; and the continued demand for reform, together with the rout of
						successive armies of crusaders sent against the heretical Bohemians (§ 219), led to the
						assembling, in 1431, of the  Council of Basel. Pope
						Eugenius IV. soon issued a bull to dissolve the council; "incorrect information and fear
						of the growing power of councils induced the Pope to take this momentous step, which was
						a grievous mistake."The council claimed superiority over the Pope, and refused to
						recognize his decree; and after two years the Pope was forced to yield and revoke the
						decree of dissolution.
					Pastor, History of the Popes, I.
						287
					This council proved far more radical than the one at Constance. The attendance of the
						higher clergy at Basel dwindled until business was carried on mainly by members of the
						lower clergy and ecclesiastical adventurers. A hearing was given to the envoys of the
						Bohemians, and a series of compacts was entered into by which some of their demands were
						granted, especially the administering to the laity the wine as well as the bread in the
						Lord's Supper. It was no small gain that heretics should be treated with instead of
						being repressed by the arm of authority. The compacts, however, failed to end the
						troubles in Bohemia, and they were annulled by the Pope in 1462.
					No adequate results followed the discussion of reform questions at Basel. "Instead of
						the reform of ecclesiastical abuses, which in many countries had reached a frightful
						pitch, the diminution of the papal authority and the destruction of the monarchical
						character of the church became the chief business of the synod." Among the ideas discussed
						and rejected was the abolition of the requirement of celibacy on the part of the clergy;
						but certain reforms were agreed upon at Basel, and following these both France and
						Germany issued "Pragmatic Sanctions" limiting abuses of papal taxation and appointment,
						which were ultimately withdrawn.
					Pastor, History of the Popes, I. 308
					In 1437 hostilities again broke out between Pope and council, and Eugenius IV. issued a
						bull dissolving the council and calling another to meet in Italy. At Basel this step was
						met by decrees suspending, then deposing, Eugenius; and on November 5, 1439, the schism
						was renewed by the election of an anti-pope, 269  who took
						the name Felix V. No important nation recognized Felix; and after ten years came the
						downfall of both the Council of Basel and its anti-pope.
					232. The papacy after the councils
					For the next few years the papacy was engaged -- under Nicholas V., Calixtus III., and
						Pius II. -- in remedying the damage done by the Great Schism, and in stamping out the
						last embers of the conciliar movement. The schism had doubled the financial burdens of
						the church, and reunion had not lessened them; and the demand for the removal of evils
						and abuses in the church grew stronger as time went on. In vain did Nicholas V. seek, by
						identifying the papacy with the literary and artistic revival of the fifteenth century,
						to recover is lost prestige. The effort also of Pius II. (1458-1464), to stir up a
						crusade against the Turks, only revealed more clearly that, as he himself had said,
						Europe looked "on Pope and Emperor alike as names in a story or heads in a picture." The
						mediæval papacy was dead as a political world power equally with the mediæval
						empire.
					In these circumstances the Popes confined themselves largely to looking after the
						interests of the Papal States. From 1464 to 1521 the sovereign pontiffs¹ may be described as Italian princes, who united
						to their powers as head of the church the political craft and perfidy and the looseness
						of morals which characterized Italy in their day, and lost sight of the spiritual side
						of their office. A Catholic historian quotes approvingly this characterization of
						Alexander VI. (1492-1503), one of the worst of their number: "The reign of this Pope,
						which lasted eleven years, was a serious disaster, on account of its worldliness, openly
						proclaimed with the most amazing effrontery, on account of its equally unconcealed
						nepotism [favoritism to relatives], lastly on account of his utter absence of all moral
						sense both in public and private ¹ Paul II. (1464-1471); Sixtus IV. (1471-1484); Innocent VIII. (1484-1492);
							Alexander VI. (1492-1503); Julius II. (1503-1513); Leo X. (1513-1521).
						 life, which made every sort of accusation credible, and
						brought the papacy into utter discredit, while its authority seemed unimpaired."Pastor, History of the Popes, IV. 139
					233. Spanish awakening
					Thus the Middle Ages end with the papacy and higher clergy sunk in worldliness; but
						among the people ",the evidence is overwhelming," says a recent Protestant historian,
						"that the whole mediæval period witnessed a gradual deepening of the hold of religion on
						life and thought. . . . If the wider interests of religion are had in view, the period
						just previous to the Reformation witnessed not the lowest decline but the highest
						development of mediæval Christianity -- high enough to be dissatisfied with its state,
						to feel dimly the inadequacy of its institutions, and the need of their
							improvement." In
						Spain, in the latter half of the fifteenth century, was seen a religious movement which
						particularly testifies to this. There a reform was carried out, on the initiative of
						Ferdinand and Isabella, and through the agency of Archbishop Ximenes, which purified the
						Spanish church, and produced a religious revival characterized by strict orthodoxy,
						limitation of the papal power, and a more rational theology.
					Walker, Reformation, 6
					234. Savonarola (1452-1498)
					In Italy also a moral and religious revival was begun by the Dominican friar Savonarola
						(1452-1498) at Florence. His vivid eloquence and commanding personality aroused the
						people from their frivolity and sensuality, and for a time he swayed the city at will.
						But unhappily he was) led into politics; he took a prominent part in a revolution which
						temporarily cast out the ruling family of the Medici, and he turned Florence to alliance
						with the French when Charles VIII. made his raid into Italy (§ 216).
					This brought Savonarola into conflict with Pope Alexander VI., whose chief object was
						to provide a principality in Italy for his son, Cæsar Borgia. This end was pursued by
						father and son with frank disregard of morality and religion; indeed, HARDING'S M. & M. HIST.--16
						 the Italian writer Machiavelli (1469-1527), in his work
						entitled The Prince, took Cæsar Borgia as a model of that unscrupulous
						craft which was thought necessary to rule a newly won state. The chief danger to the
						Pope's designs came from the interference of France in the peninsula, and Florence was
						the chief supporter of that intervention. The persistence of Savonarola in adhering to
						the French alliance, his preaching after being excommunicated, and his attacks upon the
						Pope at length led to his downfall. Although his teachings were in general harmony with
						the doctrines of the church, Savonarola was condemned as a heretic, and burned at the
						stake in 1498. Unlike the Hussite movement in Bohemia, his influence died with him.
					
						SAVONAROLA.
					
					235. Decay of mediævalism
					The reform movements of Ximenes and Savonarola were orthodox efforts to effect an
						adjustment of the church to the modern spirit which was manifesting itself in the great
						movement called the Renaissance. The term means literally "rebirth," and is applied
						especially to the intellectual and artistic revival which, beginning in Italy about the
						year 1300, went steadily on throughout the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth
						centuries. Fundamentally, it was an awakening of the human intellect to wider fields of
						activity; it was the recovery of the freedom of individual thought and action. In the
						Middle Ages the individual was nothing; the guild, the commune, the church, were
						everything. The world and the flesh were regarded as evil, and their influence was to be
						combated. Curiosity was to be repressed; hence natural science, which is based on
						observation and investigation, made  little progress. The
						learning most worth having was theology, the basis of which was revelation; and with it
						flourished philosophy (the handmaid of theology), and law -- the importance of which was
						due to the incessant conflicts of papacy and empire, of church and state.
					236. Revival of learning
					With the fourteenth century a new way of looking at things began in Italy to manifest
						itself. Human life and this world were viewed as things good in themselves, and not
						merely as a means of preparation for the world to come. Men began to give way to the
						stirrings of curiosity in matters hitherto neglected. A new interest was taken in the
						monuments of antiquity. Throughout the Middle Ages, Vergil, Cicero, and others of the
						best Latin authors were read as models of style, however imperfectly they were followed;
						but their content was feared as pagan. Now they began to be read for meaning as well as
						style; and in them men found that spirit of individualism, of "humanism," of which they
						were beginning to be conscious in their own breasts.
					"The expression of the human mind in the Middle Ages had been scholasticism, that is to
						say, the interpretation of texts; the expression of the humanistic spirit was reason,
						that is to say, the affirmation of truth, evident or demonstrated."Lavisse, General View, 135 A new and exaggerated reverence
						for antiquity sprang up; and because the classical authors were now understood, men
						profited by their style as never before. Better Latin began to be written; and Greek,
						the knowledge of which had gradually died out in the West, was relearned from
						Constantinople. "Greece has not fallen," said an Italian scholar after the fall of
						Constantinople; "but seems to have migrated to Italy." Under the impulse of the new love for
						learning, the libraries of the monasteries of Europe were ransacked, and many lost works
						were recovered. Critical scholarship was born in the task of identifying and  editing these treasures, and grammars and dictionaries were
						compiled for their interpretation.
					Creighton, Papacy, III 165
					237. Classic study and venacular literature
					The chief representatives of the revival of learning, in the fourteenth century, were
						Petrarch and Boccaccio. Petrarch (1304-1374) was born near Florence, spent his boyhood
						at Avignon, and in manhood passed from one Italian court to another. He longed
						passionately for a revival of the glories of ancient Rome, and was the first who
						zealously collected Latin manuscripts, inscriptions, and coins. He tried ineffectually
						to learn Greek in order that he might read Homer; and in countless letters, each an
						essay in finished Latin style, he spread broadcast the cultured and inquiring humanist
						spirit. Boccaccio (1313-1375) also was a Florentine; with much difficulty he gained some
						knowledge of Greek, and was the author of valuable dictionaries of classical mythology
						and geography. In the fifteenth century scores of humanists, of lesser genius but
						greater learning, carried on the work begun by these two.
					Along with the revival of learning went another movement, which also owed much to
						Petrarch and Boccaccio. The Italian, French, and English tongues, and later the German,
						were raised to the rank of literary languages, and vernacular literatures were created.
						The Florentine poet Dante (1265-1321) represents "the glimmer of the dawn" of the
						Renaissance. Born amid the strife of Guelf and Ghibelline, he spent his later life in
						the wanderings of political exile. His epic poem, the Divine Comedy,
						was not merely the first important literary work in Italian, but was the first great
						piece of modern literature, one of the masterpieces of all time. Petrarch's Sonnets showed that the Italian language was adapted to lyric poetry; and
						Boccaccio, in a series of short stories called the Decameron, became
						the father of Italian prose. In England the poet Chaucer (1340-1400) used the language
						of the people for his Canterbury Tales; and Wyclif used the same
						tongue in much 274  of his writing and preaching. In
						Germany the development of a literature in the people's tongue was aided by the work of
						Martin Luther in the sixteenth century.
					238. The fine arts and Italy
					
						ST. PETER'S, AT ROME. (Present condition; erected 1506-1626.)
					
					Architecture, sculpture, and painting also felt the new impulse, and flowered into
						masterpieces such as the world had not seen since the days of classical Greece. In
						architecture the classical revival was felt early in the fifteenth century, when men
						restored the style of ancient Rome, adapted to the requirements of modern
						ecclesiastical, civic, and domestic building. Bramante (1444-1514) was foremost in this
						work, and to him Rome owes the original plan and part of the completed structure of the
						church of St. Peter's. Michael Angelo (Michelangelo, 1475-1564) illustrates the
						many-sidedness of the Italian Renaissance by the preëminence which he attained alike in
						architecture, sculpture, and painting. He superintended the building of St. Peter's, and
						added the towering dome; sculptured many figures, of which those  of David, Moses, and the figures for the Medici monument at Florence are
						perhaps most famous; and painted a series of biblical pictures for the Sistine Chapel at
						Rome, of which his fresco of the Last Judgment is probably the most famous single
						picture in the world; in addition he was a poet of no mean note. In painting, the
						Italian Renaissance reached its height in the period 1470-1550, which saw the works of
						Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519), Raphael (1483-1520), and others, as well as those of
						Michael Angelo. In Venice the movement was of somewhat later origin than elsewhere in
						Italy; but a Venetian school, of which Titian (1477-1576) was foremost, gained fame for
						its brilliant and accurate coloring
					239. Science and criticism
					The critical spirit which was developed in the study of the ancient authors passed into
						criticism of mediæval philosophy, mediæval science, and mediæval religion. Scholastic
						philosophy lost its hold upon the world, and the writings of Plato were read along with
						those of Aristotle, whose works now became known in the original Greek. Medicine
						profited by the dissection of the human body; but it was not until the middle of the
						seventeenth century that an English physician, Harvey, completely demonstrated the
						circulation of the blood. Chemistry made important strides, though to many investigators
						it was only a means to find the mythical "philosopher's stone," with which to turn base
						metals to gold. Mathematics also experienced some advances.
					Above all, the study of the stars passed from the astrologer to the astronomer. For
						centuries the teaching of the Greek philosopher Ptolemy had prevailed, which made the
						earth the center of the universe, about which turned sun, moon, and stars. Copernicus
						(1473-1543) now taught that the sun is the center about which the earth revolves with
						the other planets, turning at the same time upon its axis. Galileo (1564-1642), with the
						aid of the telescope, which he so improved as to make 
						practically a new invention, explored the heavens and made discovery after discovery;
						but because of the opposition of the theologians, he was obliged to withdraw as
						heretical the teaching, which he borrowed from Copernicus, that the earth moves around
						the sun.
					The same sort of critical investigation which led to these scientific discoveries
						enabled Lorenzo Valla (1405-1457) to prove that the alleged Donation of Constantine (§
						63),by which were defended some of the papal claims to temporal power, was a clumsy
						forgery.
					240. Arts of war and navigation
					A development of the arts of war and of navigation also marked this period. The
						improvements in the arms and handling of foot soldiers, which made them superior to the
						mounted and armored knights (§§ 185, 193, 215), were accompanied by the introduction of
						gunpowder, which robbed the feudal castle of its strength. From a very early date
						gunpowder was used in India and China for rockets and fireworks. Its introduction into
						Europe, and use in cannon, took place in the fourteenth century; but it was not until
						the fifteenth that improvements in its composition and in appliances made it an
						effective instrument of war. The musket and pistol do not appear until the sixteenth
						century
					The art of navigation also owed much to the Far East. About 1300 the mariner's compass
						was introduced into Europe from China, where it had long been known; and the astrolabe
						and cross-staff, used to ascertain latitude, were adapted to purposes of navigation in
						the fifteenth century: these were among the few instruments possessed by Columbus and
						Vasco da Gama on their famous voyages. Longitude, however, could not be reckoned with
						any degree of accuracy until the invention of the watch, in the eighteenth century, made
						comparatively easy its calculation by differences of time.
					Geographical knowledge was greatly increased by the acceptance of the view that the
						earth is a sphere (a fact known to  the ancients, but
						rejected on theological grounds by the Middle Ages), and by a system of rational maps in
						place of fantastic and mythical representations of the world. In the sixteenth century
						the invention of Mercator's projection -- a form of map in which all meridians and
						parallels are straight lines intersecting at right angles -- made possible sea charts
						for compass sailing on courses drawn as straight lines.
					
						SPREAD OF PRINTING DURING THE FIFTY YEARS FOLLOWING ITS INTRODUCTION
								INTO MAINZ.
						
						The boundaries are modern.
					
					241. Invention of printing (about 1450)
					The intellectual awakening came earliest in Italy, and gradually spread to the lands
						beyond the Alps. The great church councils of the fifteenth century were an important
						help in its spread by bringing the scholars of Italy into touch with those of other
						lands. The greatest aid, however, was afforded by the invention of printing. As late as
						1350 practically all books in Europe were prepared entirely with the pen. Some time
						after that date the practice arose of  printing tracts and
						short books, for which there was a large sale, from engraved blocks of wood. Such crude
						"block books" were a step in advance; but it was not until separate types were cast in
						metal, making possible their use in many combinations, that the art of printing was
						really born. The honor of this invention is usually given to Johann Gutenberg of Mainz,
						in Germany, who printed from movable types about the year 1450; but the date, place, and
						original discoverer of the art are all disputed. The invention cheapened books and
						spread broadcast the means of culture. By the end of the century, printers had
						established themselves in more than two hundred places in Europe, and books and
						pamphlets were multiplied at an unprecedented rate. Leaflets containing woodcut
						pictures, illustrating the questions of the day, made an equally powerful appeal to the
						illiterate.
					242. The Renaissance beyond the Alps
					In Italy, in the latter part of the fifteenth century, scholars became almost pagan in
						their devotion to the learning of Greece and Rome; and frank disregard of religion and
						morality spread among all classes. North of the Alps a more serious tone characterized
						the movement; without neglecting the classical authors, scholars turned more to the
						study of early Christian writers. In England, John Colet, dean of St. Paul's cathedral
						at London, labored for an educational and religious revival. In Germany, Reuchlin became
						the center of a bitter literary and theological quarrel, because of his Hebrew studies
						and his desire to save the books of the Jews from burning at the hands of bigoted
						scholastics; and to defend him, a group of younger humanists, of whom the brilliant but
						dissolute Ulrich von Hutten was one, published a series of satirical letters entitled
							Epistolœ Obscurorum Virorum, purporting to be written by Reuchlin's
						opponents, and designed to cast ridicule upon them as a stupid party.
					243. Erasmus (1467-1536)
					The best example of northern humanism is offered by Erasmus of Rotterdam (1467-1536).
						After passing a few 279  years in a Netherlands monastery,
						he studied at Paris, in England, and in Italy; his home thenceforth was wherever there
						were literary friends, books, and a printing press. In biting satire he attacked the
						evil lives of monks, the arrogance of theologians, and superstition and ignorance
						everywhere. He devoted himself especially to editing and printing works of the early
						church fathers, and thus became the founder of a more learned and comprehensive
						theology. Scores of books were published by him: the most widely read, perhaps, was his
						satirical Praise of Folly; the most important was his edition of the
						New Testament (1516), making accessible, for the first time in a printed volume, the
						original Greek text. Owing to the knowledge of Latin possessed by all educated men, his
						works were everywhere read. He desired a reformation in the church "without tumult,"
						carried through by education and by appeal to the reason. In his own day he possessed an
						influence such as few scholars have had. Though his plan of orderly reform could not
						avert the uprising against the church, his work profoundly affected that movement as
						well as the church itself. "The Reformation that has been," says a writer of our own
						time, "is Luther's monument: Century, 73 perhaps the Reformation that is to be will
						trace itself back to Erasmus."
					Beard, Reformation of the
								Sixteenth Century, 73
					
						ERASMUS
						
						From the painting by Holbein.
					
					
					244. Summary of the Middle Ages
					In reviewing the history of the seven centuries between 800 and 1500, we see Europe in
						a constant state of transformation.  The prosperity of
						Charlemagne's reign was followed by the political and ecclesiastical disintegration of
						the ninth and tenth centuries. Through feudalism, military efficiency was recovered and
						the Continent saved from conquest threatened by Saracens, Hungarians, and Northmen.
					The refounding of the Holy Roman Empire by Otto I. (962) again gave Europe theoretical
						political unity, and led to the purification of the papacy and the church through the
						Cluniac reforms (tenth and eleventh centuries). The conflicting claims of papacy and
						empire then produced a series of struggles between these world powers, lasting from 1075
						to 1268: these include the Investiture Conflict (1075-1122) begun between Gregory VII.
						and Henry IV.; the long struggle with Frederick Barbarossa; and the contest which ended
						in the death of Frederick II. (1250) and the final downfall of the Hohenstaufens
						(1268).
					National states meanwhile were arising; and with France, the first of these, the papacy
						came into disastrous conflict in 1296-1303. Then followed the "Babylonian Captivity" at
						Avignon, the Great Schism, and the church councils, which ended the papacy as a world
						power. The political supremacy of France which followed was checked by a long war with
						England (1337-1453); and again at the end of the period it was about to be eclipsed by
						the newly grown power of Spain.
					The Crusades (1096-1291) were almost exactly contemporaneous with the struggle of
						papacy and empire. In one view they were an expansion of Europe eastward; similar
						movements were the conquests from the Slavs on the northeast of Germany, the Northman
						colonization of Iceland and Greenland, and the Spanish and Portuguese discoveries of the
						fifteenth century. The Middle Ages were also the period of the rise and vigor of the
						towns, of the universities, and of monastic organizations of various sorts. Chivalry,
						scholasticism, and Gothic art are manifestations of the earlier period, which  gradually change as the revival of learning grew in the
						fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. All in all, the Middle' Ages were a period of
						transformation, when the old classical civilization, Christianity, the vigorous Teutonic
						races, and elements drawn from the Mohammedan East combined in bewildering variety. It
						was essentially the period when Europe became Europe, and made ready to found new
						Europes across the seas.
					
						TOPICS
						Suggestive topics
						(1) Was Urban VI. or Clement VII. the true Pope? Give your reasons. (2) Why should
							England and France take opposite sides in the Great Schism? (3) Compare the powers
							claimed by the Council of Constance with Gregory VII.'s memorandum of the powers of
							the papacy. (4) Was the council's claim constitutional or revolutionary? Was it
							necessary or unnecessary? (5) Why did the councils fail to reform the abuses in the
							church? (6) Compare the character and European position of the Popes after the
							councils with the character and European position of Pope Innocent III. (7) Contrast
							the mediæval with the modern way of looking at the world. (8) Why was scholasticism
							insufficient as an intellectual training? (9) Why should the revival of learning come
							first in Italy? (10) How did printing help on the Renaissance? (11) Why were the
							northern humanists more serious and religious-minded than the Italian?
						Search topics
						(12) Effects of the Babylonian Captivity and the Great Schism on the papacy. (13)
							Incidents of the Council of Constance. (14) John Huss. (15) The Emperor Sigismund.
							(16) The papacy under Julius II. (17) The reforms of Ximenes in Spain. (18)
							Savonarola. (19) Dante. (20) Petrarch. (21) Michael Angelo. (22) Raphael. (23)
							Leonardo da Vinci. (24) Invention of printing. (25) Reuchlin. (26) Erasmus. (27)
							Discoveries of ancient works of art. (28) Discoveries of ancient literary works.
					
					
						REFERENCES
						Geography
						See map, p.252.
						Secondary authorities
						Adams, Civilization during the Middle Ages, chs. xv. xvi.; Seebohm,
								Era of the Protestant Revolution, pt. i. chs. i.-iv., pt. ii., ch.
							i.; Henderson, Short History of Germany, I. chs. ix. x.; Thatcher
							and Schwill, Europe in the Middle Age, chs. xxi. xxiii.; Van Dyke,
								Age of Renascence, 1-34, 62-121; Walker, Reformation,  chs. i. ii.; Lodge, Close of the Middle Ages, ix.-xi. xxii.; Wylie, Council of
								Constance, lectures v. vi.; Maurice, Bohemia, 176-220; Poole,
								Wycliffe and Movements for Reform, chs. iii. ix.-xiii.; Cutts, Turning Points of General Church History, chs. xxxviii. xxxix.;
							Trench, Medieval Church History, chs. xix.-xxii.; Desmond, Mooted Questions of History, chs. vii.-ix. xxiii.; Milman, History of Latin Christianity, bk. xiii. ch. ix.; Creighton, History of the Papacy, bk. ii. chs. iv. v.; Pastor, History of the Popes, I. 194-207, V. 181-212, VI. 3-54; Alzog, Church History, II. 853-896; Symonds, Short History of the
								Renaissance in Italy, chs. i. iv. v. vii. xii. xiii.; Symonds, Revival of Learning, 368-391, -- Age of Despots, chs. iii.
							iv.; Burckhardt, Renaissance in Italy, esp. 8-27, 62-87, 171-176,
							187-209; Lilly, Renaissance Types, chs. i.-iv.; Field, Introduction to the Study of the Renaissance, chs. i.-iv.; Fiske, Discovery of America, I. chs. iii. v.; Cambridge Modern
								History, I. ch. v.; Emerton, Erasmus, chs. i.-vi.; Seebohm,
								Oxford Reformers, chs. iii. v. ix.-xi. xv.; Gardner, Dante; Mrs. Oliphant, Makers of Florence, 1-97, 238-331;
							Milman, Savonarola, Erasmus, etc.; Villari, Life and
								Times of Savonarola (2 vols,); O'Neil, Jerome Savonarola; Van
							Dyke, Text-Book of the History of Painting, chs. vi.-x.; Goodyear,
								Renaissance and Modern Art, chs. i. iii. vi. xiii. xiv.
						
						Robinson, Readings, I. chs. xxi. xxii., II. chs. xxiii. xxiv.;
							Whitcomb, Literary Source Book of the Italian Renaissance, -- Literary Source Book of the German Renaissance; Robinson and Rolfe,
								Petrarch, 53-55, 59-76, 117, 169-174, 178-190, 191-196, 210-214,
							243, 261, 275-278, 298-325, 384; Emerton, Erasmus, 36-38, 149-151,
							188, 232-235, 298-307, 310-319, 347-349, 360, 373-374; Nicholas, Epistles
								of Erasmus; Froude, Life and Letters of Erasmus, 39, 95-96,
							97-100, 121-123, 207-210, 221-225, 243-249, 253-255, 259-272, 278-280, 284-286,
							293-296, 300, 305, 317-318, 327-332, 340, 342-343, 356, 363-365; Benvenuto Cellini,
								Life (Symond's trans.), 380-392, 416-427, 443-457 ; Machiavelli,
								The Prince, esp. ch. xviii.; Vassari, Lives
							(biographies of Raphael, Michelangelo Buonarroti, Leonardo da Vinci); University of
							Pennsylvania, Translations and Reprints, IV. No. 6, pp. 14-15, I.
							No. 1. p. 8, III. No. 6, pp. 9, 14, 26-32; Erasmus, Praise of Folly;
							Commines, Memoirs (Bohn), II. 189-191, 284-287.
						Illustrative works
						Charles Reade, Cloister and the Hearth; "George Eliot," Romola; G. P. R. James, Leonora d'Orco; Mrs. Beecher
							Stowe, Agnes of Sorrento; C. Baker, The Gleaming
								Dawn, -- The Cardinal's Page.
					
				
			
		
		
			
			
			
				INDEX
				Diacritic marks: ā as in late; ǎ as in fat; ä as in
						far; ȧ as in last; â as in care;
					a̤ as in fall; ̵c, ̵ch as in cask, chasm; ç as in ice; ē as in me; ě as in met, berry; e̱ as in veil; ẽ as in term; ê as in there; ḙ as in novel; ġ
					as in gem; ḡ as in go; G, German ch; ī as in ice; ǐ as in tin; ï as in police; K, German ch; n as in finger; N, the French nasal; ō as in
						note; ǒ as in not; ȯ as in son; Ô
					as in for; o̤ as in do; ǫ as in wolf; s̱ as in news; ū as in tune; ǔ as in nut; ṳ as in rude (= o̤); ụ as in full; ü, French u; ȳ as in my; y̌ as in lady. Single italic letters are silent.
				
					Aachen (ä'Kḙn), 39, 40.
					Abbots, 87, 88, 108.
					Ab'elard, 92.
					Absolution, 80.
					Acre (ä'kẽr), in Crusades, 134, 135, 140.
					Ä'dōlf of Nassau, 246.
					A'drian IV., Pope, 152.
					Ad-ri-an-ō'ple, conquered by Turks, 260.
					Af-ghan-is-tän', 118.
					Agincourt (ä-zhǎN-koor'), battle of, 239.
					Agriculture, mediæval, 178, 179. 
							Black Death affects, 233.
							Crusades influence, 142.
							Mohammedan, 117.
							monks influence, 87, 89.
						
					Aids, feudal, 56.
					Āix-lä-Çhä-pelle', and Charlemagne,
						89-41.
					Al'aric, 21.
					Albert I. (of Austria), Emperor, 247.
					Albert II., Emperor, 258.
					Albiġen'sēs̱, 216, 217, 219.
					Al'cuin (-kwin), 38.
					Alexander III., Pope, 153, 154, 155.
					Alexander V., Pope, 267.
					Alexander VI., Pope, 270, 271.
					Alex'ius Comne'nus, 114, 120, 128.
					Alfonso X., of Castile, 246.
					Alfred the Great, of England, 193.
					Allodial estates, 52, 55.
					Alps, 16, 17, 14.
					Ȧ-mäl'fï, early commerce of, 186.
					Amiens (ä-me-ǎN'), cathedral, 90.
					Anagni (ȧ-nän'yē), Pope seized at, 228.
					Anath'ema, 81.
					An'ġevin kings of England, 200.
					Angles, 21, 191.
					Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, 193.
					Anjou (äN-zhoo'), Charles of, 168, 169, 221.
					Annals, 19, 37.
					Anne of Beaujeau (France), 255.
					An'ti-oc̵h, in Crusades, 123-126, 129.
					Ant'werp, commerce of, 186.
					Ap'en-nīnes̱, 17.
					Aquī'nas, Thomas, 94.
					Aquitaine', 49, 200, 204, 213, 237, 242.
					Aquita'nians, 32, 71.
					Ăr'ȧbs, 23, 116, 117, 118.
					Ăr'agon, 162, 221, 256.
					Archbishops, 81-83, 86.
					Archdeacon, 81.
					Architecture, 89-91, 275.
					Ā'rian Christians, 22, 84.
					Ăr'istǒtle, 94, 118, 276.
					Arles̱, 49; see Burgundy.
					Armagnacs (är-mȧn-yȧk'), 239, 240.
					Arms and armor, 57, 58, 117, 197, 230, 231, 277. 
							influence of Crusades on, 140.
						
					Army, feudal, 58. 
							Franks', 52.
						
					Arnold, abbot of Citeaux, 216, 217.
					Arnold of Brescia, 152.
					Ar'nulf, 49.
					Arques (ärk), chateau of, 171, 172.
					Art, 91, 275, 276.
					Artois (är-twä'), 239.
					Aryan peoples, 13.
					Asca'nian house, 157.
					As'trolabe, introduction of, 277.
					Astronomy, 276.
					At'abek, 131.
					At'tila, 22.
					Augs'burg, commerce of, 186.
					Austria, beginnings of, 65, 152, 246, 259. 
							Hapsburgs acquire, 246.
						
					Autun (ō-tǔN'), 54.
					Auxerre (ō-sâr'), 54.
					Ä'vars, 32, 63.
					Avignon (ä-vēn-yôN'), 208, 224, 264, 265.
					A-zōres̱, discovery of, 257.
				
				
				
					Babylonian Captivity, 224, 264.
					Bȧg-däd', 116, 118.
					Baldwin of Flanders, 138.
					Baptism, 79.
					Bar'dï, commercial company, 187.
					Bä'rï, captured by Normans, 73.
					Barons, in England, 198, 205, 206.
					Bä's̱el, Council of, 269, 270.
					Basques (bȧsks), 71.
					Bav'āria, and Charlemagne, 32, 35. 
							early history, 65, 148, 152, 157.
						
					Bā-yōnne', English possession, 238.
					Beaucaire (bō-kȧr'), fairs at, 187.
					Beauvais (bō-vā'), bishop of, 242.
					Becket, Thomas à, 201.
					Bedford, Duke of, 240, 242.
					Belfry, 181, 182.
					Belisā'rius, 22.
					Běn'edict, Saint, 86.
					Benedict, XIII., Avignon Pope, 266-268.
					Ben-e-dic'tǐne monks, 87, 88, 89.
					Běn'e-fĭçe, 51-53.
					Benefit of clergy, 78.
					Be̱ne̱ven'to, battle of, 167.
					Bĕr'gamo, in Lombard League, 155.
					Bêr'ḡḙn, Hanseatic station in, 188.
					Běrn, joins Swiss Confederation, 249.
					Bernard, Saint, 89, 92, 131.
					Běr-rï', Charles of, 251.
					Bishops, 80-83, 86, 94, 95. 
							investiture question, 104-108.
						
					Black Death, 232-234.
					Black Prince, 231, 234, 235, 237.
					Blanche of Castile, 219.
					Bōc-cä'ccio (-chō), 274.
					Bohemia, early history, 63, 66, 247, 248. 
							electorate, 248.
							Hussite revolt in, 258, 268, 269.
						
					Bō'he-mǒnd, 122.
					Böhmerwald (bē'mẽr-vält), 17.
					Bologna (bo-lōn'ya), 92, 149, 155.
					Bǒn'i-face VIII., Pope, 169, 222.
					Bor-deaux' (-dō), 238, 242.
					Bor'gia, Cæsar, 271, 272.
					Bos̱'nia, 260.
					Bos̱'worth, battle of, 256.
					Bourges (boorzh), French court at, 240.
					Bo̤u-vïnes', battle of, 163, 204, 214.
					Bramän'te̱, 275.
					Bran'den-burg, 65, 248.
					Brěm'en, 187.
					Brenner pass, 17, 186.
					Brescia (brā'shē-ä), Arnold of, 152.
					Bretigny (brě-tēn-yǐ'), treaty of, 237.
					Bretons (brǐt'unz), 32, 71.
					Britain, 191.
					Britons, Celtic, destruction of, 191.
					Brittany, relations to France, 254.
					Bruce, David, 229.
					Brṳ'gěs̱, 182, 186, 188.
					Bruns̱'wick, duchy of, 157.
					Bụl-gā'ri-a, 27, 114, 260.
					Burgun'dian party, in France, 239, 240, 242.
					Burgundians, 21, 35.
					Bur'gundy, Charles of, 251-254, 262.
					Burgundy, duchy seized by king, 254. 
							dukes of, 238-242, 251-254.
							kingdom of, 49, 99.
						
					By̆-zan'tĭne architecture, 89.
					Byzantine Empire, see Eastern Empire.
				
				
					Cabochiens (kȧ-bō-shĭ-ăN'), 239.
					̵Caī'ro, 116, 117.
					Ca-lāis', 232, 2387, 242.
					Calendar, 19, 20.
					Cāl'liphs, 24.
					Calix'tus III., Pope, 270.
					Cannon, 232, 242, 277.
					Canon law, 78, 150.
					Canons (clergy), 81.
					Canos'sa, Henry IV. at, 105, 106.
					Canterbury, 83.
					Ca-nūte', 195, 198.
					Cā'pet, Hugh, 71, 211, 212.
					Cā-pē'tian (-shan) kings, 211.
					Capit'ularies, 19, 35, 36, 38, 51.
					Cardinals, 84, 102.
					Carolin'gian Empire, 32-50.
					Carolingians, 25, 32-50, 42, 44, 70, 71.
					Car-ro'ccio (-chō), 155.
					Carthu'sian (zhan) monks, 89.
					Castïle' and Leon, 256, 287.
					Castles, 171, 172, 174, 175, 50, 200.
					Cath'a-ri, 216.
					Cathedrals, 81, 182.
					Catherine of France, 240.
					Catholics, see Church, Pope.
					Celibacy of the clergy, 78, 98, 99, 269.
					Celtic Church, 191.
					Celts, 13.
					Ce̱-věnnes', 17.
					Çham-pāgne', Count of, 54.
					Chapter, cathedral, 81.
					̵Charis'mians, 139.
					Çhar'le-māgne, 82-42. 
							descendants of, 44.
						
					Charles IV., Emperor (Charles of Bohemia), 248, 257.
					Charles of Anjou, 168, 169, 221.
					Charles IV. of France, 224.
					Charles V. of France, 237, 238. 
							as Dauphin, 235-237.
						
					Charles VI. of France, 238, 240.
					Charles VII. of France, 240-243, 251.
					Charles VIII. of France. 254, 255.
					Charles Martel', 24, 26, 52.
					Charles the Bald, of France, 45, 46.
					Charles the Bold, of Burgundy, 251-254, 262.
					Charles the Fat, Emperor, 48, 49.
					Charles the Simple, of France, 48, 49.
					
					Charter, Great, 205, 206.
					Charter of Henry I. of England, 199.
					Charters, town, 180, 181.
					Chateau Gaillard (shȧ-tō gä-yär'), 172, 214.
					Chaucer, Geoffrey, 274.
					Çhivalry, 173, 174.
					Christianity, in 800, 27, 28. 
							spread of, 62, 75.
							See Church, etc.
						
					Chronicles, 19
					Church, mediæval, 77-96. 
							buildings, 89-91, 182, 215, 275.
							councils, 84, 264-270.
							Eastern and Western, 109, 78, 84, 261.
							feudalism and, 51, 58.
							reform in, 98-108, 268, 269, 271.
							services and worship, 91, 92.
							See Pope, etc.
						
					Cister'cian (-shan) monks, 89.
					Cîteaux (sē-tō'), 89.
					Cities or towns, mediæval, life in, 180-189. 
							in France, 180-183, 214, 215.
							in Germany, 158, 186-188.
							in Italy, 149, 158-156, 186.
						
					Civil law, 149, 150.
					Clair-vaux' (vō'), monastery, 89.
					Clement VII., Avignon Pope, 265.
					Clergy, 77-83, 86, 92, 94, 95. 
							celibacy of, 78, 98, 99, 269.
							feudalism and, 52-55.
							investiture of bishops, 104-108.
						
					Cle'ri-cis Lā'i-cōs, 222.
					Clerks (clergy), 78.
					Cler'mont, council of, 120.
					Climate of Europe, 12, 13, 16.
					Clo'vis, 25.
					Cluny (klü-nē') order of, 88, 89, 94, 95.
					Cŏl'et, John, 279.
					Co-lōgne', 187, 248.
					Columbus, Christopher, and Spain, 257.
					Comets in Middle Ages, 189.
					Commendation, 51.
					Commerce, Crusades influence, 141. 
							early routes of, 184-186.
							mediæval, 183-188.
							Mohammedan, 117.
						
					Commons, House of, 207.
					Communes, of France, 181.
					Communes, of Italy, 148, 149, 153-156.
					Compass, mariner's, introduction of, 277.
					Compurgation, 195, 203.
					Concor'dat of Worms, 108.
					Concordats of 1418, 268.
					Conrad I. of Germany, 65.
					Conrad II., 99.
					Conrad III., 132, 145-148.
					Conrad IV., 167.
					Con'ra-dïn, 167, 168.
					Con'stance. Council of, 267, 268. 
							treaty of (1183), 156.
						
					Constance of Sicily, 158, 164.
					Con'stan-tīne the Great, 20, 21, 85.
					Constantine Pa-læ-ol'o-gus, 261.
					Constantinople, 116, 136, 137, 139, 261.
					Coper'nicus, 276.
					Cor'dova, 116, 117, 23.
					Cornwall, Richard, Duke of, 246.
					Costume, see Dress.
					Councils of the Church, 84, 264-270.
					Count, 36, 53, 55, 65.
					Count Pal'atine, elector, 248.
					Countess Matilda of Tuscany, 105.
					Co̤ur-trāi', battle of, 222.
					Crecy (crā-sē'), battle of, 230-232.
					Crossbowmen, 230.
					Crusades, 119-143. 
							causes of, 119, 120.
							First Crusade, 120-127.
							Second Crusade, 131, 132.
							Third Crusade, 133-135.
							Fourth Crusade, 135-139.
							later crusades, 139, 140.
							results of, 140-143.
							Albigensian Crusade, 216, 217.
						
					Curfew, 182.
					Cӯ'prus, and crusaders, 131, 134, 140.
					Czechs (chěks), rebellions of, 258.
				
				
					D'Ailly (dȧ-yē'), Pierre, 266.
					Damas'cus, 116, 117, 132.
					Dǎm-i-et'ta, and crusaders, 139, 140, 220.
					Dän'do-lo, 136, 139.
					Dāne'law, 193, 48.
					Danes (Northmen), 193, 195; see Northmen.
					Dan'te, 274.
					Danzig (dān'tsǐK), 187.
					Dark Age, 11.
					Dau'phin, 235.
					Dauphiné (dō-fē-nā'), 235.
					De-cre'tum Gra-ti-a'ni, 150.
					De-mēsne', 177.
					Denmark, early history, 28, 75, 162, 188.
					De-si-de'ri-us, Lombard king, 33.
					Dextra'rius, 58.
					Diaz (dē'äs), Bartholomew, 257.
					Diet, of Roncaglia, 153.
					Dï-nǎr'ic Alps, 17.
					Di'o-ce-ses, 80-82.
					Di-o-cle'tian (-shan), 20.
					Diplomacy, Byzantine, 115.
					Dōġe of Venice, 136.
					Do̤mes̱'day Book, 199.
					Dŏm'inic, Saint, 217.
					Domin'icans, 217-219.
					Donation of Constantine, 85, 86, 277.
					Dȯn'jȯn, 171, 172.
					Drama, origin of, 92.
					Dress, 41, 176.
					Dü Guesclin (gā-klǎN'), Bĕr-träNd', 238.
					Duke, 55, 65, 147.
					
					Dun'stan, 194.
					Dyeing, in Middle Ages, 176.
				
				
					Ēal'dormen, 194.
					Earls, 196.
					Eastern Church, 109, 78, 84, 261.
					Eastern Empire, 22-25, 27, 75, 114-116. 
							crusaders and, 120, 123, 136-139.
							fall of, 260, 261.
						
					Échevins (āsh-vǎN'), 181.
					Ecumen'ical councils, 84, 264-270.
					E-des'sa, 129, 131.
					Edgar of England, 194.
					Edward I. of England, 206, 207, 223, 140.
					Edward II., 208.
					Edward III., 208, 225, 229-232, 237.
					Edward IV., 255.
					Edward the Confessor, 196, 197.
					Egbert, king of Wessex, 193.
					Egypt, 132, 139, 140.
					Einhard (īn'hart), or Eginhard, 34, 40.
					Elbe River, 18.
					Eleanor of Aquitaine, 213.
					Electors of Empire, 248, 259.
					Emperor, election of, 151, 247, 248, 259. 
							Pope and, see Pope.
							weakness of, 258, 259.
							See Holy Roman Empire, and names of emperors.
						
					England (449-1509), 191-209, 229-244, 255, 256. 
							Black Death in, 233.
							feudalism in, 198, 54, 59, 225.
							France and, 229-244.
							government of, 194, 203.
							Hundred Years' War, 229-244.
							literature of, 274.
							population of, 188.
							Wars of the Roses, 242.
						
					E-rǎs̱'mus, 279, 280.
					Erz'ḡḙ-bïr-ḡḙ (ĕrts'-), 17.
					Estates, in France, 181, 222.
					Estates-General, 222, 236.
					Eth'elred, 195.
					Eū'̵cha-rist (or Lord's Supper), 79, 91,
						109.
					Eū-ġe'ni-us IV., Pope, 269.
					Europe, geography of, 12-18.
					Ēves̱'hǎm, battle of, 206.
					Ex-ar'̵chate of Ravenna, 24, 25, 26.
					Ex-cheq'uer, English, 202.
					Exchequer, French, 220.
					Excommunication, 81.
					Extreme unction, sacrament of, 80, 79.
				
				
					Fāi-né̱-äNt' kings, in
						France, 25.
					Fairs, of Middle Ages, 186, 187, 161.
					Fa̤l'conry, 174.
					False Decretals, 85, 86.
					Faubourgs (fō-boor'), 181.
					Fe'alty, 56.
					Felix V., anti-pope, 270.
					Ferdinand of Aragon, 255, 256.
					Feudal government, 53-60, 250.
					Feudal life, 171-189.
					Feudal system, 50-60, 74. 
							Crusades influence, 142.
							in England, 198, 225.
							in France, 226.
							in Germany, 225, 246.
							in Palestine, 130.
						
					Feudal warfare, 57-59.
					Feudatories, see Lords (feudal).
					Fiēf, 51-53.
					Field of May, 36, 87.
					Fil-i-o'que, in Nicene creed, 109.
					Finns, Finland, 27.
					Fist-right, in Germany, 59.
					Flaġ'ellants, 233.
					Flanders, and France, 221, 229, 254.
					Florence, 176, 271, 272.
					FôNte-nāy', battle of, 45,
						46.
					Food, in Middle Ages, 175, 176, 187, 18S.
					France, 46, 48, 49; (886-987), 69-71; (987-1453), 211-244; (1453-1500), 251-255.
							
							Black Death in, 234.
							cities in, 180-183, 214, 215.
							Crusades influence, 142.
							feudalism in, 54, 59, 226.
							Hundred Years' War, 229-244.
							Italy and, 255, 256.
						
					Francis, Saint, of Assisi, 218.
					Francis'cans, 218.
					Franco'nia, duchy of, 65.
					Franconian Emperors, 98, 99, 101, 103-108.
					Frankfort (on the Main), 187, 247, 259.
					Franks, 21, 25-27, 32-42, 52.
					"Franks," crusaders, 123; see Crusades.
					Frederick I., Barbaros'sa, Emperor, 150-159, 133.
					Frederick II., Emperor, 163-167, 139.
					Frederick III., Emperor, 258, 259.
					Free companies, in France, 237.
					Friars, 89, 217-219.
					Friēs̱'land, 65.
				
				
					Gal-i-le'o, 276.
					Gä'ma, Väs'co dä, 257.
					Ga-rōnne' River, 18.
					Gaul, 18, 21.
					General councils, 84, 264-270.
					Ġĕn'o-a, commerce of, 130, 131, 141, 186.
					Geography of Europe, 12-18.
					Ge̱r'bert, Pope Sylvester, II., 68.
					Germanic migrations, 21, 22, 48, 191.
					Germany (843-1024), 46, 48, 49, 63-69; (1024-1268), 98-110, 145-170; (1254-1500),
						246-249, 251-253, 257-260; see Austria, Bavaria, etc. 
							cities in, 158, 186-188.
							Crusades influence, 142.
							feudalism in, 54, 59, 225, 246.
						
					
					Germany, government, see Emperor. 
							literature of, 158, 275.
							mediæval king of, election, 151.
							subdivision of, 157, 166, 252.
						
					Gerson (zhâr-sôN'), Jean (zhäN), 266.
					Ḡhĭb'el-lĭnes̱, 147.
					Glŏuces'ter, Htmuphrey, Duke of, 240.
					Godfrey of Bouillon (boo-yôN'), 122, 129.
					Godwin, earl of Wessex, 196.
					Golden Bull, 248.
					Gothic architecture, 90, 91.
					Goths, 35, 71; see Ostrogoths and Visigoths.
					Gra-nä'da, kingdom of, 256, 257.
					GräNde Çhar-trēus̱e', 89.
					GräN-sôN', battle of, 251.
					Grā'tian (-shĭ-an), canonist, 150.
					Great Charter of England, 205-206.
					Great Council of England, 207.
					Great Interregnum, 167, 246.
					Great Schism, 265-268.
					Greek Church and Empire, see Eastern.
					Greek fire, 115.
					Greenland, settlement of, 72.
					Grego'rian calendar, 20.
					Greg'ory I., Pope, 25, 110.
					Gregory VI., 99.
					Gregory VII. (Hildebrand), 99-106, 110.
					Gregory IX., 164, 166.
					Gregory XII., 266-268.
					Guelfs (gwělfs), 147.
					Ḡuï-ěnne', 225, 229.
					Ḡuilds, 148, 183.
					Gunpowder, introduction of, 277.
					Gṳ'ten-bĕrG, Johann, 279.
				
				
					Hamburg, 187.
					Han'over, 157.
					Han-se-ǎt'ic League, 187, 188, 184, 185.
					Hapsburg Castle, 250.
					Hapsburg house, rise of, 246, 247, 258, 259.
					Har-di-ca-nūte', king of England, 196.
					Harold of England, 196-198.
					Hȧ-ro̤un'-äl-Rash'id, 40.
					Harvey, William, English physician, 276.
					Hāstings, battle of, 197.
					He̱'fe̤-le̯, quoted, 101.
					He-ġī'ra, the, 19.
					Henry I. of England, 199.
					Henry II. of England, 200-203, 213, 214.
					Henry III. of England, 206, 220.
					Henry IV. of England, 239.
					Henry V. of England, 239, 240.
					Henry VI. of England, 240, 242.
					Henry VII. of England, 256.
					Henry I. of France, 212.
					Henry I. of Germany, 65.
					Henry II. of Germany, 69.
					Ilenry III. of Germany, 99, 101.
					Henry IV. of Germany, 101, 103-107.
					Henry V. of Germany, 107.
					Henry VI. of Germany, 159, 162.
					Henry VII. of Germany, 247.
					Henry the Lion, 152, 155, 156, 157.
					Henry the Navigator, 257.
					Henry the Proud, 146, 147.
					Hep'tar-̵chy, in England, 191.
					Hĭl'de-brǎnd (Gregory VII.), 99-106, 110.
					Hō'hěn-stau-fe̯n (-stou-), 146-170.
					Holy Roman Empire, 67, 74, 98-110; see Emperor, and
						Germany.
					Hom'age, 56.
					Hos'pitalers, 130, 131.
					Hugh Cā'pet, 71, 211, 212.
					Humanism, 273.
					Hundred Years' War, 229-244.
					Hunga'rians, 63, 65, 66.
					Huṉ'gary, 65, 66, 167.
					Huns, 21, 22.
					Huss, John, 258, 267.
					Hụt'tḙn, Ulrich von (ool'rǐK fōn), 279.
				
				
					Iceland, settlement of, 71.
					Iconoclas'tic Controversy, 25, 109.
					Immunity, 36, 53, 78, 88.
					Innocent III., Pope, 135-137, 162, 163, 204,216.
					Innocent IV., 166.
					Inquisition, 218, 219.
					Investiture, 94.
					Investiture Conflict, 104-108.
					Ï-ō'na, island of, 191.
					Ireland, England conquers, 201, 202.
					I-rē'nē, Eastern Empress, 34.
					Irnē'rius of Bologna, 149.
					Iron crown, the, of Italy, 33.
					Isaac An'gelus, 136.
					Isabella of Castile, 257.
					Isabella of France, 240.
					Isau'rian emperors (Eastern Empire), 114.
					Italy (before 8S7), 21, 22, 24, 47, 48; (887-1125), 66-69, 72-74, 106; (1125-1504),
						145-170, 226, 255-257, 271-279. 
							art of, 275, 276.
							cities in, 148, 149, 153-156, 186.
							literature of, 274.
							Mohammedans in, 63, 72, 73.
							Normans in, 72-74.
							Renaissance in, 273-276, 278, 279.
						
				
				
					Jacquerie (zhȧk-rē'), 236.
					Jǎn'izaries, 260, 261.
					Jeanne (zhȧn) d'Arc (Joan of Arc), 240-242.
					Je-rōme' of Prague, 267.
					Jerusalem, captured by Turks, 119. 
							Crusades, 126, 129, 132, 139, 164, 165.
						
					Jews, 122.
					Jo-an' of Arc, 240-242.
					John of Burgundy, 239, 240.
					John of England, 202, 204-206.
					John of France, 234, 235, 237.
					John XXII., Pope, 247.
					
					John XXIII., Pope, 267, 268.
					Julian calendar, 19.
					Julier (yool'yer) pass, 186.
					Jury trial, in England, 203.
					Justin 'ian, 22.
					Jūtes, invade Britain, 191.
				
				
					Keep, of castle, 171, 172.
					King of the Romans, 165.
					Knights, 54, 55, 58, 173, 174.
					Knight's fee, 55.
					Knights Hospitaler of St. John, 130, 131.
					Knights Templar, 130, 131.
					Knights, Teutonic, 130, 131.
					Ko'ran, 23.
				
				
					Labor, in Middle Ages, 183, 233.
					Land'friē-den (länt'-), 59.
					Land tenure, feudal, 51-53, 56, 57.
					LäN'gres, 54.
					LäN-guḙ-dōc', 216.
					Lat'eran Council (1215), 84.
					Latin Empire of Constantinople, 138.
					Law, development of, 149, 150.
					Lawyers of 12th century, 150.
					Legnano (lā-nyä'no), battle of, 155.
					Leo I., Pope, 25, 110.
					Leo III., 34.
					Leo IX., 99, 100.
					Liège (le-āzh'), revolt of, 251.
					Life, Crusades influence, 141, 142. 
							in mediæval castle, 171-176, 189.
							in mediæval Germany, 157, 158.
							in mediæval town, 180-189, 148, 149.
							of mediæval peasants, 176-179, 188, 189.
						
					Literature, Arabian, 117, 118. 
							English; 274.
							German, 158, 275.
							Italian, 274.
						mediæval Latin, 37, 38, 273, 274, 280.
						
					Loire (lwär) River, 18.
					Lombard League, 154, 155.
					Lombards, 24-26, 33, 35.
					Lom'bardy, 148, 149, 152, 153, 155, 156.
					London, Hanseatic station in, 188.
					Longbowmen, 231.
					Lords, feudal, 51, 53, 54, 56, 57, 59, 173-176, 177, 180, 189.
					Lords, House of, English, 207.
					Lord's Supper, sacrament of, 79, 91.
					Lōr-rāine', 65.
					Lorrïs', charter of, 180.
					Lothair', Emperor, 45-47.
					Lothair II., Emperor, 145.
					Lothair of France, 70.
					Lotharin'gia, 65.
					Louis of Bavaria, Emperor, 247, 248.
					Louis IV., D'O̤utre-mêr', of France, 70.
					Louis VI., 212.
					Louis VII., 132, 213, 214.
					Louis VIII., 217.
					Louis IX., 217, 219-221, 140.
					Louis X., 224.
					Louis XI., 251, 254.
					Louis, Duke of Orleans, 239.
					Louis the Child, 49.
					Louis the German, 45, 46.
					Louis the Pious, 45, 85.
					Lü'beck, 156, 187.
					Lụ-cerne', joins Swiss Confederation, 249.
					Luxemburg, Henry of, Emperor, 247.
					Luxemburg house, 247, 248, 257-259.
					Ly'ons, Council of, 167.
				
				
					Macedonian Emperors, 114.
					Mä-̵chï-ȧ-vel'lȧ, 272.
					Ma-dēi'ra Islands, discovery of, 257.
					Miio'df-burG, 66.
					Mag'na ̵Chär'ta, 205, 206.
					Mag'yars, 63.
					Mainz (mīnts), Archbishop of, 83, 248.
					Ma̤l'ta, 131.
					Man'fred, 167.
					Mani̵chē'ans, 216.
					Manor, mediæval, 179.
					Manufactures, Crusades influence, 142. 
							mediæval, 182-185.
							Mohammedan, 117.
						
					Män'zi-kěrt, captured by Turks, 120.
					Marcěl', Stephen, 236.
					Marsiglio (mar-sēl'yē-o) of Padua, 264.
					Martin IV., Pope, 221.
					Martin V., 268.
					Mary of Burgundy, 254.
					Mass, 79, 91.
					Matilda, Countess, of Tuscany, 101.
					Matilda of England, 200.
					Maximilian I. of Austria, 254, 255, 259.
					May Field, 36, 87.
					Mayors of the palace, 25.
					Me'diatizing, feudal, 59.
					Me̱'dï-cï (-chē), commercial company, 187.
					Medici, ruling family in Florence, 271.
					Mendicant Orders, 217-219.
					Mercā'tor's projection, 278.
					Merchants, in Middle Ages, 187.
					Mer'cia (-shǐ-a), kings of, 193.
					Merovin'gian kings, 25, 26.
					Messï'na, crusaders at, 133, 134.
					Metropolitan, ecclesiastical, 81.
					Michael An'ġe-lo, 275, 276.
					Middle Ages, 11, 12, 281.
					Mil'an, 152-156.
					Min'nesingers, 158.
					Mis'si domin'ici, 36.
					Moham'med II. of Turkey, 261.
					Mohammedans, 23, 24, 28, 63, 116-119, 256, 257; see Turks. 
							civilization of, 116-118.
						
					Monasteries, 87-89, 55.
					
					Monks, 86-89, 130, 131, 217-219.
					MôNt BläNc', 16.
					MôNt Çe̯-nïs' pass,
						17.
					Mont'fort, Simon de, of England, 206, 207.
					Montfort, Simon de, of France, 216.
					Moors in Spain, 256.
					Mo-rȧt', battle of, 251.
					Morā'via, in ninth century, 63.
					Mōr-gär'ten, battle of, 249.
					Mo-s̱ělle' River, 17.
					Mosṳl', atabek of, 131.
					Mühl'dorf, battle of, 247.
					Mū'nǐ̵ch, 156.
				
				
					Näfels (nā'fěls), battle of, 250.
					Nan'cy, battle of, 254.
					Naples, Charles of Anjou rules, 169, 221. 
							France and, 255.
							Frederick II. rules, 165, 166.
							Pope and, 162, 169.
							Spain (and Aragon) and, 255, 257.
						
					När'sēs̱, 23.
					Nassau, Adolf of, 246.
					Na-värre', 256.
					Nave, in architecture, 90, 91.
					Navigation, 277.
					Nepotism, 270.
					Nibelungenlied (nē'bḙ-loong-ḙn-lēd), 158.
					Nī-çæ'a, Council of, 84. 
							taken by crusaders, 123.
							taken by Turks, 120, 260.
						
					Nicholas I., Pope, 109, 110.
					Nicholas V., Pope, 270.
					Nobles, see Lords (feudal).
					Nor'bert, Saint, 148.
					Normandy, 69, 70, 196, 199, 212, 242.
					Normans, 69-72. 
							in England, 196-199, 205, 209.
							in southern Italy, 72-74, 106.
						
					Northmen, 48, 63, 69, 71-74, 193, 195.
					Northumbria, kings of, 193.
					Norway, 28, 75.
					Nōt're-Däme Cathedral, 215.
					Nôv'gō-rōd (-rōt), Hanseatic station in, 188.
					Nunneries, 89.
					Nu'rem-berg, 141, 186.
				
				
					O'dēr River, 18.
					O-do-ā'cer, 22.
					Ordeal, 195, 203.
					Or'leanists (15th century), 239, 240.
					Or'le-ans, siege of, 241.
					Orleans, Duke of (Louis), 239.
					Os'trogoths, 22, 23.
					Oth-män', 260.
					Otto I., Emperor, 66-68.
					Otto II., Emperor, 68.
					Otto III., Emperor, 68.
					Otto IV., Emperor, 162, 163.
					Otto of Wittelsbach, 157.
					Ottoman Turks, 260, 261.
				
				
					Palace School, 88.
					Pal'a-tīne Count, 248.
					Pal'es-tīne, see Crusades.
					Palfrey, 58.
					Papacy, 77, 83; see Pope.
					Papal States, 162; see Pope (temporal power of).
					Paris, 215. 
							captured (by Northmen), 49 ; (by Fr.), 242.
							rebellion of (1358), 236, 237.
							University of, 92.
						
					Parishes, 80.
					Parlamen'tum of Italian towns, 149.
					Par-lḙ-ment' (-mäN') of Paris, 220.
					Parliament, English, 207.
					Pas'̵chal II., Pope, 108.
					Patriarchs, ecclesiastical, 83.
					"Peace," the, 58.
					Peasant revolt in France (1358), 286.
					Penance, 80.
					Pěp'in the Short, 26, 32.
					Peter, Saint, and Rome, 83.
					Peter the Hermit, 122.
					Pē'trar̵ch, 274.
					Philip I. of France, 120, 212.
					Philip II., Augustus, 214-216, 133-135, 202, 204.
					Philip III. of France, 221.
					Philip IV., the Fair, 221-224.
					Philip V. of France, 224.
					Philip VI. of France, 225, 229-232, 234.
					Philip of Swabia, German king, 162, 163.
					Philip the Good, of Burgundy, 240, 242.
					Pignaces (pēn-yäs'), 176.
					Pilgrims, mediæval, 119.
					Pï's̱a, 130, 131, 141, 186. 
							Council of, 266.
						
					Pius II., Pope, 270.
					Plan-tǎġ'e-net kings of England, 200.
					Pointed style of architecture, 90.
					Poitiers (pwä-tyā'), battle of, 234, 235.
					Poles and Poland, 66, 162, 166.
					Ponthieu (pôN-tyē'), 237.
					Pontiff (Supreme) or Pope, 100; see Pope.
					Pope (and papacy), 83-86. 
							and councils, 84, 266-270.
							and Crusades, 120-122, 135, 139.
							and Eastern Church, 109.
							and Emperor, 34, 67, 68, 85, 96, 98-100, 145, 150, 152-156, 159, 160, 163-170,
								247.
							and England, 204, 208.
							and France, 222-224.
							and Franks, 25-27, 33, 34.
							and Guelf party, 147.
							at Avignon, 264, 265.
							decline of papacy, 270, 271.
							election of, 102, 154.
							Great Schism, 265-268.
							powers of, 81, 83-86.
							temporal power of, 24-26, 33, 85, 102, 223.
						
					
					Population in Middle Ages, 188.
					Portugal, 256, 257.
					Præmunī're, Statute of, 208.
					Pragmatic sanctions, ecclesiastical, 269.
					Prāgue, 248.
					Premonstraten'sian Canons, 148.
					Priests, 78, 79, 80, 86, 92.
					Primate, ecclesiastical, 83.
					Primogeniture, 56, 199.
					Prince of Wales, 206.
					Printing, invention of, 278, 279.
					Priors, 88.
					Procession of the Holy Ghost, 109.
					Prō'kǒp, Bohemian leader, 258.
					Pro-vence' (-väNss'), kingdom in, 49.
					Provinces, ecclesiastical, 81, 82.
					Provisors, statute of, 208.
					Ptol'emy, geographer, 276.
					Purgatory, 92.
					Py̆r'e-nees̱, 17.
				
				
					Quadriv'ium, 93.
				
				
					Rǎph'ā-ěl, 276.
					Rǎt'is-bon, 65, 141, 186.
					Raven'na, 24-26, 33.
					Ray'mond IV., Count of Toulouse, 122.
					Raymond VI., Count of Toulouse, 216.
					Regular clergy, 86.
					Reï̵chs'täg, mediæval German, 259.
					Relics, 19, 92, 137.
					Reliefs, feudal, 56.
					Rḙ-nāis-säNçe', 272-280.
							
							influence of Crusades on, 143.
							influence of Italian communes on, 156.
						
					Reuchlin (roiK'lĭn), Johann, 279.
					Revival of learning, 273, 274.
					Rhēims̱, 83, 84, 241.
					Rhine River, 17, 18.
					Rhodes, held by crusaders, 131, 140.
					Richard I., ̵Coēur dḙ Lï-ôn', of England, 202,
						204, 133-135.
					Richard II., 238, 239.
					Richard III., 256.
					Riē's̱ḙn-gḙ-bïrG'ḙ, 17.
					Robber barons, 59.
					Robert II., of France, 212.
					Robert of Normandy, 122, 199.
					Robert Ḡuïs-cärd', 73, 102, 106.
					Robertians, 44, 70.
					Roger I., of Sicily, 73.
					Roger II., 145.
					Rolf the Ganger, 69.
					Roman Empire, decay of, 20-22. 
							See Eastern Empire, Western Empire.
						
					Romanesque architecture, 90.
					Rome, Commune of (1154), 152. 
							map of, 84.
							Otto III. and, 68.
							Pope and, 25.
						
					Rom'ulus Augus'tulus, 22.
					Rōn-cägl'ia, diet of, 153.
					Roses, Wars of the, 242, 255, 256.
					Ro̤um, Sultanate of, 120.
					Royal domain of France, 211, 212, 217, 254.
					Rudolph I., Emperor, 246.
					Rule, monastic, 86.
				
				
					Sacraments, 79, 80.
					St. An'gelo, fortress of, 105.
					St. Bernard passes, 16.
					St. Denis (sǎN-de̯-nē'), monastery of, 54, 213.
					St. Gȧll, monastery of, 88, 87.
					St. Goth'ard, Mt., 16.
					St. Peter's Church, in Rome, 275.
					St. Sophī'a, Church of, 90, 261.
					Saints, veneration of, 92.
					Sǎl'adin, 132, 135.
					Sā'lian Emperors, 98.
					Sǎl'ic law, 225.
					Saône (sōn) River, 18.
					Sǎr'acens, 32; see Mohammedans.
					Sardinia, 73.
					Savo'na, proposed conference at, 266.
					Sä-vo-nȧ-rō'lȧ, 271, 272.
					Saxons, 22, 32, 33, 35, 104, 191.
					Saxony, duchy, 65, 148, 157, 248.
					Saxony, electorate, 248.
					S̵cheldt River, 46.
					Schis̱m, Great, 265. 
							of Council of Basel, 269, 270.
							of East and West, 108, 109.
						
					S̵cho-las'tic philosophy, 94.
					Schwyz (shvēts), canton of, 248.
					Science, 118, 276, 277. 
							Arabian, 118.
						
					Scotland, Edward I. and, 207. 
							Henry II. and, 202.
						
					Scū'tage, 202.
					Sěc'ular clergy, 86, 94.
					Sees, ecclesiastical, 80-82.
					Seigneur (sēn'yer), 51.
					Seine (sān) River, 18.
					Seljūk'ian Turks, 118-120, 123-127.
					Semit'ic races, 13.
					Sempach (zěm'päK), battle of, 250.
					Sen'lac, battle of, 197.
					Sens (säNss), 54.
					Serfs, 55, 142, 177.
					Servia, 260.
					Service, feudal, 56.
					Sicilian Vespers, 221.
					Sicily, Charles of Anjou rules, 168, 221. 
							Frederick II. rules, 165, 166.
							Mohammedans (Saracens) in, 63, 72, 73.
							Normans in, 73, 74, 145.
							Pope and, 145, 162, 168.
							Spain (and Aragon) and, 221.
							See also Naples.
						
					Sig'ismund, Emlperor, 257, 258, 267.
					
					Sǐm'e-ȯn Stȳ-lī'tēs̱, 87.
					Sǐm'ony, 94, 98, 99.
					Sim'plon pass, 16, 17.
					Slävs, 13, 27, 63; see Poland. 
							German conquest of, 66, 148, 156.
						
					Sluys (slois), battle of, 230.
					Spain, 256-258, 262. 
							church reform in, 271.
							Mohammedans in, 24, 75, 256.
							Visigoths in, 21.
						
					Stephen (stē'vḙn) of Blois (blwä), crusader, 124.
					Stephen of Blois, king of England, 200.
					Sträss'bụrG, 158.
					Subinfeudation, 54, 55.
					Suger (sü-zhā'), French minister, 213.
					Suzerain, 56, 59.
					Swā'bia, 65.
					Sweden, 28, 75, 162.
					Sweyn, Danish king of England, 195.
					Switzerland (Swiss Confederation), 248-250, 254.
					Synods, 81, 305.
				
				
					Tam-er-lāne', 260.
					Telescope, introduction of, 276.
					Tell, William, 248.
					Templars, 130, 131.
					Teutonic Knights, 130, 131.
					The̱gns, 194.
					Theīss River, 63.
					Theod'oric the Great, 22.
					Theopha'no, 68.
					Third Estate, 181, 236.
					Thurin'gia (900-1100), 65.
					Time, methods of reckoning, 19, 20.
					Ti-mo̤ur', 260.
					Tithes, 81.
					Titian (tǐsh'an), Venetian painter, 276.
					Tō-lē'do, 117.
					Tonsure, 78.
					Tortō'na, destroyed by Frederick I., 152.
					To̤u-lo̤us̱e', and Albigensian
						Crusade, 217.
					Tournament, 57.
					To̤urs, battle of, 24.
					Towns, see Cities.
					Trade, see Commerce.
					Transubstantiation, 79.
					Trēves̱, archbishop of, elector, 248.
					Trial, modes of, 194, 195, 203.
					Tripoli (Asia), county of, 129.
					Triv'ium, 93.
					Tro̤u'ba-do̤urs, 216, 217.
					Troyes (trwä), treaty of, 240.
					Truce of God, 58.
					Tudor, house of, 256.
					Tu'nis, 140.
					Turā'nian peoples, 13.
					Turks, Charismian, take Jerusalem, 139.
					Turks, Ottoman, 260, 261.
					Turks, Seljukian, 118-120, 123-127.
					Tuscan League, 154.
					Tus'cany, 101.
					Tyler, Wat, 233.
				
				
					Ulm, 186.
					U'nam Sanc'tam, papal bull, 223.
					Universities, mediæval, 92-94.
					Un-ter-wäl'dḙn (-väl'-), canton of, 249.
					U'rals, 17.
					Ur'ban II., Pope, 92, 107, 120, 121.
					Urban VI., 265.
					Ṳ'ri, canton of, 248.
					Usufructuary tenures, 51.
				
				
					Vā'lens, Eastern Emperor, 21.
					Väl'la, Lorenzo, 277.
					Valois (vȧl-wä'), house of, 225.
					Vandals, 21, 28.
					Varan'gian guard, 115.
					Vassalage, 50, 51, 56, 57; see Serfs.
					Věn'ice, art in, 276. 
							commerce of, 130, 131, 138, 141, 186.
							Fourth Crusade, 135-139.
							in Lombard League, 155.
							treaty of (1177), 156.
						
					Věr-dǔN', partition of, 46, 47.
					Vik'ings, 40, 63, 71, 72.
					Vil'leĭns, 55, 56, 177-179; see Serfs.
					Vil'lenage, effects of Black Death on, 233.
					Vinci (vĭn'chē), Leonar'do dä, 276.
					Vinland, Northmen in, 72.
					Vis̱'igoths, 21, 22.
					Vosges (vōzh) Mts., 17.
				
				
					Walden'sēs̱, 216.
					Wales, annexed to England, 206.
					Walter the Penniless, 122.
					Wed'more, treaty of, 193.
					Welf, house of, 146, 147, 156, 157, 162.
					Wenzel (vĕnt'se̯l), Emperor, 257, 258.
					Weser (vā'zḙr) River, 65.
					Wessex, kingdom of, 193.
					Western Empire, 22, 33-37, 40, 44-50; see Holy Roman
						Empire.
					Whit'by, synod of, 191.
					William I., conqueror of England, 196-199.
					William II., Rufus, of England, 199.
					William of the Iron Arm, 73.
					Wisby (vĭs'bü), and Hanseatic League, 187.
					Wit'an, 194.
					Wittelsbach (vĭt'tḙls-bäK), house of, 157.
					Worms (vōrms), Concordat of, 108.
					Wy̆c'lif, John, 208, 209, 267, 274.
				
				
					Xĭ-mē'nēs̱ (zĭ-), Archbishop, 257, 271.
				
				
					Za̵ch-a-rī'as, Pope, 26.
					Zis'ka, John, Bohemian leader, 258.
					Zṳ'rieh, joins Swiss Confederation, 249.
				
			
		
	
