
   ----CITATION---- 
        Pleas, Elwood. Henry County; past and present. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1315
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        FRONTISPIECE.
        
            COURT HOUSE, New Castle, Ind.
          
      
      
      
        
          HENRY COUNTY; PAST AND PRESENT:
          
          A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE COUNTY
            FROM 1821 TO 1871.
        
        BY
          ELWOOD PLEAS.
        NEW CASTLE, IND.:
          PUBLISHED BY PLEAS BROTHERS.
          1871.
      
      
      
        VERSO.
        Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by ELWOOD
          PLEAS, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
      
      
      
        PREFACE.
        The following pages are the result of a desire to collect and preserve facts connected
          with the early history and growth of our county, which are constantly becoming more
          difficult to obtain, as the pioneers of the county are rapidly passing away. It is not
          supposed, however, that what has been done in these pages is all that can be done in this
          direction, as I have met with several persons since portions of the work were closed up,
          who were in possession of a fund of facts of which I would gladly have availed myself at
          an earlier day.
        This pioneer essay, it is hoped, will not close the effort in this direction, but may
          stimulate some one to begin the collection of material at once, and at no distant day
          present something more thorough and worthy of our county and the memory of those who have
          gone before, and through whose patient endurance and hardships we now enjoy so many of the
          blessings of life.
        It is proper, also, to state that the work of collecting material was begun late in
          November last, with a view to issuing only a small pamphlet of some forty or fifty pages
          at most. It was soon determined to enlarge the scope of the work a little, and it was
          advertised to contain  one hundred pages, and the price fixed
          accordingly. As fast as the material for the first chapter was collected, the "copy" was
          placed in the hands of the compositor, there seldom being so much as five pages ahead, and
          when one hundred pages were completed, many topics too important to be omitted had not
          been touched, and now, with nearly one hundred and fifty pages, a large portion of the
          notes collected, especially those relating to the hardships and incidents of early times,
          with brief personal sketches of some of the early men of note, have to be omitted in toto. For nearly three months, one hundred and twenty pages have been
          in the binder's hands, while an unexpected pressure of other work has prevented any
          attempt to complete the remaining pages till within a few days.
        I take especial pleasure in acknowledging my obligations to Messrs. BENNETT and EVANS, of the Auditor's office; Messrs. HAZZARD and ROGERS, of the Treasurer's office; Mr. KINSEY and the late Mr. HIATT, Clerks, and Mr. BOND, Recorder, for furnishing every possible facility for examining the
          county records.
        For items of information and other aid, I also take pleasure in expressing my obligations
          to Judges ELLIOTT and BUNDY, C. C. and M. L. POWELL, ASAHEL WOODARD, and W. W.
            SHELLEY, of New Castle; Dr. Ross, J. LUELLEN, and
          Dr. KERR, Stony Creek township; D. REES and S. JULIAN, Cadiz; J. WOOD and E. SPENCER, Greensboro; M. F. EDWARDS, Dr. WHITESEL, J. A. DEEM, and others, Knightstown; to B. S. PARKER and BENJ. STEWART,
          Lewisville; S. W. STEWART and D. REYNOLDS, Dublin;
          J. R. LEAKY, C. RATLIFF, and D. PAUL, Dudley; WILLIAMS NICHOLSON, Liberty,
          and scores of others, who have kindly aided me in various ways.
        E. P.
        New Castle, Ind., August, 1871.
      
    
    
      
      
        HENRY COUNTY; PAST AND PRESENT: A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE COUNTY FROM
          1821 TO 1871.
        
          INTRODUCTION.
          In the year 1800, "Indiana Territory" was carved out of what was previously known as
            the "Northwest Territory," and included nearly all of the present States of Indiana and
            Michigan, and all of Illinois and Wisconsin, and a portion of Minnesota.
          The population of all this vast region, according to the census of 1800, was but 4,875.
            Michigan was erected into a separate territory in 1805, and Illinois in 1809. Previous
            to the separation of Illinois, the territory had been divided into five counties, of
            which Knox, Dearborn, and Clark were within the present bounds of Indiana, and St. Clair
            and Randolph constituted Illinois.
          In 1807, an enumeration of the "free white males over twenty-one years of age" was had,
            by which it appears that there were 2,524 within the present limits of the State, which
            would indicate that the whole population was less than 12,000. Of this number there were
            616 white adult males in what was then Dearborn county, which comprised perhaps about
            one-third of the present limits of the State.
          From 1800 to 1813, the seat of government for the territory was at Vincennes. At the
            latter date, it was removed to Corydon.
          By a joint resolution of Congress of December 11, 1816, Indiana was formally admitted
            to the sisterhood of States. So  rapid had been the influx
            of population for the ten years preceding that the State was estimated to contain
            65,000, and by this time was divided into eighteen counties, although more than
            three-fourths of the State was still in possession of the Indians. Prior to 1810, the
            Indian boundary ran east of Centreville, Wayne county, and when an additional
            "Twelve-mile Purchase" extended the limits of civilization so as to include the present
            sites of Milton, Cambridge City, and almost to Hagarstown, there was quite a flocking to
            the new country, even in advance of the surveyor. So early as 1811,
            Thomas Symons had settled at the mouth of a small creek that emptied into West River,
            between Cambridge and Milton, and his brother Nathan fixed his residence at the mouth of
            another creek that unites with West River above the site of the ancient village of
            Vandalia. Their early possession of the mouths of these creeks (both having their source
            in Liberty township,) served to attach their names to the streams, and Symons' Creeks
            were well known to the early settler of this county. Indeed it is highly probable that
            of the whole number of persons who entered this county, for the first five years, at
            least nine-tenths crossed the county line between these streams.
          The war with Great Britain, from 1812 to 1815, and the consequent alarm occasioned by
            the hostile attitude of the Indians all along the frontier, partially broke up the
            settlements along West River. With the return of peace, however, the settlers returned
            to their homes, and a rapid increase of emigration at once set in, extending to the very
            limits of the Twelve-mile Purchase, though it is probable that no white family intruded
            itself upon the almost impenetrable wilds within the present limits of Henry county
            prior to 1819.
        
        
        
          FIRST SETTLERS.
          
              "For many seasons harsh and lone
              They wrestled with their lot
              Winning the paradise of home,
              From many a rugged spot."
            
          The first settlers of which any reliable information has been obtained, seem to have
            come to the county in 1819. Prior to this time, many were "waiting and watching over the
            border," in Wayne county, for the lands between West River and White River to become
            subject to settlement.
          A law of Congress (not very rigidly enforced, however,) forbade the private purchase or
            occupancy of the "Indian lands." By a treaty negotiated at St. Mary's, in 1818, by
            Governor Jennings, Governor Cass, and Judge Parke, Commissioners on the part of the
            United States,* the Indians
            relinquished all title to the lands south of the Wabash, except two or three small
            reservations, and also agreed to vacate the ceded lands within three years.
          From this time the whole central portion of the State was looked upon as accessible to
            the whites, and the settlement of this county began at once, although no titles to land
            could be obtained for some time.
          The earliest titles are under act of Congress of April 24th, 1820, and the work of
            surveying, &c., consumed another *The late David Hoover, of Wayne county, was Secretary to this
              Commission.
             year before they were thrown upon the market. About one
            hundred and forty persons purchased land in townships sixteen and seventeen north, in
            the last half of the year 1821. This was in that part of the county embraced in the
            present townships of Wayne, Spiceland, Franklin, Dudley, Liberty, Henry, Greensboro, and
            a part of Harrison.
          The surveys being incomplete, no lands north of Liberty and Henry townships were sold
            until the following year. Many had come in prospecting as early as 1818 and 1819. By
            this means the fame of this magnificent region spread abroad. Its great fertility,
            magnificent forests, fine streams, numerous springs, abundant game, and its perpetual
            dedication to the cause of human liberty, pointed it out to many in North Carolina,
            Virginia, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, and Ohio, as the Eldorado of the
            West.
          The early settlers seem to have been attracted principally to three neighborhoods, for
            a time, and from these nuclei spread over the county. These
            neighborhoods, after a few years, became known as the "Harvey neighborhood," extending
            from the site of New Castle northward some four or five miles; the "Leavell
            neighborhood," which included the southeast part of Liberty and the eastern portion of
            Dudley townships; while the region from old West Liberty, on either side of Blue River,
            for two or three miles above the site of Knightstown, was known as the "Heaton
            neighborhood."
          These neighborhoods constituted pretty much all there was of Henry county at the time
            of its organization, in 1821-22.
          It is impossible, at this day, to name all the first "settlers," but the following
            facts, though far from being as full as desired, will serve to show something of the
            time and order of settlement in the various townships.
          
            HENRY TOWNSHIP.
            Early in April, 1819, Asahel Woodard, Andrew Shannon, Allen Shepherd, a Mr.
              Whittinger, and son-in-law, David Cray, George Hobson, and Wm. Shannon, settled in
              Henry township.
            Mr. Woodard put up his cabin just north of New Castle, within a few rods of his
              present residence.
            
            The Whittingers and Mr. Cray fixed their residence just about the site of Joshua
              Holland's house.
            Allen Shepherd settled nearly two miles, north by east of New Castle, on what is now
              known as the Hudleson farm, and his elegant residence, erected about fifty-two years
              ago, is still standing.
            Andrew Shannon located just north of Shepherd, and near the present site of the
              Hernley Mills.
            George Hobson on the farm now owned by Judge Elliott, one-half mile southwest of New
              Castle.
            William Shannon on the Holloway Farm, four miles southwest of New Castle.
            Joseph Hobson came in not far from the same time, and settled on the west side of the
              Stephen Elliott Farm, two miles southwest of town. At his house the first courts were
              held, thus making it the county seat pro tem.
            George Hobson, Andrew Shannon, Mr. Whittinger, and D. Cray brought their families
              with them, and made their cages afterward. Mrs. Asahel Woodard and Mrs. William
              Shannon arrived on the 31st of July following, and Mr. Woodard planted about two acres
              of corn, the first crop, he thinks, ever raised by a white man in this county. He
              planted an old Indian field or clearing, and, although cultivated with the hoe alone,
              he thinks he never saw such corn before or since.
            The Whittingers and Cray soon left, not liking the county.
          
          
            PRAIRIE TOWNSHIP.
            Benjamin Harvey also came early in the spring of 1819, with his family, and settled
              about three miles north of Asahel Woodard, near where he still resides with his son,
              Daniel Harvey.
            Very soon afterward came William Harvey, the father of Benjamin, with Uriah Bulla,
              John Harris, Samuel Howard, and Bartley or Barclay Benbow. Some of the last named came
              out in April or May, 1819, but had been out as early as the February preceding,
              selected sites, and made some improvements.
          
          
            WAYNE TOWNSHIP.
            Within the limits of this township, a few persons had 
              settled as early as 1820, and probably so early as 1819.
            Daniel and Asa Heaton were located about the present site of Raysville, and trading
              with the Indians as early as 1820.
            Samuel Furgason had a double log cabin near the mouth of Montgomery Creek, in 1821,
              and had made money enough hauling corn from Whitewater and entertaining those in
              search of lands, to be able to purchase his homestead, August 11, 1821.
            Samuel Goble lived just about the site of Church's Mill at the time of the land sale,
              and had a good cabin and some eight or ten acres partially cleared and under good
              fence. All these improvements were bid from under him by David Lauderback, who so well
              understood the estimate in which he would be held by the early settlers that he "made
              himself scarce" afterward.
            Of those who came in before or just about the time of the land sale may be mentioned
              Waitsel M. Carey, Abraham Heaton, Samuel Carey, Jacob Parkhurst, Joseph Watts, Shaphet
              McCray, and a few others, the exact date of whose arrival it is difficult to
              learn.
          
          
            SPICELAND TOWNSHIP.
            Among the first settlers within the present limits of Spiceland township were Daniel
              Jackson and Solomon Byrkett, on Blue River, near what is known as Elm Grove; Thomas
              Greenstreet, on the Hiatt Farm, one-half mile southwest of Spiceland; and Samuel Carr,
              on the Henderson Hosier Farm, two miles north of Spiceland, now owned by the Hoover
              boys; Allen Hunt, on the Amor Bond place, two miles west of Spiceland. These came to
              their lands immediately after the sale, and very soon after came Samuel Griffin and a
              few others.
          
          
            FRANKLIN TOWNSHIP.
            Moses Keens, George and Charles See, and Achilles Morris were among the earliest
              settlers on Flatrock, within the present limits of Franklin. This was about the time
              of, or immediately after, the land sale, perhaps in the fall of 1821, though the
              precise date cannot be ascertained.
          
          
            DUDLEY TOWNSHIP.
            John Huff and a Mr. Carter are the only parties ascertained to have resided within
              the limits of Dudley, prior to the land sale.
            
            Huff lived about the site of the toll gate at the junction of the New Castle &
              Dublin, and Hopewell & Flatrock Turnpikes, and Mr. Carter about one-half or
              three-fourths of a mile west from the site of the Hopewell Meeting House.
            Josiah Morris, Daniel Paul, Richard Ratliff (father of Cornelius Ratliff), Richard
              Thompson, William McKimmy, William Maudlin, William Owen, Joseph R. Leaky, Benjamin
              Strattan, Thomas Lennard, Thomas Gilbert, Elisha Shortridge, and Jonathan Bundy were
              among the pioneers of Dudley township, who came in the winter of 1821 or spring of
              1822. Of these veterans J. R. Leaky, Daniel Paul, Josiah Morris, and Jonathan Bundy
              still live on the spot where they at first located, and have each a fund of the early
              incidents and trials peculiar to those early days.
          
          
            LIBERTY TOWNSHIP.
            Of those who first settled Liberty township comparatively little has been learned. We
              are not informed whether any came in before the land sale, but of those who came in
              about the time of the sale may be mentioned Elisha Long, Moses Robertson, T. R.
              Stanford, David Brower, John Leavell, Robert Thompson, Jesse Fortner, John Baker, and
              a number of others. Since the purchases made at the land sale exceeded those of any
              other township, it is fair to suppose that quite a number had already located
              there.
          
          
            GREENSBORO TOWNSHIP
            Was first settled by Jacob Woods, Samuel Pickering, and perhaps two or three others,
              in the summer of 1821. Samuel and Jonas Pickering, Walker Carpenter, and Benjamin Kirk
              came through, prospecting in 1820, after visiting Winchester, Anderson, Pendleton, and
              other points.
            Jacob Elliott built a cabin about where his son, Jacob S. Elliott, now lives, in the
              fall of 1821, but did not move into it till the spring of 1822.
            At the time Jacob Woods located where he now lives, one and one-fourth miles east of
              Greensboro, there were no settlers on Blue River between Daniel Jackson's and Joseph
              Hobson's, except William Shannon, and for some time there were no  neighbors on the east nearer than William Bond's, who resided on the old
              Wickersham Farm, about four miles south of New Castle. Quite a number settled about
              Greensboro in the following year, and so early as 1823 a meeting was held at Duck
              Creek, David Baily, Joseph Ratliff, Eli Stafford, S. Pickering, and Jacob Wood being
              among the "charter members."
          
          
            HARRISON TOWNSHIP.
            Dempsey Rees and Roderick Craig settled on Duck Creek in the eastern edge of Harrison
              township, in April, 1822. This was on land now owned by Peter Shafer. Rees had raised
              a crop of corn on White River, about the site of Indianapolis, the year before.
            Phineas Ratliff, Rice Price, and Joseph and Richard Ratliff all settled in the same
              year within about one and one-half miles of D. Rees.
          
          
            STONY CREEK TOWNSHIP.
            Within the present limits of Stony Creek township, there were no settlers prior to
              the land sale which took place in 1822, and perhaps not till 1823, when John Hodgins
              (now very old and much enfeebled), Mr. Schofield, Jonathan Bedwell, and Andrew Blount,
              the proprietor of Blountsville, settled there. There were but three or four families
              on Stony Creek, in the spring of 1826, at which time John Hawk, a cabinet maker of
              Blountsville, took up quarters there.
          
          
            FALL CREEK TOWNSHIP.
            The settlement of Fall Creek seems not to have begun so early as many other parts of
              the county. John, Jacob, George, Peter, and David Keesling located near Mechanicsburg,
              about 1824 or 1825, forming what was known as the "Keesling Neighborhood." William
              Stewart and Joseph Franklin came in not far from the same time. John Hart, a Mr.
              Vanmatre, Adam E. Conn, and a Mr. Painter were early settlers in the east part of the
              township and nearer Middletown.
          
          
            JEFFERSON TOWNSHIP.
            Within the present limits of Jefferson, at an early day, perhaps 1824 or 1825, came
              Samuel Beavers, Anthony Sanders, James Marsh, and a Mr. Fleming, with some others.
              This  township constituted a part of Fall Creek and
              Prairie for many years.
          
          
            BLUE RIVER TOWNSHIP.
            There was considerable progress made in the settlement of Blue River township (then a
              part of Stony Creek), in 1823. Michael Conway, Richard and Reuben Wilson, Joseph
              Corey, John Koons, John P. Johnson, and several others moved to this part of the
              county as early as 1823, a few, perhaps, having located the year previous, the precise
              time, however, being difficult to learn.
          
        
        
          LAND SALE AND FIRST ENTRIES.
          According to the record, Wm. Owen, of Dudley township, purchased the first tract of
            land in Henry county; this transaction bearing date of February 4, 1821.* The next was David Butler, August
            8, 1821, in the same township, and on the 11th of August, Josiah Morris, of Dudley, and
            Samuel Furgason of Wayne township, each entered a tract.
          Judging from the number of purchases made, the settlers in Wayne township must have
            gone in a body to attend the sale, as of the twenty-five purchases made during the year,
            sixteen were made on the 13th of August. The following is a list of purchases during the
            year, with date of purchase: 
              Samuel Furgason, Aug. 11,
              Waitsel M. Carey, Aug. 13,
              Abraham Heaton, " "
              Daniel Heaton, " "
              Samuel Carey, " "
              David Lauderback, " "
              Edward Patterson, " "
              Wm. Macy, " "
              Jacob Parkhurst, " "
              Thomas Estell, Aug. 13,
              Henry Ballenger, " "
              Isaac Pugh, " "
              Shaphet McCray, " "
              Stephen Cook, Aug. 20,
              Samuel Goble, Aug. 20,
              John Daily, Aug. 22,
              Jacob Whitter, Aug. 23,
              John Freeland, Sept. 18,
            
            *It is highly probable that
              this is a mistake, and should have been February 4, 1822, since it is not likely that
              an entry could have been made six months in advance of the land sale, and Mr. Owen did
              not arrive in the county till some time in 1822.
            
              
              David Dalyrimple, Aug. 14,
              Wm. Criswell, " "
              Ebenezer Goble, " "
              Joseph Watts, " "
              Charles Smith, Oct. 13,
              Edmond Lewis, Oct. 31,
              John Lewis, Oct. 31.
            
          The 13th of August seems to have been a field day for the people of Wayne township. On
            the 14th, nothing seems to have been done. Whether it was Sunday, or was taken up with
            calling for bids on the tracts of land now in Spiceland and Franklin townships, is not
            known. On the 15th, the sale commenced for lands in Henry township, when seven persons
            responded to the call of their numbers, and subsequently some ten other purchases were
            made, as will be seen below: 
              Allen Shepherd, Aug. 15,
              Wm. C. Drew, " "
              Thomas Symons, "
              Cristopher Bundy, " "
              Joseph Hobson, " "
              Win. Shannon, " "
              Joseph Newby, " "
              George Hobson, Aug. 16,
              Robert Hill, Aug. 21,
              Asahel Woodard, Aug. 20,
              Thomas Woodard, Aug. 20,
              Joseph Holman, Aug. 27,
              Aaron Mills, Aug. 31,
              Ann Ward, Sept. 21,
              Caleb Commons, Sept. 21,
              Joseph Hiatt, Sept. 24,
              Wm. Blunt, Sr., Oct. 17.
            
          The auctioneer then passed on to Liberty township, range 11 east, township 17, and
            found bidders more plentiful. The list and dates below will serve to show something of
            the tone of the market. We will let Wm. Roe, probably a blood relative of the celebrated
            Richard Roe, whom school boys will remember as having extensive dealings with John Doe,
            head the list.
          
            William Roe, Aug. 16,
            Andrew Shannon, " "
            William Yates, " "
            Thomas Batson, " "
            Jesse Martindale, " "
            Moses Robertson, " "
            John Beard, " "
            Jeremiah Strode, " "
            William Bell, " "
            Daniel Wampler, " "
            David Brower, " "
            Joshua Hardman, " "
            John Leavell, " "
            George Handley, " "
            Samuel Southron, " "
            Robert Thompson, " "
            Micajah Chamness, " "
            John Daugherty, Aug. 20,
            Henry Brower, Aug. 21,
            Thomas Raleston, Aug. 31,
            Jacob Rinehart, Sept. 4,
            Peter Rhinehart, Sept. 4,
            Jonathan Pierson, Sept. 4,
            John Beaman, Sept. 4,
            George Coons, Sept. 12,
            Enoch Goff, Sept. 20,
            Elisha Long, Oct. 20,
            Jerry Long, Oct. 20,
            John Baker, Oct. 22,
            Keneker Johnson, Nov. 4,
            Jesse Fortner, Nov. 12,
            Dilwin Bales, Nov. 30,
            Jeremiah Hadley, Dec. 5,
            Richard Conway, Dec. 5,
            Watson Roe, Dec. 5,
            John Koons, Dec. 5,
            George Hobson, Dec. 6,
            John Marshall, Dec. 6,
            Thomas Hobson, Dec. 6,
            Thomas Mills, Dec. 6,
            
            Daniel Miller, Aug. 31,
            Prosper Mickels, Aug. 31,
            John Stapler, Dec. 7,
            Josiah Clawson, Dec. 20.
          
          In Dudley township, the purchasers seem to have taken it more leisurely, and strung
            their purchases out from the time of the land sale to the end of the year, and are as
            follows: 
              Wm. Owens, Feb. 4,
              David Butler, Aug. 8,
              Josiah Morris, Aug. 11,
              Stephen Hall, Aug. 16,
              Jesse Shortridge, Aug. 16,
              Dally Beard, Aug. 16,
              Elisha Shortridge, Aug. 17,
              John Wilson, Aug. 18,
              Jesse Fraizer, Aug. 18,
              Jonathan Bundy, Aug. 21,
              William Maudlin, Aug. 24,
              Hampton Green, Aug. 24,
              William Seward, Aug. 28,
              Joseph Charles, Aug. 30,
              Linus French, Aug. 31,
              John Gilleland, Sept. 1,
              Susannah Leaky, Sept. 8,
              Joseph R. Leaky, Sept. 8,
              Joseph Cox, Oct. 5,
              John Green, Oct. 6,
              William Riadon, Oct. 17,
              W. McKinney, Oct. 20,
              Josiah Gilbert, Oct. 21,
              Exum Elliott, Oct. 23,
              David Thompson, Nov. 26,
              Aaron Morris, Nov. 27,
              John Pool, Dec. 1,
              John Smith, Dec. 3,
              Daniel Paul, Dec. 12.
            
          The following are all the purchasers of land, in 1821, within the present limits of
            Franklin township: 
              William Felton, Aug. 28,
              Charles See, Sept. 16,
              John Charles, Dec. 28.
            
          Within the present limits of Spiceland township, there were twelve entries, in that
            year, as follows: 
              Daniel Jackson, Aug. 17,
              Sol. Byrkett, Aug. 27,
              William Felton, Aug. 28,
              Allen Hunt, Aug. 30,
              Jacob Hall, Aug. 30,
              Nathan Davis, Aug. 31,
              William Mustard, Sept. 1,
              James Carr, Sept. 14,
              Jacob Elliott, Oct. 3,
              William Elliott, Nov. 6,
              William Berry, Dec. 20,
              Joseph Charles, Dec. 24.
            
          
          Within the limits of Greensboro township, there were eight entries, in that year,
            namely: 
              Samuel Hill, Aug. 15,
              Thomas McCoy, Aug. 15,
              Levi Cook, Aug. 20,
              Lewis Hosier, Aug. 20,
              John Harvey, Sr., Aug. 21,
              Samuel Pickering, Aug. 28,
              John Harvey, Aug. 30,
              Jacob Elliott, Oct. 3.
            
          
          In 1822, only three entries were made within the limits of Fall Creek township, as
            follows: 
              Benj. G. Bristol, Aug. 27,
              James W. Wier, Sept. 26,
              Reuben Bristol, Oct. 4.*
            
          *An "old settler" informs us
            that no such man owned land in the township in early times, and that he is certain that
            B. G. Bristol and James Wier did not enter their lands earlier than 1828 or 1829.
          
          There does not seem to have been any purchases made within the limits of Jefferson
            township, during the year 1822, but within the limits of Prairie township, there was
            more activity, and the following names appear: 
              Absalom Harvey, Oct. 22,
              Robert Smith, Oct. 25,
              Barclay Benbow, " "
              James Harvey, " "
              Abijah Cox, " "
              Benjamin Harvey, " "
              William Harvey, Oct. 25,
              John Harris, " "
              Jacob Weston, Nov. 12,
              Jacob Witter, Dec. 11,
              Philip Harkrider, Dec. 22.
            
          
          These were generally, or all, on Blue River, the bottom and second bottom lands of
            which seemed very attractive to the early settler. There seems to have been but one
            entry within the limits of Stony Creek, that of Andrew Blunt, Jr., Nov. 11. Within the
            present limits of Blue River, however, the following secured themselves homesteads:
              
              Richard Wilson, Oct. 28,
              Michael Conway, Oct. 28,
              George Hobson, Oct. 28,
              Joseph Cory, Oct. 31,
              Abraham Cory, Oct. 31,
              Betsy Cory, Oct. 31,
              Reuben Wilson, Nov. 4,
              George Koons, Nov. 6,
              John Koons, Nov. 11,
              Jacob Huston, Nov. 12,
              George Hedrick, Nov. 13,
              Richard Alsbaugh, Nov. 14,
              Henry Metzger, Nov. 14,
              Henry Stumph, Nov. 18,
              John P. Johnson, Nov. 22.
            
          
          Dempsey Rees entered a tract of land in Harrison township, April 29, 1822, which was
            the only piece purchased in the township, during the year. Zeno Reason and Richard
            Ratliff purchased land in January following, and Levi Pearson and Gabriel Ratliff, in
            June and July, which completed the transactions for the year 1823.
          The land office for this district was at Brookville until 1825, when it was transferred
            to Indianapolis, then a village of little consequence, there being fewer voters in
            Marion county at that time than there are in Henry township to-day.
          The manner of the land sale was to commence in a certain township in a certain range,
            and offer each tract or eighty-acre lot, consecutively, till the whole was gone through
            with. If no one bid, the tract being called by number was soon passed. When a number was
            called, the "squatter" who, perhaps, had a few acres cleared, or a little cabin on the
            same, could become the purchaser at $1 25, the minimum price, unless some one run it up
            on him.
          
          Where two persons had the same number and were desirous of entering the same eighty or
            one hundred and sixty-acre lot, it was no uncommon thing for one to buy the other off,
            with some trifling sum, say $10 to $25, and, although the law of public opinion was such
            that neighbors would seldom try to buy each other's improvements from under them, still
            there were cases in which no little feeling was excited in such cases, and various
            little intrigues were resorted to, to bluff or out-wit competitors.
          If for any reason a man failed to bid on a piece of land he desired to purchase, it
            sometimes happened that he could prevail on the auctioneer to call it up "just after
            dinner," or the "first thing next morning." From and after the land sale, all lands were
            subject to private entry at the minimum price.
        
        
          ORGANIZATION OF THE COUNTY.
          By an act of the Legislature, bearing date February, 1821, "the south part of
              Delaware,"* commencing at the
            southwest corner of Wayne county, thence running west twenty miles, *"All that part of the New Purchase
                lately acquired of the Indians, lying east of the second principal meridian, but not
                included within the limits of any organized county, shall hereafter be known and
                designated by the name of the county of Delaware, and the counties contiguous
                thereto and east of the meridian shall have concurrent jurisdiction
                throughout."—[See page 108, Revised Laws, 1824.]
              This "second principal meridian" is about sixteen miles west of Indianapolis. The
                eastern limit of the "New Purchase" was the "Indian boundary," running near the
                western limits of Wayne county and bearing N N E till it crossed the Ohio line in
                Jay county. Its northern limit was the Wabash River, and it extended south to the
                boundary of Jennings county. Decatur, Shelby, Rush, Monroe, Marion, Huntington,
                Allen, and many more were formed in part out of "Delaware county," although the
                present county of Delaware was not organized until 1826, five years after Henry and
                Rush. This "concurrent jurisdiction" sometimes made it the duty of a High Constable
                of Henry county to ride all the way to White River, near the present site of
                Noblesville, to attach the property of a creditor.
             thence north twenty miles, thence east twenty miles,
            thence south to the place of beginning, was declared erected into a new county, to be
            "known and designated by the name and style of Henry county," and from and after the
            first day of June next, it was to enjoy all the rights and privileges of a separate and
            independent county, and, in short, to do much as other counties do.
          Lawrence Brannon and John Bell, of Wayne county, John Sample, of Fayette, Richard Biem,
            of Jackson, and J. W. Scott, of Union, were appointed, by the same act, Commissioners,
            to meet at the house of Joseph Hobson, in said county of Henry, "on the first Monday of
            July next," for the purpose of locating the county seat.
          It was also provided by the Legislature that the Sheriff of Wayne county should notify
            said Commissioners of their appointment, and that the county of Henry should make said
            Sheriff of Wayne a reasonable compensation for such service. This mandate of the
            Legislature seems to have been duly honored by our county, as we find that the
            Commissioners of Henry soon passed an order that "Elias Willets, Sheriff of Wayne county
            be allowed fifteen dollars" for the service, which was certainly cheap enough,
            considering that the appointees lived in four counties, and that the Sheriff must travel
            at least 250 miles in the performance of his duty. On the other hand, these early
            Commissioners were certainly quite as liberal as could have been expected, since the sum
            was about one-tenth of the entire revenue, county and State, collected for the first
            fiscal year.
          To perfect the organization, a corps of county officials had to be provided, and
            Governor Jennings, pursuant to a law for such cases made and provided, issued a warrant,
            January 1, 1822, to Jesse H. Healy, a citizen of the incipient county, to act as
            Sheriff, with instructions to issue notice of an election to be held at some private
            house, at an early day, for the election of a Sheriff, Clerk of the Circuit Court, two
            Associate Judges, and three County Commissioners. Of the number of votes cast, or the
            points on which the contest turned, no information can at this day be found. This
            election was held prior to July, 1822,  as the officers
            elect were all furnished with certificates bearing date July 5, 1822.
          Jesse H. Healy was elected Sheriff; Rene Julian, Clerk and Recorder; Thos. R. Stanford
            and Elisha Long, Associate Judges; Allen Shepherd, Wm. Shannon, and Samuel Goble,
            Esqrs., Commissioners.
        
        
          TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATION.
          At the time of the assembling of the first Commissioners' Court, June 10, 1822, there
            were no civil townships in existence, within its jurisdiction, and one of its first
            cares was to provide a few of these indispensable dependencies, "with a local habitation
            and a name." After describing, in fitting language, the metes and bounds of these
            "territories," the Commissioners declared that "from and after the first Saturday in
            July next" they should each "enjoy all the rights and privileges and
              jurisdictions which to separate and independent townships do or may properly belong or
              appertain."
          Whether this idea of an independent and separate existence and jurisdiction smacks of
            "State rights" or not, the reader must judge. The Commissioners were an authority in the
            land, in those days, and it is quite safe to conclude that they fully intended to carve
            out of the territorial limits of Henry county several little republics, which were to be
            fully competent to manage their domestic institutions in their own way.
          The townships thus provided were four in number viz.: Dudley, Wayne, Henry, and
            Prairie. Dudley and Wayne composed the First Commissioners' District, Henry the Second,
            and Prairie the Third.
          The original boundaries of Henry county were not identical with those of the present
            day, and, as a consequence, the boundaries of the townships lying on the east and west
            borders of the county underwent some change when the new boundaries  were fixed by the Legislature, in 183-. A township meeting, notwithstanding
            the size of the township, must have been a small affair in those times. Three years
            after, when the population had probably more than doubled, the whole vote for Governor
            was but 366.
        
        
          DUDLEY TOWNSHIP.
          Dudley, the first township called into being by the fiat of the Commissioners, June 11,
            1822, began at "the southeast corner of Henry county, of which it is a part," and
            running thence west on the county line dividing Henry, Fayette and Rush counties, about
            nine and one-fourth miles from the present east line of the county, and was six miles in
            width. It consequently contained at least fifty-five and one-half sections of land, and
            comprised all of its present limits and about four-fifths of the present township of
            Franklin.
          At this date, it is estimated that there were not 150 persons residing within the
            limits of the township.
          A round of log rollings, house raisings, and similar "bees" occupied much of their
            time, and talk with one of these veterans and you will very likely be told that they
            enjoyed themselves and felt as hopeful, contented, and happy as at any period since.
          "Friends' Meeting House," a hewed log edifice, which the writer
            remembers as standing about one mile southeast of the present site of Hopewell Meeting
            House, was erected in 1823 or 1824, and was, no doubt, the first attempt at church
            architecture in the township or in the county.* The congregation had been in the habit of worshiping at the house
            of Wm. *A Baptist church, a
              log building about 18x20 feet, was erected about one and one-half miles northeast of
              Daniel Paul's, so near the same time as to render it difficult to determine which is
              entitled to the claim of seniority. This church was used as a school house for a
              number of years.
             Charles, north of where Harden's old tavern stand used to
            be. An ancient orchard still marks the spot.
          A school house soon followed, with all the elegant appurtenances and appliances of the
            times for assisting the "young idea to shoot."
          Dudley was the gateway of the county, as three principal thoroughfares from the east
            and southeast led through it. It presents, perhaps, less variety of surface than any
            other township in the county, being almost entirely table land, lying on "the divide"
            between Flatrock and West River, with perhaps two-thirds of its surface finding drainage
            to the latter.
          The passersby of early days regarded it as most unpromisingly wet. Although very little
            of it can be termed rolling, it is now seen to be sufficiently undulating to permit the
            most complete drainage of almost every acre, and under improved culture the large
            average crops and general fertility stamps it as one of the best bodies of land in the
            county.
          Dudley of to-day is five and a quarter by six miles in extent, and thus contains about
            19,000 acres; divided into 191 farms, an average of about 103 acres each; supporting an
            almost exclusively rural population of 1,348 souls, about 43½ per square mile, divided
            between 268 families and 267 dwellings. Of this number but 13 are foreigners—less
            than one per cent, while the natives of the "Old North State" number 126, or nearly ten
            per cent. of the whole population. The value of the lands and improvements for 1870 was
            $542,120. The town lots and improvements were valued at $6,300, and the personal
            property at $249,970, making a total of wealth of $798,590.
          The first election was ordered to be held at the house of Mr. Paul, on Saturday, July
            6th, 1822, for the purpose of electing one Justice of the Peace, and William McKimmy was
            appointed Inspector. William McKimmy and Garnett Hayden were appointed first Overseers
            of the Poor for Dudley township, and Richard Pearson and Robert Thompson
            "Fence-viewers." The elections were afterward held at Benjamin Strattan's for a number
            of years; about 1840, at Daniel Reynolds'; then at New Lisbon. Soon two polls were
            opened—one at New Lisbon,  and the other near
            Straughn's. Again the polls were united, and held at James Macy's. At this time there
            are two polls—one at New Lisbon, and the other on the National Road.
          To-day, instead of the mere "trace," the "See trail," the blazed bridle path, winding
            around through the thickets, around or over logs, through "slashes," or high grass and
            stinging nettles, high as a man's shoulders, so well remembered by the "oldest
            inhabitant," or over miles and miles of "corduroy road," of which "internal
            improvements" Dudley could, twenty or twenty-five years ago, vie with the world, the
            township has near thirty miles of fine turnpike, splendid and well drained farms and
            farm houses that vie with the best.
        
        
          WAYNE TOWNSHIP.
          The second grand division named in order, on the public records, was to be known and
            designated by the name and style of Wayne township. It was originally six miles from
            north to south, and eleven in length from east to west, including all that territory
            west of Dudley. It thus included in its fair domain about 42,000 acres of very valuable
            land, much of it to-day the most valuable in the county. Its first boundaries included
            one-fifth of the present township of Franklin, all of Spiceland, and one-sixth of
            Greensboro. Although thrice shorn of a portion of its "independent jurisdiction," its
            present area is a trifle in excess of thirty-three square miles.
          Wayne township had, at the date of its organization, from thirty to forty families,
            though the very choice lands, fine springs, and abundant water power of Blue River, Buck
            and Montgomery creeks, marked it for rapid settlement. A village was projected at the
            mouth of Mongomery's Creek, on the county line, as well as "old State road," at once.
            This became the emporium of trade for the region round about, and rejoiced in all the
            metropolitan splendors of a "one-eyed grocery" and dry goods store kept by Aaron
            Maxwell. This "Chamber of  Commerce," in 1822, consisted of
            a very indifferent log cabin, with a wide fire place, flanked on one side by a rude
            table, where Mrs. Maxwell compounded "red bread," and on the other by a barrel of whisky
            and about as many bolts of calico, etc., as could be piled upon a chair.
          Raccoon pelts seem to have been the principal circulating medium, and several years
            afterward, when the stimulus of sharp competition had taxed the energies of the merchant
            princes of the day, the old ladies were at times under the necessity of sending by the
            mail boy for a little tea or other luxury, and young ladies in quest of a bridal
            trosseau would mount their palfreys and make a day's journey to Connersville for the
            outfit.
          The Methodists had preaching at West Liberty, in a very early day, perhaps as early as
            1823, Rev. Constant Bliss Jones officiating. The preaching was held at Mr. Hatton's
            private house for some time. Jones was succeeded by Rev. Mr. Brown, who seems to have
            resided at West Liberty. Mrs. Eliza Jones (then Miss Cary,) taught a school, in 1825 and
            1826, and was the first female teacher in those parts. She, with Mrs. Peggy Jones, the
            minister's wife, organized the first Sabbath school in the township, perhaps in the
            county.
          At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners, an election was ordered to be held
            at the house of Joseph Watts, July 6th, for the purpose of electing the one Justice of
            the Peace for the township. Abraham Heaton was appointed Inspector, and seems to have
            been elected the first Justice. In August, Elijah McCray and E. Hardin were appointed
            Constables of Wayne township, until the February term, next in course. In November,
            Daniel Priddy was also appointed Constable. Ebenezer Goble and Samuel Furgason were
            appointed Overseers of the Poor, and Daniel Heaton, Shaphet McCray, and Jacob Parkhurst
            first "Fence-viewers in and for Wayne township," and Abraham Heaton was also appointed
            Superintendent of the school sections in Wayne township. The elections in this township
            were afterward held at Prudence Jackson's house, till 1825; changed to Solomon
            Byrkett's, in  1827; then to Jacob Parkhurst's, then to
            Raysville and Knightstown alternately, and soon afterward fixed permanently at
            Knightstown.
          Abraham Heaton seems to have had, at this early day, a mill erected at the mouth of
            Buck Creek, a few rods south of what has for many years been known as the "White Mill."
            John Anderson, afterward "Judge Anderson," then a fresh arrival, dug the race and,
            receiving $100 for the same, walked to Brookville and entered a part of the present site
            of Raysville.
          Immediately after the organization of the township was effected, the Commissioners
            ordered the location of a road "to commence at the town of New Castle, and from thence
            the nearest and best way to Abraham Heaton's mills, and from thence to the county line,
            where section thirty-three and thirty-four corner in township sixteen and range nine, on
            the line dividing fifteen and sixteen." The terminus was West Liberty, and the route
            selected was the river route from New Castle via Teas' mill, the stone quarry, and Elm
            Grove. This was the second ordered in the county, the first being from New Castle via
            John Baker's and David Thompson's, on Symons' Creek, to the county line, on a direct
            course, to Shook's Mill, in Wayne county, which shows of what importance the opening of
            the "Cracker line" was to the early settlements. Not to be wondered at either, since
            "going to mill" required about two to four days out of the month.
          Wayne is the most populous and wealthy township of the county to-day. According to the
            recent census, its area is divided into 206 farms; an average of about 103 acres each.
            It has a population of 3,334, or about 100 per square mile. The value of lands and
            improvements for 1870 was $664,710; of town lots and improvements, $433,120; while
            personal property foots up to the snug little sum of $682,540, making a total of
            $1,784,370. Something more than one-half its population is to be found in Knightstown,
            Raysville, and Grant and Elizabeth Cities, 330 of its 680 families residing in
            Knightstown alone. Dudley and Wayne, with the townships carved out of them, constitute
            the First Commissioners' District, as they always have.
        
        
        
          HENRY TOWNSHIP
          Henry, the third township, in the "order of their going," upon the records, was also
            called up June, 1822, and was a strip of territory six miles wide, extending quite
            across the county from east to west, and including what is now Liberty, Henry,
            three-fifths of Harrison, and nearly all of Greensboro township. This constituted the
            Second Commissioners' District. It at first contained 118 square miles, or over 75,000
            acres.
          Henry township now contains 36 square miles, and is nearly the geographical center of
            the county, and is the only one in the county in which the Congressional is identical
            with the civil township. Ten years after the organization of the county, this township
            had not over 500 inhabitants, while to-day it numbers over 2,800, nearly one-half of
            whom live in the "rural deestricts." It now contains 135 farms of near 160 acres each,
            and maintains a population of 78 to the square mile. There are 592 families, 67 colored
            persons, 121 of foreign birth, and 152 natives of old North Carolina, in the
            township.
          Blue River, dividing the township nearly in the center, is too sluggish to furnish a
            good mill seat within the limits of the township. Duck Creek skirts through the
            northwest corner of the township, and Flatrock through the southeast corner. The table
            lands between these streams are nearly one hundred feet above the bed of Blue River,
            and, although there is perhaps as much rolling land in this township as any in the
            county, there is very little so rolling as to merit the term broken, or too much so as
            to admit of culture. Recent efforts at ditching and straightening the channel of Blue
            River bid fair to completely redeem the marshy bottom lands, which are of inexhaustible
            fertility.
          The county seat being located in Henry township would of itself (even in the absence of
            natural advantages,) have secured to this township an important position in the county,
            both  financially and politically. It is the second
            township in both these respects in the county. The value of the real and personal
            property in the county, by the assessment of 1870, is shown to be: lands and
            improvements, $689,350; lots and improvements, $300,870; personal property, $609,400,
            making the snug total of $1,599,620.
          The first election was held at the house of Samuel Bedson; Charles Jamison, Inspector.
            Asahel Woodard, Micajah Chamness, and Thomas Watkins, were appointed Fence-viewers for
            Henry township. Wm. Shannon and Samuel Bedson were elected first Justices of the
            Peace.
        
        
          PRAIRIE TOWNSHIP,
          The fourth of the original townships, included all the territory lying north of Henry,
            and was eight miles in width and nearly twenty in length, thus giving it an area of
            nearly 160 square miles or about 105,000 acres. Within its ample limits were all of the
            present townships of Blue River, Stony Creek, Prairie, Jefferson, Fall Creek, and about
            two-fifths of Harrison.
          In spite of the mutations which have since overtaken it, the township of this day
            remains five miles in width by eight in length, thus containing over 25,000 acres, which
            are divided into 201 farms, averaging about 122 acres each.
          Prairie contains four villages, viz.: Luray, Springport, Mt. Summit, and Hillsboro.
            About seventy families live in the villages, and two hundred and forty in the "country."
            The population numbers 1,622, or a little more than forty to the square mile. The value
            of farms and improvements last year was $559,210; of town lots and improvements,
            $10,610; of personal property, $258,650, making a total for the township of
            $828,470.
          This is a remarkable township in many respects. Situated as it is, on the "divide"
            between White and Blue Rivers, about  one-half its surface
            finds drainage to the north and the remainder southward, and although thus situated on
            the "water shed," nearly one-sixth of its surface consists of low, wet meadows, from
            fifty to eighty feet below the general level of the table lands. It is from these
            meadows or prairies that the township takes its name. These "flowery leas" seem ever to
            have been coveted, although within the memory of the oldest inhabitant large portions of
            them were so flooded with water much of the year as to be chiefly valuable as the resort
            of waterfowl. To-day, however, under an extensive system of drainage, even the wettest
            portions of these prairies are being thoroughly redeemed, making farms which for
            inexhaustible fertility cannot be surpassed anywhere.
          The first election for Justice of the Peace was held July 6, 1822, at the house of
            Absalom Harvey, Wm. Harvey, Inspector. Wm. Harvey and Abijah Cane were appointed first
            Overseers of the Poor, and Abraham Harvey, James Massey, and Robert Gordon,
            Fence-viewers "in and for said township." In 1826, the place of holding elections was
            changed to Sampson Smith's, afterward to Enoch Dent's, and again to E. T. Hickman's,
            where it remained for many years, but, in 1846, was changed to James Harvey's.
          The first school house in the township was built on Shubal Julian's land, better known
            of late as the "Shively Farm," perhaps in 1824 or 1825. It was a small affair, with
            split saplings for seats, and a fire-place across the entire end. Senator Hess and
            Ex-Treasurer Julian graduated here. Milton Wayman was first teacher. This house was also
            used as a church by the Baptists.
        
        
          LIBERTY TOWNSHIP.
          Liberty was the fifth township organized, this important ceremony bearing date of
            February 12, 1822. It was a clipping  from the east end of
            Henry township, and, according to the metes and bounds prescribed, it was at first one
            mile less in extent from east to west than at present. It is now six miles wide by six
            and three-fourths in length, thus embracing about forty square miles, mostly table land,
            of a very fine quality generally. Flatrock, rising in Blue River township, enters this
            township near the middle of its northern boundary, passing out near the southwest
            corner. The valley of this stream is so slightly depressed as to form nothing worthy to
            be called bluffs, and, although too sluggish to be of much value for hydraulic purposes,
            it, with its small tributaries, seems in some way connected with the drainage and
            fertility of a wide belt of superb farming lands. The two Symons' Creeks, heretofore
            mentioned, find their sources in Liberty township, and now furnish ample drainage to
            many sections of fine land that, doubtless, in the early days of this county, passed for
            very wet land.
          The aggregate value of the farms and improvements of Liberty township to-day exceeds
            that of the farms of any other township of the county, and the evidence of thrift and
            "farming for profit" are nowhere more generally visible than in Liberty township. Four
            villages have been projected in the township—Millville, Ashland, Petersburg, and
            Chicago, though it is presumed that the proprietors of the two last named, if still
            living, have long since abandoned the hope of seeing them outstrip their namesakes.
            Under the new turnpike law, many miles of turnpike have sprung into existence, and
            to-day the people of this township rejoice in the advantage of traveling to almost any
            point on good pikes, there being about thirty miles completed in the township, and much
            more projected.
          The population numbers 1,868, almost exclusively rural. Its 24,000 acres are divided
            into 203 farms; an average of 120 acres each. Its population numbers about 49 to the
            square mile, and is divided between 376 families. There are 6 persons of color, 19
            foreigners, 64 North Carolinians, and 32 Virginians, within the township.
          The wealth of the township was estimated for the purpose of taxation, in 1870, as
            follows: Farms and improvements,  $712,430; town lots and
            improvements, $5,950; personal property, $325,410; total valuation, $1,043,790.
          The first election was held at the house of Ezekiel Leavell, on the first Saturday in
            May, 1823, for the election of two Justices of the Peace. Ezekiel Leavell was Inspector.
            John Smith was made Supervisor of all the roads in the township. Jacob Tharp and Cyrus
            Cotton were appointed Overseers of the Poor. In 1825, the elections were ordered to be
            held at the house of Samuel D. Wells, and continued to be held at his house for a number
            of years.
        
        
          STONY CREEK TOWNSHIP.
          This township, the next in order of organization, was "set up" November 11, 1828. By
            its creation Prairie Township lost about one-third of its "independent jurisdiction," as
            Stony Creek was bounded on the west by the range line separating ten and eleven, and
            extending, as it did, to the eastern boundary of the county, including all north of
            Liberty township, made it a region of no small consequence. It was at first eight miles
            from north to south, six miles wide on the north, and about six and three-fourths on its
            south line, and had in its ample area about forty-nine and one-half sections of land. A
            tier of eight sections have since been re-annexed to Prairie to compensate, no doubt, in
            a measure, for the loss of more than two townships on the west. Blue River township has
            also been carved out of Stony Creek, thus reducing it in size to bare twenty square
            miles, about two-fifths of its primal area, and leaving it the smallest of our "baker's
            dozen."
          The township is fittingly named from a creek, which, rising near, runs nearly parallel
            with, its southern border, then runs north across the township and finally into White
            River. The immense quantities of bowlders or "traveled stones" scattered ever some of
            the highest ridges and points in the township  must not
            only arrest the attention and excite the curiosity of the observer, but at once obviate
            the necessity of inquiry as to the township's name.
          This township presents, perhaps, a greater variety of surface and soil than any other
            equal area in the county, and while there is every variety of timber to be found in the
            county, so far as our observation has gone, there is a larger proportion of oak here
            than elsewhere, and less poplar, ash, &c., than in any place south of township
            eighteen.
          There is a portion of two or more prairies in this township, similar to those in
            Prairie. The bottom lands are doubtless equal to any in the county, while the higher
            lands, which the casual observer would, perhaps, pronounce thin or poor, not only
            produce abundant crops of the smaller grains, but Indian corn of more than average size.
            There are 118 farms in the township; an average of about 109 acres each. Blountsville
            and Rogersville are the only villages. The population is 934; divided between 197
            families. There are thirteen colored persons, 10 foreigners, 21 natives of North
            Carolina, and 35 Virginians in the township.
          This township can boast of capacious barns, some of which, for style and finish, would
            put to shame the dwellings of some of our well-to-do farmers.
          The assessed value of farms and improvements is $178,940; of town lots, $6,500; and of
            personal, $112,330, making a total of $332,590.
          The first election was held at the house of Thomas Hobson, Jr., December 20, 1828, for
            the purpose of electing one Justice of the Peace, Wm. Wyatt, Inspector.
        
        
          FALL CREEK TOWNSHIP.
          The next township in order was named Fall Creek, organized August, 1829. This was at
            first declared to be eight miles  in length) from north to
            south, by seven in width. It thus embraced within its limits fifty-six square miles, or
            35,840 acres, and yet with this ample domain the township could only muster twenty-nine
            votes at an exciting election, in 1830, and of these but three were Whig votes. Since
            this day, a strip two miles in width has been given to Harrison township, and two miles
            on the east to Jefferson, leaving the township six miles in length, from north to south,
            and five miles in width.
          Fall Creek is a well watered and very fertile township, and well improved farms and
            good buildings indicate that the husbandman is being well repaid for his labors. The
            creek from which the township takes its name, rising near the north-east corner, and
            meandering through, leaves the township, near the southwest corner, having sufficient
            fall to furnish valuable water power. Deer Creek, a tributary, rising in Harrison
            township, near Cadiz, emptying into Fall Creek, about one and one-half miles north of
            Mechanicsburg, also furnishes fair water power. A "corn cracker" was erected on this
            stream, about the year 1826. Benjamin Franklin, then a boy, now a noted preacher, is
            said to have dug the race. This was the first mill in that part of the county, and,
            notwithstanding these early facilities for procuring the "staff of life," Lewis Swain
            and others might have been seen living on grated corn bread or mush, for weeks at a
            time, some eight years afterward.
          A very rude log school house, with split pole benches and greased paper windows, did
            service in the Keesling neighborhood, as late as 1831 or 1832. Robert Price, a brother
            of Rice Price, was the first teacher. Lewis Swain was afterward Principal of this
            institution. Some of the earlier settlers can remember attending log rollings every day
            for weeks together.
          Middletown, Mechanicsburg, and Honey Creek are the villages of the township, and
            contain nearly one-half the populalation of the township; 197 families living in town,
            and 209 in the country. The total population of the township is 2,004, or about 66 to
            the square mile. Of these 31 are foreigners, 36 North Carolinians, 321 Virginians, and 4
            colored persons.
          
          The wealth of the township was estimated, last year, for the purpose of taxation, as
            follows: Farms, $522,270; town lots, $72,650; personal property, $412,280; total,
            $1,007,100.
          All elections were ordered to be held at the house of Abraham Thomas, but, in 1832, it
            was ordered that they hereafter be held at Middletown.
        
        
          FRANKLIN TOWNSHIP.
          Franklin township was organized on the 5th of January, 1830. It was constructed out of
            Dudley and Wayne townships, and, from the order making it a township, we learn that the
            west line was about three-fourths of mile west of the village of Ogden, and continued
            north to the line dividing townships sixteen and seventeen, which would make the
            northwest corner of Franklin, about one mile west of the Duck Creek Meeting House. From
            this point the northern boundary ran east eight miles, or within three-fourths of a mile
            of the present eastern limits of the township. This gave it jurisdiction over nearly all
            its present territory, all of Spiceland, a small fraction of Wayne (just north of the
            "stone quarry"), and three sections now claimed by Greensboro. In the following year, a
            change was made in the western boundary, which gave Wayne another tier of sections and
            made the northwest corner of Franklin township, just about where the Duck Creek Meeting
            House now stands, and, perhaps, within the corporate limits of Greensboro.
          All elections were ordered to be held at the house of Joseph Copeland. John Copeland
            was appointed Inspector; and Joseph Kellum, Lister; and the first election was ordered
            on the first Saturday in February, 1830. Upon the setting up of Spiceland township, in
            1822, Franklin, which underwent another mutation, was given a slice off of Dudley, and
            was then contracted to its present limits of five miles in width, from east to west, by
            six in length.
          
          Flatrock "drags its slow length along" near the middle of the township, and, although
            at two or three points it has been compelled to do duty as a mill stream, it has never
            established much of a character for energy. It, however, is the natural drain of a
            remarkably fertile body of land. Buck Creek drains the northwest corner of the
            township.
          The present area of the township is about 17,200 acres, divided into 151 farms; an
            average of about 114 acres each. Lewisville is the only village, 86 families residing in
            it, while 213 "reside in the country." Of the population 42 are foreigners, 13 are
            colored, 124 are North Carolinians, and 29 Virginians.
          The wealth of the township is reported thus: Farms and improvements, $500,750; town
            lots and improvements, $42,960; personal property, $332,260; total, $875,970.
        
        
          GREENSBORO TOWNSHIP.
          Greensboro township, so named from an ancient village of North Carolina, was organized
            September 7, 1831. It was at first described as "all that part of the territory of Henry
            township west of the rango line dividing nine and ten." This made it seven miles from
            east to west, and six from north to south, which would include nearly all of the present
            area of the township and three-fifths of Harrison. In 183S, one-half its territory was
            given to Harrison, and a small addition—four square miles—was made to it,
            taken from the townships of Wayne and Franklin. This change removed the township line
            one mile south from the village of Greensboro, and left the township with an area of
            twenty-five square miles, or about 16,000 acres, divided into 118 farms; an average of
            about 135 acres each.
          Greensboro and Woodville, on the line between Harrison and Greensboro, are the only
            villages. Of the 315 families in the township 70 live in Greensboro. The population of
            the township numbers 1,490. Of these but 6 are reported of 
            foreign birth, 81 are colored, while 221 are North Carolinians, and 52 natives of
            Virginia.
          All elections were ordered to be held at Greensboro. The first was held on the fourth
            Saturday of September, 1831, and Thomas Reagan was made the first Inspector of
            Elections.
          Greensboro is a well watered and fertile township. Blue River, skirting through the
            southeast corner, and Duck Creek, running across the eastern end, furnish fine water
            power. Much of the land along these water courses is quite rolling, and knolls, supplied
            with the most excellent gravel, render turnpike building a comparatively easy matter.
            Montgomery's Creek, crossing the township near the middle, and Six-mile, rising in, and
            running across, the western part of the township, renders the complete drainage of a
            large and fertile portion of the township (originally counted as wet,) a matter of no
            great difficulty.
          The assessed value of Greensboro township is: Farms, $364,850; town lots, $34,190;
            personal, $196,330; total, $595,370.
        
        
          HARRISON TOWNSHIP.
          The large and important township of Harrison was formed out of the north half of
            Greensboro and two tiers of sections off the south side of Fall Creek, November 7, 1838,
            and all elections were ordered to be held at Cadiz.
          The general aspect of this township, which is five miles from north to south and seven
            from east to west, is that of high gently undulating table land, with considerable
            portions inclining to wet, but very fertile under a system of intelligent drainage
            already extensively begun. A larger number of small streams find their head waters in
            this than any other township of the county perhaps. A small portion of the northeast
            corner of the township finds drainage into Bell Creek, and runs north, and near the same
            spot rises Honey Creek, also running  north. Deer Creek,
            rising near the center of the township, also runs north by west, and empties into Fall
            Creek near Mechanicsburg, while two other small tributaries of Fall Creek have their
            source in the north and northwest portions of the township, and in the central and
            western portions, Sugar Creek takes its rise and runs west, while Montgomery's Creek
            rises in the south part and runs south, and the west fork of Duck Creek rising near
            Cadiz, also runs south, while the principal branch of that creek, with some small
            tributaries, pretty effectually drains the eastern end of the township. A little south
            and west of Cadiz can doubtless be found some of the highest land in the West part of
            the county. Cadiz and a part of Woodville are the only villages of the township.
          Harrison has 183 farms, which would make the average about 122 acres each.
          The township is assessed as follows: Farms, $445,010; town lots, $11,030; personal,
            $217,390; total, $673,430.
          At the first election, on the first Saturday in December, 1838, William Tucker
            Inspector, there were thirty-two votes cast—sixteen for each of the opposing
            candidates for Justice of the Peace—which state of facts rendered another election
            necessary. Considering that the county had been settling up for a score of years,
            thirty-two voters must be counted rather slow progress. Harrison has to-day a population
            of 1,916, of whom 32 are colored, 15 are foreign born, 101 are natives of North
            Carolina, and 109 were born in Virginia.
          The first church and school house was probably at Clear Spring, in the southeast corner
            of the township, constructed in 1831-2, while it was a part of Greensboro township.
        
        
          SPICELAND TOWNSHIP.
          This township the smallest in the county except Stony Creek, was organized June, 1842,
            "with headquarters" at Ogden.  Room for it was found by
            taking a slice off Wayne and a four-mile slip off the west side of Franklin township. It
            is of irregular shape, being six miles in length on the eastern side, with an average
            length of five miles and width of four and one-half miles. Blue River forms the boundary
            for about three miles on the northwest. Its area is a little short of twenty-two square
            miles, or about 13,000 acres, which is divided among 173 farms, giving an average of
            only about 75 acres each, the smallest average in the county.
          Buck Creek, running in a southwest course, crosses the southeastern corner of the
            township into Rush, where it makes a short turn and re-enters Henry county about the
            middle of the south line of the township and bearing in a northwest course, nearly four
            miles, passes into Wayne township and falls into Blue River at the old Heaton or White
            Mills, furnishing more valuable water power, perhaps, than any other stream of its size
            in the county, notwithstanding it is a very sluggish stream for six or seven miles, or
            at least one-half its length. Blue River, on the northwest, and the classic little
            stream ycleped Brook Bezor, which rises near the center of the township and runs north
            two and one-half miles with an average descent of about thirty feet to the mile,
            constitute the only water courses of note in the township.
          Notwithstanding the smallness of Spiceland township in respect to area, it is by no
            means insignificant in some other respects, as it is the third in point of population in
            the county, and an average in point of wealth, while its farm lands are assessed, for
            purposes of taxation, about twice as high as some other parts of the county, and more
            than five dollars higher upon the acre than the next highest in the county. This is
            doubtless owing in part to its division into smaller farms and consequent thorough
            tillage, but much is owing to the high average quality of the land for general farming
            purposes.
          The population of Spiceland township numbers 2,020, or about 92 per square mile; of
            these 334 were born in North Carolina, 45 in Virginia, 17 out of the United States, and
            65 are colored persons.
          
          The first election was held at Ogden, August, 1842. A few years afterward, the poll was
            divided, and elections have been held both at Spiceland and Ogden ever since, Spiceland
            generally giving the strongest poll for ten years past.
          The assessed value is, in farms, $457,460; town lots, $65,870; personal, 296,310; total
            $819,640.
        
        
          JEFFERSON TOWNSHIP.
          This township was organized September 5, 1843, out of the spare territory of Fall Creek
            and Prairie. The eastern half of it is eight miles in length, while on the west line it
            is but six miles. It is four miles in width and contains twenty-eight square miles, or
            nearly 18,000 acres, all passably good land, and much of it very fine farming land. Its
            principal stream is Bell Creek, which, with its tributaries, traverses nearly the entire
            length of the township. Honey Creek is in the southwest, and a branch or tributary of
            Buck Creek, in the northeast corner, carries into white River a portion of its surplus
            waters. Of the soil and general characteristics of the township we can speak less from
            actual observation than of any other equal portion of the county. Sulphur Springs is the
            only village.
          The population of the township numbers 1,234, divided into 230 families, 172 of whom
            live in the agricultural districts. There are 23 foreigners, 12 North Carolinians, and
            169 Virginians in the township. The average size of a farm in this township is about 103
            acres, and the population numbers about 46 to the square mile.
          The farms and improvements are valued, for the purpose of taxation, at $359,290; town
            lots, $18,800; personal, $188,050; total, $565,140.
          The elections were first ordered to be held at the house of Michael Swope, on the 2nd
            day of October, 1843, for the purpose of electing a Justice.
        
        
        
          BLUE RIVER TOWNSHIP,
          The last organized, and one of the smallest townships of the county, contains a trifle
            more than twenty-two square miles. It was formed from the south half of Stony Creek
            township, by the act of the Commissioners, on the 6th day of June, 1848.
          All elections were to be held at the house of "Philip Moore, or at the meeting house
            near his house."
          Blue River township takes its name quite aptly from being the source of both branches
            of the stream of that name, so intimately connected with the prosperity and history of
            our county. "Big Blue," as it is often called, rises near the middle of the western
            portion of the township, ad runs nearly north about three and one-half miles to within
            about one-half mile of Rogersville, in Stony Creek township, where it bears to the west
            and is soon wending its way amid the prairies of Prairie township. The slashes or head
            waters of this branch of the river are known in the G. W. Duke neighborhood by the
            classic cognomen of Goose Creek. The stream has a fall of perhaps twenty feet per mile
            for the first three and one-half or four miles, and, although the volume of water is
            small, at the ordinary stage, there are two pretty valuable mill seats on it before it
            reaches Prairie. "Little Blue" rises near the north line and northeast corner of the
            township, and, running in a general southwest direction into Prairie township, unites
            with the main branch about two miles north of New Castle. On this branch of Blue River
            are situated the flourishing woolen mills of Ice, Dunn & Co., and the celebrated
            Hernley Mills, as well as some of the finest farms in the north part of the county.
            Flatrock also rises in the northeastern portion of this township, and takes a
            southwesterly direction, while a small branch of Stony Creek, almost interlapping with
            "Little Blue," somehow finds its way through the "water shed" of this part of the
            county, and runs north into White River, near the western boundary of Randolph  county. From the number of streams finding their initial
            point in the township, and running in opposite directions, we easily reach the very
            correct conclusion that some of the highest lands in the county are to be found here;
            but being the highest by no means signifies the dryest. Large portions of the township
            require drainage to make them available to the husbandman, but when so reclaimed are of
            the very best quality.
          This little township is exclusively rural, having neither village nor postoffice within
            its limits, unless a half interest in the half dozen houses known as Circleville is
            claimed as a village. The population numbers 861—the smallest number of any of
            these civil divisions of our county. Of its population 13 are colored persons, 7 are
            foreigners, 25 are Virginians, and 70 are North Carolinians.
          The farms and improvements were valued, last year, at $269,250, and the personal
            property at $88,990; total, $358,240; an average of about $2,250 per family at the
            assessed value, or less than one-half of the real value.
        
        
          THE FIRST COURTS.
          The act of the Legislature organizing the county provided that the "Circuit Court and
            all other courts shall meet and be holden at the house of Joseph Hobson, until suitable
            accommodation can be had at the county seat." The same act, however, provided that the
            Circuit Court might, if in its wisdom it deemed it advisable, remove to some more
            suitable place.
          
            COMMISSIONERS' COURT.
            In accordance with these provisions, the Commissioners' Court assembled at the house
              of Joseph Hobson (elsewhere mentioned as being on the Stephen Elliott farm), on the
              10th day of June, 1822, and we find the following as the first record of an official
              character ever made in the county of Henry: 
              "June Term for the year 1822.
                "At a meeting of the Board of County Commissioners, in and for the county of
                  Henry, State of Indiana, on Monday, the 10th day of June, A. D. 1822, present
                  Allan Shepherd and Samuel Goble, Esqrs., who produced their respective
                  certificates and were sworn into office by Jesse Healy, Esq., Sheriff of the
                  county aforesaid, as is required by the Constitution and laws of this
                State."
            As the Commissioners meant business, their first act, after taking the oath of
              office, was the appointment of Rene Julian Clerk of the Board, he being the Clerk of
              the Circuit Court elect, and the second order reads: "Ordered
                  by the Board, that the Court adjourn until to-morrow morning at ten o'clock.
                  (Signed,)
                "ALAN SHEPHERD, "SAMUEL GOBLE."
            Elisha Shortridge, who was doubtless elected at the same time as Shepherd and Goble,
              did not put in an appearance until the July term, when he "appeared and presented his
              credentials in due form," and now Goble was absent, from some cause not mentioned.
              From time to time the record shows that the Board met at Hobson's house, until the May
              term following, when they, or it met at the house of Charles
              Jamison, in New Castle. The Board met in June, July, August, and November, and yet the
              records of their doings fill but eighteen small pages, while the proceedings of three
              terms are crowded into eight pages, each one of which was about four times as large as
              this page. The adopted court-house was a "second-hand cabin," which had been moved up
              from the bottom, west of town, and was, perhaps, 12 by 16 or 16 by 18 feet square, and
              without chinking or daubing.
            The second day of the first term seems to have been a busy day, as Wm. Shannon,
              Dilwin Bales, and Abraham Heaton were appointed Superintendents of several school
              sections. Shannon was also made Treasurer and John Dorrah Lister of the county, a poll
              tax of twenty-five cents was levied for county purposes, and Dudley, Wayne, Henry and
              Prairie townships were created, and elections were ordered to be held in each.
              Inspectors were appointed for each, after which the Board adjourned "until the first
              Monday in July next."
            The act of the Legislature organizing the county provided for the appointment of an
              Agent for the county, who was to  receive donations of
              grounds made for the purpose of a county seat, buildings, &c. The July term was
              called for the purpose of appointing such Agent, and "the lot fell upon" Ezekiel
              Leavell, who was duly charged with the duty of superintending the sale of town lots in
              the New Castle that was to be, the making of deeds, and, in addition, when a
              court-house, a jail, or a stray pen was to be constructed, the Agent was ordered to
              "offer for sale to the lowest bidder, in the town of New Castle, the building of the
              court-house of Henry county," or the erecting of a "pound, commonly called a stray
              pen," or the "jail of Henry county," as the case might be.
            The Commissioners' Court was a very important institution in early times. Treasurers,
              Collectors, Listers, Constables, Pound-keepers, Supervisors, Road-viewers, County
              Agents, Township Agents, Superintendents of school sections, School Commissioners,
              County Surveyors, Inspectors, &c., were all the creatures of this body. It not
              only was the keeper of the public funds, levied or remitted the taxes, made the
              allowances of the other officers, but granted permits to "keep tavern," "keep store,"
              "keep grocery," or "peddle clocks," and with equal facility fixed the price of
              "liquors, lodgings, horse feed, and stablage." The early Commissioner seemed equally
              at home, whether allowing the Treasurer fifteen dollars for his annual services, or
              regulating the cost of a half pint of whisky, quart of cider or "gallon of oats or
              corn."
          
          
            BOARD OF JUSTICES.
            On the 31st of January, 1824, the Legislature enacted that the Justices of the Peace
              for the several counties should constitute a "Board of Justices" for the transaction
              of "county business," with all the powers and duties heretofore exercised by the
              Commissioners. It was made the duty of "each and every Justice in the several
              townships to meet" at the seat of Justice on the first Monday in September following,
              "and then and there to organize themselves into a County Board of Justices, by
              electing one of their body President," &c., "and to meet on the first Monday of
              January, March, May, July, September, and November, in each and every year," at such
              time, unless the  Circuit Court happened to be in session
              on that day, in which case they were to meet on the Monday after its adjournment. Any
              three of these Justices were competent to transact business, except at the May and
              November terms, when it should require at least five members, and a less number than a
              quorum could meet from day to day and compel the attendance of others.
            It was made the duty of the Justices "to be punctual in their attendance at their
              January, May and November sessions, and for every failure thereof, without a
              reasonable excuse, "such Justice might be indicted or fined not to exceed twenty
              dollars."
            The Clerk of the Circuit Court was required to attend on the sittings of the Board
              and write up its proceedings. The attendance of the Sheriff, in person or by deputy,
              was required, and it was made the duty of such officer to execute the decrees of said
              Board.
            On the 26th day of January, 1827, the Board of Justices was abolished, and the Board
              of Commissioners revived in the county of Henry and nine other counties lying in the
              central part of the State. This new arrangement took effect on the first day of August
              of the same year.
          
          
            CIRCUIT COURT.
            The first term of the Circuit Court was held September 30, 1822, by Thomas R.
              Stanford and Elisha Long, Esqrs., Associate Justices, Miles Eggleston, Presiding Judge
              of the Circuit Court, not being present. The court assembled, as the law directed, at
              the house of Mr. Hobson, but availed itself of the privilege of securing better
              quarters at once, by adopting Charles Jamison's log cabin as the court-house, as the
              following extract from the first record will show: "At a Henry
                  County Circuit Court, begun at the house of Joseph Hobson, agreeable to an act of
                  the Legislature of the State of Indiana, passed on the 3lst day of December, in
                  the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one, and adjourned to
                  the house of Charles Jamison, in the county aforesaid, on Monday, the 30th day of
                  September, in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and
                  twenty-two."
            With the exception of the recording of the official bond of  Mr. Rene Julian, Clerk, on a fly-leaf of the docket; this is the first
              entry ever made by the Circuit Court of Henry county. After the paragraph above
              recited, is found recorded a copy of the commissions of Judges Stanford and Long,
              bearing date of July 5, 1822, in which His Excellency Governor Jonathan Jennings sends
              greeting to all men and "the rest of mankind" that he has commissioned the aforesaid
              T. R. Stanford and the aforesaid Elisha Long Associate Judges: "For the county of Henry for and during the term of seven years, and until his
                  successors be appointed and qualified should he so long behave well."
            On the back of each commission seems to have been the following endorsement by the
              Sheriff: "Be it remembered that, on the 7th day of August A.
                  D. 1822, personally came the within commissioned, Thos. R. Stanford (or Elisha
                  Long), and took the oath against dueling, the oath to support the Constitution of
                  the United States, the oath to support the Constitution of this State, and also
                  the oath of office as an Associate Judge of the Henry Circuit Court. In witness
                  whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal, this 7th day of August, 1822
                JESSE H. HEALY, Sheriff of
                  Henry County."
            The credentials of the two Judges, of the Sheriff and Clerk being duly disposed of,
              Jesse H. Healy "Returned into this court the writ of venire
                  facias heretofore issued out out of this court, with the following panel to serve
                  as Grand Jurors, the present term, to-wit: Daniel Heaton, whom the court appoints
                  as foreman, Joseph Wats, Ezekiel Leavell, Absalom Harvey, Wm. Bell, David Baily,
                  John Baker, Jesse Cox, Samuel Dill, John Dougherty, Jacob Parkhurst, Richard
                  Parsons, Wm. Riden, Dempsey Rees, and David Thompson, good and lawful men, and
                  householders ef the county of Henry, who, being duly sworn and by the court
                  charged, retired to their room to deliberate."
            Of this first Grand Jury, consisting of fifteen members, we believe Dempsey Rees is
              the only living representative. The room to which they "retired to deliberate" was a
              convenient log heap hard by. Lot Bloomfield, producing a licence signed by the
              presiding Judge, was permitted to practice in the court, upon taking the necessary
              oath. He was also made Prosecuting Attorney for "this and the succeeding term of this
              court and until a successor be appointed."
            The next entry shows that Andrew Shannon so far forgot the dignity and solemnity of
              the occasion as to "swear two profane oaths in the presence of the court," for which
              he was  promptly fined two dollars, and the Clerk ordered
              to issue an execution for the same.
            On the next day the court ordered that the "permanent seal of Henry county shall be
              engraved on brass, with a vignette of an eagle and stars equal to the number of States
              in the Union," the size to be about that of a dollar, and around the margin "the
              words, Henry Circuit Court." An "ink scrawl, with the words Henry
              county inserted therein," was to be the temporary seal.
            On the second day of the term Henry Burkman came into court, and, being duly sworn,
              declared his intention of becoming a bona fide citizen of the United
              States, and that he "abjures all allegiance to all foreign princes and potentates
              whatever, and particularly to George Fourth, King of Great Britain and Ireland and
              Prince of Wales."
            The Grand Jury then returned into court with the result of their deliberations, which
              consisted of four bills of indictment for assault and battery, to-wit: one against
              Solomon Byrkett; two against Samuel Bedson, and one against Peter Smith. Bedson then
              appeared at "the bar of the court" and acknowledged himself guilty as charged in the
              indictment, and, dispensing with a jury, threw himself upon the mercy of the court
              "which after due deliberation being had therein," "it was considered by the court that
              he make his fine to the State in the sum of one dollar" and stand committed till the
              same be paid. The Judges then allowed themselves four dollars each, and the Prosecutor
              five dollars, and adjourned till March following; and thus ended the first term of the
              Circuit Court of Henry county.
            At the March term, Bloomfield failed to put in an appearance, and James Gilmore, a
              resident attorney, was appointed to prosecute "the pleas of the State."
            The following panel of Grand Jurors were selected for this term: Wm. McKimmy, foreman, Solomon Byrkett, Abijah Cain, Jacob Elliott, Moses Fink,
                  George Hanby, Daniel Jackson, John K. Nutt, Allen Hunt, Shaphet McCray, Wm.
                  Morris, Thomas Ray and Asahel Woodard. Of course all "good and lawful
              men," although Solomon Byrkett was then under indictment for an unlawful act, and was,
                 on the same day, brought to the bar of the court, and,
              to use the quaint language of the record, "It being forthwith
                  demanded of him how he will acquit himself of the charges set forth in the
                  indictment, for plea says he is not guilty as he stands indicted, and for trial
                  thereof puts himself upon the country, and the said James Gilmore, Prosecutor
                  aforesaid, doth the like; and thereupon came a jury, to-wit: Wm. Shannon, Nathan
                  Pearson, James Rozell, Samuel Bedson, Cristopher Bundy, Minor Fox, Jacob Richey,
                  Hugh McDaniel, Wm. Row (or Roe), John Blunt, Josiah Clawson, and Jacob
                  Witter," and thus was formed the first Traverse Jury of Henry County,
              March 31st, 1823, and of the number there is probably not one live to-day.
            Byrkett was acquitted, and the court ordered "that he go thereof hence without
              day."
            There was but one civil action tried, during this term, but the Grand Jury returned
              into court, on the second day, seven indictments: one against the owner of the court-house, for selling liquor without license; one against
              Wesley Prior, Eli Ellis, and Charles See, "for rout;" one each against Commissioners
              Elisha Shortridge and Allan Shepherd, for "extortion;" and three cases of assault and
              battery. The cases for extortion, perhaps, were what would, at this day, be termed
              taking usurious interest. At least there seems to have been no further notice taken of
              the matter, the order book not indicating that they were dismissed, quashed, continued
              or tried.
            At this distant day, it will seem a little strange that the best or foremost men of
              the times should be found among the law-breakers and among the first "hauled over the
              coals" for it.
            This March term of the court fixed a scale of prices for the Clerk to be govered by
              in taking bail of those charged with offences, as follows: For assault and battery,
              $100; for routs, $50; for extortion, $100; selling spirituous liquor without license,
              $20; and subsequently it further instructed that for indictments for perjury the bail
              should be $300; for violations of the "Estray act," $100; for affray, $50; and for
              robbery on the public highway, the sum of $100. From all of which it would seem that
              selling liquor without license was a mere peccadillo, 
              that perjury was quite a grave offence, and that for two, three, or four men to engage
              in a nice little "set to" would require only half the bail demanded of one man who
              attacked another without first obtaining his consent, and it will also be noticed that
              assault and battery was placed on a par with highway robbery.
            At the March term, the Grand Jury, thirteen in number, were allowed $19 50 for their
              services, and the Prosecutor $8 for prosecuting the pleas of the State and drawing up
              the seven indictments and such other services as he could render, and was continued
              for the next term and until a successor should be appointed, although not at the time
              a licensed attorney, and the court adjourned, after a three days' session, without
              disposing of a single case, except the trial of one of the Grand Jurors heretofore
              alluded to. It was probably owing to the fact that nothing had been completed that the
              Judges only allowed themselves $3 for their services.
            A special session was called, on the 28th day of April, 1823 (in accordance with an
              act of the General Assembly of 1822, concerning vagrants*), on account of a charge of vagrancy against
              a citizen of Henry county. The following panel of sixteen Grand Jurors, "good and
              lawful men," were selected to consider whether the person so charged with vagrancy was
                *Every person who
                  shall be suspected to get his livelihood by gaming, and every able bodied person,
                  who is found loitering and wandering about and not having wherewithal to maintain
                  himself by some visible property, and who doth not betake himself to labour or
                  some honest calling to procure a livelihood, and all persons who quit their
                  habitation and leave their wives and children without suitable means of
                  subsistence, whereby they suffer or may become chargeable to the county, and all
                  other idle, vagrant, dissolute persons, rambling about without any visible means
                  of subsistence, shall be deemed and considered as vagrants.—[Revised Laws,
                  1824, page 421.]
                Such person was to give bond in the sum of $50, or be committed to jail, till the
                  meeting of the Circuit Court, and if found to be a vagrant within the meaning of
                  the law, he was, if a minor, to be "bound out," until twenty-one years of age, to
                  some useful trade or occupation, and if over twenty-one years of age, he was to be
                  hired out by the Sheriff for any time not exceeding nine months. The money
                  received for his hire was to be applied to the payment of his debts, and the
                  balance to be given to him at the expiration of his time, provided, however, that,
                  if he had a wife and children, the surplus went to them, and he might also avoid
                  being hired out by giving security that he would return to his family and follow
                  some useful occupation.
               such "within the meaning of the law." John Dorrah, foreman, Charles Jamison, James Stanford, Samuel
                  Dill, Asahel Woodard, Wm. McDowell, Obadiah R. Weaver, Moses Fink, Sr., Allan
                  Shepherd, Cristopher Bundy, George Hanby, Thomas Watkins, Wm. Bunday, Joshua
                  Welborn, Andrew Shannon, Moses Allis.
            Of this jury of "lawful men" two only were under indictment at the time for violating
              the laws of the land. Twelve of the sixteen have passed from works to rewards. James
              Stanford, Asahel Woodard, Wm. McDowell, and Joshua Welborn are still alive, and reside
              in the county.
            The principal expenses for this term of court were: Sixteen Grand Jurors, $12;
              bailiff, 75 cents; Prosecutor, $2; two Judges, $4; total, $18 75.
            Jamison, for selling liquor without license, was tried at the next term of the court,
              found guilty, and fined three dollars, which was just what he charged the court for
              the use of the cabin as a court room. As he was afterward granted license to sell
              liquors, it is evident that the offence consisted not so much in the sale of the
              liquor, as in having neglected to replenish the almost empty treasury with the five
              dollars, which was levied solely for purposes of revenue, and not in anywise intended
              to restrict the traffic.
            The August term of the Circuit Court was held by the Associate Judges, Hon. Miles
              Eggleston, Presiding Judge, not, as yet, having deigned to visit our county.
            To call to the minds of some of the older citizens men once familiar to them, the
              names of the Grand Jury are given also: John Dorrah, foreman,
                  as usual, Levi Butler, Ebenezer Goble, Thomas Leonard, Thomas Watkins, John Blunt,
                  George Hobson, James McKimmy, Robert Smith, Allen Hunt, Jesse Cox, John Marshall,
                  Nathan Davis, and Josiah Morris.
            Josiah Morris and R. Smith are the only representatives of this jury. After a three
              days' session, the jury returned into court two indictments for assault and battery,
              three for affray, one for violation of the estray law, one for robbery, and one for
              perjury. In the five years immediately succeeding the organization of the county,
              ninety-one "true bills" were found for various offences "against the peace and
              dignity" of the State of Indiana. Something of the nature of the ills to which society
                 was subjected at that early day will be seen from the
              character of these presentments as follows, to-wit: 
                Assault and battery
                  44
                Affray
                  24
                Rout
                  1
                Rape
                  4
                Gaming
                  5
                Extortion
                  2
                Robbery
                  1
                Vagrancy
                  1
                Perjury
                  2
                Larceny
                  2
                Lewdness
                  1
                Violating Estray Law
                  1
                Selling without License
                  1
                Obstructing Process
                  1
                Negligence in Office
                  1
                Total
                  91
              
            
            What would our citizens think to-day of having four-fifths of the time of our courts
              taken up with the adjustment of personal encounters between our citizens. The "fistic"
              proclivities of our citizens are, without doubt, very much improved in forty
              years.
            Hon. Miles C. Eggleston, the President Judge for the Fifth Circuit put in an
              appearance for the first time November 17, 1823, this being the fifth session since
              the county was organized. The following order appears on the docket for that day: "On motion, it is ordered that it be suggested on the records
                  of this court that Reuben Ball, the plaintiff in this cause, is deceased, since
                  the last term of this court."
            And, we suppose, the suggestion was made accordingly. The next cause was "continued
              till the next term of court, and the court take time until then to consider of the law
              arising in said case."
            The next order was that all indictments found by the Grand Jury, at the August term,
              be quashed, and the defendants in said indictments be thereof quit and discharged,
                &c.* To this his
              autograph is appended—the only time it occurs on the order book.
            It would seem that W. W. Wick was made Judge of the Circuit, in 1824, but, being
              elected Secretary of State, Governor Hendricks appointed Bethuel F. Morris President
              Judge, "in the room" of said Wick.
            *The reason for this seems
              to have been that the Legislature had changed the time of holding courts for this
              circuit, of which change our home Judges had not been apprised, and so went on with
              the August term as usual. The indictments were all quashed, but seem to have been
              immediately revived by the jury then in session.
            
            In October, 1825, John Anderson succeeded Thomas R. Stanford as Judge.
            While Anderson was on the bench, there was an appeal case came up before him and his
              associate, in which he was defendant, and it is noticeable that the defendant gained
              the case and his costs off the plaintiff, and then allowed himself two dollars for
              extra services at that session. It is not to be inferred from this that justice was
              not done, for the Judge soon brought suit in his own court, as Paymaster of the
              Indiana Militia, against Sheriff Healy, for failure to collect the muster fines off
              the conscientious people of the county, and, after continuing the case from day to day
              and term to term, he was finally beaten, Bethuel Morris, perhaps, presiding when the
              decision was reached.
            Soon after this, one Jacob Tharp filed an information in court to the effect that the
              said Judge Anderson was an alien, and therefore not competent to fill the position
              occupied. A rule was granted against the Judge to show why he should not be ousted
              from his seat. This he must have done to the satisfaction of the court, as he
              continued to hold on to his position, and at a subsequent term he obtained judgment
              for costs against Tharp, Anderson and his associate apparently deciding the case. So
              much for early courts and manner of doing business.
            It cannot be doubted that the ends of justice were quite as faithfully subserved in
              that day as at present, and that it was generally quite as speedily meted out,
              notwithstanding the quaintness of style and rather "hifalutin" ring of some of the
              proceedings.
          
        
        
          FIRST ATTORNEYS.
          It has already been mentioned that Lot Bloomfield, Esq., was "sworn in" as the first
            Prosecutor of "the pleas of the State" for the Henry Circuit. There were but four
            indictments  found, all for assault and battery, and, as
            one of the culprits "lit out," another was found not guilty, and still another plead
            guilty and was only fined one dollar for two offences, the Prosecutor, doubtless, felt
            that his luck was none of the best. It is said that information was lodged with the jury
            that some graceless scamp had been guilty of larceny, but, just before the finding or
            returning of a bill, the foreman learned that he had left the county; so it was
            concluded that it would be a waste of ammunition to finish proceedings against him, and
            they at once dropped the case. This did not suit the Attorney, who grumbled
            considerably, and called the attention of the jury to the fact that it cost much labor
            to draw up the papers in each case, and showed them that he was at great expense in
            traveling to and from court for board, &c., &c. The court made him the very
            liberal allowance of five dollars, which was one dollar more than their honors received,
            but it does not seem to have been satisfactory, as he came no more, although appointed
            for more than one term.
          James Gilmore, afterward a Justice of the Peace, and not yet a full fledged attorney,
            was appointed in Bloomfield's place the next term.
          James Noble, James Raridan, and Abraham Elliott, father of Judge Elliott, were admitted
            to practice in this first court.
          At the August term, 1823, Charles Test, Esq., and Martin M. Ray were admitted as
            attorneys and counsellors at law, "and thereupon took the oath of office."
          At the April term, 1824, James B. Ray, James Mendall, Calvin Fletcher, Oliver H.
            Smith,and Philip Sweetser were admitted to practice.
          At the April term, 1825, Harvey Gregg, Esq., appeared with a regular commission as
            Prosecuting Attorney for the Fifth Judicial Circuit, Henry county had previously been in
            the Third Circuit. At this term Abraham Elliott was appointed Master of Chancery,
            whatever that may be, and Moses Cox was admitted to the bar.
          In October of the same year, Calvin Fletcher presented his credentials as Prosecutor
            for the Circuit.
          
          At the October term, 1826, James Whitcomb appeared with credentials as Prosecutor for
            the Circuit, and Septimus Smith and Albert G. White were admitted as attorneys.
          In 1827, Samuel C. Sample, appeared as a licensed attorney and "took the oath" as
            "counsellor at law at the bar of the court."
          In 1828, on motion of Charles H. Test, Marinus Willitt and David Patton were
            admitted.
          At the October term, 1828, on motion of S. C. Sample, Wm. Daily and Caleb B. Smith,
            having produced license signed by "two President Judges of the State of Indiana," were
            admitted to practice in the Henry Circuit Court, and, on motion of James Raridan, Esq.,
            John S. Newman was in like manner admitted.
          In 1829, W. W. Wick, Prosecuting Attorney, and James T. Brown were admitted to the
            bar.
          In 1830, James Perry was Prosecutor of the pleas of the State.
          From the foregoing list it will be seen that the early practitioners at the Henry
            county bar included many of the ornaments of the legal profession of our State. At a
            later day, came Parker, Julian, Morton, and others scarcely less noted, to say nothing
            of resident attorneys, of whom a number have won a name abroad. Among those who were
            quite frequent in their attendance upon our earlier courts were quite a number who have
            distinguished themselves as orators, members of Congress, Governors of our State, and
            eminent jurists. With such examples before us as the Rays, Whitcomb, the two Smiths,
            Test, Parker, Julian, Morton, and others, one is liable to indulge the reflection that
            the Henry county bar was more ably served in early times at present.
          It should be borne in mind, however, that the tendency of a general diffusion of
            knowledge is to lessen the difference between men, growing out of their acquirements,
            and he who may have seemed almost a prodigy of learning forty years ago might not to-day
            pass for much more than an ordinary person. Great talents and great learning will,
            doubtless, be treated with much consideration for all time to come, but the time has
            long  passed when any man can wield such influence over his
            fellows as did Demosthenes. It is undoubtedly true that greater attainments are expected
            in many of the stations in life than formerly, and the legal profession is no
            exception.
          So, when a friend of ours remarked that the Tests, Raridans, Smiths, Whitcombs,
            &c., who graced the early bar of this county "were all well enough in their day,"
            but could not "hold a candle" to the present corps of attorneys, we were disposed to
            attach some weight to his opinions.
        
        
          COUNTY BUILDINGS.
          The act providing for the organization of the county made it the duty of the
            Commissioners to provide for the erection of suitable county buildings, within one year
            after their election.
          
            THE FIRST COURT-HOUSE.
            In obedience to this provision, the Commissioners, in February, 1823, ordered that "The Agent of Henry County shall offer for sale to the lowest
                  bidder in the town of New Castle, the building of the court-house of Henry county,
                  of the following dimensions, to-wit: being logs twenty-two by eighteen feet, each
                  log to face not less than twelve inches at the little end, being seven inches
                  thick, twelve rounds high, with a cabin roof, to consist of eleven joists, to be
                  four inches by nine, the joists to be eight feet nine inches from the floor,
                  &c., &c."
            The sills of this imposing structure were to be of durable timber, one foot from the
              ground, with a good rock or stone under each corner, a puncheon floor below, and plank
              floor above, with two windows above and three below, consisting of twelve lights each;
              and they further instructed that the "Sale of the above
                  described building be on the Wednesday after the second Monday in May next, with a
                  good door three feet wide, six feet six inches high."
            At the May term following, the Board rescinded the above order, and at once
              substituted another with further and more "workmanlike" specifications. In these
              specifications, the side  logs were to be twenty-six feet
              long, and end logs twenty feet, while they were to face at least twelve inches in the
              middle, and sills and sleepers to be of good durable timber, and to be placed on six
              suitable sized stones, the floor to be of puncheons hewed smooth and solid, and the
              lower story to be at least nine feet between joists. The second floor to be of plank,
              and the second story was to be at least five feet from the floor to the top of the
              last round of logs, "or square." There were also to be two doors so cut as to make the
              center of the door "nine feet from the end of the building" (which end is not
              specified), but they were to be "so hanged as to open on that end of the house
              intended for spectators," and they were to be hanged on strong iron hinges, with a
              "good lock on what may be considered the front door," and a bar so as to fasten the
              other. This time there were to be two fifteen-light windows, and a strong partition of
              bannisters, at least four feet high, to separate the court from the spectators, with a
              strong gate in it, fastening on the inside, and the second floor was to be reached by
              a "good strong set of straight steps, commonly called mill steps." The building was to
              be "well chinked and daubed and covered with good oak boards confined with sufficient
              weight poles."
            The order for letting the court-house provides that it be "advertised in three of the
              most public places in the county, and in the Western Times, a paper published in
              Centreville, Wayne county, Indiana," and it was, in "height, materials and
              construction, to be similar to the court-house in Connersville, Fayette county,
              Indiana."
            The said building was ordered to be placed on the southeast corner of lot four, block
              twelve, which was a little southwest of the present site. So soon as the building was
              covered, the contractor was to receive twenty dollars of the "purchase money," and it
              was also stipulated that it was to be completed before the second Monday in
              February.
            According to arrangement, the Agent did "sell the court-house" on
              the 14th of May, 1823, to George Barnard, for $247, and in May following the
              Commissioners adjourned from the house of John Smith to the new court-house, which
              they  formally accepted, as it was done according to
              contract. Once established in a building adequate to the wants and fully comporting
              with the dignity and wealth of our flourishing county—one that cost them a sum
              about equal to the tax duplicate for three years, it cannot be doubted but the
              Commissioners felt immeasurable relief. Doubtless the tax-payers grumbed at the
              extravagance of those fellows who could thus squander $247, and they were soon
              rewarded by being permitted to retire to the rest and quietude of private life.
            The jail, court-house, and stray pen, or pound, being completed, a "long spasm of
              retrenchment and economy" occurred, until the county, fast becoming rich, began to
              grow proud, and, in 1831, ordered the building of a
          
          
            SECOND COURT-HOUSE,
            Which was to be "forty feet square, walls included," the foundation "to be dug
              eighteen inches beneath the surface of the ground, the walls to be two feet thick from
              the foundation three feet up," the lower story to be fifteen feet high, and the upper
              story to be twelve.
            This time, instead of a "cabin roof" sufficiently weighted down with poles, it was to
              have one of good yellow poplar "join shingles," eighteen inches in length, "to be
              pitched from each square to the center," the whole to be surmounted with an eight
              square cupola, eight feet in diameter, to "arise" twenty feet, eight feet of the
              distance to be enclosed with "Venecian blinds," and said cupola to be surmounted by a
              suitable cap from which was to be raised a spear bearing a wooden ball, ten inches in
              diameter, "nicely gilt," and still above this a neat vane and higher yet "a cross with
              a gilt ball on each end," and the whole surmounted with a "neat cap" on top of the
              spear.
            Let the reader picture to himself the transition from the little cramped up, cabin
              roofed, puncheon floored, chinked and daubed, poorly lighted, hewed log concern,
              standing high and dry upon six "nigger heads," and an outside chimney, to this
              spacious brick, with twenty-three windows of twenty-four lights each, and a large
              folding door and "fan light" above, with foundations hidden away the enormous distance
              of eighteen  inches under ground, and the whole
              surmounted with a cupola, which, for architectural design and finish, must have been
              the wonder of the age, and he cannot but be struck with the amazing strides in the
              paths of luxury taken by our forefathers. We are amazed at the old fellows, not one in
              twenty of whom had anything better than a cabin at home, to be willing to undertake
              the erection of a "temple of justice" of such proportions and at such an enormous
              cost, as it seemed at that time, as there were but seventy-five dollars and
              three-fourths of a cent in the treasury to commence on.
            The building was nevertheless sold to one Nathan Crawford, in the latter part of the
              year 1831, "he being the lowest bidder," for the sum of $5,315, to be paid on the 1st
              of January each year, for five years as follows: in 1832, $400; in $1833, $700; in
              1834, $1,000; in 1835, $1,200; in 1836, the balance. The walls were to be up and
              covered and all outside wood work was to be completed by January 1, 1834, and two
              years to be allowed for finishing off the costly interior. In short, it was expected
              that the contractor would "push things," and spend somethink like a thousand dollars a
              year. Robert Murphey was allowed $2 50 for furnishing the design of this elaborate
              structure. About nine o'clock, on Thursday morning, January 7, 1836, comes the said
              Nathan Crawford, and moves the Commissioners, Robert Murphey, Tabor W. McKee, and John
              Whittaker to take the job off his hands; which they promptly decline to do, and
              declared that they had examined the "said court-house" and "are of the opinion" that
              it is deficient in almost every particular, that the "roof leaks," plastering is not
              neatly done; and carpenter work ditto, and that the "contract is forfeited in toto,
              and the materials out of which said house is constructed are, in a great many cases,
              deficient."
            This was "rough" on the said Crawford, but he had to bear it till the March term,
              when a compromise was effected, and the building was received at $4,500, which was
              docking him $815 only.
            The first court-house, though so soon rejected, was certainly in good plight, and
              to-day, after the lapse of more than a  third of a
              century, a portion of it is doing good services as a pig sty on the premises of M. L.
              Powell, Esq. The second or brick building was destroyed by fire, about the time of the
              assembling of a county convention, on the 13th day of February, 1864.
          
          
            THE FIRST JAIL.
            At the February term, 1823, the Commissioners also ordered the sale of "the jail of
              Henry county," which, they specify, shall be "Of the
                  dimensions fourteen feet square, seven feet between the floors, the logs to be
                  square ten inches, to be dovetailed at each corner and pinned; upper and lower
                  floor to consist of logs squared of the same dimensions, the upper floor each log
                  to be pinned down with one inch and one-half auger, one round of logs above the
                  upper floor fit down, the door to be three feet wide, the shutter to be made of
                  two inch oak plank doubled, and be well spiked and hung with good and sufficient
                  hinges to open outside with a good and sufficient bar with staples and lock, a
                  cabin roof, the lower floor to be laid on two oak sills, and the house to be built
                  on the top thereof, one window one foot square with four inch square bars of iron
                  to be sufficiently let in."
            This was not a very imposing structure to a man outside, but once shut in, say in
              July or August, especially if there were several of the "four inch square" iron bars
              across the one window (a foot square), all efforts to escape must have soon become
              quite feeble. The reader of these specifications (which were doubtless clear enough to
              the Commissioners,) may be a little puzzled to determine whether "the house to be
              built on the top thereof" was to be placed on the lower floor, or whether the house
              was to have a second story intended for a jailer's residence or some such purpose.
            It was subsequently ordered that the jail should be completed before the second
              Monday in August, and that the Clerk should issue a county order to the builder for
              twenty dollars so soon as the building shall be "erected to the height of four
              rounds."
            Obediah R. Weaver, being the lowest bidder, undertook "the faithful performance" of
              the contract for $120.
            Although this building was to have been completed in August, 1823, we find that, in
              May, 1824, the Board refused to receive it, "inasmuch as it is considered that the
              same has not  been executed according to contract." The
              building was subsequently received of Mr. Weaver, and forty-five dollars paid in full
              for the work; twenty dollars having been previously advanced, when the structure was
              but "four rounds high."
            This jail was soon found to be inadequate, and the growing wants of the times induced
              the Commissioners to order the "selling" of
          
          
            THE SECOND JAIL,
            Which was also to be built of timber. It was really to be an extension of the old
              one, the door of which was to be taken away and the space filled with logs. The
              addition was to be built adjoining the old part, leaving only eight inches between,
              which was afterward to be filled with timber. The new part was to have one window like
              the old one, one foot square, and when carried up to the height of the old one, a
              second story was to be built on, of logs, extending over both, and to be entered from
              one end by a "strong stairway," and the only entrance to the lower story was to be
              through a strong trap door, two feet square, "to be made secure with a strong bar of
              iron and good and sufficient lock," &c. Once let down into one of these "black
              holes," the most hardened desperado could dismiss all fears of "the dogs biting him"
              so long as his incarceration continued.
            On the 7th of January, 1830, Moses Brown, Esq., undertook the reconstruction of said
              jail, for the sum of $97 50, which was certainly cheap enough even in those days.
            The rule that all things earthly must pass away seems to have made no exceptions in
              favor of Henry county jails. In less than five years from the completion of the second
              jail or "goal," the Commissioners ordered a third to be advertised and erected. This
              time the external walls were to be of brick. The foundation was to be set in the
              ground two feet, and to be twenty-eight inches in thickness. Above, the wall was to be
              thirteen inches thick, and eighteen feet by twenty-five in dimensions, and two stories
              in height. The floor of the prisons or "dungeons" were to be of good oak timber ten
              inches thick, and, on top of this a floor of good oak plank one and one-half inches,
                 thick. Just inside the brick walls and on top of the
              floor, was to be "built a log wall" of "hewn timber, ten inches square, to be laid
              down half dovetailed," and seven feet high. And this was to be lined with one and
              one-half inch beech plank, and "cross lined" and well spiked on with "cut spikes, six
              inches in length" and not to exceed three inches distant. The wooden walls were to be
              continued so as to make two tiers of dungeons, but the upper ones were not required to
              be so well lined, or otherwise made so strong. The upper story was, doubtless,
              intended for the more corrigible class of culprits, while the more hardened sinners
              were to be "sent below."
            The dungeons in the lower story were to be ready for occupants by the third Monday of
              October, and the whole structure by the first Monday in May, 1836.
            "At a sale held at the court-house," to "sell the building of the goal," Miles
              Murphey, jr., "bid off the same for $1,100," $500 to be paid January 1, 1836, and the
              residue in one year. This work was done according to contract, and the structure, with
              little amendment, stood the racket for about thirty years, and until torn down to make
              room for the splendid edifice now decorating the public square.
          
          
            STRAY PEN.
            A stray pen or pound, in early days, was considered an indispensable appurtenance of
              every "well regulated" county. Stock was much more given to straying, no doubt, in
              early times than at present. The love of home, or faculty of inhabitiveness, was
              probably not so well developed then as now, while the powers of locomotion were
              generally much better, especially with the porkers. The time and money lost in looking
              up lost stock in this or any other new county, thirty or forty years ago,
              notwithstanding the comparatively small amount kept, was much larger then at present,
              and, doubtless, led the assembled wisdom of our early General Assemblies to give it
              more careful thought than they now devote to some of the great questions of the
              hour.
            By an act of 1824, it was made the duty of the "Commissioners in each and every
              county in the State to cause a pound  to be erected at or
              near the court-houses, with a good and sufficient fence, gate, lock, and key, where
              all stray horses, mules, and asses, above two years old, taken up within twenty miles
              of the court-house, shall be kept on the the first day of every Circuit Court, for
              three succeeding terms, after the same shall be taken up, from eleven until three
              o'clock in each day, that the owner may have the opportunity of claiming his, her, or
              their property, and any person having taken up such property, and living more than
              twenty miles from the court-house, was not compelled to "exhibit it more than
              once."
            In obedience to some such act as this, the Henry County Commissioners ordered such an
              enclosure made or "sold" the "Erecting of a pound, commonly
                  called a stray pen, the said pen to be erected in the southwest corner of the
                  public square, the said pen is to be forty feet square, to be erected at least
                  five feet high, and of good and durable timber commonly called a post and rail
                  fence, with a gate and lock to the same."
            Minor Fox undertook this great "public enterprise" for the sum of $12 50 and "gave
              bond with sureties approved of by the Commissioners of Henry county," and faithfully
              performed the labor within four months in so satisfactory a manner that the
              Commissioners accepted it, and made him the first Pound-keeper.
          
          
            COUNTY ASYLUM.
            The buildings and belongings of the establishment where the county's poor are cared
              for ought to be a matter of more interest to the people of Henry than is generally
              manifested. Caring for those unfortunate persons who have, from any cause, become
              unable to care for themselves, has been accepted by the County Commissioners as a
              duty, ever since the meeting of the first Board, in 1822, and, although the
              arrangement for the comfort of paupers may have seemed parsimonious at times,
              surrounding circumstances must be taken into account. It would never do to make the
              fare, comforts, and general attractiveness of the asylum such that able-bodied, but
              lazy, shiftless, persons, of whom there are a few in every community, would seek for a
              residence at the county home, and beside the item, "on account of poor," has ever been
              a large one in the "budget" of Henry county, and is largely on the increase.
            
            On the 6th day of March, 1839, Commissioners Shawhan, Corwine and Ball, purchased of
              William Silver a farm of one hundred and sixty acres, about one mile northwest of New
              Castle, for the sum of $2,000. In May following, a contract was made with John D.
              Foosha for keeping the paupers as well as for the building of a "poor house," and it
              was also ordered that "all persons who are now, or may hereafter become, a county
              charge, shall be removed, as the law directs, to the poor house provided for that
              purpose."
            Just what sort of a house this was to be, or the price paid to the man who bought it, the records do not show, but, on the 4th of January, 1844,
              a special session of the Board was called to receive sealed proposals for the building
              of another house, which was to be of brick, with a cellar under one wing, fourteen by
              thirty feet. The size of said building is not specified, but it was to have a porch on
              three sides of the same, with fourteen posts and bannisters between, from which it may
              be inferred that it was of considerable size. The brick were to burned on the place,
              and all the sills, sleepers, posts, and plates were to be got off the farm. The brick
              work was to be painted red and penciled with white, and the porch painted drab. John
              Shroyer, Miles Murphey, jr., and Dr. Reed were appointed to superintend the building
              of the said house. John H. Polsley undertook the work for $1,100, and was allowed, for
              extra work, the sum of twenty dollars. The Superintendents each received twenty
              dollars for their services.
            This building was burned down, and the paupers rendered homeless, in May, 1857, when
              the Commissioners promptly ordered the building of another and more commodious
              structure at an expense of about $7,000.
            For two or three years, the contract was made with Foosha to care for the paupers
              that might, from time to time, be sent to him at the rate of $1 25 per head per week,
              with some little extra allowances in "extreme cases," he paying $150 for the rent of
              the farm.
            In 1841, the Commissioners resolved to turn over a new leaf, and so they let the
              contract to "board, clothe and feed" all  paupers, and
              "to treat them in a humane manner, and especially to attend to the moral instruction
              of said paupers," to Samuel Hoover and Mark Modlin, for three years from the 1st of
              March, 1842, at one dollar per capita per week, they paying $125 for rent of farm. At
              the end of this time, they called for "sealed proposals" for keeping the paupers,
              raising the rent of the farm to $150. The position had come to be looked upon as being
              so desirable that there was strife over it and Mr. Fooshee instituted an unsuccessful
              suit to secure possession of it, after the contract was awarded to other parties for
              three years. In 1844, he was a successful applicant, giving twenty-five dollars more
              than had been previously paid for the use of the farm, and agreeing to take, "board,
              clothe, feed, and lodge," and morally instruct all paupers, for 62½ cents per head per
              week, and bring in no other charge whatever. This was quite a coming down, but, after
              he had given bond to the satisfaction of the Board, he seems to have "flew the track,"
              and Mark Modlin was awarded the prize at 75 cents per head per week, for one year.
            Afterward the rent of the farm was reduced to $100 per year, and 75 cents per week
              was allowed for keeping the paupers, and to "board, clothe, feed, humanely treat, and
              morally instruct," &c., which was cheap as dirt.
            It is pleasant to know that our late Commissioners have turned over still another
              leaf, and do not now let that important charge on the sole condition of economy, and
              yet we hear no complaint on this score.
            The farm has been enlarged to 280 acres, much of the late purchases being first class
              bottom land. The Superintendent, Mr. Mahlon D. Harvey, now serving his second term,
              receives a salary for managing the farm for the county. At the beginning of the year,
              there were thirty-eight paupers in the asylum.
          
          
            CLERK'S AND RECORDER'S OFFICES.
            In the earliest days of the county, the position of a county officer was not a very
              lucrative one. The records of their transactions were very brief and imperfect, and
              for a whole term of court might have been carried on a few scraps of paper in a vest
              pocket. One man acted as Clerk and Recorder and 
              performed many of the duties now devolving upon the Auditor, an office not created for
              twenty years after the county was organized. In this state of affairs, some small room
              that could be rented for fifteen or twenty dollars per year was all sufficient for one
              of the officers, and, in fact, there was but little use for a room, except at stated
              intervals, for a few years, and a party having business with the court would be as
              likely as any way to find its Clerk out in his corn field, with a hoe in his hand, or
              in his clearing, grubbing.
            Of course this sort of thing could not last always, and we accordingly find that the
              Commissioners let the building of a Clerk's and Recorder's office to Thomas Ginn for
              the sum of $844. The same was to be a one-story brick building, eighteen feet wide and
              thirty-eight feet in length, divided into two rooms. As hundreds of our readers will
              fully recollect it as occupying the southeast corner of the public square, down to
              November of the year 1867, when the offices were removed into the new court-house, no
              lengthy description of it is desirable.
          
          
            THE AUDITOR'S AND TREASURER'S OFFICE,
            On the northeast corner of the public square, erected in 1847, George Lowe,
              contractor, for the sum of $545, was the counterpart of the last named building in
              almost every particular.
            These little buildings, doubtless, answered the purpose intended quite well, when
              first constructed, but the rapid accumulation of records and papers, and great
              increase of public business, and number of persons doing business, had, for a number
              of years, rendered it apparent that their days of usefulness were drawing to a close,
              when the catastrophe of 1864 "opened the way," rather unexpectedly, for the building
              of
          
          
            THE PRESENT COURT-HOUSE.
            After the burning of the second court-house, in 1864, the Commissioners rented
              Murphey Hall, which, by adoption, became the court-house of the county, and continued
              to be so used till the completion of the present beautiful and commodious structure,
              in 1869.
            At the time of the conflagration, some of the public records and a great mass of
              official papers, stored away in one of the  jury rooms,
              for want of room elsewhere, all more or less valuable, were lost or destroyed.
            Commissioners Edwards, Minesinger, and Phelps at once set to work to devise ways and
              means for the erection of a new building dedicated to justice. There were several
              essential points to be secured in this proposed edifice. It must be free from
              dampness, which would destroy the precious records of the county, on which so much of
              the "peace and quiet" of our community depends. It must, of course, be fire proof, and
              sufficiently commodious for all legitimate purposes not only now, but for many years
              to come; must be of durable materials, and last, if least, it must be "good looking,"
              a monument of the enterprise and taste of the people of one of the wealthy counties of
              the State. All these prerequisites have been faithfully complied with, and our county
              can boast of an edifice second to none in the State in all the essentials of such a
              structure.
            The cut with which this work is embellished gives a very fair representation of the
              external appearance of the building, coming as near doing it justice as a single view
              can be well made to do, though we fancy that it makes the building appear a little
              shorter than it really is, and giving the tower a little more prominence than it
              deserves.
            The main building is sixty-six feet wide by eighty-two feet length, while the tower,
              which serves as main entrance and the initial point of the stairway to the court-room,
              jury room, &c., above, adds some nineteen feet more, making the extreme length one
              hundred and one feet. The height of the walls is fifty feet and of the tower one
              hundred and ten feet from the foundation.
            There is a cellar under the building with a labyrinth of arched passages, or halls,
              or whatever the name is, which contain not only the furnaces and flues for heating
              every part of the building above, but furnish ample room for the storage of the annual
              supply of fuel.
            Of the capaciousness and convenience of the rooms for the county officers, on the
              first floor, it would exceed the limits of this work to speak minutely, and an
              attempted  description without entering into the minutiæ
              would be futile. There is a large fire proof and almost burglar proof vault connected
              with each of the offices for the storage of the abundant and valuable archives on
              file.
            The vaults to the Auditor's and Clerk's offices have been supplied with suitable
              cases and pigeon holes for the ponderous tomes and innumerable papers, not in daily
              use but indispensable for reference in emergencies. In the first named vault there are
              shelves to hold ninety-eight of the largest sized records, while there have already
              accumulated one hundred and forty bound volumes, some of the earliest of which are of
              a size that will admit of three or four being placed in the niche allotted to the
              larger ones. This room is also supplied with 1,428 pigeon holes.
            The vault to the Clerk's office has room for one hundred and nineteen volumes of the
              larger size on the shelves, while the bound records already accumulated exceed two
              hundred, most of which are of a large size. Three-fourths of them probably cost the
              county little short of twenty dollars each on an average.
            The court-rooms, rooms for the grand and traverse juries, Sheriff's room, &c.,
              reached by the main stairway, are all worthy of a more extended notice than this work
              will allow. The court-room itself, about sixty-five feet by fifty feet, is one of the
              finest and best appointed in the State, both as to convenience and tasteful
              ornamentation. The fresco painting on its walls and ceiling alone cost about $1,400,
              and, as a consequence, ought to be a thing of beauty.
            The entire cost of this magnificent "temple of Justice," so well constructed and of
              such materials as to withstand the ordinary ravages of the "tooth of Time," till
              several generations shall have passed away, has been about $120,000. This is seemingly
              a large sum, but it must be remembered that everything used, cost "war prices," and
              already, by comparison with other public buildings, it is coming to be regarded as not
              too large a sum for such a building. Although there has been no
              little grumbling by some of the tax-payers, it can safely be predicted  that the next generation, at least, will thank the
              Commissioners who ordered its erection, and give full credit to Mr. M. F. Edwards for
              having efficiently superintended the construction of the same and completing it in
              less time than was required for the former botched job which cost but $4,500.
          
          
            THE PRESENT JAIL.
            The present county prison* is
              a fine well built structure, in shape somewhat like a capital letter "T," with the top
              of the letter representing the front of the building, which is used as a jailer's
              residence, and a very comfortable and handy one it is at that.
            The building is complete in all its appointments, is two stories in height, with a
              cellar underneath, containing a furnace, &c., for warming the whole. Externally
              the building has the appearance of being of brick, with stone window frames secured
              with heavy iron rods, behind which are heavy plate glass of such a peculiar make that
              they do not obstruct the light while they tell none of the secrets of the interior.
              Inside the brick wall is a thick stone one, or rather the wall is half stone and half
              of brick, and just inside the stone is an iron lining of boiler iron. Next comes a
              corridor about three feet wide, and then an iron grating, made of heavy iron bars
              through which pass one and one-eighth inch rods of iron. This arrangement extends
              through both stories. Inside of this formidable grating, is another passage way or
              corridor, entirely surrounding the cells, or strong boxes, which are made of heavy
              iron grating and boiler iron.
            The first floor is of massive stone slabs, about fifteen inches in thickness, and the
              second floor is of iron. There are eighteen cells in the building, not likely to be
              filled at one time soon, *In a former page, it is stated that the jail of 1836 "stood the racket for
                about thirty years," which has been discovered to be an error, for the musty records
                since examined show that the constant bill of expenses for guarding prisoners was
                such that the Commissioners ordered another one built, February 11, 1851. Elisha
                Clift seems to have been the architect, and Jacob Elliott was selected to purchase
                materials and superintend it, under the"immediate orders" of the Commissioners. It
                two stories in height, and thirty-six by forty feet, was of brick, with a stone
                floor, the cell wall being hewn timber, and lined with boiler iron, and cost about
                $3,500.
               unless the illicit whisky dealers of our county begin to
              get their just deserts.
            The structure was built with an eye to the safety of its inmates, and,
              notwithstanding a mishap or two has already occurred, it is not easy to see how a
              safer trap can reasonably be constructed, and it is the opinion of good judges that,
              with reasonable care on the part of the keeper to ward off outside influences, the most expert jail-bird could be kept till doomsday.
            The cost of the building has been nearly $40,000. Robert Cluggish, Esq., most
              efficiently superintended its erection.
          
        
        
          HENRY COUNTY VILLAGES.
          Our county seems to have been well supplied with villages, "Past and Present." The
            plats of thirty of these can be found on the Recorder's books. A few of these have been
            paper towns only, while a few others, but little more fortunate, made a start, soon got
            their growth, in short, were finished. In such cases, it is said, about the only
            appropriate thing to be done is to put a good fence around them, whitewash it, and then
            quit.
          A majority, however, of the towns have become quite well established commercial,
            social, and literary centers. In point of seniority, it is impossible to determine which
            takes precedence, New Castle or West Liberty, as plats of each were filed on the same
            day—April 8, 1823—at which time the Recorder seems to have commenced his
            official career, although it is quite evident that lots were laid off and cabins and
            other improvements begun in each, the year previous.
          
            WEST LIBERTY.
            This early foundation for a city was laid out by Samuel Furgason. It was located near
              the mouth of Montgomery's Creek, on the old State Road, or about three-fourths of a
              mile southwest of Knightstown.
            The place grew quite favorably for a few years, had at one  time about twenty houses, and two or more groceries and dry goods stores.
              Dr. Elliott, who subsequently died of cholera, in New Castle, was the first physician.
              Bicknell Cole was first postmaster, and Aaron Maxwell first merchant. The first mail
              route established through the county was from Greensburg and Rushville, through West
              Liberty and New Castle, to Muncie, and for some time there were but two offices in the
              county.
            Unfortunately for the hopes of the West Liberty people, the National Road was located
              near half a mile north of them, about 1827, when "corner lots" soon became a drug.
          
          
            NEW CASTLE,
            The county seat of Henry county, is pleasantly located within one mile of the
              geographical center of the county. The Gazeteers represent Charles Jamison as
              "proprietor," "first settler," &c., but a reference to the records show that he
              had much less to do with it than others.
            When the Legislative Commission, already spoken of, were in quest of a site, about
              one hundred acres of land were proffered by public spirited and interested parties,
              for the use of the county, on the sole condition that the present site should be
              chosen. Of this, Absalom Harvey gave twenty-eight acres; John Brumfield, twenty-eight,
              less two lots; A. Lewis, fourteen acres; Allan Shepherd, ten acres, and Rue and
              Holeman, of Wayne county, twenty-four acres, less five lots reserved.
            This nice little patch in the wilderness was placed at the disposal of the County
              Agent, Mr. Leavell, and at once surveyed, and, by direction of the Commissioners,
              thrown upon the market, in July, 1822. This first sale could not have been a great
              success, as all the money handled by the Treasurer for that year amounted to $154 all
              told. In August, 1823, another sale was ordered, and the Commissioners showed their
              appreciation of printer's ink, by ordering the Agent to advertise in the "Richmond
              Weekly Intelligencer and the Indiana Statesman, a newspaper printed at Connersville."
              This was followed, in a few months, by another sale, and still much of New Castle
              remained a wilderness, and, in May, 1824, the clearing off of the public square was
              "sold to the lowest bidder." William  McKimmy and John
              Dorrah did the surveying, and received twenty-five dollars each for this service.
            Charles Jamison was soon after made the first tavern keeper, and, of course, "gave
              bond to the satisfaction of the Board." In 1823, Isaac Bedsaul, being able to satisfy
              the Board that his capital did not exceed $1,000, was licensed to "keep store." His
              first store room was a twelve by sixteen cabin, with earthen floor and a clapboard
              counter, resting on stakes, driven into the earth. In this region, saw mills were yet
              unknown, and a frame house next to an impossibility. A log cabin was deemed good
              enough for the proudest.
            But the town grew apace, and, by 1833, had about three hundred inhabitants, of whom
              about one-tenth died of the cholera, in 1832-3.
            The first preaching here seems to have been by Father Havens, of the M. E. Church,
              and was had in a log house, a little south of the present residence of B. Shirk,
              Esq.
            The completion of the Chicago & Great Eastern Railroad this far, in the winter of
              1854, and of a branch of the Cincinnati & Indianapolis Junction, now called the
              Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati Railroad, together with some eight or nine
              turnpikes radiating in all directions, has opened up a real and prospective future of
              prosperity for the county seat, scarcely second to any in the State. For cleanly and
              well graded streets, substantial and palatial residences, fine business houses,
              churches, and elegant public buildings, it is noted far and wide. Among the leading
              business houses may be mentioned in way of 
                Dry Goods—Mowrer, Murphey & Co.; R. B. Smith; Shroyer & Co.; L.
                  L. Burr & Co.; Lee, Harvey, and J. Holland.
                Ready-made Clothing and Dry Goods—Kahn & Co., and N. E.
                  Black.
                Groceries—Mowrer & Shirk; Mullin, & Hernly; B. F. Moore; Samuel
                  Arnold, and Burr & Hoover.
                Drugs—J. & R. M. Nixon; Pence & Moore, and Dr.
                  Mendenhall.
                Bakers and Restaurants—James Cummins; Chambers &  Denius, and W. W. Moore.
                Hardware—S. P. Jennings & Co., and J. C. Livezey & Co.
                Stoves, Tin, and Hollow-ware—M. L. Powell.
                Cabinet Makers—W. E. Livezey; Brenneman & Beam, and L. A.
                  Jennings.
                Plows, Wagons, &c.—J. M. Gough & Co., and Johnson &
                  Fisher.
                Carriage Makers—Burley & Rogers.
                Saw and Planing Mills—L. A. Jennings, and Mr. Past.
                Jewelry Store—W. G. Hillock.
                Physicians and Surgeons—Isaac Mendenhall; John Rea; John Needham; W. F.
                  Boor; I. N. Dix; Samuel Ferris, and G. W. Burke.
                Of Attorneys there is a host. Among them may be mentioned Brown & Polk;
                  Chambers & Saint; W. F. Walker; Elliott & Elliott; James B. Martindale; W.
                  N. Carroll; M. L. Powell; G. W. Woy; Joseph Worl; J. T. Mellett; Wm. Grose; W. M.
                  Watkins, and T. B. Redding.
                Hotels—The Junction House, by James Mullin, and Henry House, by O. H.
                  Welborn, have each the reputation of being well kept, while there are quite a
                  number of excellent boarding houses in the place.
                Flouring Mill—Strickland & Bush; the most extensive establishment in
                  the county.
                Foundry and Machine Shop—George Keiser; just being erected, and to be in
                  operation in a few weeks; will be a most valuable adjunct to the business of the
                  place.
              
            In addition to this partial list of the business establishments and men of the place,
              there are three newspapers and one job printing office, three flourishing picture
              galleries, several millinery shops, two dental offices, several smith shops, a number
              of carpenter shops, shoemakers, painters, glaziers, paper hangers, plasterers, brick
              and stone masons, &c., &c., who always seem to be thronged with work; while
              the dealers in grain, shingles, lath, lumber, sash, doors, blinds, lime, coal,
              &c., seem to be doing a flourishing business, and able to compete in prices with
              similar dealers anywhere in Eastern Indiana.
            
            The Academy building, three stories in height, erected at a cost of about $15,000,
              furnishes accommodations for about five hundred students. In it were employed seven
              teachers during 1870, with a total number of pupils admitted of 441, and an average
              attendance of 268.
            The Methodist, Christian, Lutheran, United Brethren, and Presbyterian churches, each
              have good buildings, those belonging to the Methodist Episcopal and Christian
              denominations, costing some $12,000 or $15,000 each.
            The population of New Castle is a little the rise of 1,500, with a steady and healthy
              growth, while the assessed value of the real and personal property on the duplicate
              tax list of 1870 was $799,860, a little over $533 to each man, woman, and child.
            New Castle has had its stand-still epochs, but they seem happily to be of the past;
              and, with new elements of growth, and a more thorough appreciation of the necessity of
              encouraging various kinds of manufacture as the only true foundation for prosperity,
              there are good prospects that it will nearly double its population in the next
              decade.
          
          
            UNIONTOWN.
            This village, so unknown to fame that scarcely a score of persons now living in the
              county ever saw it, was located by William Seward, "sole proprietor," on the old State
              Road, in the south part of Dudley township, in May, 1823. It only reached about the
              second or third house, before the National Road blighted its prospects.
          
          
            FAIRFIELD.
            The next village of the county was so entirely a paper town that we have failed to
              see the man who could locate it. The recorded plat gives neither section, township or
              range. we know is that the National Road was to be the principal street, and that
              Lewis Tacket was proprietor.
          
          
            KNIGHTSTOWN.
            The "city" of Knightstown is pleasantly situated on Blue River, or rather between
              that stream and Montgomery's Creek and on the Central Railroad and National Road as
              well. It was platted in 1827, and plat recorded in 1828, Waitsel M. Carey,  proprietor. Mr. Carey kept the only hotel for some years,
              and built the first frame house in town. The place was named in honor of Mr. Jonathan
              Knight, a United States Engineer, who located the Cumberland or National Road through
              the State about this time. At first the town only extended back two or three tiers of
              lots from the river bluff.
            Levi Griffith and Isaac James owned the first dry goods establishment here about the
              year 1830. There were about half dozen houses here at that time, and the population
              was less than three hundred in 1833.
            The first church built here was by the Presbyterians, in 1834—a frame, about
              thirty by forty feet. The Methodists erected a small frame building, about the year
              1837. A distillery was erected just over the river, about 1825, by one John Lewis, and
              about 1828 a carding machine was built near the depot.
            About two years after the inception of Knightstown, Ithamar Stewart's splendid farm
              of 160 acres (now worth $125 per acre) could have been bought for $400, and several
              years later the country was such a "howling wilderness"—with little more than a
              bridle-path through the woods—that Dr. Whitsel was badly lost in going to see a
              patient on Six Mile Creek. One of the best corner lots (Probasco's) sold for $96,
              which was regarded as a fancy price indeed. Bears came up out of the river bottom, and
              were chased through the streets more than once after 1830. A young physician named
              Hiatt was the first to locate in town; his stay was short. James Wilson was
              Knightstown's first attorney.
            Whisky was in much more general use in early days than at present. A judge, the
              squire, and all the constables were seen drunk on one or more occasions in early days,
              and pugilistic encounters were among the cherished amusements. But great changes have
              been wrought in forty years.
            Knightstown is in the midst of splendid farming lands, the productions of which find
              here a ready market.
            In 1852 the Knightstown and Shelbyville Railroad, the first which reached our county,
              was completed to Knightstown, and  business received a
              new impetus, and "corner lots" rapidly appreciated in value.
            The following are among the wide-awake business houses of the place: 
                Dry Goods—Williams & Hatfield; J. T. & O. Charles; Reagan &
                  Risk; Reeves & Son; Tinney & Ramsey, and N. Weil & Brother.
                Clothing Store—Moses Heller.
                Groceries—Wm. B. Gray; Joseph Woods; R. Probasco; John Morris & Son;
                  Sol. Byrkett.
                Stoves and Tin Ware—Breckenridge & Barrett; Muzzy & Co.; John
                  Crider.
                Hardware—Harvey, Bell & Co., and H. Ball.
                Drugs and Medicines—J. B. Edwards & Co.; U. D. Pickering & Bro.,
                  and John Weaver.
                Books and Stationery—E. B. Niles.
                Dentists—Jay & Wagoner and M. H. Chappell.
                Physicians—J. W. Whitesell; N. H. Canaday; W. B. McGavran; G. W.
                  Riddell; —— Sparks; L. V. Winston; T. J. Bowls.
                Attorneys—C. D. Morgan; J. Lee Furgason; S. C. Cooper; C. M. Butler, and
                  Joseph M. Brown.
                Furniture Dealers—Confare & Simmons, and Thomas Estell.
                Millinery Establishments—A. B. Fithian & Co.; Sophie Shoemaker; Mrs.
                  Barrett; Mrs. Green, and Mrs. Grubbs.
                Coal, Lime, Salt, Queensware, &c.—Joseph Woods.
                Planing Mills, Sash, Doors, &c.—Coffen, Deem & Edwards, and Fort
                  & Brothers.
                Livery Stables—George B. Ramsay; George Davy; Scott & Thayer.
                Hotels—Shipman House; Rockwell House, and several boarding
                  houses.
                Churches—The Presbyterian, Methodist, and Christian denominations have
                  each good commodious brick buildings, and the Baptists a comfortable frame
                  house.
              
            In addition to the above-mentioned firms there are three flourishing grist mills, a
              machine shop, three or four smith shops,  several
              carpenter shops, three excellent carriage factories, two boot and shoe stores, two
              butcher shops, one tannery, one bakery, two saw mills, two jewelry stores, masons,
              plasterers, restaurants, a nursery, kept by W. F. Ballard, commission merchants, and
              grain dealers; a marble shop; two printing offices; a national bank, &c.
            The Knightstown Academy building is a commodious structure, capable of accommodating
              near four hundred pupils, and the graded school at that point has for years ranked
              high. The building, though imposing in size, was built a number of years ago, and some
              of the citizens are agitating the erection of one with all the modern improvements.
              There are 537 children of an age to go to school attached to Knightstown for school
              purposes, of which 442 attended the school year of 1870, and the average attendance
              was 261.
            The population of Knightstown, by the late census, was 1,543, and its wealth, real
              and personal, according to the tax duplicate of 1870 is $818,390.
          
          
            RAYSVILLE.
            Raysville is situated on the east side of Blue River, which separates it from
              Knightstown. It was laid out as a village by John Anderson, about the time of the
              location of the National Road, and named in honor of Governor Ray. Although having an
              even start as a place of business, it has had to yield the palm to Knightstown, where
              quite a number of the citizens of Raysville are engaged in business.
            The "heights" around Raysville furnish quite commanding and picturesque building
              sites, with advantageous views of the Blue River Valley, two great thoroughfares, and
              of the two towns. For a commanding "out-look," we know of nothing more desirable in
              the county than the view from the former residence of John C. Teas, now the property
              of John T. White. Charles White and C. D. Morgan, Esq., have also fine suburban
              residences, erected regardless of expense, which add much to the importance of the
              place.
            Fine springs in the neighboring hills have been tapped and the water conveyed by an
              "aqueduct" along Main street, for  the use of the
              inhabitants, and the water-tank on the Central Railroad is always fully supplied from
              a similar source with pure water.
            Raysville had a population of 465 in July last. A dry goods and general store is kept
              by M. Thompson, and a grocery by Charles Barnaby. There is one wagon-maker's shop, one
              harness maker, one shoe shop, one plasterer, one smith shop, &c. There is also a
              grain elevator adjoining the depot (where the potent effects of steam are invoked),
              owned by Charles White, an extensive grain and stock-dealer. John Bird's nursery is
              quite an adjunct to the business interests of the place. The Methodists and Friends
              have each a church in the place, with flourishing congregations.
          
          
            MIDDLETOWN,
            Situated on Fall Creek, in the northern part of Fall Creek township, was laid out by
              Jacob Koons, and plat recorded Oct. 9, 1829. There was a public sale of lots on the
              25th day of December, 1829, when the best lots did not sell so well as they do
              latterly. There was not a frame house in the township at that time.
            It is now the third village in the county in point of wealth and population. It
              contains one hundred and forty-five residences, and a population of seven hundred and
              ten. The real estate is valued at $104,880, and the personal at $115,400. The town was
              incorporated, in 1840, by C. H. Burr and fourteen others. There are several fine
              buildings in the place.
            A large body of rich farming lands is tributary to Middletown, and, as a consequence,
              large amounts of produce are handled there, and the sales of dry goods, groceries,
              &c., &c., are correspondingly large. Among the leading business men of the
              place, we may mention: 
                Dry Goods—Yount, Murphey & Co.; Terhune & Painter; Summers &
                  Shedron.
                Drugs—Burr & Terhune, and Wiseheart & Davis.
                Groceries—Mr. Winings; J. T. Windsor; James D. Farrell, who is also
                  present postmaster.
                Stoves and Tinware—J. A. Scott.
                
                Furniture—Fred. Tykle.
                Physicians—R. B. Griffis; R. T. Summers, and Drs. Clymer &
                  Welch.
                Hotels—Jesse West and Joseph Mowrer.
              
            There is also one of the best grist mills in the county, two saw mills, one harness
              maker, two boot and shoe houses, a tannery, which has been carried on by C. H. Burr
              about forty years.
            The course of Middletown has been onward, since the completion of the Chicago &
              Great Eastern Road, which passes through the town. Its proximity to the Bellefontaine
              line has also been of considerable advantage to it, as it enabled its produce dealers
              to command facilities for shipping denied to other places on the road, as the dealers
              could, in many instances wagon their produce to the "Bee Line," if desired facilities
              were denied them.
            Middletown is not disposed to neglect the subject of education. It has a good
              two-story frame school house valued at about $1,500, and has been sustaining a graded
              school for several years. There are 263 children of a suitable age attached to the
              district, of whom 200 attended school, during 1870, while the average attendance is
              reported at 175.
          
          
            OGDEN.
            The town of Ogden, situated on the Central Railroad and National Road, in the
              southwestern portion of Spiceland township, was laid out by Hiram Crum, in December,
              1829. It was originally called Middletown, from its being the half way point between
              Richmond and Indianapolis, but when application was made for a post office, a "new
              name" was given it, as a rule of the Post Office Department would not admit of two
              offices of the same name in one county. Latterly, the custom is to grant but one of
              the same name in a State.
            Ogden was named in honor of a U. S. Engineer, engaged in the construction of the
              National Road, and is the oldest town and first voting precinct in Spiceland township.
              We mention the following among the principal business men and firms of the place: 
              
                Dry Goods and Groceries—Murphey & Son; Mr. Wright, and O. B.
                  Byrket.
                Drugs—Eli T. Hodson.
                Furniture—Gillespie & Goble.
                Carriage and Wagon Maker—Moses Linderwood.
                Boots and Shoes—R. A. Broadbent.
                Blacksmithing—James Steel.
                Physicians—E. N. Tull; William Cox; Alfred Reeves, and Isaac
                  Ballenger.
                Attorney—Robert N. Broadbent.
              
            There is an excellent grist and saw mill (water-power), owned by Murphey & Son,
              and a steam saw mill, run by Gillespie, Goble & Hubbard.
            Ogden has, besides, plasterers, masons, painters, carpenters etc., one
              church—the Christians—and a good two-story brick school-house, recently
              erected. Ogden has a population of about three hundred.
          
          
            LEWISVILLE.
            The plat of Lewisville was recorded December 25, 1829, by Lewis C. Freeman and James
              B. Harris, proprietors. It is located in the southern part of Franklin township, on
              Flat Rock Creek, where the Henry County Turnpike and Central Railroad cross that
              stream, and, being in the midst of an excellent body of land of large scope, has been
              for many years a place of considerable business. When the town was laid out, two lots
              were reserved for the use of the town. Lewisville has a population of about 416. Its
              business interests are chiefly represented as follows: 
                Dry Goods, Notions, and Groceries—W. S. T. Morton; Jas. T. Watson;
                  Robert Bartlett.
                Groceries, Notions, Queensware, Stationery, &c.—Benjamin S.
                  Parker.
                Hardware—Farm Implements, Stoves, &c.—T. W. Hall.
                Stoves and Tin and Hollow Ware—Samuel Eaton.
                Druggists—C. A. Humphrey and Wm. H. Kerr.
                Blacksmiths—J. & W. Wilson and John C. Rickerd.
                Flouring Mill—J. E. Loveland.
                
                Physicians—Wm. M. Bartlett and Wm. Vannuys.
                Notary Public and Conveyancer—B. S. Parker.
                Attorney—J. C. Howe.
              
            Besides these, there are two boot and shoemakers, two tailors, two painters, and one
              saddle and harness maker, carpenters, masons, plasterers, milliners, watch makers,
              photographers, &c.
            The town has a large two-story brick school house and a graded school, which has been
              quite successfully conducted by W. C. Hall and James M. Smith. The Methodists have a
              frame church building, while the Presbyterians have one in course of erection. The
              real and personal property of Lewisville is rated for purposes of taxation at
              $147,660.
          
          
            GREENSBORO.
            This town was platted in February, 1830, by John Wickersham, proprietor. It is
              situated on the east bank of Duck Creek, about one mile from its junction with Blue
              River, and nearly seven miles north by east from Knightstown. Being in the midst of a
              tract of fertile farming lands, it has ever enjoyed a considerable local traffic,
              though its growth in wealth and importance has not been so rapid as that of some other
              villages in the county. Greensboro has a number of excellent turnpikes radiating from
              it; but it is as a station on the "underground railroad" that it has won a national
              reputation. As the home of a number of determined and veteran abolition agitators, it
              had a reputation, fifteen or twenty years ago, second to no place of its size in the
              whole country. In those early days a large building, known as "Liberty Hall," was
              often filled with enthusiastic audiences, who listened to such apostles of freedom as
              Arnold Buffum, Abby Kelly, Fred. Douglas, G. W. Julian, and others of note.
            Of the business men of the place we would name: 
                Dry Goods—Ezra Spencer and Reagan & Dillee.
                Clothing—Thornberry & Newby.
                Drugs—Joel Wright and T. S. Williams.
                Groceries—Willard Loring.
                Hardware—Kern & West.
                Cabinet Maker—Thomas H. Mills.
                
                Harness—A. & N. Weeks.
                Pumps—Wilson & Knight and R. Koontz.
                Dentistry—Wilson & McGuffin.
                Wagons—Camplin & Macy.
                Blacksmiths—H. M. Jay and Spencer & Martin.
                Boots and Shoes—Stephen Deitch, Thomas Mowrer, and Bowen Burk.
                Grist Mills—Risk & Elliott and Bowman & Taylor.
                Physicians—Newby & Grose and R. H. Homer.
                Hotel—Allen Kirk.
                Churches—The Methodists and the Orthodox and Hicksite branches of
                  Friends have each a church-building in the village, while the Spiritualists have
                  here a comfortable place of worship, known as Progress Hall.
              
            The principal school-building in the place is a creditable two-story frame.
            The population of Greensboro is about 360, and the valuation of the real and personal
              property within the corporation limits, which does not include the whole town, is
              given at $73,970.
          
          
            HILLSBORO,
            One of the old towns of Henry county, is situated near the Little Blue River, in the
              southeast corner of Prairie township, and about three miles northeast of New Castle.
              It was laid out in 1830, by Thomas Maston and Samuel Rinehart. It has eighteen
              dwellings and a population of about one hundred. It has two small stores, a smith
              shop, a steam saw mill, &c., &c. Near it are located the extensive woolen
              mills of Ice, Dunn & Co. The place is at present without a post office, as such an
              establishment, after two or three trials, was not found sufficiently lucrative to
              induce a postmaster to longer discharge the duties incident to it. "Dan Webster" was
              the name of the office formerly established there.
          
          
            BLOUNTSVILLE,
            Named after its founder, Andrew Blount, was begun in July, 1832. It is located on the
              east bank of Stony Creek, near the northeast corner of the county, and about fourteen
              miles  northeast of the county seat. Among the early
              settlers in the immediate neighborhood were John Hodgins, a Mr. Scofield, and Jonathan
              Bedwell.
            The population of Blountsville is about 180, and there are 41 dwellings in the
              village.
            The Methodists and New Light denominations have each good church buildings, while a
              good two-story brick school house speaks well for the place.
            The business interests of the place are chiefly represented as follows: 
                Dry Goods—Jesse Carey and Eli Warner.
                Drugs and Groceries—William Luther.
                Family Groceries—William Bird.
                Physicians—Jont. Ross, L. A. Hendricks, and B. F. Adams.
                Furniture—J. N. Stanly and J. D. Brenington.
              
            There is also a good flouring mill, a saw mill, smith shop, a hotel, kept by Mark
              Walradt, carpenters, boot and shoe shop, &c., &c. Several new turnpikes center
              here, which will have a tendency to greatly enhance the pleasure as well as profit of
              living and doing business in the place.
          
          
            NEW LISBON,
            Formerly called Jamestown (or "Jimtown"), was located in 1833, by James Tomkinson and
              Wm. Crane. It is situated on the New Castle and Dublin Pike and Fort Wayne, Muncie and
              Cincinnati Railroad, about eight miles southeast of New Castle and four and one-half
              northwest of Dublin. It is a village of about forty dwellings, and near two hundred
              inhabitants, and, we believe, has never aspired to become an incorporated city.
            Among the business men may be mentioned, in the way of— 
                Dry Goods—Shawhan & Son.
                Groceries—Henry Hart and Jacob Wiseman.
                Physicians—Messrs. Kepler and Cain.
                Tile Factory—Jonathan Ratliff and Samuel Ward.
                Blacksmith—Patrick Johnson.
                Shoemaker—Cornelius Warner.
              
            The writer distinctly recollects a steam saw mill as being  among the wonders of "Jimtown," about the year 1837. This was
              cotemporaneous, or nearly so (if not the identical mill), with one owned by Daniel
              Reynolds and A. L. Pleas, and located, for a short time, about one-half mile north of
              Hopewell Meeting House. This was none of your improved institutions, in which the saw
              dust was amply sufficient for fuel. It had two huge boilers, and required about five
              cords of the best wood per day to keep up steam, while the accumulation of saw dust
              around the mill in a few months bid fair to render approach to it impossible. These
              were undoubtedly the first attempts at utilizing the powers of steam in this county,
              and from the best information coming down to us, the effort was not a brilliant
              success financially.
            For many years New Lisbon had the appearance of being finished; but good turnpikes
              and the inspiring influence of the Junction Railroad have rejuvenated it, and it now
              enjoys considerable trade, and a number of new buildings are noticeable.
          
          
            WHEELAND.
            A village of this name seems to have been projected in 1833, as is attested on our
              records over the signature of Caleb Williams, Surveyor; but since neither township,
              range, nor section is given, by which to fix its "local habitation," we conclude that
              it never successfully passed the paper stage.
          
          
            SHARINGTON,
            Another paper village, was platted February 23, 1836, by Benjamin Franklin, Abraham
              Showalter and James Personett; and, although the location is not given, it is probable
              that it was "laid out" near the road now leading from Cadiz to Middletown, and about
              two and a half miles east of Mechanicsburg.
          
          
            LURAY.
            Luray was laid out in 1836, by Lot Hazleton, and is located in the northern end of
              Prairie township, on the New Castle & Muncie Turnpike, ten miles due north of New
              Castle. There is a fine flouring mill in the vicinity. A church, school house, one
              physician, smith shop, &c., are in the village. The population numbered 66,
              according to the late census. The completion of the Fort Wayne, Muncie &
              Cincinnati Railroad, which runs  within one and one-half
              miles of the place, as is usual in such cases, has a depressing effect upon the
              village.
          
          
            WOODVILLE.
            This village, located on the line between Greensboro and Harrison townships, about
              five miles northwest of the town of Greensboro, was founded May, 1836, James Atkinson,
              proprietor. The population of the place is quite limited. The country around is leavel
              but quite fertile.
            Alfred Jackson and Leonard Fowler preside over the dry goods trade of the place, and
              Dr. Wilson C. Olden is the Æsculapius of the region.
          
          
            CADIZ,
            Founded September 11, 1836, David Pickering, proprietor, is located seven miles north
              of west from New Castle, and is the principal village in Harrison township.
            It has a population of about three hundred, and is a place of considerable business.
              Among its principal business men we mention: 
                Dry Goods—B. W. Pickering; Hess & Cooper; McCormack —
                  Bouslog.
                Drugs—Nelson & Meek; Bond & Alshouse.
                Physicians—L. W. Hess and L. N. Benedict.
                Hotels—D. Rees and Captain Collins.
                Attorney—Jacob Meek.
              
            Besides which there are carpenters, cabinet-makers, two black-smith shops, a tile
              factory, boot and shoe shops, a grist mill, saw mill, a good school house, and the
              Friends, Methodists, and Christian congregations have each a church, and the
              Spiritualists a hall in which occasional services are held. A hack line, carrying a
              daily mail, has been established for several years between this place and New
              Castle.
            At the time Cadiz was founded there was no house within seven miles on the west, and
              the population of the township was but little in excess of one hundred.
          
          
            ROGERSVILLE,
            Situated in the west part of Stony Creek township, and about ten miles northeast of
              New Castle, was laid out by James O.  Rogers and John R.
              Colburn, in January, 1837. The population is about seventy, and the business of the
              place is represented principally by one dry goods establishment, kept by J. W. Lake, a
              grocery store and harness shop, by Jabish Luellen, a shoe store, by W. T. Wilkinson,
              and a smith shop, by Luellen & Fegley. Dr. Kerr is the physician. A division of
              Sons of Temperance was kept up here until quite recently, and several years after the
              institution had been suspended in every other part of the county.
          
          
            ELIZABETH CITY,
            Founded in September, 1838, by Robert Morris Overman, is located on the Knightstown
              and Warrington Pike, in the northwest corner of Wayne township. There is a fine body
              of farming land around it. Wilkinson & Brother are dealers in dry goods and
              groceries, two smith shops, run by N. McDougal and Elisha Burris. There are two wagon
              shops, a carpenter shop, one saw mill, an M. E. church, a school house, and twenty-two
              families in the place.
          
          
            PETERSBRUGH,
            Located in the northeastern part of Liberty township, was founded in ——,
              but soon got its growth, reaching only about half a dozen houses.
          
          
            CHICAGO,
            Founded in ——, is located on the New Castle and Hagerstown pike, about
              one and one-half miles southeast of Millville and half a mile from the railroad, which
              seems to have ruined its business prospects. At one time it numbered ten or twelve
              houses, one or two stores, and two hotels.
          
          
            SPICELAND.
            This flourishing, and, in many respects, remarkable, village existed in name and
              contained a few houses more than a third of a century ago, although it was first
              regularly platted and lots sold by Driver Boon and others, in 1847.
            A postoffice was established in 1838, Thomas Cook, Postmaster. The first goods were
              sold here by Solomon Sweet, in 1840. A Friends' meeting and school were established,
              in 1828 or 1829, the meetings at first being held in a log barn,  after which a log house was erected for the purpose. The mercantile and
              manufacturing interests of the village are now considerable. There are engaged in the
              sale of 
                Dry Goods—Evans & Johnson; Newby & Bogue; J. E. & C. W.
                  Bogue.
                Groceries—Holloway & Stanley.
                Drugs and Groceries—Woollen & Unthank, and J. & L.
                  Redding.
                Blacksmithing—James Sears; Thomas Lawrence.
                Wagons and Carriages—E. & C. Ratliff.
                Physicians—Cochran & Stewart; T. S. Basye.
              
            Besides these, there is an extensive saw and planing mill, owned by W. W. Wilson, a
              pump factory, by Charles Dickinson, a hotel, by Ann E. Pleas, several shoe and
              carpenter shops, &c.
            The establishments and trades above mentioned are, perhaps, as well patronized here
              as in other villages, but in educational matters, Spiceland far excels most places of
              its size in the county. The academy building will accommodate comfortably about 250
              pupils, and it is the opinion of Spicelanders generally that, in range of studies,
              advancement, and general excellence, the school is not surpassed in the county.
            There is a Library Association, with a capital of $2,700, half paid in, and near six
              hundred volumes on its shelves, Wm. Dawson, Librarian.
            A Lecture Association has been in successful operation for three seasons just past,
              employing several first class lecturers.
            The village was incorporated about one year ago, and had, in July last, a population
              of 371, with property assessed at $135,780.
          
          
            SULPHUR SPRINGS,
            The village of Jefferson township, is situated on the Chicago and Great Eastern
              Railroad, about seven miles northwest of New Castle. It was recorded January 1, 1853,
              by Wm. S. Yost, and now contains about two hundred and fifty inhabitants. The place
              contains one Methodist church, a school house, one hotel, a good grist mill, one saw
              mill, a tile factory, one wagon and two smith shops. Dry goods are kept by Whitworth
              &  McCorkle and Asbury Showalter; drugs by Yost &
              Brother, and a grocery by H. Swank. The physicians are Henry Minesinger and Mr.
              Reasoner.
            The property, real and personal, foots up $51,910.
          
          
            MT. SUMMIT,
            Or Summit, as it is generally called, was recorded in April, 1855, by Jesse, Ice
              proprietor. It derives its name from the supposition that it occupies one of the
              highest points in the county. It is located in the western part of Prairie township,
              on the Fort Wayne, Muncie and Cincinnati Railroad, and, although scarcely entitled to
              be called a village for the first dozen years of its existence, since the completion
              of the railroad through the place, it has made fair progress. The business is
              represented, in part, thus: 
                Dry goods—John Okee, and Beavers & Brothers.
                Cabinet Maker—Wesley Dunbar.
                Wagon Makers—S. S. Canaday & Son.
                Boots and Shoes—James Courtney.
              
            Besides these, there are two smith shops, two carpenter shops, one saw mill, a school
              house, &c. The place contains about 120 inhabitants.
          
          
            MILLVILLE.
            This village, situated on the Great Eastern Railroad, near the center of Liberty
              township, and about seven miles from the county seat, was founded in 1855, by John
              Harshbarger. Its business is represented, in the way of dry goods, by Granville,
              Forkner & Co. and S. D. Wisehart; drugs and groceries by Howren & Schoolfield.
              The physicians are James Stafford and Mr. Schoolfield. There is also a smith shop, a
              wagon shop, and a good steam saw mill, from which the place derives its unpretentious
              name. The population of the place numbers about one hundred and fifty.
          
          
            ASHLAND,
            Or Mullin's Station, situated on the Great Eastern Railroad, in Liberty township,
              about three miles from New Castle, was begun in 1856. Its present population is about
              sixty.
            
              Dealer in Dry Goods—Wesley Snodgrass.
              
              Grain Dealer—Charles Wilson.
              Steam Saw Mill—Netts & Brother.
            
            The above, together with a smith shop, constitute the most noticeable business
              features of the place.
          
          
            CIRCLEVILLE,
            On the dividing line between Blue River and Stony Creek townships, founded a score or
              more of years ago, has passed the zenith of its glory, and now, as a village, scarcely
              exists, save in memory. We believe Mark E. Reeves, a retired Richmond merchant, still
              owns a number of corner lots in the place.
          
          
            MECHANICSBURGH
            Was recorded by Peter Keesling and others, September 22, 1858, and is located in the
              southwestern part of Fall Creek township, and about four miles west of south from
              Middletown. At the last census it contained 133 inhabitants and some twenty-one
              dwellings. N. R. Elliott and Thomas Goodwin represent the dry goods interests of the
              place; Ezra Buffkin the drug trade; Isaac and M. Woods do the blacksmithing, and
              Keesling & Elliott's saw mill men attend to the lumber interests of the village.
              The town is located in the midst of a very fertile tract of country, and, with three
              or four good pikes radiating from it as a center (although never destined to become a
              great city), a prosperous growth for years to come may confidently be expected.
          
          
            HONEY CREEK,
            Located on the Chicago and Great Eastern Railroad, in Fall Creek township, three
              miles southeast of Middletown, was founded in 186 . Adam Evans and a Mr. Connell are
              engaged in the goods trade, which, with a blacksmith shop and a steam saw mill,
              constitutes the principal business features of the place.
          
          
            DUNREITH.
            This is one of the youngest of Henry county villages, and is located in the southeast
              part of Spiceland township. The first lots were sold by J. W. Griffin, in the year
              1865, and was soon followed by additions from Caleb Johnson and Thomas Evans. A
              station was located here on the completion of the Central  Railroad, called Coffin's Station, after the proprietor, Emery Dunreith Coffin, and
              a depot, one or two business houses, and three or four dwellings were erected. Those
              interested, in 1865, decided on a change of name, but out of respect to Mr. Coffin's
              memory called the incipient village Dunreith, after his middle name, and the station
              and post office were re-named accordingly. The place is fortunately situated as a
              point for the shipment of a vast amount of produce. It is one of the liveliest
              villages of the county, and contained 180 inhabitants in October last. Lots have
              generally sold here so as to realize from $400 to $1,000 per acre. The following are
              mentioned as among the enterprising business men of the place:— 
                Dry Goods—J. T. Crum & Co. and Stubs & Brown.
                Hardware—Mr. Dixon.
                Drugs and Groceries—Hudelson & English and Gause & Porch.
                Dealer in Produce, Lime, Lath, Shingles, etc., etc.—Flem.
                  Ratcliff.
                Physicians—Messrs. Butler, Holloway, and Wm. B. Cox.
                Tile Factory—Albertson Brothers.
              
            There is also a hotel and livery stable, kept by Mr. Young, two smith shops, a
              carriage shop, and an excellent steam saw mill, run by Smith, Moricle &
              Simmons.
            A daily hack line plies between this point and Greensboro, via Spiceland, and twice
              per day between Dunreith and Spiceland. The town was incorporated last fall. It has a
              large two-story frame school house, and the Christians and Friends have each a
              flourishing congregation and good buildings.
          
          
            STRAUGHN'S STATION,
            Yet in its infancy, was laid out by Merriman Straughn, in 1868. It is located in the
              south part of Dudley township, on the Central Railroad and Henry County Turnpike (the
              old National Road), and about half way between Dublin and Lewisville. It has sixty
              inhabitants, two stores, a post office, an express office, a smith shop, a wagon shop,
              a school house, and a church, which cost about $2,500. Merriman Straughn the "oldest
              inhabitant," came to the vicinity in the autumn of 1822, when all  around was a "howling wilderness;" when it was the fashion to build
              railways with the rails across the track.
          
          
            GRANT CITY,
            One of the youngest of Henry county villages, is handsomely situated and well laid
              out, on the Knightstown and Middletown Turnpike, six miles north of Knightstown. It is
              a lively little place, and was laid out by Jacob Green, Esq., in October, 1868. It has
              a population of sixty-eight, one Friends' meeting house, and a good school house. The
              Methodists have recently effected a church organization.
            There are two general stores, one drug store and doctor's office, one steam saw mill,
              two smith shops, one cabinet shop, &c. In the vicinity lives John Manlove, one of
              the pioneers, eighty-seven years of age, and for about fifty years a resident of the
              county.
          
          
            SPRINGPORT
            Sprang into existence after the location of the Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati
              Railroad, in 1869, and, as a consequence, has not had time to acquire metropolitan
              dimensions. It is situated in the northwestern part of Prairie township. The
              population numbers near
            
              Dry Goods and Groceries are sold by Rieman & Vance, and by Hiram
                Allen.
              Drugs and Medicines—Charles Hickman.
              Physicians—E. A. Estabrook, and D. Comstock.
              There is also a smith shop, a saw mill, &c.
            
            And this brings us to the end of the list of villages, "past and present," for Henry
              county. Several of these, it will be observed, scarcely existed, save in the "florid
              imaginations" of their sanguine projectors. The notice of the "rise and progress" of
              many of these has necessarily been short, and in some instances not as full
              relatively, as the comparative importance of the place would have warranted; but in
              the haste of preparation it has not always been possible to obtain the desired
              information just when wanted, especially of the business interests of this or that
              locality, and in some instances very  important features,
              such as Casely's flax mill, at Knightstown, &c., were overlooked at the proper
              time.
            The propriety of giving a sort of directory in connection with the sketch of each
              village has been debatable from the first, since changes were constantly going on; new
              firms coming on to the stage and old ones passing off. Still it is believed the
              feature is of sufficient interest, in spite of needed emendations, to warrant its
              retention.
          
        
        
          HENRY COUNTY OFFICERS.
          While it is not presumed that all Henry county officials have been paragons of virtue,
            it is nevertheless true that the county has more generally been blessed with honorable
            and capable men for officers than most counties within our knowledge. No well founded
            charges of peculation or corruption in office seems ever to have been preferred against
            a Henry county official by any well meaning person, and there is no evidence of a single
            cent having been lost to the county by any defaulting public servant, nor of their
            securities ever having suffered from the misconduct of the principal. Most of them have
            been what were considered by the standard of the times temperate men; and, although all
            have not been teetotalers, a regular whisky bloat has scarcely ever been able to command
            any considerable support in the county, which is far from being the fact in many
            counties in the State.
          With such officials the finances of the county, as will be seen elsewhere, have in the
            main been judiciously managed, and the burthens laid upon the people lighter than in
            most counties of the State, and, for many years, a "county order" has been just as good
            as a check on the most flourishing bank, or as so much of the currency of the times paid
            in hand. These matters are not mentioned for the purpose of fostering county pride, but
            as a simple record of facts, which a pretty extensive search among  the county archives seems to justify.
          The following tables give nearly a complete list of the public servants of Henry
            county, together with the dates of service. It is proper to mention, however, that, from
            the changing of the official term, strict accuracy has not always been attainable
            without more research than was convenient; and it is also well to mention that, as in
            the case of the Treasurer, the date named of necessity includes the year in which they
            were inducted into office as well as the outgoing year, a portion of which was of course
            served.
          
            OUR SENATORS, FROM 1822 TO 1871.
            Henry county has been represented in the upper branch of the State General Assembly
              by fifteen "grave and reverend seigniors," of whom thirteen have been citizens of the
              county. Amaziah Morgan, of Rush, and Thomas Bell, of Madison, being the "outsiders"
              who have had the honor of speaking for us. Our legislators have not all been Solons,
              but the probability is that they have been, morally and intellectually at least, fully
              up to the average of the times. Below is given a list of such Senators, with dates,
              and counties composing the districts, &c.
            
              
                Names.
                Years Served.
                Counties Constituting District.
              
              
                James Gregory
                1823-24-25
                Henry, Rush, Marion, Madison, Shelby, Decatur, Johnson.
              
              
                Amaziah Morgan
                1826-27-28
                Henry, Rush, Randolph, Allen.
              
              
                Amaziah Morgan
                1829-30
                Rush, Henry, Randolph, Allen, Delaware.
              
              
                Elisha Long
                1831-32-33-34
                Henry, Madison, Hancock.
              
              
                Thomas Bell
                1835
                Same.
              
              
                Thomas R. Stanford
                1836-37-38
                Same.
              
              
                Jehu T. Elliott
                1839-40-41
                Henry constituted the District.
              
              
                Thomas R. Stanford
                1842-43-44
                Same.
              
              
                Eli Murphey
                1845-46-47
                Same.
              
              
                George Evans
                1848-49-50
                Same.
              
              
                E. T. Hickman
                1851-52-53
                Same.
              
              
                W. W. Williams
                1854-55-56
                Same.
              
              
                Isaac Kinley
                1857-58-59
                Same.
              
              
                J. H. Mellett
                1860-61-62-63                
                Same.
              
              
                Milton Peden
                1864-65
                Same.
              
              
                Thomas Reagan
                1866-67
                Some.
              
              
                L. W. Hess
                1868-69-70-71
                Henry and Hancock.
              
            
          
          
          
            OUR REPRESENTATIVES, FROM 1822 TO 1871.
            Below will be found a list, almost complete, of our Representatives in the lower
              branch of the General Assembly.
            
              
                Names.
                Years Served.
                Remarks.
              
              
                Thomas Hendricks
                1823-24
                Henry, Rush, Decatur, Shelby.
              
              
                Thomas R. Stanford
                1825-26
                
              
              
                Elisha Long
                1827-28
                Of Henry, for Henry, Madison, and Hamilton.
              
              
                Elisha Long
                1829
                Henry, Hamilton, Hancock, Madison, and all the country north to the
                  State line, not attached to some other county.
              
              
                Wm. Conner
              
              
                Elisha Long
                1830
                
              
              
                Thomas Bell
              
              
                Thomas R. Stanford
                1831-32-33-34
                Henry county alone.
              
              
                David Macy
                1835
                
              
              
                David Macy
                1836
                
              
              
                R. Henderson
              
              
                David Macy
                1837
                
              
              
                Miles Murphy
              
              
                Robert M. Cooper
                1838
                
              
              
                Jesse H. Healy
              
              
                R. M. Cooper
                1839
                
              
              
                Ralph Berkshire
              
              
                D. C. Shawhan
                1840
                
              
              
                T. R. Stanford
              
              
                Joel Reed
                1841
                
              
              
                R. M. Cooper
              
              
                Simon Summers
                1842
                
              
              
                Isaac Parker
              
              
                Joel Reed
                1843
                
              
              
                Robert I. Hudelson
              
              
                Isaac Parker
                1844
                
              
              
                J. W. Grubbs
              
              
                John Powell
                1846
                
              
              
                Simon Summers
              
              
                Samuel Coffin
                1847
                
              
              
                Jesse W. Baldwin
              
              
                M. L. Bundy
                1848
                
              
              
                Wm. A. Riffner
              
              
                Butler Hubbard
                1850
                
              
              
                Russell Jordan
              
              
                Isaac H. Morris
                1851-52
                
              
              
                Joseph Yount
              
              
                S. W. Stewart
                1853-4
                
              
              
                Luther C. Mellett
                1855-56
                
              
              
                Milton Peden
              
              
                N. H. Ballenger
                1857-58
                
              
              
                Wm. Grose
              
              
                J. H. Mellett
                1859-60
                
              
              
                M. L. Bundy
                1861-62
                
              
              
                C. D. Morgan
                1863-64
                
              
              
                D. W. Chambers
                1865-66-67-68
                
              
              
                John R. Millikan
                1869-70-71
                
              
              
                Dr. Chittenden
                1869-70
                Joint for Henry and Madison.
              
              
                Thomas Lines
                1870-71
                Joint for Henry and Madison.
              
            
          
          
          
            COMMISSIONERS, FROM 1822 TO 1824.
            
              Allan Shepherd, 1822 to 1823,
              Samuel Goble, 1822 to 1824,
              Elisha Shortridge, 1822 to 1824,
              William Shannon, 1823 to 1824.
            
          
          
            BOARD OF JUSTICES, FROM 1824 TO 1827.*
            
              James Johnston, 1824 to 1825,+
              William Shannon, 1824 to 1827,
              James Gilmore, 1824 to 1826,ǂ
              Samuel Batson (or Bedson), '24 to '27,
              Samuel Lonthain, 1824 to 1827,
              Robert Thompson, 1824 to 1827,
              Thomas Wadkins, 1824 to 1827,
              Abraham Heaton, 1824 to 1827,
              Sampson Smith, 1825 to 1826,
              John Harris, 1825 to 1827,
              Lewis Tacket, 1825 to 1827,
              Abraham Elliott, 1825 to 1827,§
              Moses Robertson, 1825 to 1827,
              Absalom Louthain, 1826 to 1827,
              John Freelin, 1826 to 1827,
              Jesse Daily, 1826 to 1827,
              Joseph Craft, 1827,
              Levi Cropper, 1827,
              Thomas Ellison, 1827.
            
          
          
            COMMISSIONERS, FROM 1827 TO 1872.
            
              James Fort, 1827 to 1828,
              Elisha Shortridge, 1827 to 1829,
              Abraham Heaton, 1827 to 1828,
              John Whitacre, 1828 to 1831,
              John S. Cooper, 1828 so 1829,
              Solomon Brown, 1819 to 1834,
              Robert Murphey, 1829 to 1836,
              Joseph Robbins, 1831 to 1834,
              J. R. Leonard, —— to 1834,
              Tabor W. McKee, 1834 to 1836,
              John Whitacre, 1835 to 1836,
              Jesse Forkner, 1836 to 1837,
              J. W. Baldwin, 1836 to 1838,
              D. C. Shawhan, 1837 to 1840,
              George Corwine, 1838 to 1841,
              Jesse H. Healy, 1840 to 1843,
              James Ball, 1838 to 1839,
              Matthew McKimmy, 1839 to 1842,
              Nathan Hunt, 1841 to 1844,
              Nelson Sharp, 1842 to 1848,
              Aquila Barrett, 1843 to 1845,
              Jacob Elliott, 1844 to 1847,
              William S. Yost, —— to 1845,
              Preserved L. W. McKee, 1845 to 1846,
              Elisha Clift, 1846 to 1853,
              Jason Williams, 1847 to 1850,
              James T. Snodgrass, 1848 to 1851,
              David Palmer, 1850 to 1853,
              Jesse Paul, 1851 to 1854,
              John Cooper, 1853 to 1856,
              S. B. Binford, 1854 to 1860,
              Thomas R. Stanford, 1854 to 1860,
              W. L. Boyd, 1856 to 1862,
              M. F. Edwards, 1860 to 1866,
              John Minesinger, 1861 to 1867,
              Elias Phelps, 1862 to 1869,
              Andrew Harrold, 1866 to 1870,
              Andrew Pierce, 1867 to 1870,
              Williams Nicholson, 1868 to 1871,
              Thomas N. White, 1870 to 1873,
              Jabish Luellen, 1870 to 1873,
              R. H. Cooper, elect.
            
          
          
            SHERIFFS, FROM 1822 TO 1872.
            
              Jesse H. Healey, 1822 to 1827,
              Ezekiel Leavell, 1827 to 1828,
              Jacob Thornburgh, 1828 to 1830,
              Jesse Forkner, 1830 to 1833,
              Moses Robinson, 1834 to 1836,
              Tabor W. McKee, 1837 to 1839,
              Thomas Ginn, 1839 to 1841,
              Tabor W. McKee, 1841 to 1843,
              Joshua Chappell, 1843 to 1847,
              Jesse H. Healey, 1847 to 1851,
              Joshua Johnson, 1851,
              W. W. Shelley, 1851 to 1855,
            
            *By an act of the General
              Assembly, February, 1824, the Justices of the Peace became ex officio County
              Commissioners, but this seems to have fallen into disrepute, and, in 1827, the Board
              of Commissioners was revived.
            +President of Board, in
              1824.
            ǂPresident, in 1825 and
              part of 1826; died, in 1826.
            §Elected President, in
              1826, to fill vacancy caused by death of Gilmore.
            
            
              Peter Shroyer, 1855 to 1857,
              Vincent Shelley, 1857 to 1859,
              J. W. Vance, 1859 to 1863,
              R. B. Carr, 1863 to 1867,
              W. S. Bedford, 1867 to 1871,
              H. L. Mullen, elect.
            
          
          
            TREASURERS, FROM 1822 TO 1872.
            
              Wm. Shannon, 1822,
              Benjamin Harvey, 1824,
              Isaac Bedsaul, 1825,
              Matthew Williams, 1826,
              Isaac Bedsaul, 1826 to 1833,
              Miles Murphy, 1833,
              Jehu T. Elliott, 1834 to 1839,
              Samuel Hazzard, 1839 to 1841,
              Joshua Holland, 1841 to 1844,
              M. L. Bundy, 1844 to 1847,
              John C. Hudelson, 1847 to 1852,
              L. D. Meek, 1852 to 1855,*
              H. C. Grubbs, 1855 to 1857,+
              Caleb Johnson, 1857 to 1861,
              Emsley Julian, 1861 to 1865,
              Morgan James, 1865 to 1867,
              R. M. Grubbs, 1867 to 1869,
              George Hazzard, 1869 to 1871,
              Rotheus Scott, elect.
            
          
          
            CLERKS OF CIRCUIT COURT.
            The Constitution of Indiana provides that the "judiciary power" of this State "shall
              be vested in one Supreme Court, in Circuit Courts, and such other inferior Courts as
              the General Assembly may from time to time direct and establish."
            The official title of the fiduciary dignitary commonly called the "County Clerk" is
              "Clerk of the Circuit Court," although it is evident from the records that more than
              half his onerous duties have at all times had their origin in the "inferior courts,"
              and while discharging the functions of the various positions he has often attested
              documents as "C. C. C. P. H. C.," or "C. H. P. C.," or "C. H. C. P. C," or "Clerk of
              the Board," which, being interpreted, probably means, "Clerk of the Circuit Court and
              Probate of Henry County," or "Clerk of the Henry Common Pleas Court," or "Clerk of the
              Board of Commissioners," &c. The following is a list, from the earliest times till
              the year of grace, 1871, of the Circuit Court: 
                Rene Julian, 1822 to 1828,ǂ
                Abraham Elliott, 1828,§
                John Elliott, 1828 to 1833,
                Eli Murphey, 1833 to 1842,
                Samuel Hoover, 1842 to 1850,ǁ
                S. T. Powell, 1850 to 1855,
              
              *Filled by Deputy J. S.
                Ferris.
              +Died in office. J. W.
                Grubbs, was appointed to fill the unexpired term, but Thomas Rogers performed the
                duties of the office.
              ǂDied in office, August
                9, 1828.
              §Pro tem., filling the
                office for a few weeks only.
              ǁDuties of office
                performed by S. T. Powell, deputy, for about two years.
              
              
                J. C. Hudelson, 1855 to 1859,
                Benjamin Shirk, 1859 to 1867,
                H. H. Hiatt, 1867 to 1871,*
                D. W. Kinsey, 1871.
              
          
          
            PRESIDING JUDGES.
            From the organization of the State until the adoption of the new Constitution, in
              1851, the Judges of the Circuit Court were, one Presiding Judge, elected by the
              circuit (often comprising half a dozen or more counties), and two resident Associate
              Judges. Hon. Miles C. Eggleston, of Brookville, was the first "President Judge," and T.
              R. Stanford and Elisha Long the first Associate Judges. Below is given the list, with
              dates of service: 
                Miles C. Eggleston
                  1822 to 1825
                Bethuel F. Morris
                  1825 to 1830
                Charles H. Test
                  1830 to 1836
                Samuel Bigger
                  1836 to 1840
                James Perry
                  1840 to 1844
                Jehu T. Elliott
                  1844 to 1852
                O. P. Morton
                  1852 to 1853
                Joseph Anthony
                  1853 to 1855
                Jeremiah Smith
                  1855
                Jehu T. Elliott
                  1855 to 1864
                Silas Colgrove
                  1865 to 1867
                Jos. S. Buckles
                  1867 to 1871
                Joshua H. Mellett
                  1871
              
            
          
          
            ASSOCIATE JUDGES.
            
              Thomas R. Stanford
                1822 to 1825
              Elisha Long
                1822 to 1826
              John Anderson
                1826 to 1839
              Byron Cadwalader
                1825 to 1834
              Jacob Tharp
                1834 to 1843
              Jacob Thornburgh
                1839 to 1840
              Gabriel Cosand
                1843 to 1840
              Abraham Elliott
                1843 to 1849
              James W. Crowley
                1843 to 1850
              Wm. W. Williams
                1849 to 1852
              Joseph Farley
                1850 to 1852
            
            In 1852 the Associate Judges were lopped off and the Presiding Judge was termed "sole
              Judge."
          
          
            CIRCUIT PROSECUTORS.
            These important functionaries, with whom hangs the fate of the evil-doers to a much
              larger extent than on either Judge or jury, seem to have been at first appointed, and
              then elected annually, and afterward biennially. The following is the list complete,
              except appointments pro tem.: 
                Lot Bloomfield
                  1822
                James Gilmore
                  1823
                Abraham Elliott
                  1824
                Harvey Gregg
                  1825
                Calvin Fletcher
                  1826
                James Whitcomb
                  1827
                Charles H. Test
                  1828
                Samuel C. Sample
                  1828
                Wm. W. Wick
                  1829
                James Perry
                  1830
                Wm. J. Brown
                  1832
                S. W. Parker
                  1837
                David Macy
                  1839
                Martin M. Ray
                  1841
                J. T. Elliott
                  1843
                Samuel E. Perkins
                  1844
                J. B. Julian
                  1844
                John B. Stitt
                  1846
                Joshua H. Mellett
                  1848
                Silas Colgrove
                  1852
                E. B. Martindale
                  1855
                Thomas M. Brown
                  1855
                James N. Templer
                  1862
                L. W. Goodwin
                  1867
                D. W. Chambers
                  1868 to 1872
              
            
            *Died March 21, 1871,
              before entering upon the second term of office to which he had been elected. D. W.
              Kinsey was appointed by the Commissioners to the office till the next general
              election, in 1872.
            
            Most of our Attorneys have temporarily filled the positions of Prosecutor one or more
              terms, by appointment of the Court, but it is not deemed necessary to enter into
              particulars. And so of the Judges' bench, especially of late years. In case of the
              non-appearance of the Judge elect, the Sheriff, Clerk, and Auditor select some
              suitable person to fill the bench, and we find the names of Judges Walker, Brown,
              &c., frequently occurring on the Order Books of the Court.
          
          
            CLERKS OF PROBATE.
            At the time of the organization of the county, there was in existence a Probate
              Court, which had especial jurisdiction in the settlement of decedents' estates,
              whether intestate or otherwise, the jurisdiction in this regard being much the same as
              that of the Court of Common Pleas of a later day. The Clerk of the Circuit Court was,
              by virtue of his office, Clerk of the Probate Court, filling both positions during his
              term of office, except in the case of S. T. Powell, during whose term the Probate
              Court was abolished and the Common Pleas instituted. Those who thus served are as
              follows: Rene Julian, Abraham Elliott, John Elliott, Eli Murphey, Samuel Hoover, S. T.
              Powell.
          
          
            COMMON PLEAS JUDGES.
            The Court of Common Pleas appears to have been invented immediately upon the
              formation of the new Constitution, to take the place of the old Probate Court, and, it
              might be added, to confuse and complicate litigation—in which respect the
              existence of two courts having so nearly identical jurisdiction, as the Circuit and
              Common Pleas Courts have, has been quite a success. The first term of the Common Pleas
              Court for Henry count began in 1853, and the following is a list of the Judges: 
                M. L. Bundy
                  1853 to 1860
                Wm. Grose
                  1860 to 1861
                *E. B.
                    Martindale
                  1861 to 1862
                D. S. Gooding
                  1862 to 1865
                Wm. R. West
                  1865 to 1871
              
          
          
            DISTRICT PROSECUTORS.
            
              E. B. Martindale
                1853
              James Brown
                1855
              T. B. Redding
                1857
              M. L. Reed
                1857
              +W. R.
                  Hough
                1861
              D. W. Comstock
                1863
              J. B. Martindale
                1865
              ǂC. W.
                  Thompson
                1867
              §R. A.
                  Riley
                1867
              Wm. F. Walker
                1867
              Joseph W. Worl
                1869 to 1871
            
            *To fill vacancy caused by
              the resignation of Judge Grose.
            +Of Hancock county.
            ǂOf Grant county.
            §Of Hancock county.
          
          
          
            RECORDERS OF HENRY COUNTY.
            The office of Recorder, for quite a number of years, does not seem to have been
              counted a prize of any great value, and, notwithstanding the business continued
              steadily to grow from the first, as the records abundantly show, the emoluments of the
              office were less than $900 in 1863. The following are the names and dates of service
              of the incumbents: 
                Rene Julian
                  1822 to 1828
                Thomas Ginn
                  1828 to 1834
                Joel Reed
                  1834 to 1841
                J. A. McMeans
                  1841 to 1858
                Butler Hubbard
                  1859 to 1867
                Enos Bond
                  1867 to 1868
                *Butler
                    Hubbard
                  1868
                Levi Bond
                  1868 to 1872
              
          
          
            AUDITORS OF HENRY COUNTY.
            This office was created in 1840. Prior to this time, the position of Clerk to the
              Board of County Commissioners had been filled by the Clerk of the Circuit Court, the
              duties, so far as they went, being somewhat similar to those now performed by the
              Auditor, though in extent not being a tithe of what now devolves upon the office.
              Indeed, the records of the first twenty years' transactions are hardly equal to those
              recorded for one quarter at the present day. Some estimate may be formed of the growth
              of the duties of the office from the fact that Rene Julian was allowed seventeen
              dollars for his labors as Clerk of the Board for four terms of the Commissioners'
              Court in 1822, while to-day the duties require the unremitting labors of two persons
              from early morning until ten o'clock P. M., nearly every day in the year, an amount of
              duties considerably in excess even of the onerous duties of the Clerk's office, which
              it about equals in point of pay. So far the office has been filled by but four persons
              (and, singular to relate, they have all been preachers, to-wit: 
                James Iliff
                  1841 to 1850
                Thomas Rogers
                  1850 to 1856
                James S. Ferris
                  1856 to 1863
                Thomas Rogers
                  1863 to 1867
                Seth S. Bennett
                  1867 to 1871
              
          
          
            COLLECTORS OF HENRY COUNTY.
            Prior to 1840 the collection of the county revenue appears to have been a duty
              distinct from the functions of keeping and paying out the same, and generally devolved
              upon a different person. Now the delinquent taxes only are collected in that way. As
              it was not an office of record, a complete list is at *Appointed to fill vacancy caused by death of
                Enos Bond.
               present unattainable, although the following is nearly
              correct: 
                Jesse H. Healey
                  1822 to 1823
                Joseph Craft
                  1824
                John Anderson
                  1825
                Joseph Craft
                  1826
                Jesse Forkner
                  1827
                John Harris
                  1828 to 1829
                Moses Robinson
                  1830 to 1833
                Wesley Goodwin
                  1834 to 1835
                Moses Robertson
                  1836 to 1838
                A. G. Small
                  1839
                Joshua Holland
                  1840 to 1842
              
          
          
            COUNTY SURVEYORS.
            This office has never been regarded as a "fat" one, and, so far as heard from, none
              of the incumbents have died wealthy. The probabilities are that the compensation
              growing directly out of the position has never in any one year exceeded $250. The
              following named persons have held the position, the first-named having it for twenty
              years: Thomas R. Stanford, Stephen Mendenhall, George Ballengall, Isaac Kinley, John
              F. Polk, James M. Clements, Noah Hays.
          
          
            CORONER.
            The office of Coroner is a position of more dignity and importance, and less pay,
              perhaps, than is generally known. The term of office is for two years, and the
              incumbent may be called to fill the Sheriff's office when that officer is invited to
              be party to a suit. He is also a peace officer, with the same powers as a Sheriff,
              and, in case of a vacancy or disqualification of the Sheriff, he becomes the Sheriff
              de facto, and yet the pay of such a position in this county has generally been but a
              few dollars, perhaps less than twenty-five, per annum. Only once or twice, we believe,
              has the Coroner been called on to act as Sheriff in the county. William McDowell,
              familiarly known as "Uncle Billy Mack," has been Coroner so generally that he has come
              to be looked upon as the Coroner.
          
          
            BAILIFF.
            In addition to the above, ought by all means to be mentioned the almost indispensable
              and inevitable Bailiff. This position has been filled for thirty-nine years (up to
              1869) we believe, by William McDowell, senior; and notwithstanding the place may be as
              acceptably filled by the present Bailiff, Mr. John Alexander, there would have been a
              fitness in retaining "Uncle Billy" for at least a quarter of a century longer.
          
        
        
        
          STATISTICAL AND FINANCIAL.
          The steady growth of our county in wealth, population, and educational facilities
            cannot perhaps be better presented than in the following brief tables, some of which are
            not complete, from the fact that the sources of information on which we relied are in
            themselves incomplete. It is to be regretted that not even a complete file of local
            papers back of 1858 can now be found in the county, while tax duplicates of a date prior
            to 1842 were destroyed with the Court House in 1864.
          The area of the county is about three hundred and ninety square miles, and, taking the
            record of the vote for Governor in 1825, (the first of which we have any account,) and
            allowing six inhabitants to each vote cast, we have 2,193, or a little little less than
            six to the square mile. Three years later it was about nine per square mile, and four
            years later the population had reached about sixteen per square mile, or one to each
            forty-acre lot; while to-day the population is nearly four times as great, and numbers
            about one to each ten-acre lot in the county.
          
            ASSESSING THE REVENUE.
            The cost of assessing the county for the first few years may also serve to throw some
              light on the past, and, compared with the same service to-day, must be admitted to
              demonstrate progress at least.
            In 1823 John Dorrah was allowed four dollars for assessing Henry township, nearly
              one-third of the county, from which we estimate the cost of the whole county at
              $15.
            
              Assessing for 1823
                $15
              Assessing for 1824
                16
              Assessing for 1825
                16
              Assessing for 1826
                25
              Assessing for 1827
                $49
              Assessing for 1828
                40
              Assessing for 1829
                25
              Assessing for 1830
                25
            
            This was all well enough—no needless expense about it at all, one would think;
              and, at the same time, it is probable that the Assessors were as well paid as to-day,
              when the average cost is about $150 per township. In early times a man knew much more
              about the affairs of his neighbors than at present,  and
              could tell the number of horses, oxen, gold watches, or pleasure carriages, without
              going to see him; so he would just sit down at home and make out a schedule for the
              township; and so late as 1846 the cost for the whole county was but $266, little more
              than the cost for the largest township this year. The cost of assessing the revenue
              for 1871 is $1,801.
          
          
            COUNTY REVENUES.
            No complete statements of the condition of Henry county finances, such as are set
              forth by the Auditor's and Treasurer's books of to-day, seems to have been kept prior
              to 1842, and what there was of the earlier duplicates was probably destroyed in 1864.
              An occasional reference or paragraph, of from two or three to a dozen lines each,
              interspersed through the Commissioners' records, furnished about all there is extant
              of the amount and kind of taxes levied, as well as the condition of the Treasury, for
              the first twenty years of our history. The total cash in the Treasury, from June 1,
              1822, to November 13 of the same year, was $74 50. This, we are left to suppose,
              flowed into the Treasury from some natural course, as no account of a tax levy prior
              to this has been preserved.
            The following entry, made at the November term, 1822, speaks for itself. Jesse H.
              Healey was Collector as well as Sheriff: Upon settlement
                  entered into with the Sheriff, after giving him credit for delinquency, and the
                  balance being struck, he stands charged to the county of Henry, for taxes due, the
                  sum of one hundred and fifty-three dollars, thirty-seven and one-half
                cents.
            Next follows a statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Treasurer, up to
              November 13, in words and figures as follows: Cash to the
                  County Treasurer from the first day of June, 1822, up to the 13th day of Nov.,
                  1822, the sum of $142 55, in orders against the county, which the Treasurer
                  allowed, and, after allowing his per cent. for receiving and paying, leaves a
                  balance in favor of the County Treasurer against the county of the sum of
                  eighty-five dollars and eighty-seven cents.
            A further settlement was had with the Treasurer on the 11th of February, 1823, which
              seems to have been the end of the first financial year. From this "balance sheet" it
              appears that there had been received into the county "strong box" the sum of $153 37½,
              and that he had paid out, since the November  settlement
              $42 72½, making a total of receipts, $153 37½; expenditures, $184 27½.
            From this it will be seen that the county was in debt the considerable sum of $30
              90, which the unsophisticated financiers of the time no doubt felt to be a burden, as
              the theory that the "public debt is a national blessing" was not invented at that
              early day.
            In 1823 the county was placed fairly on its feet, as there appears to have been a
              balance left in the Treasury, after having paid the Treasurer and Sheriff $11 50 each
              for their laborious duties. The receipts and expenditures for the year ending Februry
              9, 1824, were: Receipts, $296 75; expenditures, $241 37; balance, $34 76; delinquency,
              $11 55.
            It must not be supposed that this very satisfactory state of the public exchequer was
              brought about by our present ad valorem system of assessments. Far from it. The amount
              of the duplicate for 1824, for county purposes, was but $27 28; State purposes, $45
              50; or a total of $72 78.
          
          
            EXCISE AND SUMPTUARY LAWS.
            To devise ways and means for meeting the wants of the county was an early concern of
              our county "administration," and to this end it enacted that the rates of tavern
              license for 1822 shall be $4; and well knowing that the tavern-keeper must get this
              money of his customers, the Commissioners, on the 11th day of November, 1822, enacted
              that the following shall be the Rates of tavern-keepers for
                  diet, liquors, lodgings, horse feed, stablage, &c.:
                
                  For breakfast, dinner, or supper
                    18¾
                  For lodging
                    6¼
                  For whisky, per half pint
                    6¼
                  For peach brandy, per half pint
                    12½
                  Wine, French brandy, and rum, per half pint
                    25
                  Cider, per quart
                    12½
                  Beer or porter, per quart
                    12½
                  Horse per night, at hay
                    12½
                  Oats, per gallon, or corn
                    6¼
                
            In November, 1823, the following entry was made on the records: Ordered by the Board, That the former rates and prices of liquors, diet,
                  lodging, stablage, and provender, for which the several tavern-keepers were
                  allowed to sell, are continued the ensuing year.
            In 1824 the price of "diet" was advanced to 25 cents, and that of whisky was doubled,
              as was also a single feed for a  horse, or, "oats, per
              gallon, or corn," while other items for the comfort of man or beast seemed to have
              remained stationary.
            The following is the regular duplicate rates of taxation ordered by the Board for
              1824:— 
                For State purposes:
                On every $100 worth of bank stock
                  $ 25
                On each male person, sane, and not a pauper
                  50
              
              
                For county purposes:
                On every animal of the horse, ass, or mule kind, over 3 years
                    old
                  37½
                On oxen, three years old and over
                  18¾
                On each gold watch
                  1 00
                On each two-wheeled pleasure carriage
                  1 50
                On each brass clock
                  1 00
                On each silver or pinch-beck watch
                  25
              
            As it is probable that there was not a pleasure carriage, gold watch, or brass clock
              in the county, it looks as if the above schedule of prices was intended to be
              prohibitory. Take into consideration the scarcity and value of money at that early
              day, and a portion of these taxes must be considered onerous, while the smallness of
              the duplicate shows conclusively that very few of the tax-payers of Henry county
              sported such trinkets as gold watches or brass clocks. In our day, when Uncle Sam put
              a tax of one dollar on a watch or carriage, men have been heard grumbling most
              unamiably about the burden.
            As previously mentioned, much exact information about the county in its infancy is
              not attainable, and we are forced to rely upon disjointed fragments, collected here
              and there, for many things.
            The taxable polls of the county in 1825 numbered $405, and there was not a pauper in
              it. In the same year Wayne county had $2,291 taxable polls and sixteen paupers. Marion
              county had but $630 taxable polls and twenty-two paupers.
          
          
            THE ANNUAL EXHIBIT.
            The following is an exhibit of the revenues of the county for the years named: 
                
                  Year.
                  Receipts.
                  Expenses.
                  Delinquent
                
                
                  1822
                  $74 50
                  $142 55
                  
                
                
                  1823
                  296 75
                  230 47
                  $11 50
                
                
                  1824
                  538 94
                  521 30
                  34 00
                
                
                  1825
                  462 22
                  352 51
                  25 00
                
                
                  1826
                  474 75
                  
                  39 58
                
                
                  1827
                  489 04
                  429 27
                  
                
                
                  1828
                  449 97
                  349 73
                  15 93
                
              
            
            The receipts and expenditures for 1829 are not given. From the foregoing it will be
              seen that the total transactions at the "treasury department" for seven years, are
              represented by the sum of $2,786 15 in receipts, and the expenditures were less by
              $100 24, with which sum the county entered upon the fiscal year 1829. A very
              considerable portion of the receipts was from the sale of New Castle lots, some forty
              or fifty of which at least must have been disposed of up to this date, the agent
              having at one time presented his bill for making twenty deeds.
            In 1833 the receipts had been swelled to $1,593 09, and the expenditures to $1,520
              39.
            Still greater expansion of the county revenues and expenditures is shown in 1840.
              They foot up as follows: Receipts, $4,522; expenditures, $3,085.
            The following table, taken from the duplicate, is interesting as an exhibit of the
              condition of our finances each fifth year, beginning with 1841: 
                
                  Year.
                  No. of Polls.
                  Total Taxables
                  State Tax.
                  County Tax.
                  School Tax.
                  Total Taxes.
                  Amount Delinq't.
                
                
                  1841
                  2,089
                  $2,376,350
                  $11,072
                  $3,420
                  
                  $14,575
                  
                
                
                  1846
                  2,444
                  2,722,236
                  9,553
                  4,664
                  
                  15,802
                  $739
                
                
                  1851
                  2,633
                  4,341,149
                  14,563
                  9,345
                  $4,836
                  29,148
                  297
                
                
                  1856
                  2,996
                  5,949,540
                  13,395
                  9,673
                  7,449
                  52,971
                  749
                
                
                  1861
                  3,339
                  8,342,950
                  14,186
                  12,853
                  9,995
                  54,860
                  1,727
                
                
                  1866
                  3,221
                  9,562,190
                  26,410
                  98,936
                  16,910
                  189,188
                  3,717
                
                
                  1870
                  3,445
                  11,041,520
                  18,658
                  12,788
                  19,413
                  98,029
                  3,454
                
              
          
          
            WEALTH AND TAX PER CAPITA.
            The following estimate gives a very nearly correct statement of the amount of
              property for each man, woman, and child in the county, for the periods named: 
                
                  
                  Taxables per capita.
                  Tax per capita.
                
                
                  1840
                  $146 60
                  $0 93
                
                
                  1850
                  170 60
                  1 27
                
                
                  1860
                  405 29
                  2 46
                
                
                  1870
                  477 42
                  4 24
                
              
          
          
            PER CENT. OF TAXES.
            The following has been the rate of taxation on each $100 valuation, for the years
              named, omitting the fractions: 
                1841
                  $0 51
                1846
                  58
                1851
                  68
                1856
                  88
                1861
                  $0 65
                1865
                  2 15
                1866
                  1 97
                1870
                  88
              
            
            The above per cent. is on the entire levy for State, county, school, road, township
              sinking fund, and every other tax placed upon the duplicate, that for county purposes
              being often an inconsiderable part of the whole.
            From 1840 to 1850 the amount of taxes levied increased pretty regularly, but little
              more than keeping pace with the growth of the county in wealth. About the latter
              period the plan of supporting the common schools by taxation was adopted, which, with
              the additional expenses for better roads, and the increased interest on the State
              debt, etc., etc., conspired to increase the rate until, in 1855, it had reached a
              trifle over eighty-nine cents on the hundred dollars valuation. The rapid increase of
              wealth, however, by 1861, had caused the rate to fall off again to sixty-five cents on
              the hundred dollars. From 1861 to 1865 the increased State tax, the care of soldiers'
              families, and bounties to volunteers, together with the tax for the erection of county
              buildings, increased the rate of taxation beyond all precedent. In 1865 a tax of
              $212,203, or a trifle over two dollars and fifteen cents on the hundred dollars, was
              placed on the duplicate. In 1864 the tax for county purposes alone was $42,969; in
              1865, $101,458; in 1866, $98,936; in 1867, $100,822; in 1868, $75,285; in 1869,
              $51,495; and in 1870 but $12,788. This latter sum, with the accumulated surplus, it
              was supposed, would be sufficient for the ordinary wants of the county, besides
              meeting some expenses in completing the Court House grounds, finishing the Jail, and
              re-roofing the County Asylum, etc.
          
          
            EXTRAORDINARY EXPENDITURES.
            The following are the principal items and amounts of "extraordinary" expenditures
              since 1861: 
                Relief to soldiers' families
                  $21,099 01
                Expense of military
                  52,940 51
                Bounty bonds and int
                  $115,153 50
                Court House, Jail, etc.
                  179,148 63
                Making a total of
                  368,341 65
              
            The large amount of unusual expenditures, together with the war prices paid for
              nearly all the objects of ordinary expense, swelled the amount to a sum that, to a
              Henry county citizen, seemed enormous. Just how promptly and cheerfully  these burdens were paid may be inferred from the fact that
              the total delinquency on a duplicate amounting to $218,775, was but $4,276, or a
              trifle less than two per cent. of the whole, and more than two-thirds of this was
              afterwards collected.
            It is also worthy of remark that the amount of taxes carried over from year to year
              has rarely exceeded one or two per cent. of the duplicate, and to-day is only about
              three and one-half per cent. of the whole, a sum not much larger than the poll-tax on
              transient citizens, of which every community has its share.
          
          
            OTHER ITEMS.
            
              *The
                  expense of Poor for the ten years ending the first day of June, 1870, has
                  been
                $35,659 36
              An average per year of
                3,565 93
              Expenses of county officers for the same period
                42,548 95
              An average per year of
                4,254 83
              Expense of assessing revenue for ten years, including assessing
                  real estate
                19,870 67
              An annual average of
                1,957 06
            
          
          
            CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICTS.
            The Congressional Districts in which Henry county has been associated have fluctuated
              strangely, partly owing, no doubt, to the different ratios of representation; and, of
              course, to some extent, in consequence of the shifting tide of emigration; but
              infinitely more because of the struggle for ascendency between political parties, skill
              in manipulating the material in hand, so as to perpetuate the reign of the party in
              power, being regarded as the very acme of statesmanship.
            When Elbridge Gerry, a noted Eastern politician, the patron saint of this prominent
              branch of politics, once manipulated the districts of his State so that an adept in
              geography would be puzzled to fix the boundaries, some one described them as
              "meandering," to which another remarked, "Yes, they look like they had been
              Gerrymandered;" and from that day to this "Gerrymandered" and "Gerrymandering" have
              been recognized in current literature as synonyms for political trickery. *The expense of Poor includes
                part payment on an addition to the Poor Farm, while the expense of county officers
                refers only to pay drawn direct from the Treasury, and, of course, does not include
                fees.
               A peep at the Indiana Congressional Districts must
              convince anyone that Gerry has had plenty of imitators in the Hoosier State.
            Our districts, since 1832 have been the 6th, 5th, 4th and 9th, and have been made up
              as follows: 
                Sixth District, 1832 to 1836—Allen, Randolph, Delaware, Henry, Wayne,
                  Union, Fayette, Rush, Elkhart, and Lagrange.
                Fifth District, 1836 to 1840—Adams, Allen, Lagrange, Noble, Fulton,
                  Wabash, Huntington, Jay, Randolph, Grant, Delaware, Henry, Wayne, Fayette, and
                  Union.
                Fifth District, 1840 to 1844—The same as above, with the addition of
                  Steuben, Whitely, De Kalb, Blackford and Wells.
                Fourth District, 1844 to 1852—Henry, Wayne, Fayette, and Union.
                Fifth District, 1852 to 1868—Delaware, Henry, Randolph, Wayne, Fayette,
                  and Union.
                Ninth District, 1868—Allen, Adams, Wells, Jay, Blackford, Delaware,
                  Randolph, and Henry.
              
            It will be seen that from 1832 to 1840 the district was, in the widest place, nearly
              seventy miles, by one hundred and fifty in length, and comprised nearly 7,000 square
              miles. In 1840 this was suddenly reduced to about thirty-six miles in width, from
              north to south, by forty-two from east and west, and only comprised 1,100 square miles
              and four of the twenty counties. In 1868 another change came upon us, and Henry and
              seven other counties compose the district, which is now about forty-two miles from
              east to west, and one hundred and twenty from north to south, and containing about
              3,800 square miles.
          
          
            VOTE OF HENRY COUNTY FOR GOVERNOR.
            
              
                1825
                Ray
                303
                366
              
              
                Blackford
                63
              
              
                1828
                Ray
                479
                584
              
              
                Conly
                68
              
              
                Moore
                37
              
              
                1840
                Bigger
                1579
                2425
              
              
                Howard
                846
              
              
                1843
                Bigger
                1140
                2233
              
              
                Whitcomb
                902
              
              
                Derin
                191
              
              
                1846
                Marshall
                1180
                1994
              
              
                Whitcomb
                814
              
              
                1849
                Matson
                1437
                2839
              
              
                Wright
                1287
              
              
                Cravens
                115
              
              
                1852
                Wright
                1179
                3057
              
              
                McCarty 
                1527
              
              
                Robinson
                351
              
              
                1856
                Morton
                2486
                3674
              
              
                Willard
                1188
              
              
                1860
                Lane
                2797
                4125
              
              
                Hendricks
                1328
              
              
                1864
                Morton
                3008
                4131
              
              
                McDonald
                1123
              
              
                1868
                Baker
                2373
                3789
              
              
                Hendricks
                1416
              
            
            
            The population in 1830 was 6,458; in 1840, 15,128; in 1850, 17,607; in 1860, 20,119;
              in 1870, 23,127.
          
          
            VOTE OF HENRY COUNTY FOR REPRESENTATIVES IN CONGRESS.
            
              
                1837
                James Raridan
                1084
                1791
              
              
                Jonathan McCarty
                707
              
              
                1839
                James Raridan
                815
                2015
              
              
                Jonathan McCarty
                571
              
              
                Wilson Thompson
                629
              
              
                1841
                Andrew Canaday
                597
                1837
              
              
                C. B. Smith
                527
              
              
                Jonathan McCarty
                713
              
              
                1843
                C. B. Smith
                1052
                1966
              
              
                Charles H. Test
                914
              
              
                1845
                C. B. Smith
                1332
                2174
              
              
                —— Finley
                842
              
              
                1847
                C. B. Smith
                1268
                2064
              
              
                Charles H. Test
                796
              
              
                1849
                S. W. Parker
                1441
                2814
              
              
                George W. Julian
                1373
              
              
                1851
                S. W. Parker
                1439
                2872
              
              
                George W. Julian
                1433
              
              
                1852
                S. W. Parker
                1510
                2985
              
              
                William Grose
                1208
              
              
                R. J. Hubbard
                267
              
              
                1854
                D. P. Holloway
                2037
                2884
              
              
                Joseph S. Buckles
                847
              
              
                1856
                David Kilgour
                2448
                3638
              
              
                Edmund Johnson
                1190
              
              
                1858
                David Kilgour
                1956
                2868
              
              
                Lafe Develin
                912
              
              
                1860
                George W. Julian
                2686
                3709
              
              
                W. A. Bickle
                1023
              
              
                1862
                George W. Julian
                1761
                3203
              
              
                Edmund Johnson
                1442
              
              
                1864
                George W. Julian
                2697
                3724
              
              
                James Brown
                1027
              
              
                1866
                George W. Julian
                2954
                4215
              
              
                M. L. Bundy
                1261
              
              
                1868
                John P. C. Shanks
                3377
                4887
              
              
                Robert Lowry
                1510
              
              
                1870
                John P. C. Shanks
                2863
                4178
              
              
                John Colerick
                1315
              
            
          
          
            VOTE OF HENRY COUNTY FOR PRESIDENT, FROM 1832 TO 1868.
            Below we give the vote for President, so far as it has been possible to obtain
              it:—
            
              
                1832
                Clay
                767
              
              
                Jackson
                580
              
              
                1836
                Harrison
                1394
              
              
                Van Buren
                712
              
              
                1840
                Harrison
                1652
              
              
                Van Buren
                839
              
              
                1844
                Clay
                1458
              
              
                Polk
                1005
              
              
                Birney
                188
              
              
                1848
                Taylor
                1115
              
              
                Cass
                1005
              
              
                Van Buren
                455
              
              
                1852
                Scott
                1559
              
              
                Pierce
                1225
              
              
                Hale
                456
              
              
                1856
                Fremont
                2741
              
              
                Buchanan
                1229
              
              
                Filmore
                49
              
              
                1860
                Lincoln
                2726
              
              
                Douglass
                1296
              
              
                Breckenridge
                90
              
              
                Bell
                16
              
              
                1864
                Lincoln
                3027
              
              
                McClellan
                1057
              
              
                1868
                Grant
                3432
              
              
                Seymour
                1412
              
            
          
          
            PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
            Of our beneficent system of common or free schools it is not within the limits or
              scope of this work to treat at length. Of the matter as it concerns the county in
              particular a few facts are appropriate.
            The broad assertion that knowledge and learning generally diffused throughout a
              community is essential to the preservation of a free government (see section 1,
              article 2, State Constitution) meets with as general acceptance in Henry county,
              perhaps, as in any county in the State. There is certainly no part of the public
              burdens more cheerfully borne than the very 
              considerable tax imposed, and it is many years since we have heard so much as one
              individual object to this tax, which at one time was believed by many well-meaning
              citizens of ours as well as other communities to be wrong, in principle at least. At
              first large numbers in every community argued that it was wrong to tax the wealthy to
              educate the poor, or the man without children for the benefit of those blessed with a
              dozen. When the question of free schools or no free schools was submitted to your
              people, in 1851, in the shape of continuing a tax levied by a former legislature, the
              vote was close indeed, standing: For its continuance, 1,411; against its continuance,
              1,382—a bare majority of 28.
            Our people are so well satisfied that the diffusion of knowledge renders them safer
              in person and property, and that it is cheaper to educate thon to take care of
              criminals and paupers, that it is safe to predict that free schools would be sustained
              to-day by a vote of ten to one. The principle lying at the foundation of our common
              school law is gratuitous instruction to every pupil, rich and poor alike; and while
              the means provided are far too limited to meet all the wants of the community, they
              carry inestimable blessings with them, so far as they go.
            In 1852 the Superintendent of Public Instruction, who seemed enthusiastic in the
              work, looked fondly forward to the day when the people of the State would raise, by
              the various methods provided by law, two dollars per child, in order that schools
              might be sustained all the year round. At that time the revenue from the various funds
              only amounted 35 cents per child. By the last report of the Superintendent it will be
              seen that the total amount of common school funds held in trust in this county is
              $45,483 62, at 7 per cent., on which the interest, or $3,187 85, is available as a
              tuition fund. To this is to be added the school tax of $19,413 55, which, making
              allowance for probable delinquency, gives an available tuition fund of over $20,000
              for the county, or about three dollars to each child of a suitable age to go to
              school.
          
          
            SCHOOL STATISTICS.
            The following statement of various items connected with  the common school interests of the county will serve to illustrate the growth of
              the system within twenty years:
            
              
                
                1853
                1856
                1860
                1870
              
              
                *Number of
                  children
                7,416
                7,054
                7,622
                7,046
              
              
                Number attending school
                3,246
                4,076
                5,305
                5,751
              
              
                Number of school houses
                51
                98
                106
                108
              
              
                Number of male teachers
                
                96
                91
                98
              
              
                Number of female teachers
                
                2
                22
                42
              
              
                Average pay of males
                $22 50
                $29 53
                $27 00
                $55 40
              
              
                Average pay of females
                $12 50
                $20 83
                $21 20
                $38 60
              
              
                Length of school, in days
                
                52
                50
                75
              
              
                School fund distributed
                $5,933
                $6,573
                $5,954
                $15,454
              
              
                Value of school property
                
                
                
                $96,295
              
              
                Tax for building purposes
                
                $13,074
                $9,742
                
              
            
            The following named gentlemen, and perhaps one or two others, have served the county
              as School or County Examiners: 
                J. S. Ferris,
                S. T. Powell,
                R. B. Abbott,
                T. B. Redding,
                Isaac Kinley,
                Thomas Rogers,
                W. M. Watkins,
                H. M. Shockley,
                D. Newby.
              
          
          
            CHURCHES IN THE COUNTY.
            The following statistics are taken in part from the census report. The social
              statistics of the county taken by the United States Marshal for 1870 not having yet
              been made public, and a number of persons on whom we have called for information
              having failed to respond, the statistics for 1870 are only estimated: 
                
                  DENOMINATIONS.
                  Number.
                  Accommodation.
                  Value of Property.
                
                
                  1860
                  1870
                  1860
                  1870
                  1860
                  1870
                
                
                  Baptist
                  2
                  3
                  1,100
                  1,500
                  $2,300
                  $4,000
                
                
                  Christian
                  4
                  11
                  1,400
                  4,000
                  2,400
                  25,000
                
                
                  Friends
                  9
                  11
                  3,950
                  5,000
                  8,500
                  15,000
                
                
                  Lutheran
                  3
                  1
                  800
                  400
                  2,500
                  4,000
                
                
                  Methodists
                  19
                  24
                  7,070
                  8,500
                  18,800
                  35,000
                
                
                  Presbyterians
                  4
                  4
                  1,200
                  1,500
                  2,700
                  17,500
                
                
                  Universalits
                  1
                  
                  500
                  
                  400
                  
                
                
                  New Light
                  
                  3
                  
                  1,000
                  
                  1,200
                
                
                  
                  42
                  57
                  16,020
                  21,900
                  87,600
                  101,700
                
              
            
            The estimated value of the property for both dates is probably too low. The other
              figures are believed to be nearly *All children between five and twenty-one years were enumerated
                until 1860, after which only those between 6 and 21 were enumerated.
               correct. The church accommodation of the county, it
              will be seen, nearly equals the entire population. In additiod to those named above,
              we believe the "Tunkers," or German Baptists, have one or more congregations in the
              county; So with the Wesleyans, while the Spiritualists have two good halls and quite a
              number of adherents.
          
          
            STOCK AND GRAIN.
            The following table gives, by townships, a few of the leading agricultural products
              of the county, as reported to the census marshals in June last. The Indian corn and
              wheat was of course the crop of 1869, neither of which was a fair average for the ten
              years past. Most of the items were taken from the manuscript on file in the Clerk's
              office, and some mistakes of a trivial character may have occurred, as there was no
              opportunity for verifying the result—a re-count.
            
              
                TOWNSHIPS.
                Horses and mules.
                Milch Cows.
                Other Cattle.
                Sheep.
                Swine.
                Wheat.
                Corn.
              
              
                Wayne
                683
                437
                1,179
                936
                3,095
                52,494
                93,880
              
              
                Spiceland
                533
                350
                780
                1,640
                2,624
                40,976
                93,230
              
              
                Franklin
                624
                385
                754
                1,344
                2,068
                48,103
                96,540
              
              
                Dudley
                659
                411
                1,022
                878
                3,268
                41,649
                90,765
              
              
                Liberty
                636
                546
                740
                918
                2,798
                65,933
                108,553
              
              
                Henry
                551
                375
                607
                1,426
                2,278
                35,901
                83,935
              
              
                Greensboro
                333
                276
                550
                1,064
                2,502
                30,678
                75,680
              
              
                Harrison
                494
                468
                597
                1,470
                2,642
                53,494
                111,010
              
              
                Fall Creek
                502
                396
                629
                1,672
                2,210
                51,632
                96,883
              
              
                Jefferson
                483
                336
                425
                1,065
                1,963
                37,289
                52,325
              
              
                Prairie
                722
                493
                920
                1,876
                3,437
                63,500
                111,853
              
              
                Stony Creek
                413
                267
                553
                1,050
                1,337
                31,737
                41,860
              
              
                Blue River
                432
                297
                413
                1,061
                1,663
                38,631
                74,567
              
            
            
              1840 AND 1870—THE CONTRAST.
              
                
                1840.
                1870.
              
              
                Population
                15,128
                23,127
              
              
                Farms
                
                2,211
              
              
                Dwellings
                
                4,524
              
              
                Manufacturing Establishments
                31
                196
              
              
                Hands employed
                57
                472
              
              
                Capital invested
                $62,000
                $460,170
              
              
                Products of Factories
                $36,300
                $774,376
              
              
                Bushels of Wheat
                78,234
                592,017
              
              
                Bushels of Indian Corn
                624,543
                1,131,083
              
              
                Horses and Mules
                4,302
                7,071
              
              
                Cattle
                10,340
                14,183
              
              
                Milch Cows
                
                5,017
              
              
                Other Cattle
                
                9,166
              
              
              
                Sheep
                9,674
                16,400
              
              
                Swine
                29,497
                31,467
              
              
                Grist Mills
                9
                22
              
              
                Saw Mills
                14
                25
              
              
                Dry Goods and Grocery Stores
                17
                85
              
              
                Capital invested
                $30,250 
                Est'd $200,000
              
            
          
        
        
          TURNPIKES.
          Prior to the year 1850 no great advancement had been made throughout the county in the
            way of internal improvements. The National or Henry County Turnpike was in process of
            construction, and the necessity for better roads was greatly felt by the people of the
            county.
          In 1852 the General Assembly passed an act authorizing the construction of plank,
            McAdamized, and gravel roads. By this law extensive powers were conferred on companies
            complying with its provisions, and under it, with certain amendments made, a number of
            good pikes were constructed, ramifying in all directions, and connecting the remotest
            parts of the county with the seat of justice.
          In 1865 the General Assembly passed an act to enable County Commissioners to organize
            turnpike companies, when persons representing three-fifths of the real estate within
            certain prescribed limits petition for the same, and to levy a tax for constructing a
            road, and to provide for the same to be free. By this law only the land within
            three-fourths of a mile of the proposed route was affected, and upon the report of a
            commission to survey and estimate the cost of construction, the Auditor was required to
            enter a tax upon said lands according to its value, as shown by the
            books in his office, and without any reference to the benefits to be
              derived from the same, one-third to be collected annually, and in the same manner
            as other taxes, and it might happen that lands the most remote would be most heavily
            taxed. This law, however, was but an experiment, and but little attempt was made to work
            under it.
          
          The following companies, however, effected an organization, viz: The Blountsville and
            Circleville, Blountsville and Morristown, Flatrock and Bentonville, Fairview and
            Lewisville. The first-named was soon abandoned by the general consent of the interested
            parties. Further particulars will be found in a tabular statement near the end of this
            chapter. But one of the roads begun under the law of 1865, we believe, was completed
            under that law.
          The law of 1865 was objectionable in many of its features and impracticable in its
            operations, but appears to have prepared the way for the law of 1867. This authorized
            the assessment of all lands within one and a half miles on either side, and within the
            same distance of the terminus, when the subscription to such route amounts to not less
            than $800 per mile, and is not sufficient for the completion of the same. These
            assessments were required to be made by three disinterested free-holders, who were
            required to estimate the benefits likely to accrue to each particular tract of land.
            Under this law a number of roads were organized, and the tax placed upon the duplicate
            of 1867 with the State and county tax.
          On one or two pikes, however, parties felt aggrieved, and a test case was made before
            Judge Buckles, of the Circuit Court, who decided that the assessments had not been
            legally made, for several reasons, among which were, that they had failed to view the
            lands as required, and that all the lands within the limits prescribed had not been
            listed.
          In view of this decision the assessments on other roads were considered illegal, and no
            great effort was made by the companies to have the tax collected; but the Commissioners
            were petitioned to have the Assessors brought back and make their assessments in
            conformity with the law.
          The Blue River Turnpike, of Prairie township, was an exception. The first installment
            of about $3,000, being mostly paid in, was deemed sufficient, and the second and third
            installments were never placed on the duplicate.
          The amount of turnpike tax collected for 1867 on assessments declared illegal was
            $16,074 04, out of a total of $27,221 93 on the duplicate.
          During the year 1867, while Major Grubbs was Treasurer, 
            no part of the gravel road tax collected was paid over to the officers of the several
            companies, but remained a part of the balance in the Treasury, June 1, 1868.
          All the roads of 1867, except the one mentioned above, were re-assessed in 1868, and
            the tax again placed on the duplicate. At first the assessment were placed on the same
            duplicate with other taxes; but in 1868, by order of the Auditor of State, they were
            placed on a separate duplicate. Below will be found an interesting tabular statement:
              
              UNDER THE LAW OF 1865.
              
                
                Miles
                Tax levied
              
              
                Blountsville and Morristown
                2¼
                $4,687 27
              
              
                Flatrock and Bentonville
                5
                11,478 91
              
              
                Fairview and Lewisville
                1½
                2,790 33
              
            
            
              UNDER THE LAW OF 1867.
              
                
                Miles
                Tax levied
              
              
                Beech Grove Union
                2½
                $4,312 99
              
              
                Duck Creek and Southern
                2
                2,622 12
              
              
                Flat Rock Valley
                3
                8,172 13
              
              
                Greensboro and New Castle Junction
                2
                4,228 37
              
              
                Franklin Junction
                4
                5,046 54
              
              
                Flatrock and Symon's Creek
                5½
                9,417 38
              
              
                Northern Junction
                7¼
                13,332 57
              
              
                Hillsboro and Franklin
                7
                8,317 09
              
              
                Northwestern
                6
                13,324 05
              
              
                New Castle and Flatrock
                9
                10,723 67
              
              
                New Castle and Muncie
                4¼
                5,397 86
              
              
                Union and Blue River
                2
                2,243 61
              
              
                Southern
                6
                8,453 88
              
              
                Sugar Creek
                2
                723 12
              
              
                Sulphur Springs and Cadiz
                5¾
                8,215 38
              
              
                Sulphur Springs and Western
                4½
                7,197 43
              
              
                Knightstown and Middletown
                10
                16,100 04
              
              
                Northwestern Extension
                3¼
                6,458 46
              
              
                Middletown and Daleville
                1½
                1,277 67
              
            
            
              PUT ON DUPLICATE IN 1869 UNDER THE LAW OF 1869.
              
                
                Miles
                Tax leived
              
              
                Dunreith gravel road
                1⅓
                $635 43
              
              
                Middletown and Range Line
                2⅜
                3,153 68
              
              
                Blountsville and Smithfield
                1
                1,052 00
              
              
                Blountsville
                4¾
                6,075 50
              
              
                Blountsville and Windsor
                1¼
                1,507 00
              
              
                Prairie, G. E., and Franklin
                8¾
                11,574 00
              
              
                Blountsville and Millville Extension
                6½
                9,072 00
              
              
                Blountsville Extension
                4½
                6,629 50
              
            
            
              DUPLICATE OF 1870, LAW OF 1869.
              
                
                Miles
                Tax levied
              
              
                Rush and Henry County Road
                3
                5,965 68
              
              
                Old State Road
                4½
                5,354 00
              
            
          
          
            OTHER TURNPIKES.
            The above table only refers to such turnpikes as here built under what is donominated
              the Gravel Road Laws. The  following is nearly a
              complete list with the length of the other gravel roads of the county or parts of
              roads in the county: 
                MILES
                Henry County Turnpike (National Road)
                  20
                Knightstown & Warrington
                  7
                Knightstown & Greensboro
                  7
                Ogden & Rushville
                  1
                Independent Turnpike
                  2½
                New Castle & Spiceland
                  10
                Union Turnpike
                  4
                Lewisville & Flatrock
                  3
                Hopewell & Flatrock
                  6
                New Castle & Dublin
                  12
                Northern & Branches
                  14
                New Castle & Cadiz
                  7
                Cadiz & Western
                  3
                Greensboro & Cadiz
                  5
                Spiceland & Blueriver
                  3
                Spiceland & Greensboro
                  3½
                Mechanicsburg & Middleton
                  4½
                Cadiz & Mechanicsburg
                  5
                Sulphur Spring & Muncie
                  2½
                Sulphur Spring & Summit
                  2½
                Greensboro & Western
                  4
                Greensboro & Grant City
                  3
              
            
            It is proper to state that in a few instances we are not quite sure of having given
              the exact name of the road, but may have given, instead, that of the points connected,
              and it is also probable that all the pikes have not been named at all, since branches
              and junctions or connecting links are being constructed so rapidly as to render it
              next to impossible to keep pace with them. In some road districts the plan of grading
              and graveling a small portion of the common roads each year is being adopted insomuch
              that in a few years free, well constructed pikes will form quite an important feature
              of our road system. Henry county may well boast of her net work of turnpikes ramifying
              every part of the county, unsurpassed as they are in extent or excellence by any
              county in the State.
          
        
        
          THE LITERATURE OF THE COUNTY.
          That Henry county has little to boast of in the way of literary excellence is most
            true. Her honor lies more in the average intelligence of her citizens than in any cases
            of exceptional  merit. But it must not be inferred from
            this that we are destitute of men and women of refined taste and good literary
            capabilities. Such is not the fact. The great success of local literary societies,
            especially before the war, and the avidity with which the people in many localities seek
            after the best publications that flow from the press, and their eagerness to hear the
            best lecturers and speakers, prove them to be appreciative and cultivated in a high
            degree.
          It is not to be presumed, either, that so old a county as this has not produced its
            literary aspirants and amateurs, and, like almost every other community in the United
            States, the efforts of our orators, essayists, and bardlings began with the first
            newspaper, and have never ceased, except when the county would be left for a short time
            without one of these literary exponents.
          The names of those who have conducted the various county newspapers appear in another
            place, so that it is not necessary to catalogue them here. Of these, Alfred J. Cotton,
            for a brief time connected with the New Castle Banner in 1836, made
            some pretense to literature in other fields, and but a few years since he published in
            the Courier, and almost every other local paper in the State, a poem
            of considerable length, addressed "To a Snow Bird." The rhyme had little merit aside
            from showing the genial poetic spirit and warm-heartedness of the old man. His
            autobiography, published in 1858, contains most of his poetic effusions, but will be
            remembered by our citizens, a number of whom have copies, more for the most refreshing
            egotism peeping out from every page than for any other merit. The author introduces the
            work with a likeness of himself and lady, and charmingly discourses about the
            intellectuality of his own physiognomy and the grace and charms of his lady. He appears
            to have had a horror of being forgotten, and would not be surprised if rising
            generations should yet be taught that the "Man in the moon" was Judge Cotton. He signed
            himself The Rev. Judge Alfred Johnson Cotton.
          WALTER EDGERTON, of Spiceland, in his earlier
            days and the early days of the anti-slavery movement, wrote articles of great force for
            the anti-slavery papers, and some for papers that were not anti-slavery. These latter
            were often of so much force as to be denied publication.
            He has also, from time to time, contributed many articles of note on doctrinal and
            scientific topics to the religious and other papers of the day, and is the author of a
            work of several hundred pages, giving a "History of the Separation" in the Society of
            Friends on account of the anti-slavery movement. He also edited, we believe, "The
            Journal of Charles Osborn," a distinguished minister of the Society.
          JOHN W. GRUBBS, now of Richmond, for a dozen
            years connected with the press of this county, commenced his career when very young,
            but, from long continuance and perseverance, gained a reputation as one of the most
            skillful and caustic political editors of the State. We presume that his "situation" in
            the wholesale house of Howard & Grubbs is more lucrative, if not more congenial.
          ISAAC PARKER, a man a few years Mr. Grubbs'
            senior, some times contributed to the Indiana Sun, and wrote political
            letters of a local character for the Indianapolis Journal, which
            attracted much comment. A poem of his, written for the Sun in 1840, is
            distinctly remembered. It was entitled "Johnson's Sukey," and was intended as a
            burlesque on Colonel Richard M. Johnson, for having (as the Whigs asserted) a black
            wife, Johnson being then the Democratic candidate for Vice President. A handsome reward
            would be paid for a copy of that old rhyme.
          M. L. BUNDY, of New Castle, has, for more than twenty years, been
            what might be termed a literary amateur, writing letters for the press and articles on
            numerous topics of interest with more than ordinary ease and grace. Though he might have
            won greater distinction had he labored more with his pen, it is doubtful whether it
            would have yielded him such returns of golden gains as he has received from other
            pursuits.
          RUSSELL B. ABBOTT, at one time Principal of the
            New Castle Academy, is a man of fine culture, who has written much excellent prose, some
            of which deserves to live after its author shall have mouldered into dust.
          HULDAH WICKERSHAM, a daughter of the old
            anti-slavery veteran, Caleb Wickersham, wrote many able articles on the topics of the
            day, especially in behalf of freedom for the slave. She at one time conducted a
            correspondence with the noted  Elizabeth Pease that
            awakened much interest among her anti-slavery associates. She died many years since, in
            the vigor of early youth, while that which she had accomplished was but the promise of
            what might have been in the future.
          WILLIAM EDGERTON has long been widely known to a
            certain class of readers as an able essayist and original thinker, especially on
            controversial and theological subjects. His style is characterized by logical force,
            depth, and earnestness, rather than by ornament; and his essays must always command the
            serious attention of thoughtful people. His popularity would have been greater, though
            his usefulness might have been less, had he not taken upon himself the thankless job of
            stirring up certain theological dry bones.
          SARAH EDGERTON, sister of Wm. Edgerton, has also
            prodnced many articles of decided merit.
          NANCY KINLEY, the first wife of Major Kinley,
            wrote verses full of the inspiration born of a loving heart and generous disposition. An
            early grave closed the music of a harp that might have been attuned to higher song.
          ISAAC KINLEY, who won the rank of Major in the
            late war, has perhaps performed more thorough and masterly literary labor than any other
            man claimed as a citizen of the county. Some of our readers will recollect a lecture he
            once delivered on the force of the English language, in which, when he came to treat of
            the strong points in Shakespeare, Scott, and Byron, the hearer was carried along as by a
            master-hand. Of course all his auditors did not thus enter into the spirit of the
            composition, which was without any effort after elocutionary effect. He has written a
            few fine poems and many essays and short articles of rare merit. Among his poems,
            "Astrea" and "I forgive" are still deservedly popular. In the summer and autumn of 1869
            he, in company with his wife, visited Europe and reported the results of their tour in a
            series of most enjoyable letters to Julian's Radical. "The Beech
            Tree," the only Henry county magazine, although it died on Mr. Kinley's hands several
            years ago, has left a host of pleasant memories, and doubtless, if again revived, would
            be much better sustained. It is to be hoped Mr. Kinley will see fit to embrace the best
            of his poems, sketches, and memories in book form for the gratification of his numerous
               friends. In Mr. Kinley's capacity as legislator and one
            of our early anti-slavery politicians, he has made speeches worthy of preservation, but
            want of space forbids further notice.
          JEHU T. ELLIOTT, whose long and successful career
            at the bar and on the bench has proven him one of our most vigorous thinkers, and
            although writing but little outside of a few political articles, he deserves mention as
            a man of generous self-culture.
          MISS JOSIE V. HICKMAN has for
            some years past been a frequent contributor to some of the newspapers and magazines of
            the country. She writes essays, stories, and poems with equal facility, and has been
            connected with Mrs. Bland in conducting the Ladies' Own Magazine, at Indianapolis, for
            some time past. This magazine announced, nearly a year ago, that Miss Hickman had a
            volume of poems in course of preparation.
          CLARKSON DAVIS, for several years Principal of
            Spiceland High School, is one of the best essayists and lecturers in the State. There is
            a charm about his writings that renders them exceedingly popular. Like Major Kinley, a
            tour through some of the European States has furnished the theme for many pleasant
            lectures. Our people may well hope to see and hear more from his pen.
          THOMAS R. STANFORD is one of those men whom it is
            not well to forget, in going back to the past. He served our people faithfully for many
            years, though we do not now remember but a single literary effort from his pen—a
            farewell to his constituents, written at the close of a long and useful career.
          MRS. BELL STANFORD used to
            contribute verses to the Courier that betrayed a kind heart and
            considerable taste.
          C. D. MORGAN, Esq., in addition to his reputation as temperance
            lecturer, lawyer, and banker, has produced a few good addresses on literary and
            historical subjects. Mrs. C. D. Morgan is also, we believe, the author of a capital
            burlesque on the love-sick stories that craze the brains of many modern misses.
          MR. E. E. PARKER,once of the county, has
            published, in Arthur's Home Magazine and other papers and periodicals, a number of poems
            exhibiting a high order of poetic talent.
          JOSHUA H. MELLETT and JAMES
              BROWN, though making little pretensions to literature, have each
            won a lucrative  practice at the bar, and several of our
            younger practitioners are following in their wake. Without a good degree of literary
            ability of a certain kind, success in this field is scarcely attainable.
          OF MR. B. S. PARKER, whose
            many essays, sketches, and poems, published, as they have been, from East to West, we
            shall not speak at length. He is still amongst us and still writing as opportunity
            offers, and undoubtedly wields the readiest pen of any writer in the county. The close
            friendship known to have existed between him and the writer of this book for years
            renders it difficult to speak of his varied and extensive labors in such terms as their
            merits deserve without, perhaps, having somewhat set down to the score of friendship and
            partiality, but the writer of the following needs no encomiums from us: 
                "So upward through darkness and sorrow,
                Through pleasures that halo the night,
                We grow, till we reach the to-morrow;
                Expand, till we enter the light."
              
          ALBERT HODSON, the young and enthusiastic tourist
            whose letters from the high-ways and by-ways of Europe to The
              Republican, during the past and present years, are attracting much attention, is
            a writer of much promise. He has the elements of a most successful tourist, and the rare
            faculty of not only seeing all that he passes, but of giving most apt and vivid
            pen-pictures of what he does see.
          L. R. WOODS, for some time a Henry county boy, is proving himself a
            first-class correspondent, as his frequent letters to the county papers attest.
          NATHAN NEWBY, one of the faculty of the State
            Normal School, born and reared in the county, is the author of many creditable articles,
            that have appeared in print from time to time, on scientific and familiar topics.
          BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, a noted minister of the
            "Christian" denomination, was bred, if not born, in the county, and has, for a number of
            years, been largely engaged in literary labors, mainly in the realms of denominational
            and controversial theology. He began his career, we believe, at Milton, Wayne county, by
            publishing a small serial, entitled the Western Reformer. This was
            soon merged into a paper owned by Alexander Hall,  called
            the Proclamation, and this was soon connected with the Christian Age, owned by D. S. Burnett, and published at Cincinnati. Burnett was
            soon bought out, and the name changed to the Christian Review, under
            which name it is still edited by Mr. Franklin.
          ADOLPHUS ROGERS, the accomodating Deputy
            Treasurer of the county, is a young man of most excellent literary attainments. He
            occasionally furnishes articles for the county papers. To him we are indebted for a
            great portion of the article on turnpikes.
          JOHN C. TEAS, now residing at Carthage, Mo., was
            long known in this county as one well posted in literary matters, and, although seldom
            appearing in print, had few superiors in such literary productions as grace a literary
            society.
          REV. M. MAHIN, presiding elder for the M. E.
            Church, is a resolute "defender of the faith" and literary man of fine attainments. His
            field of labor has been almost exclusively of a denominational character.
          JAMES G. BURK, one of our "gallant dead," was a
            literary man of some taste and the editor and publisher of a book of several hundred
            pages, entitled, "First Quarrels in Married Life."
          DR. JOEL REED, almost the
            first Henry county physician, was a frequent contributor to the county papers in former
            years. He was a man of good alility, and the generous goodness of his heart impressed
            itself upon his composition.
          BENJAMIN WRIGLEY, once an editor of the Courier, had a rare faculty of imitation of some of the choice songs of
            the language, and was the author of a few meritorious poems. He believed that people in
            general knew nothing; lacked faith in himself and every body and so run his paper down
            to naught and left the county.
          HANNAH MARIA PARKER, of Wayne
            township, wrote several meritorious poems in blank verse. One entitled "The Exile of
            Scio," telling the woes of a noble Greek banished from his native land, gave evidence of
            a mind of more than ordinary poetic insight.
          
          PROF. ELIJAH EVAN EDWARDS flitted into our county once and rested the soles of his feet at
            New Castle a few months, but this fact hardly gives us the right to claim that gifted
            bird of song as a Henry county man.
          DORA J. GILBERT, (afterward Williams,) when at
            college and a few years afterward produced some articles that attracted considerable
            attention on account of their promise of future excellence, but death closed her career
            before the full scope of her abilities were indicated.
          MRS. JENNIE G. KINLEY, though
            scarcely to be claimed a Henry county writer, is the author of articles in prose and
            verse of rare merit. Her notes on European travel, published in the School
              Journal, cannot fail to please everyone.
          The Misses EDWARDS, Elizabeth and Mary Jane produced before the
            local literary societies essays of considerable merit, some of which found their way
            into print, and may yet be seen in old and well thumed scrap-books.
          EZRA SPENCER, of Greensboro, has been for several
            years recognized as a pleasant writer of sketches and essays, and a general advocate of
            temperance and moral reform.
          But our waning space forbids more than a "bare mention" of many who are more or less
            known in literary fields, like
          WM. HAUGHTON, an eminent minister of the Society
            of Friends, and a lecturer on scientific and kindred topics of no mean repute; or of
          S. S. BENNETT, the "Learned Blacksmith," efficient Auditor,
            preacher, and most forcible lecturer and orator in the county.
          Besides these, we might mention a host of "locals" and reporters whose talents are
            being called into active play by the requirements of the public press. Of these we will
            merely mention JOHN W. SHOCKLEY, of Blue River
            township; FLEM. RATCLIFF, of Dunreith; O. H. BOGUE, of Dudley; OLL NIXON and J.
            B. ANTRIM, of Spiceland; and a host of others of more or less
            celebrity, whose bright and shining lights have been partially hidden by the thin veil
            of a nom de plume.
          Of the present county editors it is not our purpose to speak. They are still on the war
            path, and they must "fight it out on that line."
          
          And thus ends the chapter, while many as noted as some mentioned may have been omitted,
            for the reason that they have been unknown to us, or we cannot now think of their names.
            Perhaps at some not very distant day some one will take hold of the matter and make a
            much better showing for the county than it has been possible for us to do.
        
        
          COUNTY NEWSPAPERS.
          Printing is styled "The art preservative of all arts;" but little research after copies
            of the earlier newspapers of this county has led to the conclusion that newspapers,
            however potent as chroniclers of passing events, pass away almost as rapidly as the
            events themselves. To find sufficient data for giving the name and politics of the
            newspapers of the county—when they were founded, how long each lived, and by whom
            edited and published, was supposed to be quite an easy task, while the effort has shown
            it to be one of the most difficult we have had to perform. Where certainty was expected,
            only guesses and conjectures were met with.
          
            THE FIRST PAPER.
            The first newspaper of the county was issued at Knightstown as early as 1831 or 1832,
              ——— GRANT, editor, and JOHN
                MITCHELL, foreman of the office. Grant was succeeded by JAMES SILVERS, and he by J. T. LANGDON, each for a short time. The name of this paper is variously reported by
              those who remember it well, as the Knightstown Banner, Knightstown Sun, and Indiana Sun. The weight of the
              testimony we believe to be in favor of its having been called the Knightstown Sun, although this would necessitate its having been suspended for
              several years, or for several considerable periods, as the Sun was
              only in its third year in 1839.
          
          
            THE INDIANA SUN.
            Leaving the debatable question as to what the first paper was christened, we find
              that T. D. CLARKSON either founded the 
              Sun, or revived the old paper. The fact that the list of letters
              remaining in the post office at Knightstown was advertised in the Richmond Palladium in 1835, is pretty good evidence that this county was
              without a paper at the time. About the first of the year 1839 ———
                HANNUM and J. W. GRUBBS purchased the Sun for $600, seemingly a large sum at the time. Before the purchase
              money was all paid, Hannum left unceremoniously for parts unknown, leaving J. W.
              Grubbs in possession of the field. On the 10th of June, 1841, Mr. Grubbs changed the
              name to Indiana Courier, and about the first of December following
              removed with it to New Castle, "solely for the convenience of the people of Henry
              county." He continued its publication until about the middle of the year 1846, when he
              sold to C. V. Duggins.
            About the first of January, 1850, Mr. Duggins died, and the Courier
              was published by his executor, Mr. JAMES COMSTOCK, until in March, 1850, when J. W. Grubbs again became proprietor. GEORGE W. LENNARD purchased the office in January,
              1853, and, after a few months, found a partner in COLEMAN ROGERS, who assisted in conducting the paper the balance of the year.
                NATION & ELLISON became its proprietors in
              January, 1854, with H. C. GRUBBS as editor-in-chief, and D. NATION "local." Mr. Grubbs, however, soon retired and D. Nation was
              promoted.
            BENJAMIN WRIGLEY purchased the office before
              the close of the year 1854, and took in as partner a Mr. LYLE; but
              before the close of the year 1855 they disposed of the office to CHAS. E. HARWOOD and T. B. REDDING, who
              conducted it for about one year, and turned it over to E. B. MARTINDALE, who also seems soon to have tired of it, and sold out to I. S. DRAKE early in 1857. In 1859 Mr. Drake secured as partner WALTON P. GOODE, who became sole proprietor about a
              year afterward, and continued alone in the business till November, 1862, when the
              office was sold to E. PLEAS, who conducted the paper until the
              first of March, 1869, a period of six years and four months, when it was sold to M. E.
                PLEAS and H. H. HOOVER. This firm continued
              the publication of the paper until the 15th of May, 1870, when M. E. PLEAS sold his interest to A. G. WILCOX, who, in connection
              with Mr. Hoover, continued its publication until  some
              time in January, 1871, when Mr. Hoover sold his interest to CALVIN
              R. SCOTT, which is the last of the changes we have to chronicle in
              the dramatis personœ of that paper. Our space is too limited for
              much more than a catalogue of the changes in managers.
            The Sun, which was the forerunner of the Courier
              (the volume and number of the former being for some time retained in the latter), was
              what is termed a five-column paper, 21 by 32 inches in dimensions, the columns being
              about one-third wider than at present. For several years after the change of name, the
              size was but little changed, though treated to an occasional new dress. In 1850 the
              columns were reduced in width about one-half an inch, so as to admit of six columns to
              the page, and in 1851 it was enlarged to a 24 by 36 sheet, seven columns to the page,
              and in 1858 again enlarged to 22 by 38, but in war times (May, 1861), it was reduced
              in size, by Mr. Goode, to six columns, and a sheet 22 by 32. At the end of the year
              1863 it was again enlarged, by E. Pleas, to seven columns, or a sheet 24 by 36, and
              further enlarged, three years later, and made an eight-column paper, and while owned
              by Wilcox & Hoover it was still further enlarged and made a nine-column paper.
            The politics both of the Sun and Courier were
              Whig so long as that party remained to be battled for. Soon after the demise of that
              party the paper seemed to have Know-Nothing proclivities; but upon the organization of
              the Republican party it espoused the cause of Republicanism.
          
          
            NEW CASTLE BANNER.
            The first paper at the county seat was established in the latter part of the year
              1835, or early in 1836, and christened the New Castle Banner, J. B.
                SWAYZE publisher, and Rev. ALFRED JOHNSON COTTON, editor. The third number was not
              issued until March 31, 1836, at which time they say: We have
                  the pleasure to state that, notwithstanding we issued our first number of the
                  Banner without a subscription list, we issue the third with a list rising 300. We
                  confidently anticipate 500 ere long.
            Notwithstanding these brilliant prospects, it only reached its twenty-sixth number by
              the 20th of October, and was suspended soon afterward. Mr. Swayze started a paper at
              Hagerstown, Indiana, and Mr. Cotton shut up his house and went to Dearborn county, and
              "stood a poll" for Judge and was elected.  The Banner professed to be independent in politics, and to give the good
              from all sides, while the editor and publisher both voted the Democratic ticket.
          
          
            THE DEMOCRATIC BANNER.
            The next attempt at a Democratic paper in this county was made by J. FENWICK HENRY, about the first of August, 1851. It was
              started as a six-column sheet, 21 by 30, and was ornamented by a wonderfully imposing
              wood cut head. In about eighteen months, the erratic J. F. H. sold the concern to NELSON ABBOTT, who enlarged it to a seven-column
              paper, 24 by 36, but soon changed the name to "New Castle Banner,"
              reducing the size to six-column page and 22 by 32 sheet. It was conducted with
              considerable vigor. In 1854, a literary page was conducted under the nom
                de plume of De Wit Mullinix, real name not now remembered, though we believe
              the same writer was employed on a Cincinnati magazine, the department under his charge
              being regarded by some as equal to the Knickerbocker Papers. The Banner was issued as a small semi-weekly for some time, but its demise, which
              occurred about 1855, was probably hastened by the stand taken on the Nebraska
              question. The Baltimore platform and resistance to anti-slavery agitation appears to
              have been its "pole star."
          
          
            HENRY COUNTY TIMES.
            In September, 1865, R. F. BROWN, for some time publisher of a
              paper in Connersvile, Ind., removed his office to New Castle, and commenced the
              publication of a seven-column sheet, styled the Henry County Times,
              the first number of which was dated October 13, 1865. At the end of a month, he
              removed his office to Knightstown, and the fourth number appeared as the Henry County Weekly Times. At the end of about five months, Brown "pulled up
              stakes" and went to Western Illinois, and, a few weeks later, to Lamar, Missouri, in
              search of a more appreciative community.
          
          
            THE HENRY COUNTY INDEPENDENT.
            This paper was started at New Castle, in April, 1867, by HOOVER
              & SHOPP, and, after reaching the twenty-fourth number, was sold
              to a joint stock company of Democrats, by whom it was managed for five weeks, when it
              was placed under the control of LEONARD H. MILLER, who changed the name to
          
          
          
            SIGNS OF THE TIMES,
            about the 1st of January, 1868. Miller continued the paper until some time in April,
              when he became so badly demoralized that the company procured the services of a Mr. S.
              S. DARLING, of Hamilton, O., who was a young man of more promise
              than performance. He changed the name of the paper to
          
          
            THE NEW CASTLE EXAMINER,
            and ran on quite lively till some time in August, when an examination showed that he
              too had decamped, and an arrangement was made with L. L. DALE,
              Esq., to conduct the paper.
            In May following, Mr. Dale removed the office to Cambridge City, to fill a vacancy
              caused by the sale of the Democratic organ at that place to the Republicans. The name
              was changed to Democratic Times, and after being published there for
              about five months, the office was again established at New Castle, and in December
              last sold to L. E. BUNDY and WM. JOHNSON, the present proprietors.
          
          
            THE KNIGHTSTOWN BANNER,
            Now in the fifth year, has started at Knightstown in the spring of 1867 by JOHN A. DEEM, who continues to conduct it. It was
              at first a small sheet, but has been enlarged from time to time and is now quarto in
              form and printed on a sheet 25 by 36 inches, and seems to be well sustained by the
              citizens of Knightstown and vicinity. In politics it has been radically
              Republican.
          
          
            THE CITY CHRONICLE,
            Also published at Knightstown, was originated by J. C. RIDDELL
              early in the year 1870. It is a fair-sized sheet but has been so irregularly in its
              appearance as to leave us in doubt as to its permanance.
          
          
            THE HENRY COUNTY REPUBLICAN.
            This is a nine column paper 26 x 42 inches in size. Its publication was commenced
              August 4, 1870, by E. and M. E. Pleas. Although there were already four papers
              published in the county, the Republican still in its first year has
              attained to more than an average circulation. In politics it is radically
              Republican.
          
          
            THE KNIGHTSTOWN CITIZEN.
            Started in 1858 or 9, we believe, by T. D. CLARKSON, and  afterward conducted by Will C. Moreau, and then by A. M.
              Woodin was discontinued about the latter part of 1861. It was a fair-sized sheet,
              Republican in politics. Not being in possession of a copy or any very definite
              information about it, the notice must be correspondingly brief.
          
          
            THE BEECH TREE.
            This was a 32 page literary magazine, conducted by Isaac Kinley, and started, we
              believe, in 1858. It was discontinued after a few months for want of a sufficiently
              generous support such as its merits really demanded.
          
          
            THE WESTERN RURALIST,
            An agricultural magazine, published at Knightstown in 1865, by John A. Deem. It was
              only published a few months when Mr. Deem went to Plainfield, Indiana, and engaged in
              the publication of a weekly paper.
          
          
            ADVERTISING SHEETS.
            In addition to the regular newspapers of the county, several little papers intended
              chiefly as advertising sheets with enough reading only to make them go, have from time
              to time been projected. Such were the Knightstown Trade Journal of
              1867, M. H. Chappell Publisher, and The Henry County Advertiser,
              recently issued by J. B. Martindale.
          
        
        
          BENEVOLENT SOCIETIES.
          The organizations known as "benevolent societies" form too important a feature of our
            "domestic institutions" to be over-looked, although want of room compels us to pass from
            the subject with little more than a notice of the strength, and date of the organization
            of each lodge.
          
            MASONS.
            The oldest Masonic organization in the county is that of Knightstown, which, from the
              following table it will be seen was formed near thirty years ago.
            
            
              
                NAME AND NO. OF LODGE, AND TIME OF MEETING.
                Date of organization.
                Present strength.
              
              
                F. and A. M.
                
                
              
              
                Golden Rule (Knightstown), No. 16
                1844
                114
              
              
                Lewisville, No. 72
                1848
                37
              
              
                New Castle, No. 91, Saturday on or after full moon
                1850
                86
              
              
                Greensboro, No. 175, Friday on or before full moon
                1855
                41
              
              
                Middletown, No. 271, Saturday on or before full moon
                1861
                52
              
              
                Cadiz, No. 277
                1862
                49
              
              
                Cadiz. No. 277, reorganized
                1870
                29
              
              
                Blountsville, No. 331, Sat. on or before full moon
                1867
                43
              
              
                Mechanicsburg, No. 392, Sat. on or after full moon
                1869
                27
              
              
                H. H. Winslow, No. 27, (col'd), first Friday in month
                1869
                12
              
              
                Chapter.
                
                
              
              
                Knightstown, No. 33
                1856
                84
              
              
                New Castle, No. 50, Saturday after full moon.
                1864
                65
              
              
                Council.
                
                
              
              
                Criptic (Knightstown,) No. 29
                1864
                56
              
              
                Commandary.
                
                
              
              
                Wm. Hacker (Knightstown), No. 9
                1866
                53
              
            
          
          
            ODD FELLOWS.
            This brotherhood is the most numerous fraternity in the county, and "Fidelity Lodge,"
              at New Castle, takes precedence in point of age, as will be seen by the table below:
                
                
                  NAME AND NO. OF LODGE, AND TIME OF MEETING.
                  Date of organization.
                  Present strength.
                
                
                  I. O. O. F.
                  
                  
                
                
                  Fidelity (New Castle), No. 59 Saturday
                  1848
                  84
                
                
                  Fall Creek (Middletown), No. 97, Tuesday
                  1851
                  63
                
                
                  Knightstown, No. 99, Tuesday
                  1851
                  123
                
                
                  Wildey (Lewisville), No. 191, Thursday
                  1857
                  40
                
                
                  Ogden, No. 202, Saturday
                  1858
                  45
                
                
                  Cadiz, No. 237, Saturday
                  1860
                  33
                
                
                  Greensboro, No. 247, Saturday
                  1865
                  51
                
                
                  Sulphur Springs, No. 249, Saturday
                  1865
                  31
                
                
                  Spiceland, No. 266, Friday
                  1866
                  40
                
                
                  Blountsville, No. 395, Saturday
                  1868
                  38
                
                
                  Mechanicsburg, No. 327, Thursday
                  1869
                  21
                
                
                  Dunreith, No. 341, Wednesday
                  1870
                  41
                
                
                  Encampments.
                  
                  
                
                
                  Blue River, No. 48 (Knightst'n), 1st & 3d Wednesdays 
                  1856
                  100
                
                
                  Henry, No. 69 (New Castle), 2d and 4th Wednesdays
                  1865
                  43
                
                
                  Farnsworth, No. 91 (Lewisville), 1st and 3d Fridays
                  1869
                  39
                
                
                  Degree of Rebekah.
                  
                  
                
                
                  Wildey, No. 4 (Cadiz), every other Monday
                  1868
                  
                
                
                  Charity, No. 19 (New Castle), 1st and 2d Tuesdays
                  1869
                  34
                
                
                  Social No. 7 (Knightstown), 1st and 3d Wednesdays
                  1869
                  53
                
                
                  Aretas (Lewisville)
                  1870
                  35
                
              
            
          
          
            THE INDEPENDENT ORDER OF GOOD TEMPLARS
            Sets forth as its principal object to "reclaim the fallen" victims of intemperance
              and "save others from falling," its objects being substantially the same as that of
              the Sons of Temperance, now obsolete in this part of the State, and in this
              philanthropic work males and females are admitted on terms of perfect equality.
            
            
              
                NAME AND NO. OF LODGE AND TIME OF MEETING.
                Date of organization.
                Present strength.
              
              
                I. O. G. T.
                
                
              
              
                Greensboro, No. 43, Wednesday, (reorganized)
                1871
                21
              
              
                Ogden, No. 318, Wednesday
                1865
                25
              
              
                Knightstown, No. 277
                1861
                56
              
              
                Mechanicsburg, No. 333, Friday
                1866
                
              
              
                Spiceland, No. 547, Saturday
                1867
                52
              
              
                Middletown, No. 682
                1870
                32
              
              
                Dunreith, No. 740, Saturday
                1870
                35
              
            
          
        
        
          BANKS.
          Henry county, until within a few years, was so essentially rural, and the pursuits of
            our people of such a character, that banks were not looked upon as in any way necessary
            to the growth or progress of the county. It is presumed that capitalists surveyed the
            field with equal indifference, as no serious effort was made to start a banking house
            within our borders prior to the introduction of the national banking system. Under the
            old State Bank system, but a limited number of branches were permitted, and this county
            was in the Richmond District; while our capitalists generally had a very judicious fear
            of the "wild cat" system, and probably saved money and reputation by giving it a wide
            berth.
          It is not to be inferred from the foregoing that no one in the county, during its
            infancy, engaged in the loaning of money, as almost every neighborhood had its money
            kings who were ready to discount good paper on private terms. Fifteen or twenty years
            since, an "old farmer" who could scrape together from $3,000 to $5,000, ready money, was
            regarded as a moneyed man and on the high road to fortune, if not already arrived at
            that ever-shifting point. One of the most noticeable effects of the late war was to so
            change the industries and financial wants of communities as to make the establishment of
            several banks seem desirable, where the want of so much as one was not seriously felt
            before. Accordingly in January, 1865, an association was formed, and
          
          
            THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF NEW CASTLE
            Went into operation soon afterward, with a capital of $100,000 and a circulation of
              $90,000, as the law permits. Its career has been quite a successful one, the stock
              commanding 25 per cent. premium, and the semi-annual dividends averaging about seven
              per cent., while its "accumulated surplus" amounts to $16,725 62. Its quarterly
              transactions amount to about $150,000 in the way of loans and discounts, and the
              individual deposits last quarter amounted to about $85,000. The present officers of
              the company are: M. L. Bundy, S. T. Powell, J. T. Elliott, Wm. Murphy, Clement
              Murphey, Directors; M. L. Bundy, President; John
              Thornburgh, Cashier; Augustus Bundy, Teller.
          
          
            THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF KNIGHTSTOWN
            Was organized about the same time, but a few weeks later, we believe, than the above
              mentioned. Its capital stock is also $100,000, and circulation about $90,000. The
              career of these two institutions has been about equally successful, the figures
              setting forth the quarterly transactions of each not greatly differing. It is claimed
              that the stock in the Knightstown bank commands a little higher premium than that of
              the other, though we presume this is a matter of precious little consequence except in
              case of the death of a stockholder, as there is seldom any transactions in the stock
              of either. The semi-annual dividends of this bank have not been reported as being
              quite so high as those of its New Castle competitor, but, on the other hand, it
              reported an "accumulated surplus" of over $33,000 several months since. The officers
              are, so far as learned: Robert Woods, President; C. D. Morgan, Cashier; William Penn Hill and Perry Wagoner, Clerks.
          
          
            THE UNION BANK OF NEW CASTLE.
            This was a private bank, projected by M. L. Bundy in 1869, office in the Taylor
              House. It appeared to do a flourishing business for several months, when its business
              and good will were transferred to the First National, of which Mr. Bundy soon became
              President.
          
          
            CITIZENS' BANK OF DUNREITH.
            This is a private bank, instituted at Dunreith in 1869, by Strattan, Harrold &
              Co., with a capital stock of $25,000, and intended to supply a local demand, and for
              the accommodation of  the shipping interests of Dunreith
              and vicinity. Although the capital was small, its transactions for the first year were
              of a highly satisfactory character. In December last it was burglariously entered and
              victimized to the tune of about $6,000, which very materially interfered with its
              business calculations and success.
            Under the present order of things, the banks of Henry county seem like almost
              indispensable institutions. They are certainly great conveniences at times, but their
              being so extremely good for the stockholder at once raises the question as to whether
              the community in general can be shown to be benefitted by their existence. One thing
              is certainly demonstrable: that the rate of interest is too high, as it can hardly be
              a healthy state of affairs in general, when the interest which money will command is
              greater than the per cent. of profits in any of the leading pursuits in which it is
              employed. It has been but a few months since the rate of discounts at our banks was
              reduced from twelve to ten per cent. Still it is extremely doubtful whether
              agricultural pursuits, which are the chief basis of wealth in this county, have paid
              an average of six per cent. on the capital invested for the past five years.
          
        
        
          POLITICAL DEVELOPMENT.
          In the earlier portion of our county's history, there was little known of what is
            called partizan politics. Party lines were but dimly defined. Personal popularity
            counted more at the polls, (especially in local elections) than political creeds. A
            difference of choice for Governor or President might engender considerable feeling
            between neighbors without separating them in choice for Justice of the Peace or County
            Commissioner. Names, too, were as liable to deceive in early times as at present.
          A venerable and life-long Democrat, whose name frequently occurs in these pages,
            commenced his career by voting for John Quincy Adams, and afterwards voted for Mr. Clay,
            who he says were Democrats at the time.
          
          In early times the Democratic conventions at Indianapolis were styled Republican
            conventions, thus showing that words may be and often are used interchangeably, which,
            at other times, convey ideas of the most opposite character.
          Although Henry county, from an early day, was regarded as very reliably Whig when it
            came to a general election, Democrats, for many years, enjoyed a considerable share of
            the places of "trust and profit" in the county. After Jackson's election the lines began
            to be more closely drawn, and party machinery to be put in more successful operation on
            both sides, and the opposing candidates were often held up as political monstrosities,
            and the "glorious principles" of each were attacked with a rancor, or defended with a
            zeal on the stump, or through the press, that leaves the impression at this day that the
            actors must have believed great principles were really at stake in the contests between
            Whigs and Democrats, but just what they were we are unable at this remote period to
            accurately determine, and freely confess to having some difficulty in comprehending the
            "world wide" difference between the principles of the old Whig and Democratic parties.
            Nevertheless there must have been a difference, for once the issue was made, the number
            of Democrats promoted in this county became smaller by degrees, and if we mistake not,
            Joshua Johnson, elected Sheriff in 1850, was the "last of his line"
          The difference between Whiggery and Democracy, however, has not been the only element
            in Henry county politics. The county having been for many years noted as a stronghold of
            Radicalism and sure for a heavy majority for Hon. G. W. Julian, renders a review of some
            of the causes which led to such results, fitting in this place.
          Many of the early pioneers were from the South, and had learned from actual contact
            with the "peculiar institution" to detest it from the bottom of their hearts. They
            cherished the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence as vital truths and not as
            "glittering generalities." They not only confessed with their mouths, but believed in
            their hearts, that God had made of one blood all nations of men, and that "A man's a man for a' that," in spite of color, cast or
            rank. They early perceived the  essentially aggressive
            character of the "patriarchal institution," which, in spite of its professed
            conservatism and pleadings to be "let alone," was mustering its forces for a crusade,
            determined to rule or ruin, to bend or break to its accused purposes, parties,
            constitutions, unions, Bibles, churches and all else held sacred.
          They saw earlier and knew better than Mr. Seward himself the nature of the
            "irrepressible conflict."
          A National Anti-Slavery Society was formed about 1833, and had aroused great excitement
            and uncontrolable mobs in Boston and Philadelphia, but it took some time for this
            agitation to reach as far west as Indiana, and there was not much concerted action here
            until after 1840.
          Although the number who felt that the pandering of Church and State to the traffic in
            human flesh was a burning disgrace and a foul blot on our fair institutions, was ever on
            the increase, thousands who recognized the heaven defying character of slavery, and were
            "just as much opposed to it as any body" were not yet ready to carry their opposition
            into politics, or at least not ready for separate political action, and so when the
            movement in this direction was inaugurated in 1840, no electoral ticket was formed in
            this and some other western States, and the ticket received but about six thousand votes
            in the whole Union.
          When J. G. Birny, a practical Abolitionist, who had manumitted his own slaves, was put
            forward by the Liberty party in 1844, to make the race with those well-known
            slave-holders and apologists for oppression, Henry Clay and James K. Polk, he received
            but 188 votes in the county, and 62,263 in the whole country. When separate political
            action was inaugurated the fires of persecution were made to burn fiercly.
            "Abolitionist" became a supreme epithet of reproach. Among the boys it was sometimes
            changed to "niggerlitionist." No effort was spared to harrass and crush out the growing
            hostility to an institution, which, from being allowed to exist by the sufferance and
            forbearance of our forefathers, had come to arrogantly demand the chiefest place in
            State and Synagogue. Those who had the temerity to oppose its progress, soon found
            themselves not only outside of a "healthy political organization," but their  fellow church members were looking askance at them as
            disturbers of the peace of "God's family"—the "household of faith," and two, at
            least of the churches of this county suffered disruption on this score.
          But none of these things moved them, despite threats, despite personal violence
            principle sustained the moral heroes. These "agitators" were fighting the battle of
            human liberty in general, but yet it was in behalf of a despised race and their very
            disinterestedness was made an occasion against them. They were "meddling with other
            people's business."
          Rotten eggs were often tried, but found incapable of hitting truth. The ball put in
            motion, though so small at first, soon doubled in size, and, although most unfortunate
            in their selection of a standard bearer, the "impracticables" of the county gave him 455
            votes in 1848, nearly one-fifth of the vote cast; and this, too, in spite of the
            military renown and prowess of one of the opposing candidates.
          The demands of the slave power became still more arrogant. Slavery, instead of being a
            domestic concern, circumscribed by State lines with the prospect of gradually if not
            soon, dying out, began to insist on being the normal condition of the laborer
            everywhere. It laid claim to being a divine heritage, entitled to be every where
            recognized. It insisted on new territory and new guarantees, and asserted, that by force
            of the constitution, it was to be at home wherever our flag waved. Petitions against it
            were held to be an outrage. No disrespectful reference to it was to be tolerated in
            Congress. The citizens of the North were to catch and return the panting fugitive to his
            divinely appointed master.
          The leading political parties had, in many localities, been passing very strong
            Anti-slavery resolutions, and vieing with each other in trying to meet the demands of
            the nation's conscience, with reference to this great national curse. In a spasm of
            goodness the Democracy of Indiana went as far in its opposition to slavery as a "black
            abolitionist" could well demand.
          Wilmot Provisos and similar literature seemed to have become wondrously and suddenly
            popular. But the scene shifted as suddenly, the great political parties were whipped
            into the service of the task-masters more completely than 
            ever before, and 1850 witnessed the dawn of the slave-hunting era. The Democracy in
            National Convention assembled and resolved to "resist all attempts at renewing in
            Congress or out of it the agitation of the slavery question under whatever color or
            shape the attempt may be made," and two weeks atfer the Whigs in the same capacity, and
            place, resolved to "discountenance all efforts to continue or renew such agitation
            wherever or however made, and we will maintain this system as essential to the
            nationality of the Whig party and the integrity of the Union."
          Here were the accredited representatives of the two great political parties of the
            nation in solemn conclave assembled deliberately and with one accord pledging each other
            that henceforth no voice should plead the cause of the down-trodden and
            oppressed—anywhere or in any manner, in all this broad land. It was a diabolical
            covenant to stifle at once the voices of religion, morality and humanity.
          The stupendous folly of thus defying the fiat of Jehovah, and attempting to turn
            backward the progress of the nineteenth century, was answered by such a storm of
            agitation the land over as had never been witnessed before, and as if to set the seal of
            madness to this compact, no sooner had Congress assembled than the portals of agitation
            were thrown wide open by a resolution against agitation, introduced too, by a
            Democrat.
          The Whig party, which, in times past, could lay some claim to be called the party of
            liberty, in consequence of its stand in favor of freedom of debate and the right of
            petition, had, since its successes in 1848, been licking the dust from the feet of its
            Southern masters, and was ready to barter its all of principle, justice and humanity for
            a continuance in place and power, but there being no longer a vital issue between the
            two great parties, the Whig party paid dearly for its treachery, by a defeat in 1852,
            which blotted it out forever.
          The Democratic party in many parts of the North, at least had been studiously making
            amends for its Waterloo defeat of 1848, by giving utterance to sentiments that would
            have done credit to a Garrison or a Phillips. By its happy efforts in this direction in
            Eastern Indiana, George W. Julian was elected to Congress in 1849, Isaac Kinly sent to
            the constutional  convention and George Evans to the State
            Senate from this county. The conversion of the party, it is feared, was not genuine as
            by its prompt acceptance of the "Baltimore platform," it readily fell from grace and
            returned to its wallow, and, although successful in 1852, and again in 1856, it was at
            the expense of the last vestige of good in the party, which seemed at once to become the
            rendezvous of most of the thieves, cutthroats and treason mongers in the whole country.
            Just how completely such encompassed and engulphed the party "Bleeding Kansas" a torn
            and distracted country four years of sanguinary strife, mountains of debt and the
            sacrifice of more than a half a million of lives must attest.
          The terrible bugbear of a "dissolution of the Union" and the wonderful qualities of a
            panacea labeled "The Compromise Measures," were most industriously exhibited by the
            party nurses from 1850 to 1855. But the "plantation manners" adopted by Congress and the
            humiliation of the free men of the North by the effort to convert them into "blood
            hounds" to chase the flying bondsmen, aroused great indignation throughout the country
            and "personal liberty bills" and indignation meetings were the order of the day, and the
            "Free Democracy" with Hale and Julian as standard-bearers polled a vote of more than a
            quarter of a million in 1852. In this county the gain was, however, for various reasons,
            but small.
          In 1851 a series of meetings were held throughout the county, in which the repeal of
            the fugitive slave bill was discussed and demanded. One appointed for the county seat
            and coming on an inclement day, the attendance from the country was small, and the
            occasion was seized upon by certain politicians, and portions of the populace to pervert
            the meeting from its original purpose. For the resolutions condemnatory of the law,
            substitutes were offered, the floor was occupied at great length by the apologists of
            the law, and those who called the meeting were greeted with hisses, howls, and cries of
            "question!" "question!" when they attempted to reply. The mob had its way for the time,
            but "Radicals" learned a lesson not soon forgotten, and more than once since when it has
            been necessary to hold conventions, those who, for many years, managed the affairs of
            the county, have been astonished at the interest taken  in
            them by the people from the "rural districts."
          So soon as it became apparent that the anti-slavery forces of this county held the
            balance of power, it became a matter of some consequence to secure their aid in the
            contests of the time, and they were alternately caressed and scolded by the Whigs,
            besought or cuffed by the Democracy. Still they maintained to an admirable extent the
            even tenor of their way—not that they made no mistakes, but what they kept
            constantly in view, was the early triumph of their cherished principles, and the sacred
            cause of human liberty.
          Among those who stood fast through good and evil report and bore the heat and burthen
            of the day, might be mentioned old Dr. Reed and young Dr. Hiatt, Dr. Darr, Emsley
            Brookshire, T. R. Stanford, Jonathan Macy, and Jabish Luellen; the Bonds, Marshalls, and
            Wickershams, on Flatrock; John H. Bales, the Macys and Jessups, on Blue river; the
            Edgertons, Antrims, and others, at Spiceland; about Greensboro, the Cooks, Saints,
            Bransons, Wrights, "Old Uncle Seth," and the Hinshaw family generally; and in the
            North-west part of the county, Shubal Julian, John Swain and sons, a Mr. Wright and an
            Adamson, and of course, many others, of whom want of space forbids mention.
          After the sudden demise of the Whig party, Knownothingism sprung into being, and swept
            like a tornado over the land. Its novelty, a natural love of change, a weakness which
            seems inherent in afflicted humanity to try all the quack nostrums and curealls
            proposed, together with the speciousness of the claims set up for the movement by its
            wily propagandists, all conspired to sweep into its secret conclaves thousands of
            excellent men.
          The purposes and tendencies of the party, soon however, became so apparent that
            multitudes turned from it in disgust,* and to-day, scarcely one in ten of all those "taken in" will admit they ever
            saw "Sam." Doubtless the earlier Abolitionists were believed by honest thousands to be
            little less than monsters, holding and teaching the most atrocious sentiments, *Although this new phase of
              politics swept through many of the States irresistably for a time, its force was
              speedily spent, and in this county its votaries numbered but 49 in 1856, and 16 in
              1860.
             but the rapid strides of the slave power toward complete
            ascendency in the land, thoroughly aroused the masses.
          The repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the "grinding out" of the Dred Scott decision,
            the attempt to blast Kansas and other virgin territory with that most insidious piece of
            diabolism known as "squatter sovereignty," and the open and shameless crusade of armed
            ruffians in the interest of human bondage seemed rapidly to develop the national
            conscience and open the eyes of the blind politicians to the deadly aggressive character
            of slavery. A sunburst of righteous indignation swept over the land, and the Republican
            party was formally organized in 1856, embracing all the real anti-slavery men of the
            country, a very large portion of the Whig party, with a large accession from the
            Democratic ranks. The Democratic leaders of Henry county, yielding to the better
            impulses of their nature, called an indignation meeting at New Castle, and resolved
            against the dastardly Lecompton measures of the Democratic administration in terms as
            vigorous or fitting as any body of radical abolitionists could have desired. Indeed it
            seemed much like re-enacting the Decalogue and Declaration of Independcnce.
          The Democratic President soon, however, found the means of silencing this ebullition of
            goodness, and whipping into the traces the larger portion of the party, while such as
            could not be thus controled or cajoled found a genial home in the camp of
            Republicanism.
          During all the vicissitudes of parties, aud amid all the revolutions in platforms,
            changes of base, and frequent "new departures," the Democratic party of this county has
            "held its own." The relative strength of parties in this county sine 1852, taking the
            Presidential vote as a basis, has been nearly as follows: 1852—Whig, 49 per cent.; Democrat, 38 per cent.; Freesoil, 14 per cent.
                1856—Republican, 68 per cent.; Democrat, 30½ per cent.; Know Nothing, 1 per
                cent. 1860—Republican, 66 per cent.; Democrat, 33 per cent.; Know Nothing, ⅓
                per cent. 1864—Republican, 74 per cent.; Democrat, 25 per cent.
                1868—Republican, 70 per cent.; Democrat, 30 per cent.
          Upon the formation of the Republican party, the old Abolitionists, Liberty Men, Free
            Democrats, and Free Soilers, to a  man, cast their
            fortunes with it, or more properly speaking, they were the very life of the
            organization. It is true that its platform of principles embodying little more than
            resistance to the further spread of slavery was regarded by some as lowering the
            standard too much, but it was a great step to have the masses, as well as the leaders of
            public opinion step upon this high platform, and progress was patiently awaited.
            Revolutions could not go backward. The genuine lovers of freedom had faith that 
                "As round and round we run,
                Truth ever comes uppermost
                And ever is justice done."
               But it is curious to note with what pertinacity men cling to their old
            prejudices, and while adopting the opinions of a class of thinkers who have blazed the
            way for them, never cease to condemn the men whose lead they follow.
          Henry County has been a Radical stronghold for twenty years, but homogeneity of opinion
            has never prevailed here. Many opposed slavery after it had well nigh destroyed the
            Government, who utterly repudiate and despise the earlier Abolirionists. Many who
            cheered most lustily for Fremont in 1856 would have been on the other side, had they
            suspected Republicanism would advance to the utterances of 1866, and when years after
            they helped to sing the requiem of slavery they were ready to swear that the smell of
            abolition was not on their garments, and never forgave the pioneers. From exalted places
            in the County laggards strove to stop the current of progress. In 1861-2 some of them
            favored meeting and treating with the rebels to stop the war. In 1863 they were still
            clamoring for the "Union as it was and the Constitution as it is." Freeing the negro as
            our armies advanced, was not to be thought of, and arming them to shoot their masters
            was simply intolerable.
          In February, 1864, in county convention assembled, a Republican committee of 13,
            stifled a resolution endorsing the Emancipation Proclamation, which, upon being
            presented by its originator, in the body of the convention, passed amid deafening
            applause; illustrating how the mere politician is ever behind the people. On a memorable
            day in April, 1865, a committee charged with the duty of preparing suitable resolutions
            for the obsequies of a Martyr President, refused to report a  resolution charging the black crime of his murder to the list scored up
            against slavery. This too was reported by its originator to the meeting and more
            completely touched the popular chord than any thing else said or done, notwithstanding
            its introduction was pronounced unnecessary by one of its original opponents. After its
            passage its publication as having come from the hands of the committee was privately
            requested, showing that politicians sometimes learn when it is too late.
          "Military necessity" placed the musket and the ballot in the hands of the negro in
            spite of the settled convictions and expressed opinions of many a Henry County
            politician. The reconstruction of the Southern States was also declared against by many
            "good Republicans," since, to admit that they were lapsed into a territorial condition,
            or had lost any of their rights was to grant that "the rebellion had succeeded."
          The Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to which the party is now so fully
            committed, had each to be fought for in the political circle of Henry County
            republicanism, but the battle seems at last almost won. The "logic of events" has
            carried us beyond the most advanced out posts of the anti-slavery men, till it almost
            seems as if the Garrisons, Phillips', and Giddings', the Sumners and Julians, were
            respectable old fogies. The clogs of the party of freedom have been shaken off or
            carried irresitably along till they have had time to see every hated position taken by
            those denominated as Radicals, adopted by the party at large, and the heresy of
            yesterday made the orthodoxy of today. And now, since to go back is impossible and
            Democracy itself is beginning to "accept the situation;" and the results of a victory it
            never intentionally helped to win, cannot all say "let us have peace."
        
        
          INDIANS.
          "The Noble Red Man" became a scarce article in this county soon after its settlement
            was fairly begun by the whites. As  previously mentioued
            by the terms of the treaty of 1818, they were all required to leave by the spring of
            1821. The bulk of them left before that time, although a number of them were scattered
            up and down Blue River and some other streams in the county for some time after the
            first crop of white immigrants took possession. Probably the most extensive Indian
            village in the county was located near the present site of Hernly's Mills, about two
            miles north of New Castle. The Indians of this county were of the Delaware tribe and
            perhaps chiefly belonged to the branch known as Muncies.
          
            MOUNDS, EARTHWORKS, ETC.
            There are in the county many evidences of its having been the home of one or more
              races of people, now passed away. Numerous mounds and earthworks or fortifications are
              found in the county while flint, arrow and spear heads are found in almost every
              neighborhood, and it might be said on almost every farm in the county. Stone pestels,
              hammers, tomahawks or hatchets, and other implements and trinkets are found in
              portions of the county. Whether these belonged to the race of "red men" that
              immediately preceded the whites, or to a people they had displaced is perhaps an open
              question. It is probable that the occupants of the soil, when the whites came into
              this part of the State, knew as little about the manufacture of these arrow-heads and
              stone hatchets as we do to-day, and yet these very weapons have been the only
              implements used by their ancestors of two hundred years before. It would not have
              taken he of the "untutored mind" long to discover the superior murderous quality of a
              steel hatchet over the blunt implement of his sires, and of course, as the stone
              implement was superceded the art of manufacture was lost, and even a well defined
              tradition of its use soon passed away with a people unused to letters.
            The most notable earthworks of the county are perhaps those on the "Hudelson place,"
              formerly the "Allen Shepherd farm." Here are fortifications which have defied the
              ravages of the "tooth of time" for aught we know for a century, and the plowman's
              share for half that time, and yet, in some instances from the bottom of the ditch to
              the top of the embankment is still four to six feet, though generally much less.
              Several of  them enclose near a half acre, and generally
              there is in the centre a mound which was probably at one time much higher than the
              surrounding embankment and served as a sort of observatory and as well perhaps as a
              resting place for the dead. There are one or more mounds without the surrounding ditch
              and embankments. One of the most noticeable is about two rods across at the base and
              near five feet in height although some body-snatcher has been thrusting his
              sacrilegious spade into it, with what result we know not. Like the famous general who
              "fit" in the Mexican war, these aboriginal engineers seemed to prefer having the ditch
              on the inside of the embankment, which probably served as a fence for the retention of
              stock as well as for defense from without. Some of these enclosures appear to have
              been circular, others quadrangular, one octagonal and some of irregular outline,
              though from the partial obliteration of the walls the exact state is not easily
              determined. Some of the walls were probably eight or more feet in height in early
              times and it is reported that some of them were surmounted with the remains of a
              stockade much less than fifty years ago.
            One of these old forts is on the premises and nearly in front of the residence of Mr.
              Joseph Dorrah, about one and a half miles north of New Castle, the New Castle and
              Northern Pike cutting it in two. There are two stumps in it, the remains of trees,
              probably more than one hundred and fifty years old. There are also similar relics in
              other portions of the county, all speaking to us of the trials, hardships and
              struggles of a race whose extinction seems near at hand. The hand of the "pale face"
              seems ever against them, even the sacred precincts of their burial grounds are invaded
              and their bones are not suffered to rest in peace.
            In constructing railroads and turnpikes their crumbling skeletons have been exhumed
              by scores and scattered to the four winds.
          
          
            THE INDIAN CHARACTER.
            As portrayed to us by the early settlers, though not "altogether lovely," was not
              desperate. The "noble red man," never seemed to have any difficulty in acquiring an
              appetite for fire-water, was fond of music, such as an old fiddle could supply, and
              seemed just in his element when engaged in a night of 
              revelry, with a few trifling whites and bottles of whisky for campanions. In point of
              honor, integrity, and some of the sterner virtues they were but little behind half the
              white men with whom they associated.
            Mr. Benjamin Harvy lived in their midst for two or more years and pronounced them
              "just as good as the whites." We secured their good will by upright dealing with them,
              and when the orders came to remove them to certain reservations, their parting with
              the family was with tears and every demonstration of affection.
            Asahel Woodard says they would never take so much as a "roasting ear" from him
              without the asking, and that they were exceedingly prompt in the return of everything
              they borrowed.
            Dempsy Rees says they often came to his house and would trade wild honey for corn
              bread and give pound for pound. They were inveterate beggars for small favors, and
              were never known to refuse an invitation to take a meals victuals, and when invited to
              set up alone to a well filled table they seemed to understand that all the victuals
              set upon it were intended for them, and what they could not get outside of, they would
              empty into a pouch or haversack with which they were generally provided; bread, meat,
              potatoes, gravy etc., being dumped in promiscuously. They much prefered sleeping on
              the floor to a bed.
            They were not proverbial for personal cleanliness or over squeamish in choice of
              food. The venerable Mrs. Hannah Symons relates being called upon by one of their
              braves, who spied a lot of eggs that some of the children had brought in, part of a
              nest full which a faithful hen had abandoned after weeks of fruitless effort at
              hatching. These he must have, and no amount of explanation as to their addled
              character was of any avail. Then he must have her skillet to cook them in, and
              actually cooked and ate the whole lot with the utmost gusto, and many an "ugh,"
              expressive of satisfaction.
            We have not been able to learn of an Indian having been killed by a white man within
              our borders, or any white settler falling by the hand of the Indians. Those of the
              earlier settlers who endeavored to live in peace with them found no difficulty in
              doing so, and had but little apprehension except from  a
              fear that some lawless whites might so exasperate them by some gross outrage as to
              cause them to forget the difference between friend and foe.
          
        
        
          WILD ANIMALS, ETC.
          The early settlers found here pretty much all wild animals to be found in the State,
            and many of them in great abundance, though we are not aware that the county was
            especially noted in this respect.
          BEARS.—The Black Bear was quite numerous for many years and
            made no inconsiderable addition to the larders of many a family. So late as 1830 they
            were not infrequently met with; several were seen in the streets of Knightstown so late
            as 1832-33. M. F. Edwards is said to have tried to keep one out of his lot by striking
            it with his fist, and when close pressed it sought refuge in the chimney of a new house,
            belonging to Alexander Posten. So late as 1848-50 three created some excitement in
            Spiceland Township.
          DEER.—The Red Deer was very plentiful and many families
            supplied themselves most bountifully for some years after the county began to be
            settled, with venison. Nathan Ratliff, the famous hunter and brother to Cornelius
            Ratliff, of Dudley Township, cleared and fenced ten acres of ground one summer and fall
            and killed seventy-five deer. One was killed in Harrison Township in 1865, as several
            parties who were prosecuted under the game laws can testify. This is the only one we
            have heard of in the county for fifteen or twenty years.
          WOLVES.—The Grey Wolf was very numerous and annoying to the
            first settlers, being especially destructive to young porkers and sheep. The county
            records show that no inconsiderable part of the funds in the Treasury at an early day
            went for wolf scalps. Quite a number of men more than paid their taxes in this way. They
            have long since disappeared.
          THE FOX.—Both the Red and Grey Fox have
            ever found a home in the county, and latterly seem to be on the increase,  especially the Red Fox, and the chase with horse and hound
            is becoming a fashionable and exciting pastime.
          PANTHERS were occasionally found, but oftener heard of in early
            times. The lynx, sometimes called the wild cat, was not an uncommon animal here at one
            time, though very rare for thirty years past. Something of this sort (perhaps the
            Canadian Lynx) was shot by one of the Garrett boys, about five miles north of New
            Castle, only two or three years since.
          RACCOON.—This little representative of the bear family was
            always quite numerous in this county, and it is not improbable that they have been on
            the increase for the past few years.
          OPPOSSUMS.—These animals were once plentiful and are still
            found occasionally, though hardly in sufficient quantities to supply the wants of our
            citizens who count them a toothsome dish. At a Masonic festival in New Castle, a few
            years since, a couple of them graced the well-filled board.
          SKUNKS.—This unpopular but rather pretty little animal defying
            public prejudice, seems to be wonderfully on the increase for a few years past. There
            are said to be some eight or ten varieties of this animal in the United States. Perhaps
            there is but one variety in this county and that must be the real Mephitis
              Americana. One variety is considered quite enough, although the kittens are said
            to make splendid pets, if they are not kept too long.
          BEAVERS.—The earthworks of this industrious and sagacious
            engineer were not nnknown to the early settlers, though we judge few if any of the
            builders were ever seen by the whites.
          THE OTTER, MINK AND MUSKRAT are still found in the county though rapidly decreasing in
            numbers. The pelts of these, especially of the Mink and Muskrat, have at times furnished
            the basis of considerable traffic.
          THE WOODCHUCK or Groundhog, always a resident of
            this county, has been rapidly gaining ground in some parts, of late years.
          THE RABBIT, or properly called Hare, is able to
            hold his own amidst all his foes. It is hard to tell what the boys would do if "cotton
            tails" should become extinct.
          RATS.—The so-called Norway (more properly gnaw-a way)  rat many years since expelled the old fashioned black rat,
            and has made himself perfectly at home, in such numbers as to almost dispute the right
            of possession with tyrant man. The establishment of a fine kid glove manufactory in each
            village is probably the only way to "clean out" the pests.
          SQUIRRELS.—The common Grey Squirrel and Chipmunk were so
            numerous for many years as to be a terrible tax on the patience and energies of the
            husbandman, and more than once the greys, with a considerable admixture of the blacks,
            have made their appearance in such countless numbers as to almost defy the farmer to
            save any thing from their ravages. He appeared to be emigrating from some unknown region
            to the south or southeast. Joseph R. Leaky, who had in several acres of corn, in 1823,
            had occasion to be from home for a few days, returned to find he had not an ear left.
            George Evans could only save a portion of his one season by pulling it when green and
            drying on a dry-kiln. Dempsey Rees hired a man by the day to shoot them around his corn
            field: the gunner killed over one hundred and said he could have done better but for his
            gun getting so hot. Others had a similar experience, till dogs and boys became tired of
            slaughtering them. For about twenty years the Fox Squirrel has been rapidly supplanting
            the aborigines.
          ELK.—We have no reports of the elk having been seen in this
            county, though from the frequent finding of their immense antlers in various parts of
            the county, it is inferred that they were numerous at a period not very remote. We have
            in our possession parts of two specimens, a pair of which could not have weighed less
            than 25 or 30 pounds. R. H. Mellett recently found a specimen over four feet in length,
            and Dr. Jont Ross had an "elk horn," a few years since, over six feet in length.
          Other animals of little importance, such as the weasel, flying squirrel, mole, mice of
            various species we suppose are as numerous here as almost anywhere.
          WILD TURKEY.—Of all the wild fowl to be
            found in the county this is the most important. Though becoming somewhat rare, there are
            still enough left for pretty fair sport at the proper season of the year. Some of our
            expert hunters can still bag several in a day at times. They breed in the county to  some extent, though the most that are found here are
            probably emigrants from the wilder regions north of us.
          WILD GEESE are frequently seen in their passage
            to the North or South, and occasionally alight and remain with us briefly.
          WILD DUCKS of several species are found along our
            streams. Most of them are migratory.
          THE GREAT BLUE HERON, more commonly called a Crane, is not infrequently found here, during the
            warmer months of the year, while the Green Heron, or Fly-up-the-creek, is much more
            numerous.
          PHEASANTS, the true Partridge, or Ruffed Grouse, are still
            occasionally found, and more often heard, in our groves and thickets.
          QUAIL.—The beautiful little Bob White, we believe, is found
            here in increasing numbers under the protecting ægis of the game law.
          There are numerous other birds, large or small, as the crow, vulture or buzzard, a half
            dozen kinds of hawks, large and small, several varieties of the owl, occasionally a
            stray eagle, a numerous retinue of the smaller songsters and chatterers, &c.,
            &c., to be found in the county, either temporarily or the year round, which there is
            not room even so much as to attempt to enumerate.
        
        
          AID IN PRESERVING THE UNION.
          On Sunday morning, the 14th of April, 1861, news reached Indianapolis of the fall of
            Fort Sumpter, and Governor Morton tendered President Lincoln ten thousand men to uphold
            the authority of the Government, the President having called for seventy-five thousand
            three months troops, of which Indiana's quota was subsequently fixed at 4,683 men.
          The Governor issued his proclamation, calling for these troops, on the 16th. From the
            Adjutant General's report it will  be seen that five
            hundred had reported for duty next day, two-thousand four hundred in three days more,
            and in seven days twelve thousand men were in camp. The object of this brief chapter is
            to show how promptly and thoroughly Henry County fulfilled the part assigned her.
          In the first regiment organized under the call, and only six days after the Governor's
            call, seventy-eight citizens of Henry County were mustered into service, and only two
            days later seventy-five others, making about double the quota of Henry County.
          By the enrollment of October, 1862, Henry County was found to have 2,652 men liable to
            military duty after deductions for disability, etc. At this time there were 1,008
            already in the service. The volunteers from this county under the first and second calls
            was so largely in excess of its quota that under the third call, (August 4th, '62) but
            160 additional men were required to fill the county's quota of 300,000 men. These were
            promptly forthcoming and the draft avoided.
          In 1863 there was a call for 100,000 men, soon followed by another for 300,000. To fill
            this county's quota required about 350 additional men and they were promptly supplied
            without a draft.
          In 1864 the calls in February, March and July, amounted to 500,000 more. This county's
            quota under these calls was 1,185, of these 939 men were supplied by new recruits, 97
            re-enlistments of veterans, making 1,036 volunteers. One hundred and seventy men were
            drafted which supplied the deficiency and gave the county an excess of 52 men in the
            service.
          In December, 1864, there was still another call for 300,000 more men. On this last call
            Henry County was required to furnish 359 men, of these 310 were raised by enlistment and
            but 17 by draft; eight townships escaping entirely.
          From the foregoing it appears that Henry County had in the United States Service
            altogether a grand total of 3142 soldiers. Of course a large number of these were
            counted twice, as most of the three months men immediately re-enlisted and a large
            number of the one, two and three year men veteranized.
          It is certainly creditable, and an evidence of the patriotism of our people that less
            than 200 of those who entered the service  did so as
            drafted men. In addition to these, under the Governor's call to resist the Morgan raid,
            about 500 citizens of Henry County enlisted in the State Service as "Minute Men."
          We have relied mainly on the report of the Adjutant General for the facts given above,
            but this is very unsatisfactory in many respect, as it does not give the residence of
            the men in many instances, and acredits whole companies of Henry County soldiers to
            other counties. The following are the regiments in which Henry County men most
            conspiciously figured, with the number in each; the number, in most instances being the
            original enlistments. The residences of those afterward sent forward to fill up the
            depleted ranks, often being omitted or wrongly stated: 
              
                REGIMENT.
                TERM OF SERVICE
                NO. OF MEN.
              
              
                Sixth
                3 months.
                78
              
              
                Eighth
                3 months.
                75
              
              
                Ninth
                3 years.
                12
              
              
                Eleventh
                3 "
                23
              
              
                Nineteenth
                3 "
                (Estimated) 50
              
              
                Thirtieth
                3 "
                15
              
              
                Thirty-Sixth
                3 "
                331
              
              
                Forty-Fifth (3rd cavalry)
                3 "
                94
              
              
                Fifty-Seventh
                3 "
                42
              
              
                Sixty-Ninth
                3 "
                173
              
              
                Eighty-Fourth
                3 "
                196
              
              
                Ninetieth (5th cavalry)
                3 "
                18
              
              
                One hundred twenty-first (9th cavalry)
                3 "
                75
              
              
                One hundred thirty-ninth
                100 days
                146
              
              
                One hundred fortieth
                100 "
                61
              
              
                One hundred forty-seventh
                1 year
                132
              
              
                One hundred forty-eighth
                1 "
                18
              
              
                Twelfth Battery
                3 years.
                16
              
              
                Nineteenth Battery
                3 "
                15
              
            
          
          In addition to these there were a few Henry County soldiers in each of at least twelve
            other regiments. In short, there was scarcely an important engagement during the dark
            days of battle in which some citizen of Henry County did not take a part.
          In the matter of county and township bounties and relief to soldiers' families but few
            counties in the State surpassed Henry. The different items are as follows: 
              County Bounty
                $13,120.94
              Township Bounty
                252,540.25
              Family Relief (County)
                63,263.56
              Family Relief (Township)
                18,914.53
              Grand Total
                $468,739.38
            
          
        
        
        
          ITEMS.
          WEIGHTY MEMBERS.—Dudley township, and
            especially Hopewell neighborhood, challenges the world for large men and women. Within a
            radius of 1¼ miles of Hopewell Meetinghouse, there lived, a short time since, no less
            than nine persons who weighed between 250 and 365 pounds each. One young lady weighed
            304 at seventeen years of age. Another lady weighed 300 pounds. There are twelve women
            living in the neighborhood, or have recently done so, whose weights ranged from 225 to
            300 pounds. In one family of nine children and the parents, there were but two who
            failed at some time of their lives to reach the goodly weight of 200 pounds, the average
            of the whole family being 248 7-11; omitting the two small ones, the "runts" of the
            family, and the others averaged 271 2-9.
          SIGNS OF GROWTH.—In early times the bonds
            of a Constable and County Treasurer were equal. Since that time the bond of the
            Treasurer has been eight hundred times that of the Constable, or about twenty-five times
            as much as the bonds of all the Constables in the County.
          SUFFICIENTLY SPECIFIC.—The law make it the
            duty of justices of the peace to report all fines imposed, to the commissioners.
          In early times a Justice reported that he had fined Mr. —— $3 for swearing
            three illegal oaths as follows: "two by-God and one by-Jesus Christ," and on a
            subsequent occasion, a similar amount for three others as follows: "one by-God, one
            by-God and one by-Jesus Christ."
          TO-MORROW MORNING.—The usual formula for
            the adjournment of the Commissioners' Court, in early times, was "ordered by the Board
            that the Court now adjourn till to-morrow morning, nine o'clock."
          On several occasions the morning entry read as follows: "To-morrow morning the Court met pursuant to adjournment."
        
        
        
          THE PIONEER.*
          BY B. S. PARKER.
          
            His form is bent; his head is grey;
            His limbs are long and slender.
            But still, beneath his woolen vest,
            The heart is true and tender.
          
          
            His comrades long are in the clay;
            Their wooden head-boards rotten;
            And in the modern neighborhood,
            Their very names forgotten.
          
          
            He walks serenely thro' the fields;
            Old shadows seem to follow.
            Again he sees the tawny deer
            Go leaping down the hollow.
          
          
            He hears once more the rifle's ring,
            The hunters shouting gladly.
            On yonder hill the wounded bear
            Again gives battle madly.
          
          
            He hears the pheasant's booming drum;
            He hears the turkey calling;
            The thudding maul; the ringing ax;
            The crash of timber falling.
          
          
            He sees the little cabin home;
            The tiny patch of clearing,
            Where once he dwelt with wife and boys,
            No breath of evil fearing.
          
          
            "Ah, well!" he sighs; "she's sleeping now;
            The eldest boys are with her.
            I very soon shall go with them,
            Since they may not come hither."
          
          
            The tear that glistens in his eye
            Falls down a moment after;
            For, silvery, echoing up the lane,
            He hears his grandchild's laughter.
          
          
            The past and present strangely blend
            Before his mental vision;
            Yet love, that makes the dreary wolds
            Appear like fields elysian,
          
          
            Still paints along his early days,
            The fairest scenes of pleasure,
            And garners stores of happy thought
            No rhythmic art can measure.
          
          
            No words bespeak his heart so warm
            As did the backwoods greeting;
            No preacher has such power as him
            Who held the backwoods meeting.
          
          
            He knows of many a merry time
            At reaping, rolling, raising,
            Or, on the jolly husking nights,
            With cheerful torches blazing.
          
          
            From many a good wife's quilting bout
            He treasures home-spun blisses,
            Where old folks talked, and young folks played
            Their games of forfeit kisses.
          
          
            The lazy Indian still he scorns;
            Their squaws and their papooses;
            The things, God made them; but, no doubt,
            For undiscovered uses.
          
          
            Where now a dozen turnpikes stretch
            Stiff lines between the meadows
            He knew a single Indian trail
            That wound thro' forest shadows.
          
          
            A dozen villages he sees
            Beside their rail and stations,
            Where once a single trading post
            Supplied the settlers' rations.
          
          
            A hundred rushing trains go by;
            He hears them scream and thunder,
            And laughs to think how they would shake
            His backwoods world with wonder.
          
          
            How strange the ways they practice now,
            This new time emphasizing,
            He thinks, and with the uttered thought,
            Grows loud soliloquizing.
          
          
            "With clattering instruments at church,
            And dapper youngsters preaching,
            And, for the congregations' hymn,
            A dozen lasses screeching.
          
          *Written by request
            especially for these pages.
          
          
            "And then for all our social joys
            And good old-fashioned greetings,
            The sinners masque at fancy balls,
            The saints at public meetings.
          
          
            "You rest at ease in fancy homes,
            Your thoughts on high careering.
            But give me back my wife and boys,
            And give me back my clearing.
          
          
            "And give me back my rifle gun,
            My forests, deer, and pheasants,
            And I will prove you, any day,
            As tame as British peasants.
          
          
            "Your girls grow fine; your boys grow proud
            And vain; O! more's the pity;
            There's scarce a youth in all the land
            But's crazy 'bout the city.
          
          
            "It's true there's boys that grow up now—
            Pale, sick, unlikely creatures,
            With foreheads broad and driveled limbs,
            And strange, unnatural features,
          
          
            "Who might be doctors, if they would,
            Or preach without much harming.
            But all the stoutest, brightest ones
            Should steady stick to farming.
          
          
            "Give me the lad with sinewy arm
            For box or wrestle ready.
            To lift his share at hand-spike end,
            Or hold a rifle steady.
          
          
            "And I will after show a man
            Whose heart is tender human,
            And brave in every hour of need,
            And true as steel to woman.
          
          
            "But I, why should I moralize;
            I'm but a dotard growing,
            And death cuts now a reaper's: swath
            Beside his ancient mowing.
          
          
            "It seems so strange, the forests gone;
            The very stumps are rotten;
            And half the fields I helped to clear
            I've really now forgotten.
          
          
            "The post-horse, lagging with his load,
            Across th' unbridged morasses,
            He reached us once or twice a month
            With letters for the lasses.
          
          
            "But now they run on flying wheels,
            Or fly on lightning pinions,
            And in the twinkling of an eye
            Arrive from far dominions.
          
          
            "For church and school-house, once a hut
            Of logs did half the county,
            But heaven as freely then as now
            Dispensed her largest bounty.
          
          
            "We flailed the wheat with twisted sticks.
            By steam you thresh and clean it,
            And rush your four-horse reapers where
            We used to hook and glean it.
          
          
            "But why go on this cat'logue style
            With what we did, and you do;
            We did the best we could and that's
            The way in knowledge you grew.
          
          
            "The old folks labored long and well
            To build the rude foundation,
            And you have wro't no more than we
            With all your cultivation.
          
          
            "We conquered forests, cleared the land,
            Our work, let no man scorn it;
            But you who follow, follow well;
            Complete; refine; adorn it.
          
          
            "The olden music, olden songs,
            The pioneer rejoicings,
            Still linger on my listening ear
            With myriad happy voicings.
          
          
            "No wives are like our dear old wives,
            No neighbors like our neighbors,
            No boys are half as bold as ours,
            So cheerful at their labors.
          
          
            "No ladies in their rustling silks
            And gimcracks half so winning,
            As were our girls in linsey frocks
            From yarn of their own spinning.
          
          
            "Full many a rough, unseemly man
            Who shared my early labor,
            Looks noble through the mist of years,
            For was he not my neighbor?
          
          
            "And so when all your heads are white,
            And death comes creeping nearer,
            You'll think the old ways, perfect ways,
            Old friends grow hourly dearer."
          
          
            A partridge whistled by the way,
            A blackbird trilled above it,
            A red-bird sang "O, sunny day,"
            The robin "How I love it!"
          
          
            "Ho!" cried the pioneer, "you birds
            Are bent on early pillage,"
            And so, his musings spoiled, he walked
            Quite briskly toward the village.
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
        INDEX.
        
          Aid in Preserving the Union
            141
          Attorneys, the First
            45
          Ashland
            80
          Associate Judges
            89
          Advertising Sheets
            121
          Auditors
            91
          Assessing the Revenue
            93
          Annual Exhibit
            96
          Alfred J. Cotton
            109
          Albert Hodson
            113
          Adolphus Rogers
            114
          Blue River township
            34
          Board of Justices
            37, 87
          Blountsville
            74
          Beeeh Tree
            121
          Benevolent Societies
            121
          Banks
            123
          
              New Castle
                124
              Knightstown
                124
              Union
                124
              Citizens
                124
            
          Bailiffs
            92
          B. S. Parker
            113
          Benjamin Franklin
            113
          Benjamin Wrigley
            114
          Bell Stanford
            112
          Commissioners
            87
          Courts, the First
            35
          
              Commissioners
                35
              Circuit
                38
            
          County Buildings
            48
          
              First Court House
                48
              Second Court House
                50
              First Jail
                52
              Second Jail
                53
              Stray Pen
                54
              County Asylum
                55
              Cl'k's and Recorder's office
                57
              Auditors and Treasurers
                58
              Present Court House
                58
              Present Jail
                61
            
          Clerks of Circuit Court
            88
          Cadiz
            77
          Chicago
            78
          Circleville
            81
          City Chronicle
            120
          Commissioners
            87
          Clerks of Circuit Court
            88
          Circuit Prosecutors
            89
          Clerks of Probate
            90
          Common Pleas Judges
            90
          Collectors
            91
          Coroners
            92
          County Revenues
            94
          Congressional Districts
            99
          Churches
            103
          Clarkson Davis
            112
          Charles D. Morgan
            112
          Dora J. Gilbert
            115
          Dudley Township
            16
          Democratic Banner
            119
          Dunreith
            81
          District Prosecutors
            90
          Ezra Spencer
            115
          Elijah Evan Edwards
            115
          Elizabeth City
            78
          Errata
            148
          Excise and Sumptuary Laws
            95
          Extraordinary Expenditures
            98
          E. E. Parker
            112
          First Paper
            116
          First Settlers
            3
          First Settlers of Henry T'n'p
            4
          
              Prairie
                5
              Wayne
                5
              Spiceland
                6
              Franklin
                6
              Dudley
                6
              Liberty
                7
              Greensboro
                7
              Harrison
                8
              Stony Creek
                8
              Fall Creek
                8
              Jefferson
                8
              Blue River
                9
            
          Fall Creek Township
            26
          Franklin Township
            28
          Fairfield
            66
          Good Templars
            122
          Greensboro Township
            29
          Greensboro
            73
          Grant City
            83
          Harrison Township
            30
          Henry County Times
            119
          Henry County Independent
            119
          Henry County Republican
            120
          Henry Township
            21
          Henry County Villages
            62
          Hillsboro
            74
          Hannah Maria Parker
            114
          Henry County Officers
            84
          Honey Creek
            81
          Huldah Wickersham
            110
          Introduction
            1
          Isaac Parker
            110
          Isaac Kinley
            111
          Indiana Sun
            116
          Indiana Courier
            117
          Indians
            134
          Items
            144
          Jefferson Township
            33
          Jennie G. Kinley
            115
          John W. Grubbs
            110
          Jehu T. Elliott
            112
          
          Josie V. Hickman
            112
          Joshua H. Mellett
            112
          James Brown
            112
          John C. Teas
            114
          J. G. Burk
            114
          Joel Reed
            114
          Knightstown
            66
          Knightstown Banner
            120
          Knightstown Citizen
            120
          Land Sales and First Entries
            9
          
              Wayne Township
                9
              Henry
                10
              liberty
                10
              Dudley
                11
              Franklin
                11
              Spiceland
                11
              Greensboro
                11
              Fall Creek
                11
              Jefferson
                12
              Blue River
                12
              Harrison
                12
            
          Liberty township
            23
          Lewisville
            72
          Literature
            108
          Luray
            76
          Lee Roy Woods
            113
          Middletown
            70
          Masons
            121
          Mt. Summit
            80
          Misses Edwards
            115
          M. Mahin
            114
          Millville
            80
          Mechanicsburg
            81
          M. L. Bundy
            110
          New Castle
            63
          New Lisbon
            75
          Newspapers
            116
          New Castle Banner
            118
          New Castle Examiner
            120
          Nancy Kinley
            111
          Nathan Newby
            113
          Organization of the County
            13
          Ogden
            71
          Other Items
            99
          Odd Fellows
            122
          Political Development
            125
          Prairie Township
            22
          Petersburgh
            78
          Presiding Judges
            89
          Per Cent. of Taxes
            97
          Public Schools
            101
          Raysville
            69
          Rogersville
            77
          Representatives
            86
          Recorders
            91
          Russell B. Abbott
            110
          Stony Creek Township
            25
          Spiceland Township
            31
          S. S. Bennett
            115
          Sharington
            76
          Spiceland
            78
          Sulphur Springs
            79
          Straughn's Station
            82
          Springport
            83
          Signs of the Times
            120
          Senators
            85
          Sheriffs
            87
          Surveyors
            92
          Statistical and Financial
            93
          School Statistics
            102
          Stock and Grain
            104
          Sarah Edgerton
            111
          Township Organization
            15
          The Pioneer
            145
          Treasurers
            88
          Turnpikes
            105
          The Contrast
            104
          Thomas R. Stanford
            112
          Uniontown
            66
          Vote for Governor
            100
          
              Rep. in Congress
                101
              President
                101
            
          Wayne Township
            18
          West Liberty
            62
          Wheeland
            76
          Woodville
            77
          Wealth and Tax per Capita
            97
          William Haughton
            115
          Walter Edgerton
            109
          William Edgerton
            111
          Western Ruralist
            121
          Wild Animals
            138
        
      
      
        ERRATA.
        Page 65, 17th line, read "M. L. Bundy" for "M. L. Powell."
        Page 73, 14th line from top, for "John" read "Jehu" Wickersham.
        Page 86, in a portion of the edition an error occurs in the name of the Representative
          for 1843. It should read "Rob't. I. Hudelson."
        Page 104, 14th line should read "for verifying the result by a re-count."
        Page 124, last line on second paragraph, for "Perry" read "Noah" Wagoner.
        A number of typographical and other errors have been observed of too trivial a character
          to make their correction seem desirable in this place.
      
    
  
