
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Harding, Samuel Bannister, 1866-1927. The "Minimum" principle in the tariff of 1828 and its recent
					revival. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1008
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				
					THE "MINIMUM" PRINCIPLE IN THE TARIFF OF 1828 AND ITS RECENT
						REVIVAL.
				
			
		
		
			
			
				THE "MINIMUM" PRINCIPLE IN THE TARIFF OF 1828 AND ITS RECENT
					REVIVAL.
				The Tariff Act of 1828 was an important step in the growth of our tariff system. Not only
					is it of interest in its political aspects but also as a contribution to the theory of
					tariff taxation. For the first time in the history of our tariff legislation it
					established, with reference to a considerable group of goods, a series of duties graduated
					according to their value—the evident purpose of which was to retain something of the
					elasticity of ad valorem rates while gaining the immunity from undervaluations which goes
					with specific duties, and at the same time to obtain covertly a large increase of
					effective protection to the domestic manufacturer. This series of duties rests upon what
					is known as the "graduated minimums" of the woolen schedule of the act of that year; the
					principle of which was revived and largely extended in the Act of 1890, and the traces of
					which have not been entirely banished from the tariff of 1894. In view of this fact, it
					may be of value to trace here the origin and operation of these provisions of the earlier
					act, and to sketch briefly their later revival.
				There are numerous provisions for a single minimum in the laws of the United States, both
					before and after the Act of 1828, the first instance being found in the Tariff Act of
					1816. For the better protection of the domestic manufacturers of cheap cottons, and at the
					suggestion, apparently, of Francis C. Lowell, the American inventor of the power-loom, it
					was there provided that all imported cotton cloths of values less than twenty-five cents
					per square yard should be considered for customs purposes to be of the latter value, and
					the ad valorem duty charged accordingly. As the foreign value of cottons fell lower and
					lower, the effect of this  provision was to give an
					ever-increasing amount of protection to the domestic manufacturer. So satisfactory did
					protectionists find the operation of this provision, that its extension to other goods was
					soon advocated. In the unsuccessful tariff bill of 1820 there were provisions establishing
					minimum values for linens and a few other lines of goods. In the bill of 1824, as it came
					from the Committee on Manufactures, a minimum was established for woolens at eighty cents;
					but this was first lowered to forty cents, and then through the influence of Southern
					members, struck out altogether. In 1826 a committee of Massachusetts woolen manufacturers
					petitioned Congress, as a relief to the depression then prevailing, for "a minimum duty,
					which will not and can not be evaded, and which shall be apportioned upon the number of
					yards or quantity of cloth imported in every instance."*
				Each of the above cases, it will be observed, concerns the single minimum only. In the
					response made by Congress to the above petition, however, we meet with a system of graded
					minimums such as was afterward embodied in the Act of 1828. All woolen cloths, it was
					provided, were to be divided into several classes according to their value, each of which
					was to have its own minimum. For goods worth forty cents and less per yard the minimum
					value for customs purposes was to be forty cents; those worth between forty cents and
					$2.50 were to be taxed as if worth $2.50; and goods worth from $2.50 to $4.00 were to be
					taxed at the latter value. But this bill, like that of 1820, was lost in the Senate by the
					casting vote of the Vice-President.
				Undismayed by this failure, however, the woolen manufacturers, in conjunction with
					various other protectionists and certain politicians, called together the Harrisburg
					Convention of 1827. The proceedings of that body concern us here only in so far as they
					affected the development of the principle of minimums. The scheme of the bill of 1826-27,
					as regards *Niles' Register, Vol. xxxi, p. 186.
					 woolens, was revived by that body, with additions and
					changes, so that the minimum points stood at fifty cents, $2.50, $4.00 and $6.00. In the
					bill reported in the next Congress, and which became the tariff law of 1828, this scheme
					was retained, but so modified as to rob it, in the eyes of the protectionists, of most of
					its virtues.
				It was not without design that all goods between fifty cents and $2.50 in value had been
					included in one class. Almost all the woolens imported fell between these points, and so
					would have had to pay duty on the $2.50 valuation. To make the whole scheme futile,* the anti-protectionists in the House
					now broke up this class by the insertion of a new minimum point at $1.00,† while at the same time the rates of duty, which
					before had been ad valorem, in form, were translated into undisguised specific duties of
					equivalent weight. In the Senate the rates were changed back again to ad valorem duties of
					40 per cent, with an increase to 45 per cent after one year; but despite all their efforts
					the protectionists found it impossible to procure the removal of the $1.00 minimum though
					this, as they said, was like a knife inserted between the joints of their armor.‡
				In this form the bill, rightly called "the tariff of abominations" became law, and the
					system of graded minimum duties found its first, and for many years its last, embodiment
					in the legislation of the United States. Whatever may be said for the single minimum, a
					classification of minimums, such as that of 1828, now seems utterly indefensible. The
					duties thereby imposed were ad valorem in form, but were specific in fact; and they had
					the disadvantages *For the
						political influence entering into the framing of the bill, see Taussig, "Tariff
						History," pp. 94-100.
					†The $6.00 minimum point was
						removed, and all goods over $4.00 per square yard in value were to pay a true ad valorem
						of 45 per cent. In the bill as finally passed another point was inserted at thirty-three
						and one-third cents, with a specific duty of fourteen cents on all goods below this.
						Neither of these provisions is of any significance here.
					‡See 4 Statutes at Large, pp.
						270-275, for the Act. As to cottons, the single minimum was continued, but was raised
						from twenty-five cents to thirty-five cents.
					 of both kinds, without the redeeming features of either.
					The temptations to fraudulent undervaluation which they offered proved stronger than under
					a system of single ad valorems; while, on the other hand, the system had all the
					inequality and lack of elasticity which go with specific duties.
				On the thirtieth of June, 1828, the act went into effect. By the twenty-fifth of
						October* the cry began to be
					heard that extensive frauds were being perpetrated, and that the ends of the act were
					being defeated. As time went on, the outcry, on the one side, became louder and more
					wide-spread; while on the other the existence of such frauds was as strenuously denied. In
					his message to Congress of December 8, 1829, President Jackson takes up the matter, cites
					the numerous frauds which have been discovered, and the ineffectual attempts to bring the
					offenders to justice under existing laws, and calls upon Congress for such legislation as
					may be needed to remedy the evil.†
					In the House this portion of the message was referred to the Committee on Manufactures,
					which at once proceeded to make a thorough investigation.‡ Evidence of such frauds, apparently, was not hard
					to find. Accordingly in the early months of 1830, Mallary, of Vermont, chairman of the
					committee, reported to the House a bill which, after some discussion, was enacted under
					the title of "An act for the more effectual collection of the import duties."
				From the speeches made in the course of this debate by the advocates of the bill, and
					from the reports of the proceedings of the New York Protectionist Convention of 1831, we
					get a very fair idea of the nature, extent and methods of these frauds, and can infer
					their animating cause. It is almost needless to say that the evasions of the revenue
					complained of concern the importations of woolens almost exclusively.
				*See Niles'
						Register of that date. Vol. xxxv, p. 136.
				†Senate Doc. No. 1 (21 Cong.
					1st Sess.), p. 13.
				‡See House Doc. No. 54 (21
					Cong. 1st Sess.).
				
				Among woolens, too, it was in connection with the one item of broadcloths that the frauds
					were chiefly perpetrated;* and the
					reason for this is to be found doubtless in the peculiar applicability of the minimum
					system enacted to this kind of goods. The value of the great bulk of broadcloths then
					imported was such as barely to bring them within the operation of the $2.50 minimum.
					According to the value placed by law upon the pound sterling in the United States at this
						time,† broadcloths six-quarters
					of a yard wide costing 6s. 9d. the running yard, might
					legally be entered at the dollar minimum, and need pay but 67½ cents duty per yard
						linear.‡ If, however, they were
					worth more than 6s. 9d. (and under 16s. 10d.) no matter how small the appraised excess might be, they
					must be entered at the $2.50 minimum, and pay a duty of $1.68¾ per yard. The temptation,
					accordingly, to the merchant importing broadcloths costing seven, eight and nine
					shillings, was enormous. A slight undervaluation of his goods, coupled with a little
					elasticity of conscience in swearing to his invoices, would often save him hundreds and
					even thousands of dollars on one importation. The risk, as I shall presently explain, was
					small; the hope of gain was great; and hence the mass of evidence of frauds attempted and
					committed which meets us in the debates and proceedings before mentioned.§
				The methods pursued in these evasions of the revenue were mainly three: by false
					measurements, by returning the average, for the actual, prices of goods in a mixed
					package, and by undervaluation.
				The first has no features at all dependent upon the provisions of the Act of 1828, and
					consisted merely in entering *See Committee Report of New York Convention in Niles, Vol.
						xli., Appendix p. 33
					†Namely $4.44: see Finance
						Report 1831, p. 6.
					‡These computations are at
						the 45 per cent rate, being obtained from Report of New York Convention of 1831, before
						cited.
					§See also Secretary McLane's
						letter to Congress of April 6, 1832 (House Exec. Doc. No. 199, 22 Cong., 1st Sess.), for
						particulars of prosecution for fraud from January 1, 1820, to September 1, 1831.
					 goods at, say, twelve yards the piece, which afterward sold
					at from fourteen to fifteen yards.*
				The second was one to which, under a simple system of ad valorems, there could have been
					no inducement. In pursuing this method, the merchant in making up his package would place
					in it a few pieces of goods costing, say, fifty-five or sixty cents per square yard, and
					then complete the package with goods of the usual grade, costing something more than $1.00
					per square yard, and legally chargeable with duty as worth $2.50. By averaging the prices
					of the lot, the whole would then be entered as having cost $1.00 the square yard, and be
					dutiable at that valuation.
				Undervaluation, however, was the most obvious means by which to evade the obnoxious
					duties on these goods, and it was by the use of this method that the great majority of
					frauds of which we have record were perpetrated.† A few instances of such evasions may not be amiss. During the House
					debate to which I have before alluded, samples of broadcloth were exhibited which had been
					entered under the dollar minimum, at the custom house in New York, and were then being
					sold in the Boston market at $3.34 per square yard.‡ Another instance of undervaluation was found in the case of a
					merchant who had ordered 2000 pieces of goods from a British manufacturer of a particular
					description and of his own pattern; and who, finding himself undersold in the market,
					found, upon inquiring, that a second lot of identically the same goods had been consigned
					in the same vessel by the same manufacturer to an agent in this country, who had entered
					them at from five to eight shillings sterling lower than the first lot had been
						entered.§ Yet another instance is
						*See Davis in 6 Cong.
						Debates, p. 825.
					†See Mallary in 6 Cong.
						Debates, p. 797. A common method was the use of two invoices; one containing the actual
						cost prices, which was used to sell by; the other, containing prices on the average
						about one-third less being used in entering the goods at the customs house.—See 6
						Cong. Debates, pp. 798-9; 874.
					‡6 Cong. Debates, p.
						799.
					§Cong. Debates, p.
						874.
					 afforded by the testimony of Erastus Ellsworth, a New York
					merchant, given in the Protectionist Convention of 1831. A short time before, he stated,
					he had been called upon by the collector of that port to examine a consignment of twenty
					bales of goods invoiced at 6s. 8d., or 6s. 10d. per running yard, in which undervaluation was suspected.
					Before he had examined ten pieces, he came to cloths worth eight, nine and ten shillings
					per yard, all of which had illegally been entered under the dollar minimum. The difference
					in duty on the invoice prices and the actual valuation was found to be "not less than four
					hundred dollars on every one of these bales."*
				One of the chief reasons for the continued existence of such frauds was that they were
					undoubtedly countenanced to some extent by public opinion. In the chief commercial
					centres—especially at New York,—there was a pretty general opinion that the
					provisions of the law were too rigorous and severe; and as is always the case in such
					circumstances there was a general indisposition to blame men for trying to evade them.
					Except among those importers whose business was affected by these fraudulent importations,
					this was the opinion which "prevailed upon exchange;" we are also told that "the same
					mistaken current of public opinion entered and influenced the jury-box."† The collector at New York, according to the same
					speaker, "though nowise wanting in honesty, diligence or zeal, . . . had been so goaded
					and harassed by public and private attacks that he had been actually disabled from putting
					the laws in force."‡
				Aside from the influence of public opinion in this matter, there were certain features of
					the woolen trade as it was then *Niles' Register, Vol. xli, p. 202.
					†Ellsworth in New York
						Convention 1831. See Niles, Vol. xli, p. 202; also p. 190.
					‡The reference here is
						apparently to the attempt of the collector to exact a written promise from importers, on
						releasing goods, that if fraud should be found in the sample packages sent to the
						appraiser's office the rest of the importation also would immediately be re-delivered up
						for examination. This attempt, we are told, "made such an uproar that he was compelled
						to abandon it."—See 6 Cong. Debates, pp. 801-2.
					 conducted, and of the customs administration, which
					contributed materially to the ease and immunity with which frauds were committed.
				As to the first, by far the greater proportion of all the woolen goods imported were
					brought into the one port of New York, where even then the volume of business was so vast
					as to make the scrutiny which could be given to such importation much less searching than
					at Boston or Philadelphia.*
					Seven-eighths of the goods, too, were imported on foreign account,† consigned to foreign agents in this country,
					"whose interests," said the protectionists, "were at home, and who regarded neither God
					nor man, provided [they] could only get [their] goods through the custom house."‡ Moreover, these goods were mostly
					sold at auction,§ immediately upon
					their release (upon bond) from the custom house, and before the examination of the sample
					packages sent to the appraiser's office had been completed, so that even though fraud were
					detected in the entry of these, they alone could be reached for the fine of one half the
					proper duty provided for such fraudulent entry, the other packages having already been
					scattered irretrievably by sales from the auction block. Various plans for checking the
					evil by means of federal regulation of auction sales were suggested and urged upon
					Congress; but the obstacles in the way of such action were too great, and nothing was done
					in the matter.
				With the customs administration, however, the case was different. No objection to
					Congressional action in this field could be urged, provided the action contemplated was
					really in the line of a more efficient administration of existing law; and it was here,
					accordingly, that such measure of relief as *Brown in Convention of 1831. See Niles, Vol.
						xli, p. 204.
					†See Niles,
						Vol. xli, Appendix, p. 33.
					‡Ellsworth. See Niles, Vol. xli, p. 202.
					§The complaints of American
						merchants against the evils of the auction system were loud, and their call for a remedy
						persistent. See documents of the 21st and 22d Congresses for petitions for relief.
						Davis, of Massachusetts, in 6 Cong. Debates, p. 873, alludes to a petition signed by
						20,000 citizens of the City of New York, setting forth the agency of auction sales in
						the perpetration of frauds upon the revenue.
					 could be afforded was sought and obtained. By an Act of
					March 1, 1823, it had been provided that in the appraisement of goods entered for
					importation, at least one package out of every invoice, or if the number
					of packages in such invoice be large, one out of every twenty packages of such importation
					must be sent to the appraiser's office for examination, the collector being empowered to
					release the rest on bond given, in the estimated amount of duties, on the lot. In the
					circular issued by Secretary Rush, September 9, 1828, collectors were instructed to be
					governed in their enforcement of the Act of 1828 by the provision of the Act just cited,
					examining a greater number of packages than there prescribed only at their discretion.*
				At New York, as was to be expected, the minimum number only was examined. Despite the
					good-will evinced by the collector, too, the methods pursued in the appraisement of goods
					were seriously objected to by protectionists.† In making the selection of packages for appraisement, it was
					charged, those generally were chosen which were invoiced at a price making them liable to
					duty on the $2.50 minimum,—a small quantity only of which were imported, and on
					which there was little inducement to fraud; or if a package was selected which was
					invoiced so as to enter under the dollar minimum, the importers managed in some way to
					secure the selection of one fairly charged at 6s. 9d.
					Again, it was asserted that the importer's invoice was too largely depended upon in making
					the appraisement; and besides, that the standard of value of the appraiser's office for
					cloths of the dollar minimum class was "from 6d. to 2s. sterling per yard below the value of said cloths in the market from whence they
					came." Hence the amount by which these goods were found to be undervalued was seldom in
					excess of the 10 per cent margin allowed by law,‡ and *See Niles, Vol. xxxv, p. 88; also Senate Doc. No. 34 (20
						Cong., 2d Sess.).
					†For this complaint, as
						voiced by the Committee on Frauds at the New York Convention of 1831, see Niles, Vol. xli, Appendix, pp. 33-35.
					‡By the Tariff Act of 1828:
						under the Act of 1823 the margin allowed was 25 per cent.
					 consequently the penalty for undervaluation was seldom
					exacted. In the third place, serious objection was made to an interpretation given to the
					Act of 1828, by Secretary Rush, by which the amount of protection afforded the woolen
					manufacture was considerably diminished, it was claimed, from what had been intended by
					Congress. In the act there was a provision that all goods subject to ad valorem duties
					should pay an additional rate of 10 or 20 per cent according as they came from this or the
					other side of the Cape of Good Hope. Rush apparently, being disposed to give the woolen
					manufacturer no more than the strictest interpretation of the law demanded, ruled that
					under the minimum provisions of the act, the duties laid were not in truth ad valorems,
					but specific duties; and hence that the additional 10 or 20 per cent was not to be
					collected on these classes of goods.* On wool, however, the additional duty was held to apply. Naturally there was
					much complaint at this ruling. When Ingham took office he reported the matter to Congress,
					intimating his opinion that the law might "admit of a different construction," but asking
					for a declaration from that body. Nothing, however, was done in the matter, and this
					ruling of Secretary Rush continued in force until the Act of 1828 was superseded, and the
					whole minimum system abolished.
				The result of the outcry which was made, and the investigation by the committee of
					Congress, was, as I have said, *It is curious, but I can nowhere find the letter embodying these instructions.
						Their date, as we learn from Ingham's Finance Report (1829) was October 15, 1828.
						Treasury instructions of far less importance are given by Niles of dates both
						immediately before and after this; but this is not given. Furthermore, in his
						communication to Congress early in 1829 (Senate Doc. No. 34, 20 Cong., 2d Sess.), Rush,
						as required by law, transmits the instructions he has issued to collectors concerning
						the interpretation of the Act of 1828, but makes no mention of those of October
						15.—My chief sources of information concerning these are Finance Report (as above)
						where they are first referred to; report of the Committee of Manufactures of January 5,
						1830 (House Report No. 54, 21st Cong., 1st Sess.); and the report of the New York
						Convention of 1831 (Niles, Vol. xli, Appendix p. 35). The Committee of
						Manufactures and the New York Convention condemn the interpretation given as erroneous
						and a perversion of the intention of Congress.
					 the passage of an act "for the more effectual collection of
					the import duties," which received the President's signature on May 28, 1830.* Aside from its provision for
					additional appraisers at New York, Boston and Philadelphia, and the prescription of a mode
					by which forfeitures were to be collected, the chief interest in this act centres in its
					provisions concerning average valuations and the detection and punishment of
					undervaluation. As to the former of these, it was prescribed that thenceforth, where goods
					of different values were packed in the same case or package, the value of the best article therein contained was to be taken as "the average value of the
					whole," and the duty levied accordingly.† With reference to appraisements, etc., the minimum number of one package per
					invoice, or one package in each twenty, was continued. In addition, however, it was
					provided, (1) that no goods should be released prior to the above appraisement save on
					bonds in double their estimated value, and conditioned on their return
					in ten days after the appraiser's report (if so ordered), with a prohibition of opening or
					unpacking save on the written permission of the collector and in the presence of an
					inspector; (2) that if the collector thought the appraiser's valuation too low, he might
					order a re-appraisement either by the chief appraisers or by three merchants (citizens of
					the United States) who should be designated by him for that purpose; (3) that in case the
					package appraised be found incorrectly invoiced, all the goods of that same entry were
					then to be inspected, and (4) that if it be found that such package or invoice had been
					"made up with intent,‡ by a false valuation, or extension or otherwise, to evade or defraud the
					revenue," the same should be forfeited—the former penalty of a fine of one-half the
					duty being repealed.
				*See 4 Statutes at Large, p.
					409.
				†In the execution of this act
					it was found necessary to modify this provision so far as to allow parcels of small wares
					(laces, etc.), separately designated in the invoice, to be considered as separate
					packages, though packed in the same case with other goods.—See pp. 5-6 of Ingham's
					report of December 15, 1830. (Senate Doc. No. 6, 21 Cong., 2d Sess.)
				‡The italics are mine.
				
				Stringent as these provisions would seem to be, it was soon found that they, were "the
					means of developing the extent of the evil, rather than of arresting it."* This was, apparently, no fault of the collector
					at New York. Public sentiment against the enforcement of the tariff having relaxed
					somewhat, he consented some time in 1831 to have an examination made of all packages invoiced instead of the minimum number allowed by law, with the
					result that in six months 2400 pieces of broadcloth were found undercharged by false
					invoices, and frauds upon the revenue to the extent of $48,000 were thus prevented.† But the use of the word "intent," in
					the law, and the judicial interpretation put thereon were such as almost wholly to defeat
					the ends of the act. In the prosecution of some of the cases brought to light as above,
					the court had ruled that evidence might be introduced as to the cost of
					the goods at the place whence imported, and that if it be shown that the cost was as
					invoiced, intent to defraud would be held to be done away with.‡ Under this decision it was practically impossible
					to secure a conviction. Merchants might either buy goods of various grades getting an
					invoice (supported by affidavits) at one average price for the lot such as to bring the
					entry below the dollar minimum; or else for a small sum secure the perjured affidavit of a
					British clerk that the cost of the goods was as invoiced: either method was perfectly
					feasible and attended with no personal danger. The result was, that of the 2400 pieces of
					goods instanced above as undervalued, practically none were forfeited; and the importers,
					in the absence of any other penalty for undervaluation, were allowed to take their goods
					away upon the simple payment of the duties they would have had to pay had the goods been
					honestly entered in the first place. This construction of the law *Report of New York Convention, 1831. See Niles, Vol. xli, Appendix p. 33.
					†Ellsworth in New York
						Convention. See Niles, Vol. xli, p. 202; p. 190. During the first year
						of the operation of the law of 1830, but few cases of fraud were unearthed: this was
						while the old practice of examining but one of twenty packages was still in use. Ibid, Appendix, p. 33.
					‡Brown in New York
						Convention. See Niles, Vol. xli, p. 203.
					 actually placed a premium upon fraud; for if it succeeded,
					the importer was so much the better off, if it failed he paid nothing beyond what an
					honest man would have had to pay in the first place. A home valuation, the protectionists
					felt, would remedy the evil; but this they dared not recommend because it would increase
					duties to prohibition, and though this, they thought, would not be a bad thing, yet the
					recommendation of such would "involve Congress in a discussion of the whole tariff
					system," which, in the existing condition of things, they were desirious of avoiding.* Accordingly the only remedy which
					the New York Convention of 1831 could bring itself to recommend was that "the present law
					. . . be enforced:" i. e., enforced in the
					interpretation in which they deemed it to have been conceived.
				The root of the evil was held by the protectionists to lie in the one dollar minimum,† the introduction of which had been
					so strenuously resisted when the Act of 1828 was framed. In the importation of cottons,
					where there was but one minimum (namely, thirty-five cents), there were no such frauds as
					in woolens: but had various additional minimum valuations been established in the cotton
					schedule—say at ten, twenty and thirty cents—it was held that there would have
					been the same attempts at fraud as in woolens. On the other hand, the whole minimum system
					was blamed, and this not only by Southerners and anti-protectionists. Secretary McLane in
					his report of April 27, 1832,‡
					said: "The system of minimums is regarded as imposing an unnecessary and extravagant rate
					of duty, and as encouraging the commission of frauds difficult if not impossible to
					prevent." John Quincy Adams also favored the abolition of the system,§ because of the injustice of its operation;‖ its encouragement of *See Niles,
						Vol. xli, pp. 203-4.
					†Ibid., p.
						204.
					‡House Doc. No. 222 (22
						Cong., 1st Sess.), p. 4.
					§House Report No. 481 (22
						Cong., 1st Sess.), p. 26.
					‖Cambreling had objected
						strongly to the Act of 1828 on this account. See his statement (House Doc. No. 143, 20
						Cong., 1st Sess.) showing the operation of the system on rich and poor. This, however,
						has reference to the bill before the introduction of the dollar minimum, which remedied
						this defect somewhat.
					 frauds; and because as he said, "there is. . . in the
					system of graduated minimums an appearance of indirection little consonant with the frank
					open-heartedness of republican institutions: it has the air as if the legislators of the
					nation, in taxing their constituents, were unwilling to let them know the real amount of
					that taxation." To these objections Gallatin* added a fourth, namely, the cost of collection, which under the
					operation of this act had increased from 3.38 per cent of the revenue to 4.31 per
					cent.
				Niles, as well as others of the ultra-protectionists, clung obstinately to the system of
						minimums.† The frauds committed
					under the Act of 1828, he maintained, were but types of what would exist without minimums.
					"If the appraisers can not justly determine four or five qualities of cloths," said he,
					"we know not how they are to settle the value of fifty qualities." Their efforts, however,
					were in vain. The evil effects of the system—at least as embodied in the Act of
					1828—were too manifest. The concurrent testimony of men so wide apart politically as
					were McLane, Adams and Gallatin, was too convincing. Accordingly, in the Tariff Act of
					1832—passed, it is true, under a certain pressure of political necessity—the
					protectionists themselves swept away the whole system, and set up in its place a uniform
					rate upon woolens of 50 per cent ad valorem. The system of graduated minimums had been
					tried and had proved a failure.
				For many years after the repeal of the tariff act of 1828 there was nothing in our tariff
					legislation approaching the method of laying duties embodied in these sections of that
					act. The later duties were either simple specific or simple ad valorem rates, with
					occasionally a combination of the two, or a provision for what amounted to a single
					minimum. We hear nothing of anything similar to graduated minimums until after the war. In
					the process of *Memorial Free
						Trade Convention of 1832.
					†See Niles'
							Register, Vol. xlii, p. 269.
					 maintaining and raising duties after that epoch, however,
					single minimums became more common, and as the tariff system became more complex, they had
					a tendency to develop into classifications resembling that of 1828. At last in the tariff
					act of 1883, in the provision concerning cotton threads and yarns, we meet with a
					well-defined system of specific duties graded on values which in essence is identical with
					the system of woolen minimums of the "tariff of abominations," though lacking in some of
					the more objectionable features of the latter.*
				It is not, however, until we reach the tariff of 1890 that we find any considerable
					revival of this system. In that act not only do we meet with the application of what is
					virtually the same principle as the graduated minimums of 1828, though the duties are here
					specific and not ad valorem in form; but we find that principle extended to many lines of
					goods other than woolens. Cotton stockings, velvets and plushes, boiler and plate iron,
					penknives, table cutlery and carving-knives, shot-guns and pistols, are all subjected in
					that act to a like treatment. In each of these cases classes are established based on the
					value of the goods, and on all goods of the same class the same specific duty is then
						levied.† For example, in that act
					penknives are arranged in four classes: (1) Those worth not more than 50 cents per dozen;
					(2) those worth between 50 cents and $1.50; (3) those worth between $1.50 and $3.00; and
					(4) those worth over $3.00; the specific duties being 12 cents, 50 cents, $1.00 and $2.00
					per dozen upon each class respectively.
				*In the Act of 1883, cotton
					threads and yarns are divided into eight classes, according to value: (1) Those worth not
					over 25 cents per pound; (2) those worth from 25 cents to 40 cents; (3) those from 40
					cents to 50 cents; (4) those from 50 cents to 60 cents; (5) those from 60 cents to 70
					cents; (6) those from 70 cents to 80 cents; (7) those from 80 cents to $1.00; and (8)
					those worth over $1.00 per pound; the duties being 10 cents per pound; 15 cents, 20 cents,
					25 cents, 33 cents, 38 cents, 48 cents, and 50 per cent ad valorem, on the classes
					respectively.—22 Statutes at Large, p. 506.
				†The matter is complicated
					somewhat in most cases by a provision for a genuine ad valorem duty in addition to this
					classified specific duty; but the principle is not affected thereby.
				
				The use of this sort of duties was much decreased in the Wilson bill of last year, though
					not entirely abandoned, as witness the section concerning cotton yarns and thread. In the
					Tariff Act of 1894, however, as it was finally passed, the system of classified specifics
					is restored in the case of penknives and a few other lines of goods, though that law still
					falls far short of its immediate predecessor in this particular.
				As regards the operation of the provisions in question in these later laws, it is
					difficult as yet to get any definite information. Since the time when these duties were
					first tried so unsuccessfully, great changes have taken place, not only in the machinery
					and methods of the customs administration, but in the circumstances of the commercial
					world as well. In the language of Secretary Carlisle,* "the difficulties of administration have now been much diminished
					by our increased facilities for ascertaining market values in other countries, and by the
					improved organization of our customs service. The markets of the world have been brought
					so near to each other by the use of steam and electricity that, as to all staple articles
					especially, it is not now much more difficult to find their cost or value abroad than at
					home." The new Customs Administration Act of June 10, 1890, with its stringent penalties
					for false invoices and false entry, its more rigorous provisions as to fines and
					forfeitures for undervaluation,†
					and its newly created board of general appraisers, has also done much to remedy the
					condition of things of which in 1886 Secretary Manning complained in his famous report on
					the collection of duties.
				Nevertheless, in spite of the changes which time has brought, this system of duties
					necessarily furnishes a peculiar *Finance Report 1893, p. lxxix.
					†Where goods are found to be
						undervalued more than 10 per cent, an additional duty of 2 per cent is assessed "for
						each 1 per centum that such appraised value exceeds the value declared in the entry;" if
						undervalued more than 10 per cent, this may be regarded as "presumptive evidence of
						fraud," the goods seized and forfeiture proceedings begun, the burden being of proof
						thrown upon the claimant. See section 7 of that Act.
					 stimulus to fraud. The evidences of that fraud are not as
					yet accessible to the student, but this is no argument that it does not exist. It is
					impossible now, even more than sixty years ago, to examine every package of goods
					imported. The temptation to fraud still exists in the large reduction of duty which even a
					slight undervaluation may effect under this system, and certainly commercial morality is
					no stronger now than it was then. In fine, then, it appears that we may safely say of the
					subject, with Secretary Carlisle, in the report above quoted: "It would seem difficult to
					devise a scheme better calculated to encourage frauds upon the revenue, and make their
					prevention or detection next to impossible."
				S. B. HARDING.
					Cambridge, Mass.
			
		
		
			
			
				THE BANKING QUESTION
					IN THE UNITED STATES.
				REPORT Of the Meeting Held on January 12, 1893,
					under the Auspices of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
				
					CONTENTS.
					NATIONAL AND STATE BANKS.
							Horace White, editor of the New York "Evening Post."
					AMERICAN BANKING AND THE MONEY SUPPLY OF THE FUTURE. Hon. Michael D. Harter, United States Representative from Mansfield,
						Ohio.
					STATE AND NATIONAL BANK
							CIRCULATION. Hon. A. B. Hepburn, Comptroller of
						the Currency.
					BANKING SYSTEM—OLD
							AND NEW. Hon. J. H. Walker, United States
						Representative from Worcester, Mass.
					BASIS OF SECURITY FOR NATIONAL BANK NOTES. Hon.
							Henry Bacon, Chairman of House Committee on Banking and Currency, Fifty-second
						Congress.
					PROCEEDINGS OF THE SEVENTEENTH SCIENTIFIC SESSION OF THE ACADEMY.
				
				Price $1.00.
				American Academy of Political and Social Science, Station B, Philadelphia,
					U. S. A.
			
			
			
				FINANCIAL QUESTIONS.
				THE FOLLOWING PAPERS ON
				Financial Questions
					HAVE APPEARED IN THE ANNALS AND BEEN REPRINTED IN
					Separate Editions.
				
					Money and Bank Credits in the United States, with a Criticism of the
							Baltimore Bank Plan. 
							By HENRY W. WILLIAMS,
									Esq., Baltimore,
								Price, 25 cents.
						
					Federal Revenues and the Income Tax. 
							By F. C. HOWE, Ph. D.,
								Price, 25 cents.
						
					Influence on Business of the Independent Treasury. 
							By Professor DAVID KINLEY,
									University of Illinois,
								Price, 25 cents.
						
					Mortgage Banking in Russia. 
							By D. M. FREDERIKSEN, Esq., Chicago,
								Price, 15 cents.
						
					School Savings Banks. 
							By Mrs. S. L. OBERHOLTZER, Norristown,
									Pa.,
								Price, 15 cents.
						
				
				COMPLETE LIST SENT ON APPLICATION.
				AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE, STATION B, PHILADELPHIA.
			
		
	
