
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Riley, W. B. (William Bell), 1861-1947.. The menace of modernism. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1320

	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				
					The Menace of Modernism
				

				

				by
					William B. Riley, D. D.Pastor of First Baptist Church,
						and Superintendent of Northwestern Bible Training School, Minneapolis.
					

				

				
					Christian Alliance Publishing Company
					692 Eighth Avenue, New York, N. Y.
				
			


			
			
				Verso
				COPYRIGHTED 1917. CHRISTIAN ALLIANCE PUBLISHING COMPANY 692
					EIGHTH AVENUE, NEW YORK.
			




			
			
				CONTENTS.
				

					CHAPTERPAGE
					
					FOREWORD
						5
					
					I. WHAT IS THE TRUE MEANING OF MODERNISM?7
					
					II. IS MODERNISM A REAL MENACE?32
					
					III. IS MODERNISM UNDERMINING THE EVANGELICAL MINISTRY?54
					
					IV. HAS THE STATE UNIVERSITY BECOME A HOT-BED OF HETERODOXY?76
					V. DO OUR DENOMINATIONAL COLLEGES DENY THE EVANGELICAL FAITH?105
					
					VI. IS THE MODERN BIBLE SCHOOL GOD'S ANTIDOTE TO SKEPTICISM?130
					
					VII. IS A CONFEDERACY OF CONSERVATIVES THE CALL OF THE HOUR?154
					
				
			

			
			
			
				Foreword


				The relation of creed to conduct is argued alike by Reason and Revelation. The Bible says
					"As a man thinketh in his heart so is he;" and the keenest observers upon human life have
					been compelled to concede the scientific accuracy of that claim. The faith of today will
					determine alike the conduct and character of tomorrow. A false theology eventually fruits
					in foul living.

				The opinion of the preacher and the school professor,,voiced in the presence of youth, is
					more than a mere matter of polemics; it is practically a matter of morals, hence the title
					of this book "The Menace of Modernism." Hundreds of grateful students have already bourne
					testimony to the help received from the original delivery of this series; the author sends
					it forth asking no greater reward or return than that of lending similar help to thou-
					sands.
			



			


		
		
			
				The Menace of Modernism

				
				

					CHAPTER I.WHAT IS THE TRUE MEANING
							OFMODERNISM?
					
						"God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers
							by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath
							appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds"(Hebrews
								I:1-2)
					
					Theologically, the times are out of joint! The air is filled with speculations and
						interrogations. A great German professor entitles his book "What is Christianity ?" A
						widely known American discusses "Can I know God, the Father ?" A Scotchman contributes a
						volume on "Can the Old Faith Live with the New ?" and a notable Russian devotes his book
						to the question "What is Religion ?" Hastings' "Bible Dictionary" is a series of
						interrogation points. They stand up so erectly and so regularly that one is reminded not
						so much of an army on the march as of a halted brigade.
					'We are now told "in religion nothing is settled!" Every claim must be investigated;
						every prophet is on trial; every apostle has been ordered into the presence of the
						Scribes, and even the Master Himself is in Pilate's  hall.
						With the old question "What is Truth ?" they are alike confronted, and the answer of
						each and all must come into the crucible of "modern thinking."
					The natural result is unrest. This is shared by many who know little on the subject,
						but whose spiritual nerves are disturbed by the theological storm. The law "like begets
						like" finds no exception when it comes to a question. One question can create another;
						and, as the lungs of youth take in more air than those of the aged, so the young men and
						the young women of the land are breathing the air of skepticism more deeply than is
						possible to those of mature years, and are correspondingly affected. Henry Drummond once
						affirmed that many of the finest young men he knew in the Universities of the Old World
						were sorely disturbed over the whole question of Christianity; and were doubters, not
						because they desired to be, but because no man had appeared whose philosophy of religion
						had met their mental demands.
					To help young men and women when they are passing through the critical hours of
						religious thought and experience is the acme of privilege. Such a work is more nearly
						infinite in its final reach than any other possible to  the
						human teacher. Impelled by that motive, I speak on "The True Meaning of Modern ism."
					In order, therefore, to get a proper setting, both for our theme and the proper
						interpretation of the text quoted, permit me, first of all, to present
					
						The Old Conception.
						Our text speaks of both the old and the new.
						"God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers
							by the prophets."
						There are at least three features of the old conception, each of which has now passed
							away. They are, first, that the Bible was finished in heaven and handed down; second,
							that the King James Version was absolutely inerrant; third, that its literal
							acceptance and interpretation was, alone, correct.
						Was the Bible finished in heaven and handed down?
						That is the charge that is made against the old conception, and perhaps there have
							been people in the world who thought it. A notable 
							representative of Modernism claims to have had a fellow seminary student who thought
							that way. He says: "My friend was brought up on a western farm. He had spent a goodly
							portion of his life in hoeing corn. While hoeing corn a certain conception of the
							Bible had crystallized in his mind which he supposed to be very true, and which was
							similar to the conception of Joseph Smith regarding the book of Mormon. He (Joseph)
							believed that the Bible was found already written and preserved in a sacred book. The
							leaves of the book were plates of gold, bound together with three gold rings, and on
							the top of the book there was a pair of supernatural spectacles by means of which it
							was possible for him to interpret the mysterious language in which the divine book was
							written.
						"Our farmer believed the Bible had been written in heaven and bound in heaven, and
							dropped down in some mysterious way upon the earth." And then the same writer goes the
							length of saying: "Most young men come to schools of theology with the pagan
							conception that the divine Book came down out of heaven much as the Koran is said to
							have done in the legend. We once read a learned article on 'Our English Bible, Where
							Did We  Get It?' in which the author said some of the
							Jewish Rabbis held to the opinion that the entire Old Testament, as we have it in the
							Hebrew, was not produced on the earth at all, but was made in heaven. The angels up
							there, or some other power, assisted, of course, by inspiration, made the volume, book
							by book, and thus handed it down to mortals here below."
						We do not know the age of our friend—this exponent of Modernism. It may be that
							he went to school with one of these fellows. When I was in college, 1831-1885, I never
							met a man who held that old conception; and when in the theological seminary,
							1835-1888, I met no such man, though my seminary was one of the largest on this
							continent and a majority of its attendants were farm-bred. In the active pastorate,
							since that time, I have never met an intelligent man who contended for such a
							position; consequently I conclude that that part of the old conception has now
							passed.
						Is the King James version absolutely inerrant?
						On this point we are inclined to think that, even unto comparatively recent years,
							such a theory has been entertained. The result, of 
							course, is to make a sort of fetish of the book. That is why, in many a family, it is
							kept on the center-table and seldom used. They do not want to soil its sacredness. Dr.
							Arthur T. Pierson tells the story of a Karen village into which a travelling Mussulman
							had come bearing a mysterious book, which he told the Karens was sacred and entitled
							to divine honors. It was accepted, and wrapped in muslin and encased in a basket work
							of reeds, like Moses' cradle. The mysterious book became deified and venerated, a kind
							of high priest and sacristan combined. When Boardman came to the village he was asked
							by the Karens to examine it, and it was found to be the "Book of Common Prayer and
							Psalms," an Oxford edition in English, and Mr. Boardman, with joy, entered upon its
							exposition, and like Paul at Athens, declared unto them the true God. And even now in
							more remote districts, where educational advantages have been few, the history of the
							Bible is unknown. Of its translation from language to language they have never
							learned, and yet I think it would be accepted without fear of successful controversy
							that such fogies in Biblical knowledge are few, and their funerals are nigh at
							hand.
						
						To be sure, there are multitudes who do not understand that the Scriptures were
							original written either in Hebrew, Aramaic or Greek; that all the original versions
							were lost, and that the copies of the New Testament date many years this side of
							Jesus, and that our Scriptures are translations which have come by the way of the
							Septuagint and Coptic versions, and have been improved in the passage by Martin
							Luther, John Wycliffe, Tyndale, Covedale, and others; that in 1611, seventy of the
							most scholarly men, at the King's command, gave us our "authorized version," and that
							between 1870 and 1885 the Canterbury Revision Committee, made up of a hundred of the
							world's most accurate scholars, accomplished the text of the Revised Version. To
							claim, therefore, inerrancy for the King James Version, or even for the Revised
							Version, is to claim inerrancy for men who never professed it for themselves; to
							clothe with the claim of verbal inspiration a company of men who would almost quit
							their graves to repudiate such equality with prophet and apostle.
						Is a literal acceptance and interpretation alone correct?
						This doctrine has always had its adherents,  and perhaps
							always will. Yet it belongs distinctly to the old conception.
						Out of this view has grown the very claim with which modern science has been compel
							led to take issue. It was this view that made men say that God created the earth in
							six "literal" days of twenty-four hours each. It was this view that
							led men to believe that the earth was stationary and the heavenly bodies revolved
							around it; and, in consequence, gave easy consent to the theory that at Joshua's
							command, the sun stood still. It was this conception that gave rise to John Jasper's
							famous sermon on "The Sun Do Move." It was this conception that led even so remarkable
							a man as John Calvin to op pose Copernicus by an appeal to the Ninety-third Psalm:
							"The world also is established, that it cannot be moved." But John Calvin has been
							dead a good long while, and as for John Jasper, his earnestness and eloquence may be
							accepted as a perfect atonement for his ignorance: and the part he played in
							theological thinking ought never to be deplored by men who imagine themselves to be
							intelligent. The greatest and grandest of truths may be discredited by unwarranted
							advocacy and undue emphasis.
					
					
					
						The New Conception
						Permit me to remark that in discussing this phase of our theme I do not refer as yet
							to the second part of our text, for I am not fully persuaded that the new conception
							is based upon the revelation of Christ; that relates itself, rather, to another
							thought yet to be developed, namely, the true conception.
						But the new conception has some definite characterizations, each one of which has
							emanated from what is proudly called "the modern mind." They also might be stated
							under three heads.
						First: The Bible is purely human in its origin and authorship; second, the
							inspiration of the Bible exists only in its ability to inspire, and finally, its
							interpretation is a matter of mental convenience.
						To prove that I do no injustice in these definitions of the new conception, let me
							appeal to a man who is proudly accepted as a leader among new theologians. Dr. Charles
							Edward Jefferson has a volume entitled "Things Fundamental" of which "The
							Outlook"—the mouth-piece of Modernism—says: "In point of culture, breadth,
							and spiritual power, Dr. Jefferson's discourses rank among the best utterances of the pulpit." Concerning it, "The Churchman"
							also remarks: "Thoroughly ex excellent! Should be read widely." "The
							Congregationalist" also declares: "In this series of sermons Dr. Jefferson has thought
							his subjects through until they have a crystal clearness in his mind before he utters
							them in speech. The discussions are eminently sane."
						So then, the new conception is, first of all, that—
						The Bible is purely human in its origin and authorship.
						I appeal to Dr. Jefferson. He says: "The modern conception makes the Bible human.
							Because this is a human book it is going to be studied, by and by, in all seminaries
							and colleges. When men learn that it was not dictated, but that it came up out of the
							human heart, they want to know it." We call attention particularly to the latter
							phrase: "When men learn that it was not dictated, but that it came up out of the human
							heart they will want to know it."
						He continues: "The new scholarship makes it clear that the Bible was not produced in
							instantaneously. Like all things else which have ever been upon this earth, it grew.
							Through  at least fifteen hundred years it kept on
							growing. And in it, therefore, we have the advancing stages of an unfolding life. A
							particular race, beginning near the bottom, climbs little by little in the face of
							tremendous obstacles from the darkness of barbarism into a glorious light. Now in all
							growing life there must be that which is immature, crude, mistaken. If a race grows as
							a man does, there must be, first childhood and then youth. What a race does and thinks
							as a child, it will cease to think and do when it becomes a man, for a race like a man
							puts away childish things. If you are ever tempted, therefore, to make sport of the
							crudities of the Old Testament, bear in mind that without these crudities the fuller
							life would have been impossible. We are living in a scientific age when men are
							intensely interested in origins. Why should you push the Old Testament away with scorn
							when it contains the story of the origins of our religion? A book is not to be
							despised simply because parts of it have been outgrown."
						The new conception is responsible for the idea that inspiration exists only in its
							ability to inspire. The same writer asks the question "Is the Bible inspired ?" and
							answers "It  is." "How do you know ?"
							Answer—"Because it inspires ?" That he does not mean what our fathers meant by
							inspiration is perfectly evident when he says: "Modern scholarship has compelled us to
							give up the doctrine of verbal inspiration. According to that theory, the Bible is
							inerrant. It is an infallible book." This theory of infallibility, he declares, the
							modern conception believes "no longer tenable." And then he boldly asserts: "The Bible
							contains error. There are errors in the text. The text in many places is undoubtedly
							corrupt. There are errors in translation. The Jewish historians occasionally slipped.
							The conceptions of the physical universe held by the men who wrote the Scriptures are
							not the conceptions which we know to be true. It is not wise, therefore, to use the
							word 'infallible.' . It is not infallible in its arguments, for some of its arguments
							are weak. It is not infallible in its moral sanctions, for the Hebrews undoubtedly
							sometimes confounded their own impulses with the voice of God. It is not infallible in
							the expectations of even its greatest men, for all the apostles expected Jesus to
							return within their own lifetime. In what sense, then, is the Bible an infallible
							book? If a man earnestly wants to find his way to God,
							the Bible will surely help him find that way. In that sense, and in that sense only,
							have we any right to say the Bible is infallible."
						Again this recognized leader among the modern thinkers makes the interpretation of
							the Bible a matter of mental and personal convenience. When he comes
							upon a statement in Scripture that seems to be in conflict with science, such as
							Joshua's command of the sun to stand ,still, he calls it "poetry." When he comes upon
							a prophecy in Daniel in which he does not believe he says: "Daniel was mistaken." When
							he comes to the book of Job he declares it "fiction." The book of Jonah goes into the
							same category. The creation of Eve "is a myth." When he comes to the question of
							authorship, is it of God or man, he says, "It is of man." In answer to the question,
							"Is it right to say that God wrote the Bible" he says, "No, He did not write it. Every
							page of the Bible is written by man. The lights and shadows of his moods, the
							depression and rapture of his spirit play over its pages. Its contents came up out of
							the cavernous depths of the human heart. The light that lights every man that comes
							into the world came up out of the heart."
						
						When he comes to the doctrine of the imminent coming of Christ he dubs it "an
							apostle's mistake." Then he concludes by saying that "the Bible is a useful book. It
							was written by honest men. It does not deceive." He declares that in comparison with
							the so-called sacred books of the East it is a vast improvement; and while denying to
							its authors any exclusive experience of inspiration, he yet affirms of the Jews,
							through whom it came, "No other tribe ever took God in as did the Hebrew people" and
							makes the poetic remark that there "have been isolated mountain peaks in Asia, but
							there is a veritable mountain range that culminates in Jesus of Nazareth."
						Let me repeat, therefore, for the sake of emphasis, that the new conception of Chris
							Christianity stands for the assertions that the Bible is purely of human origin and
							authorship: that its inspiration exists only in its ability to inspire: and that its
							interpretation is a matter of convenience.
						From this I turn to the teaching of the text, which to me, is
					
					
						The True Conception.
						"God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past, unto the fathers
							by the  prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us
							by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things; by whom also he made the
							worlds."
						What Paul teaches in this epistle to the Hebrews is this:
						The Bible is divine in origin, and human in expression.
						In the truest sense God is its author. He is the One who "spake in time past, unto
							the fathers by the prophets." That is the universal claim of the Old Testament
							authors. Moses repudiated the idea that the five books of the Pentateuch were his
							thoughts, his feelings and his expression. Again and again he affirmed the Divine
							authorship.
						When I was a lad, the girls in the country where I grew up used to have a custom of
							making a wish covering something that their souls ardently desired, and then opening
							the Bible at random; if their eyes rested on the words "and it came to pass," that was
							accepted as a promise that the heart's desire was to be granted. But that phrase "and
							it came to pass" is no more a recurrent one in the Scriptures than the other, "The
							Lord spake unto me, saying . . . " Pick up your Bible and test out what I am
							declaring.
						
						In the preparation of this discourse I opened my Bible at random, except that I
							struck into its early part, knowing that I would be in one of the five books of Moses.
							The place was the fourth chapter of Leviticus. The first sentence of it was this, "The
							Lord spake unto Moses, saying," etc. Every word of that chapter is claimed as the
							word, not of Moses, but of the Lord. Absolutely the same thing is true of the fifth
							chapter, and lest men should forget, before he finishes the fifth chapter, Moses
							introduces it into the fourteenth verse, saying, "And the Lord spake unto me." The
							sixth chapter is opened after the same manner; in the eighth verse it is repeated; in
							the nineteenth it occurs, and yet again in the twenty-fourth, and so on.
						Not scores, but hundreds of times is this claim made in the Old Testament. It is in
							perfect line with the claims of inspiration presented in the New. The attitude of the
							new conception as advanced by the so-called liberal ministers of the day,
							viz.—"The Bible was not dictated, but came up out of the human heart," is
							opposed by the apostle John when he begins the greatest book in the Bible—the
							Revelation—with the statement, "The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which came unto
								 him to show unto his servant the things which must
							shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant
							John." As between Dr. Jefferson and the apostle John, I find little difficulty of
							choice.
						Dr. B. H. Carroll, easily one of the most scholarly men of his day, and a man whose
							logic was relentless, says: "In the days of my infidelity I never doubted the
							Scripture claim of inspiration. . . . The trifling expedient of accepting the Bible as
							'inspired in spots' never occurred to me. To accept with Renan, its natural parts and
							arbitrarily deny its supernatural, or to accept with some the book as from God, and
							then strike at its heart by a false interpretation that denied the divinity and
							vicarious expiation of Jesus—these were follies of which I was never guilty,
							follies for which, even yet, I have never seen or heard a respectable excuse. To me it
							was always 'Aut Cesar, aut nihil'—either Casar or nothing). What anybody wanted,
							in a religious way, with the shell after the kernel was gone, I never could
							understand."
						The New Theology in its discrediting of the divine origin of Scripture and the his
							historical standing of the separate books that make it up, is not faring well even at
							the hands  of its own friends. A recent writer calls our
							attention to the fact that not long since Harnack disturbed his own company by arguing
							with great ability that Luke the physician—was the author of both the Gospel and
							the Acts. Dr. William Ramsay in his changed attitude, became a strong advocate of the
							historicity of the Acts. James Drummond, the great Unitarian scholar of Manchester,
							and William Sanday, of the Christ Church, Oxford, have alike championed the Johannine
							authorship of the fourth Gospel; and even accept the genuineness of 1st and 2nd Peter.
							James is defended by Mayer; and the Apocalypse, which has held a horror for every
							higher critic, is declared to be from the pen of John, by Swets of Cambridge. 
						To quote the language of Uncle Remus "Truth ain't never been hurt yit by folks not
							believin' it." Or, if one wants good English, let Dr. Jefferson himself speak his
							saner thought, "For fourteen hundred years the sun was misinterpreted. It made no
							difference to the sun. Ptolemy had a wrong conception, but the sun kept right on
							shining. He flood ed every day with light, and went out into the fields every summer
							and aided the farmers in  bringing in their crops."
						The Bible has not retired from its soul-illuminating and soul-saving work because
							skeptics have said it was only of human origin. As men come to study it more, its
							effulgence increases, and it is no longer "a lamp to their feet, and a light to their
							pathway" only, but it is the central sun before the rays of which the night of
							ignorance and unbelief is paling, and in the light of which men, who have eyes to see,
							walk with certain and steady tread.
						The true conception also is to the effect that the accepted versions of
								the Bible are all substantially correct. I do not wonder that many a young man,
							sitting in the modern theological seminary, is staggered in his faith and brought to
							believe that the Bible is not worth retention, if what Dr. Jefferson says is true. He
							declares that the young man who comes into the school of theology today, with his
							pagan conception of the Bible as a divine book, is told that "there are 150,000
							variations in the text of the New Testament." That is enough to stagger any. man !
						It is so big a lie that it ought to stagger the :professor who tells it more than the
							student who hears it. It' reminds one of Sandy, the 
							Scotch preacher. He was given to exaggeration, and one of his elders had taken him to
							task about it. They affected a covenant, and the deacon was to whistle every time
							Sandy became excited and over-enthusiastic. The very next time he came into the pulpit
							he waxed eloquent, and finally said, "You remember when Samson caught the 300,000
							foxes, and tying the firebrands to their tails, turned them loose into the corn."
							Thereupon the Deacon whistled! "Oh, I mean 30,000 foxes" said Sandy; upon which the
							Deacon whistled again; but Sandy replied, "You can blow your blarsted horn as often as
							you like; I'll not take another fox's tail off."
						The Modern theologian is far more accommodating than was the old Scotchman. He is
							ready, when cornered, to come down. And now we have the delightful privilege of tell
							telling you that the same man who says that the theological student must face the fact
							that there are 150,000 variations in the text of the New Testament, "gets down" until
							he agrees with the ultra-conservatives. I quote from his book lest men might doubt it:
							"I suppose there are people who think that as a result of all the discoveries made by
							recent scholarship  the Bible has been amended,
							expurgated. Such persons are mistaken. Our King James version dates from the beginning
							of the seventeenth century. About twenty-five years ago a new version was made. Many
							of the greatest scholars of the world were engaged in this revision. But when they had
							completed their work, the old Book was practically unchanged. Not one book was dropped
							out of the big volume. If, any one alarmed, thinking that possibly one of the books
							has escaped, should plunge into this book, he would hear a cheery voice saying what
							Paul said to the Philippian jailer, 'Do thyself no harm, we are all here!' Not a
							chapter was dropped out from the Old Testament or the New. Not a verse was expunged
							which affects any cardinal doctrine of the Christian religion. A few verses here and
							there were removed, because there were good reasons for thinking that these verses had
							slipped into the body of the text from the margin of some ancient manuscript. But
							generally speaking, the Bible today is just what it was in the days of the
							Reformation." The ultra-conservative could ask no greater concession! In that speech
							Modernism is vanquished by moral honesty ! 

						
						Wescott and Hort, whose scholarship even a Jefferson will not question, affirm that
							so far as the New Testament is concerned, that of the translations that have occurred
							in 15oo years there is not an essential change in one word out of a thousand. Once
							more I repeat it with all the vigor of my soul, "the accepted versions of the Bible
							are all substantially correct."
						The true interpretation of the Bible involves both the literal and the
							spiritual.
						Paul's statement of truth finds a thousand illustrations in the Scriptures: "That is
							not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural, and afterwards that which is
							spiritual." The first application to be made of the Scriptural assertion is the
							natural and the literal, and the second is the spiritual; in fact, the symbolical.
						Spiritual truth must be spiritually interpreted. The man who has no experience of it
							can, in the nature of the case, have little knowledge of it. "The natural man
							receiveth not the things of the Spirit, they are foolishness unto him, neither indeed
							can he know them because they are spiritually discerned." It is no marvel that many
							otherwise learned  men find the Bible an enigma and
							stumble alike at literalism and symbolism. The spirit ual life is essential to a
							spiritual understanding. Truly there is "a witness of the Spirit of God." As Ward
							Beecher says, "A moral intelligence is not infallible but comes nearer to
							infallibility than the lower reason! It is impossible without holiness to see God, and
							without willingness to submit to His way no man will clearly perceive what He
							says."
						When Saul was stricken on the way to Damascus, there was a voice from heaven; but the
							clear word was only as the sound of thunder to his unconverted and unregenerate
							attendants. "If any man is willing to do God's will he shall know of the teaching
							whether it be from God." It may sound like a severe arraignment of the modern man who
							denies the deity of Christ and decries the authority of the Word, to be classed with
							those ancients who did the same, since he imagines that by the law of evolution, he is
							a great improvement; and yet, we are fully persuaded that Paul's language to the
							Corinthians is the adequate explanation of the attitude of many of those who boast the
							wisdom of this world: "We preach Christ, unto the Jews a stumbling  block, and unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them
							which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of
							God."
						This last sentence leads us to our last remark on the true conception!
						It involves the fact that to the sincere believer the Bible is a book of
								both light and life. I know the ease with which young men are moved by an
							appeal to the eminently great. Horace Bushnell is not to be despised in the world of
							scholars, and Horace Bushnell says: "The worldly spirit shuts the Bible: the Spirit of
							God makes it a fire, flaming out all meaning and glorious truth." Richard Cecil,
							speaking of the Bible, says: "Either study it as removing some obstructions that keep
							God and thee asunder, or as supplying some uniting power to bring God and thee
							together ;" while John Quincy Adams declared, "The first and almost the only book
							deserving universal attention is the Bible. It is a book which neither the ignorant
							and weakest, nor the most learned and intelligent mind can read without improvement."
							Judged by its fruits, new theology, another name for Modernism, has no defense for its
							existence; while conservatism has given  to the world its
							Christianity, and to Christ His Church.
					
				

				
				

					CHAPTER II.IS MODERNISM A REAL MENACE?

					
						II John I :7-1I.
						Sermon preached in the First Baptist Church, Minneapolis, May 21, 1916. Occasion:
							Convention Sunday of the Northern Baptists.
					
					If it be true that "since the days of Kant in philosophy and Darwin in science we have
						lived in a world of thought peopled with new intellectual citizens" as the author of
						"The Church and the Changing Order" contends, one need not be surprised to find the
						thinking of the century rather confused, since these gentlemen, approaching kindred
						themes from the separate standpoints of philosophy and science, came to exactly opposite
						conclusions; Kant, contending that in the trial of life the strongest and best equipped
						will finally fail, while Darwin insists that the result will be "the survival of the
						fittest,"—conclusions which really gave occasion to Schopenhauer's dictum, "We are
						all fools living in a fool world." When one gives himself to a study of that so-called
						"modernism," which is supposed to have originated with these men, he is compelled to
						consent that Schopenhauer had much basis for his remark. Paradoxical as it may  sound, John, writing twenty centuries ago, was dealing with
						this exact propaganda, and we should give candid consideration to what he has to
						say:
					"For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is
						come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. Look to yourselves, that we
						lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward.
						Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He
						that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. If there
						come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house; neither
						bid him Godsped: for he that biddeth him Godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds"
					(II Jno. I :7-11).
					Describing their theology, he denominates its representatives as apostles of deception,
						and brings against their propaganda the indictment of infidelity, declaring that all who
						participate with them are, alike, members of the Antichrist. Is he justified in this
						somewhat rabid arraignment ?
					
						The Apostles of Deception.
						He describes them after this manner:  "Many deceivers
							have gone out into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is coming in the
							flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist." Careful study of the language used
							brings out three suggestions.
						These were nominal Disciples.
						The phrase "have gone out," indicates that they had been members of the Christian
							fraternity, and had used their place in the Church as a vantage point for the
							propagation of false teachings. In I John 2:I9 we read of certain ones—perhaps
							these same —"they went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had
							been of us they would have continued with us; but they went out, that they might be
							made manifest that they were not all of us." In other words, men who confessed loyalty
							to Jesus Christ became apostles of another gospel, the advocates of anti-Christian
							teaching. Even modern warfare, with all its devices for the destruction of an army,
							has been able to hit upon nothing more effective than to get an enemy within the camp.
							No men in all England are able, today, to do her injury as those men who dwell within
							her borders, even joining her army, wearing her uniform, but secretly communicating
								 with and aiding her enemies. The word "spy" has long
							been a detested one. As a rule, a man who plays that role is not held in esteem by any
							save those whose interests he directly represents. Paul, writing a letter to the
							Galatians, declared that he had encountered "false brethren, brought in unawares," who
							came in privily to spy out the liberty he and his friends enjoyed in Christ Jesus, and
							bring them into bondage.
						We do not desire to be harsh, nor uncharitable; but we must declare our deepest
							conviction, namely, that the greatest enemy of any Church of Jesus Christ is the man
							who remains in her, assumes to be one of her teachers, calmly wears her good name, and
							yet denies the deity of Him who brought her into being, and disputes the authority of
							the Book upon which she has rested her every contention. I regard myself as declaring
							a most patent truth when I say that "modernism"—so-called—is just such an
							enemy. By lip and pen, it has alike rejected Jesus (whom John describes) and
							repudiated the Bible.
						It is a matter of more than passing interest, also, to trace the parallelism between
							the opponents of John's description and the  present-day
							opponents of Jesus.
						They Denied His Physical Manifestations.
						The language in which John indicted them is this: "They confess not that Jesus Christ
							is coming in the flesh." The King James version, as you recall, has it, "is come in
							the flesh." If that translation were correct, it might refer to the first appearance
							of Jesus. If the text of the 191I version is correct, "who confess not that Jesus is
							coming in the flesh," then the second coming is in the mind of the sacred writer. But
							in either event, that which these false teachers opposed was the physical
							manifestation of God in Christ Jesus. Truly they have their successors. "God manifest
							in the flesh" is a miracle of such transcendent import as to be utterly rejected by
							our advocates of evolution! They almost universally resort to the statements that
							Jesus, while being God's best representative, was yet born of Mary and begotten by
							Joseph. The Virgin birth, is doubtless one of those "New Testament concepts" which,
							says one of their number, "the modern world, under the domination of science, finds it
							impossible to understand, much less to believe." Concerning the second appearance of
							Jesus in personal, visible form, known  as Messianism, we
							are blithely told by the same writer that "it is a survival of Judaism and its
							influence and implications must be removed before we can see the essential elements of
							the gospel." Of course the resurrection of Jesus is another physical manifestation,
							which, while not expressly mentioned in the text, is involved in the question; and, it
							is now well nigh the common custom among "new theologians" to hold that New Testament
							contention to ridicule. In fact, we are plainly asked the question, "If a man believes
							in a risen Christ without believing in the events of the first Easter Day, or in the
							objective character of the appearances of Jesus to Paul and the other apostles" should
							"he be excluded from preaching the gospel of salvation ?" and answered, "assuredly not
							!", and are told that "he, too, can bring and must bring his conviction of the
							continued life of Jesus to bear upon men and women."
						But this raises the logical and inevitable question, "What Jesus is he preaching, and
							whence does he bring either his Master or his message ?" Manifestly it cannot be the
							Jesus of the Bible, for He was "flesh and blood" before His crucifixion, and "flesh
							and bones"  after His resurrection, physical and visible
							in His ascension, and destined to be visible and personal in His glorious second
							appearance! What nonsense, then, to imagine that by the adoption of a name to which
							there was never a corresponding reality, one has created a personality and provided a
							message. Coningsby Dawson's poetry is the essence of inanity:
						If He lived or died,I may not know, For who shall disprove the words of the
							dead,Or who may approve of the wisdom they said?For me, He is not of the
							long ago,But speaks in the morn of my life, I know."
						Who speaks, and what does he say? Is it not true, as one of their own company has
							confessed, that "when we take away the historical Jesus, we take away the only Jesus"
							and "remove the gospel," and thereby "change the very definition of Christianity
							itself"? "Christianity as an embodiment of the gospel is a phase of religion
							determined by historical facts." Any Jesus, not begotten by the Holy Ghost, born of
							Mary, crucified on Calvary, raised the third day, ascended to the right hand of God,
							and destined to descend to the earth and take His throne and reign from sea  to sea, is as much the figment of a distempered
							imagination as are the dreams resulting from an overdose of meat; and any message
							based upon it has no more claims upon intelligent, thinking men than do the
							unintelligible, incoherent babblings of a Mary Baker Eddy. What would you think of a
							man who said he believed in George Washington, but not the George Washington who was
							born in 1732 in Westmoreland County, Virginia, who was the first President of the
							United States, who led in the Revolution, and whose opinions gave rise and final form
							to the very constitution of the country itself; he believed rather, in a Washington
							who never had a visible, physical existence, but whose ideas and spirit dominated the
							colonies in the Puritan days, and still lives. Candidly, one finds it difficult to be
							patient with men who name themselves "Rationalists," while dispensing with reason, and
							call themselves "thinkers," while giving proof that they are incapable of clearly
							stating premises or reaching logical conclusions. There never was a more just and
							justifiable indictment made against men than I. M. Haldeman brings against these
							self-named Moderns when he says:  "The Christ they preach
							never rose from the dead in the body!
						"The Christ they preach has no body! "Their Christ is a boneless and fleshless
							Christ!
						"The Christ of the modern theologian is an immaterial ghost !"
						Over the doors of some modern theological institutions might well be written,
							"Erected to the Ghost-Christ !"
						Over the pulpits of some modern preachers might be written, "Here the Ghost-Christ is
							preached !"
						He is a phantom of mortal mind! Their message is as baseless as their Christ is
							bodiless! 
						These Teachers, John Denominated the Antichrist.
						His language is: "This is the deceiver and Antichrist. Look to yourselves, that we
							lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward."
						A careful study of the Bible will show that the Antichrist is a person destined to
							head up the final but fatal rebellion against God; and yet the Sacred Scriptures
							equally teach that preliminary to his appearance and preparatory  unto the same, is a whole school of men who shall speak against Jesus
							Christ, incessantly striving to bring God to the level of man, and to exalt man to the
							height of God.
						Fundamental to this whole Satanic scheme is the discrediting of the Sacred
							Scriptures. The man who attempts that is brought to book in John's catalog of the
							Antichrist. Before one can successfully dispuite the claim that "Jesus is the Son of
							God, that God dwelleth in him, and he in God," he must discredit the whole doctrine of
							inspiration; and yet, unless he do that adroitly, he may fail even in the judgment of
							his coveted followers. What could be more adroit than to insist that the denial of
							inspiration is not necessarily a denial of a divine Saviour? They tell us that Jesus
							is the foundation of our religion, and whatever else we lose we shall not lose Him. It
							is written, "Other foundation can no man lay, than that that is laid, which is Jesus
							Christ." But back of foundation-laying is work in the quarries. The Scriptures are the
							quarries of truth. Destroy :hem and no Christ can be chiseled out. Destroy them and no
							Christ remains save that moral phantom of the Modern's intellect. If a man bow before
							"Him"  or "It," he must concede Mrs. Eddy's contention
							that our behavior is determined by the "illusions of mortal mind," and at once and
							forever part with the whole goodly company of New Testament apostles and teachers, for
							in the language of John McDowell Leavitt, "that company of notable names knew Jesus
							Christ by the same sufficient crowning proofs the chemist employs when he analyzes
							salt, the geologist uses when examining a rock, the astronomer engages when he
							observes the stars,—namely, the senses. These witnesses affirmed that they had
							seen and heard and touched Jesus both before and after the resurrection. To the
							visible, the audible, and the tangible they gave evidence with their blood before the
							earth and heaven, and with it, they sealed their testimony. Thus their sincerity is
							unimpeachable, while they witnessed not to a philosophical opinion, not to a
							scientific explanation, not to a religious dogma, but to the plain, perceptible fact
							that Jesus arose front the dead and ascended into glory."
						The author of our text voices it after this manner: "That which was from the
							beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked
								 upon, and our hands have handled of the Word of Life:
							that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you" (I Jno. I :I-3). He it is that
							says: "Deny that and you are deceivers and of the Antichrist," and do become,
					
					
						The Propagandists of Infidelity.
						"Whosoever goeth onward," as the expression in the original is, "and abideth not in
							the teachings of Christ, hath not God."
						It is a significant fact that in the very word here employed, "proagon," and
							correctly translated "goeth onward" we have the term "progressive," which has been
							voluntarily assumed by the critics of the times.
						They profess to be the solitary progressives of the hour.
						They speak of themselves as "men who really think." In their advanced circle they
							claim to include "practically every Biblical teacher in the world of any scholarly
							significance." In youth, their mothers must have told them that if they did not think
							well of themselves no one else would, and then forgot to warn them against its too
							vociferous expression. Against the "Thus saith the Lord" of the conservatives, they
							have set up a sacramental  phrase, namely, "scholarship
							is agreed." If they ever name an exception, they are careful not to name more than
							one, or at most two, who are not trailing with this self-elected tribunal.
						In spite of the fact that some of us are privileged to minister to many men who
							represent the most complete scholastic training and who, in circles of their
							respective sciences are widely known and justly honored, and whose loyalty to the
							authority of the Scriptures and the very deity of Christ is as unswerving as was that
							of Paul, it is even denied that the church "now numbers among its members any
							considerable company of the scientifically trained and professional classes." We are
							asked "what has become of these college-bred men and women who went out from
							graduating classes into the wide world ?" Possibly these Progressives might make a
							discovery if they sat down and studied the membership roll of the greater churches of
							this land, which are, almost without exception, under conservative leadership. If it
							be true "that in the church at large, not one in fifty members are college graduates,"
							it might bring another revelation than that which our Progressives  imagine. The discovery may be made that the conservative
							churches far exceed this proportion. The speaker knows well one church that multiplies
							this number many times over, and bears testimony that these college and university men
							and women are not only among his most capable members, but are notable in their
							theological conservatism. It is not "education" that is taking the generation away
							from the church, but it is skepticism,—masking under the name of
							scholarship.
						It is as impossible to make science oppose Scripture as it is to compel God to
							contend against Himself; and, if culture oppose the church, then the child fights its
							own mother. yea, even the creature contends against its Creator. But "Science falsely
							so-called," has bespattered the pages of Scripture with interrogation points, and many
							a college and university student has thereby stumbled. Darwinism, a dogma without
							scientific data, or, in the words of the famous French scientist Fabre, "A theory
							exploited in big words but destitute of even little facts" has undone alike the
							superficial student of both Scripture and science. It is impossible to start from
							false premises and reach true conclusions. If, therefore, we have been able, as
							charged, to create a test  of church membership that
							"compels a man, under the influence of today's scholarship, to abandon not only a life
							of evil thought and evil action, but also the results of his education," it may be
							because that education was as far wrong as either his thought or action. The outcome
							will not only vindicate the church, but re-enthrone the Christ.
						Exclusive Leadership on the part of Moderns is a mere assumption.
						Mrs. Eddy, however, has illustrated the fact that you may state a thing so
							positively, and repeat it so often as to bring the superficial to accept it. She took
							two. of the noblest words known to human speech, "Christian" and "Science" and by
							combining and adopting them has brought the unthinking to imagine her an expert in
							both; and that, in spite of the fact that "her writings reveal no knowledge whatever
							of either.
						For fully fifteen years, or longer, our self-styled "Moderns" have been asserting
							their leadership alike in "science" and "Scripture." Some have supposed that a thing
							so often spoken must necessarily be so, and so Modernism has accomplished its
							following! Such students would have been profoundly impressed  by the Pharisee's prayer, and from the hour of its utterance, would have
							been his devoted followers. The claim of "assured results" has made its easy dupes in
							both the mining-enterprise and the hyper-critical profession. Almost without exception
							the devotees of that modern skepticism which discredits the deity of Jesus Christ and
							questions the authority of the Bible, are either still in their tender youth or else
							had their thinking fatally twisted before they were far out of their teens. Not once
							in a hundred instances do mature men turn from conservatism to liberalism, and in that
							instance, the rule is that while the man was mature in years, his early education was
							both poor and partial, and at forty he had only the intellectual equipment of a lad at
							twenty. Who knows a single man in whom ripened years and scholarship have combined to
							produce a skeptic? But there are scores of men, many of them world-famed, in whom
							additional study and experience have wrought an utter revolt from the doubts of
							youth.
						But the greater seriousness of all this, John does not disregard.
						He charges those who reject the Son with having lost the Father also.
						Unitarianism, masking under the term  "evangelical,"
							proposing to retain God, even though Christ be rejected, has no God, unless John be
							disputed. "He that hath not the Son hath not the Father." "Whosoever goeth onward and
							abideth not in the teaching of Christ, hath not God."
						The New York Presbytery, in ordaining men who dispute the virgin birth, and thereby
							deny the inspiration of plain Scripture statement, if it continue to wear the name of
							"Christian" will do nothing better than cloak an infidel form with a profession of
							faith. The life of Presbyterianism, as a positive Christian force, will depend in no
							small measure upon its eventual regard for the Cincinnati Presbytery's request that
							such Unitarians be disfellowshiped. The history of the past has provided abundant
							proof of the utter powerlessness of the Unitarian propaganda. It has created no
							ministry worthy of mention, it has started no missions that have proven virile, it has
							established no colleges that play conspicuous part in the educational process. It has
							affected so few converts from sin to holiness that one sometimes wonders how it keeps
							courage enough to build an occasional church. Its people are almost universally
							disciples of Charles Darwin, and with equal unamity they 
							emasculate the writings of Moses, repudiate all the prophecies of Daniel, and laugh to
							scorn the Apocalypse of John, while Jesus is to them Mary's bastard son. Is it any
							wonder that John dares to say "Whosoever goeth onward and abideth not in the teachings
							of Christ, hath not God"?
						But now what is to be the attitude of true Christian men and women toward all of
							this? Let John speak again, "If anyone come unto you and bring not this teaching,
							receive him not into your house, nor bid him Godspeed, for he that biddeth him
							Godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds."
					
					
						The Participants in the Antichrist.
						According to John, Christian fraternity is not for Christ's
								opponents. One of our best commentators tells us that the phrase "If anyone
							come unto you and bring not this teaching, receive him not," looks not to a social
							reception, but, rather, to a reception into the house of God unto Christian
							fellowship. The true Christian will not be unfriendly toward an infidel, nor refuse
							social fellowship with a skeptic. On the contrary, he will show neighborliness for
							every man visiting his door, and kindness to any one coming to, or going from  the same. But that does not mean his reception into the
							fellowship of God's family, nor a benediction upon infidelity in God's name. I have no
							creed to which my neighbors must subscribe, no doctrinal standards to which my
							acquaintances must come. The Unitarian may be my closest personal friend, and the
							Universalist my fishing companion, and it is alike my privilege and pleasure to return
							the bland smile of Mrs. Eddy's disciple. But the fellowship of faith is altogether
							another thing, and cannot be accorded to any who "bring not the teaching of
							Christ"—"God manifest in the flesh." The moment you create a church that exceeds
							fellowship in Christ, you introduce into it the seeds of self-destruction. The
							weakness of present-day Protestantism is at exactly that point. We are wondering why
							we are not making greater progress. We are worrying over subjects of secondary
							concern. We are searching every nook and corner of church life to discover the
							elements of weakness in our work. We are saying that by "a further federation of
							forces" we will "engender power." The exact opposite is true! We are over-federated
							now. Our affiliations are our fundamental weaknesses. Better a  Gideon's three hundred that believe God and lap the Water of Life from the
							fountains of His Word than the thousands that now leisurely drink from the tasteless
							springs of skepticism that gush from multiplied schools as water does from the mole
							holes of the Southland in a wet season.
						But John has a further word,
						He Makes Our Commendation of Skeptics a Self-Condemnation.
						"He that biddeth him Godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds." Frankly do some of us
							confess "to making it a part of our life work to mark the man 'who brings not the
							teaching of Jesus-God manifest in the flesh—and to refuse to recommend him to
							any church seeking our advice. How can we do otherwise and keep conscience at all?
							Would we advise any wife to take into her house, as a boarder, a man who would
							alienate her affections from her husband, and by criticisms finally dethrone him from
							the headship of the family? Can we advise any church to receive as a pastor a man who
							denies the deity of Jesus, and removes from the headship of the Church her own and
							only rightful Lord? Believing as we do that He is the very God, the  one and only basis of hope for time and eternity, the one
							and only sufficient moral ideal, and inspirating personality, the one and only Saviour
							from sin; in fact, the one and only way for the world's redemption, how can we
							recommend the man who proposes to tear the crown of deity from His brow, dispute His
							authority over the conscience and His Lordship over life?
						John McDowell Leavitt said truly, "Take Jesus from the world and you turn it into
							gloom. Let Him reign and humanity realizes its dream of light and love. In His system
							and character are all the marks of a divine Messiah. But Jesus false, how black the
							picture and how inconceivable the consequences. No middle place for this Christ, so
							perfect in character and so matchless in career. If not from the Holy Ghost in the
							Virgin, His conception a lie! If angels did not sing at His birth, and after
							temptation and amid agony, and watch at His tomb, narratives of their appearances,
							falsehoods! If no divine voice at His baptism, His ministry of holiness opening with
							imposture If no suffering mortals relieved by His touch and words, His miracles of
							love fabrications! If no power over Hades,  His promise
							to the thief on the cross a deception! If no resurrection and ascension, fraud carried
							over life into death itself !" If no return in power, then no millennium for this
							world is possible, and the future will grow increasingly bloody and eventuate in the
							darkest of nights. He who mars the Jesus of the Bible, unmakes mankind. He who blots
							the sentence of sacred Scripture, flings a blackness over future history.
						Commend him as a teacher? Ask a church to appoint him to its leadership? Write
							letters, dexterously dodging the facts involved, in aiding him to cover up his unfaith
							long enough to be comfortably seated and begin to uncover his skepticism, and thereby
							break the hearts of his aged parishioners, and destroy the faith of his youthful ones?
							Never! For this would be to be a partaker of his evil deeds. The compromise of truth
							is a crime against Christ!
						The crisis is on! The injunction of Joshua lives again, "Choose you this day !"
						"He that hath felt the spirit of the highest Cannot confound or doubt Him, or
							deny;Yea, with one breath, O world, though thou deniest,Stand thou on that
							side, for on this am I."
					
				

				
				

					CHAPTER III.IS MODERNISM UNDERMINING THE
							EVANGELICAL MINISTRY?

					"Thus saith the Lord of hosts, Hearken not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy
						unto you: they make you vain; they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the
						mouth of the Lord. They say still unto them that despise me, The Lord hath said, Ye
						shall have peace; and they say unto every one that walketh after the imagination of his
						own heart, No evil shall come upon you. ... I have not sent these prophets, yet they
						ran; I have not spoken to them, yet they prophesied'. . . Behold, I am against them that
						prophesy false dreams, saith the Lord, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by
						their lies, and by their lightness; yet I sent them not, nor commanded them; therefore
						they shall not profit their people at all, saith the Lord" (Jeremiah 23:16, 17,
							21, 32).
					"Modernism" is a phrase so often employed that men imagine something is new under the
						sun; and many are brought to believe that the pulpits are now occupied by a company of
						preachers without worthy predecessors. The cry "Eureka" does not always involve a
						discovery. The opinion is all too prevalent that the preacher has just now been educated
						for the first time; and consequently become a  capable man:
						a conclusion reached without due reference to historical facts. The founders of America
						believed an educated ministry fundamental. You go to the north gate of Harvard and you
						will read this inscription: "After God had carried us safe to New England, and we had
						builded our houses, provided necessities for our livelihood, reared convenient places
						for God's worship, settled the civil government;.one of the next things we longed for
						and labored for was to advance learning that we might not leave an illiterate ministry
						to our posterity when our present ministry shall lie in the dust."
					New England Universities are almost as old as New England itself. They were founded not
						so much in the interest of advanced science as in the interest of progressive sanctity;
						not so much for the education of men in commerce and letters as for the preparation of
						men for the ministry. The term "Modernism" when employed to describe the educational
						movement of the moment, looks more to the lifting of the other professions to the
						ministerial level than it does to bringing preaching up to the level of other
						professions. And yet, that that term has profoundly 
						influenced the ministry no man questions.
					In view of this fact, I want to call your attention to the attitude of Modernism, the
						theology of Modernism, and the travesty of Modernism.
					
						The Attitude of Modernism.
						The ministers who boast themselves "Moderns" may not easily consent to our
							characterization: and yet, if we demonstrate its justice by copious quotations from
							their pens, they cannot successfully discount it. Permit three remarks to express our
							understanding of this attitude.
						It is an attitude of self-aggrandizement.
						The book-stores and libraries literally teem with output from the pens of Moderns;
							and, in the language of Edward Leighton Pell, this impression is bourne in upon the
							reader of these production, viz., that the authors "are victimized by the illusion
							that the sun never rose until the present generation of scholars came upon the stage."
							For instance, take the phrase already referred to, "The rise of Higher Criticism and
							its adoption by practically every Biblical teacher of scholarly significance in the
							world, is one of the most striking  characteristics of
							today's religious life!" There are scores of men that can think clearly, read Greek
							and Hebrew easily; some of them can even dicipher hieroglyphics, and many of them give
							themselves to research of the most extensive sort, and have made for themselves places
							of international reputation; and yet, having repudiated Higher Criticism they cannot
							be regarded by these Moderns as teachers of "any scholarly significance." Dr. A. T.
							Robertson can produce a, Greek Grammar and Lexicon that gives promise of putting
							Thayer out of commission, and yet if he speak not the shibboleth of the destructive
							critic, he is ruled out of the realm of scholarship. Prof. Orr could call the
							attention of the religious world to his masterly work, but, not being among the
							critics, the Modern makes no mention of him. Dr. Frederick Wright of Oberlin,
							out-shines Oberlin's President in scholarship, but being a believer, he does not
							count. Prof. Ira Price of Chicago University is authority in the realm of Archaeology,
							but being a conservative he is discounted by his own Seminary associate! We are told,
							with somewhat more of commiseration than sympathy, that "since Dr. Green's death
							conservativism is without a  worthy scholar." A ruse like
							this always works with mental weaklings. The cowardly are always afraid their true
							feelings will be found out; hence their loud profession of bravery. And the mentally
							incapable are equally sure to covet the reputation of competents, and many a student
							who can never make his grades .will be driven to name himself "A Modern," and to
							flaunt his new found infidelity in order to distract attention from his true
							attainments, while many another student submits to the innoculation of infidelity
							rather than be disfellowshiped by the gentlemen who proudly point to that scar of the
							soul.
						It is also an attitude of assumption.
						It assumes to be scientific. And then to make that assumption good, it presents
							another, namely, that "Evolution is scientific." Dr. King, of Oberlin, says "The idea
							of evolution became to the world a scientific reality with the publication of Darwin's
							'Evolution of the Species' in 1859." A phrase like that destroys the definition of
							"Science" itself, for "Science is knowledge gained and verified," and confessedly
							Darwinism is without verification. Dr. King tells us that "there may be a deification
							of truth which is only the  deification of an
							intellectual formula" and observing men cannot ignore the fact that there may be "a
							deification" of utter falsehood, if only some noted individual name it "Truth." The
							land is full of little men, and crowded with boys and girls who will run as quickly at
							the call of some notable name and swallow as greedily anything that he may present to
							them, as the barn-yard hens come at the cluck of the plumaged cock. It has always been
							so! In young Judson's day the students of the hour greedily swallowed Deism, when the
							only thing in its favor was the fact that it had been exploited by some notable
							professors and accepted by men supposed to be scientific, and to this hour the land
							has not fully recovered from the effects of that unscientific infidelity. There are no
							more bitter fruits than those that grow on the twigs of false assumptions! Witness the
							sinking of the Titanic and remind yourself of the awful death-struggle in freezing
							waters, of a great crowd of hundreds who, under the inspiring boast of its builders,
							assumed that their bark was unsinkable!
						Again, the attitude of Modernism is intolerant. We have already
							proven that, according to one of its notable advocates, there are  now no living scholars outside its special assembly. The same writer
							contends that there are no schools worthy of serious consideration except they speak
							the shibboleth of the Modern. In treating of such institutions as the Bible Institutes
							at New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Los Angeles, he questions whether what they
							teach is worthy to be termed "theology" at all, and bases this criticism solely upon
							the circumstance that they "are opposed to modern critical thought" and are not
							enamored of "Hastings' Dictionary" so-called, and are even "hostile to evolution and
							all its implications," and are such mental mossbacks as to entertain the "Messianic
							hope of the primitive church." But in quieter moments this same writer passes
							sufficient sentence upon his own company. With little show of penitence, but with
							perfect pertinence, he says, "Liberalism has its dogmatism as real as that of
							traditionalism and often more arrogant. Its weapons are scorn and contempt. The sin
							that so easily besets it is impatience of criticism and opposition. It is hard for any
							of us to take our place by the side of the Publican and not find ourselves edging over
							toward where the Pharisee stands,  shouting his
							egotistical prayer." That may be the reason for what the Advance had to say concerning
							the utterance of a Congregational preacher—A Modern—before the National
							Congregational Council, held at Cleveland a few years since. The Editor affirmed "A
							more bold and bald declaration of infidelity was perhaps never before heard in the
							presence of a religious body in this country. He denied that the Bible is the inspired
							Word of God and said there could be no atonement and there was no need of one. ... He
							could show more scorn in a minute for the faith that has transformed and transfigured
							the lives of millions of men than the most sarcastic politician can show for the
							opposite party in a political campaign." But it should be remembered that scorn and
							science are not synonyms; and the Pharisee's profession of personal superiority is no
							positive proof of its certain possession.
						This attitude of Modernism has had its effect in the realm of religion, and it has
							produced what we might properly name
					
					
						The Theology of Modernism.
						That theology is more philosophical than Biblical.
						In fact, the phrase to which Moderns have  committed
							themselves is this, "The real issues are now seen to be theological and not Biblical,"
							an indication as clear as language can make it that Moderns propose to rest their
							opinions of God no longer in the sentences of sacred Scripture, but rather, in the
							speculations of twentieth century philosophers. Prof. Peabody, of Harvard, asserts
							that "theology is now the least thing required of the man who is equipping himself for
							the ministry;" . "The language of the times seems to be a call away from
							theology."
						Some of us, listening to the talks of the later theological graduates, have long
							suspected this. These talks have not impressed us as having even the taint of theology
							about them; and the man who has a philosophical vs. a theological foundation, is
							commonly a man who veers with every wind of doctrine and is tossed by every wave of
							skepticism. Reginald Campbell never took a course in theology; his books are in no
							sense theological treatises; and his uncertain philosophies adequately account for his
							shifts from Methodism to Congregationalism, and from Congregationalism to
							Episcopalianism, and now gives promise of landing a philosophical Unitarian in the lap
							of Rome. I know three Baptist men in America,  occupying
							positions of importance everyone, who entered the ministry without a theological
							training, and during the first few years of their ministerial life, being left to
							themselves and the Bible, became flaming Evangels and made for themselves, in each
							instance, a national reputation. But that reputation became their peril and put them
							into touch and even fellowship with that professional crowd who always seek the
							fraternity of the famed; and, in this more critical and skeptical atmosphere their
							hold on the Bible is breaking, their confidence in the Christ of God is crumbling,
							their former views of "the kingdom" are repudiated,—all in consequence of the
							one fact that, having no theological foundation, they have been easily subject to the
							twisting hurricanes of modern philosophy.
						That theology boasts itself scientific rather than Scriptural.
						On his own confession, the Modern insists that his "method of religious thinking is
							becoming scientific rather than literally Biblical." And, he imagines by the very use
							of the word "scientific" that he has settled every question as to the correctness of
							the method. He would be at once foolish and inconsistent who denies  honors to Science; on the other hand, he is a credulous
							individual indeed who imagines that by calling his course "scientific" he has thereby
							settled its correctness. Dr. Pell tells us that "the first time Paul and Barnabas did
							some wonderful things, the people jumped to the conclusion that they were both gods,
							and went into wild acclaim over them."' Some men have treated the accomplishments of
							science after the same manner. Because it has wrought some wonderful things they have
							flung themselves at its feet and will have it that there is no God beside it. Our
							fathers hailed science with delight, but held her to be the handmaiden of religion.
							Many of their sons have sought, rather, to make her religion's substitute. The effect
							is little less ludicrous than the following regarding Malcolm James McLeod. When he
							had a wedding in high society he marched to the opening strains of Lohengren and took
							his place before the chancel, his hands clasped behind his back, a manual between
							them. When the music ceased and all was quiet, he opened the little book to discover
							the title "Todhunter's Conic Sections." But why object? Is not "Todhunter's Conic
							Sections" a treatise on science; and is not science now in the ascendancy; and  should not preachers deal with scientific subjects?
							Certainly ! But when you come to perform a marriage ceremony, if you have been unable
							to commit the service to memory, the thing you need to have in hand is a minister's
							manual. And some of us believe that the minister's great manual is not a treatise on
							science, but rather the Holy Scriptures; and if that excludes us from the company of
							Moderns we prefer to part from skeptical men rather than the sacred Book.
						Their theology produces preachers, but not prophets.
						Modernism, having subsidized the theological seminary, is now engaged in making the
							ministry of the hour, and according to the Harvard Theological Review, these ministers
							"administer congregations, organize ecclesiastical industries, become philanthrophists
							and pastors, but not theologians." It might have remarked also "and not prophets of
							God!" The reason is not far to seek! Modernism makes little of the Bible. In the
							language of Arthur S. Hoyt "All the real prophets of Christianity have been masters of
							the Bible." Modernism makes less of Christian experience. No prophet can ever exist
							who cannot  at least say, with the healed blind man, "One
							thing I know." The methods of Modernism being destitute of the Holy Spirit have been
							as incompetent as their teaching has been unbliblical! Frozen formalities and
							unoccupied pews are the inevitable output.
						In that delightfully readable volume, McLeod's "Letters to Edward," he tells of a
							brilliant young college woman, Miss Johnson and her young friend Graham, with whom he
							fell in on one occasion, and gives a rather voluminous report of Miss Johnson's views
							of preachers in general. Among other things she says, "I think the great thing
							preachers ought to aim at today is to be interesting. First of all, to be spiritual
							and then to be interesting. The little codger who spent the day fishing without
							getting a bite, gave a sufficient explanation when he said, 'We did not seem to catch
							their attention.'" "Doctor," she continued, "dullness in the pulpit is an unpardonable
							sin; and yet, shall I confess it, nine sermons out of every ten are to me dull." And
							she goes on to speak of a professor "in one of the leading seminaries, who has a chair
							in Homiletics, which means, I believe," she adds, "how to preach!" "Is not that so,
							Doctor ?" "And yet, that same man who started in the 
							ministry with a large congregation, and in two years preached the building empty, is
							now teaching the young theologues how to reach the masses !"
						This speech of Miss Johnson's reminds every one of us of seminary professors we know,
							and we marvel not that no prophets of God come from their feet. The theological
							students have received from them neither message nor inspiration. In fact, by turning
							the attention of young men from Biblical theology to Darwinian philosophy, they have
							taken away the source of both information and inspiration. That fact makes its
							manifestation in the ministry of today. The Ladies' Home Journal, for May I916,
							contains on page nine-teen, an analysis of 800 sermons; thirty-eight of them were
							Biblical-expository or textual; thirteen of them evangelistic, and the remainder had
							had to do with such subjects as Literature, Plays, Science, History, Efficiency, etc.
							Self-culture capped the climax with the number 213.
						Without a message, certainly inspired, and without an inspiration consequent upon an
							indwelling Spirit, the prophet perishes! The most pitiful fate that ever befell a
							preacher is described by Dr. Pell under the name "Rev. 
							Hail Fellow Well-Met, widely known to the readers of the society column, as Mr.
							knickerbockers constant attendant at golf, a charming essayist at the Woman's Club,
							and the best local authority on the drama" as well as "a popular baseball fan," a man
							"who can slap more good fellows on the back and take more soft drinks at the soda
							fountain than any three clergymen in the city." Doubtless Dr. Pell has occasion for
							this statement "We do not need jolly good fellows in the ministry. We need prophets
							who stand apart from the jolly crowd; men set apart unto God; men who stay in the
							presence of God until their faces are white with the light of God, and who hasten with
							His message to their fellowmen while the light is still on and the fire is still
							burning high in their hearts." If the theological seminary is failing to produce such
							men, the hour has struck to strengthen that new-born institution—the modern
							Bible School—the curriculum, atmosphere, and whole intent of which is set to the
							one purpose of producing prophets of God rather than ethical essayists or
							china-painting preachers.
					
					
						The Travesty of Modernism.
						But after all, what is the fundamental error  in
							Modernism? Great men, and even great movements, have succeeded in spite of the
							self-aggrandizement that often envelopes them; in spite of certain false assumptions,
							and in spite of intolerant attitudes. There must be in "Modernism" some more marked
							weaknesses than any of these, or even all of them combined. What are those weaknesses?
							Let us conclude with the fundamentals.
						Modernism puts man's word in place of God's Word.
						A man who took the finishing touches of his theological training in the University of
							C—once brought to me one of his printed sermons on "Inspiration" and asked me to
							read it carefully and give him my judgment of the same. When he came for an opinion I
							had finished the task and was compelled to tell him "There is not a quotation of
							Scripture in it; like Darwin's Origin of Species it is a theory." How much of such
							preaching we have under the shadow of this boastful movement known as "Modernism!"
							Some writer quotes Baedeker as saying of a certain town in Italy, "You will find fresh
							egg: here, and butter and milk and excellent fruit, provided you carry these
							delicacies along with you!" If  you are to attend upon
							the preaching of a Modern, that seems to be the only way to feed upon the gospel while
							there! Carry it with you, or you will go hungry!
						Ancient as our text is, it never had a more direct application than now, nor pointed
							to a more patent truth. "They speak the vision of their own heart, and not out of the
							mouth of the Lord. They use their own tongues, and say, he saith. They dream dreams
							and tell them, and God's people do err by their lies, and by their lightness."
						They put man's work in place of God's work.
						Truly did Bishop Cheney, answering the question "Why candidates for the ministry were
							diminishing ?" lay the blame upon the theological seminary that changed the
							evangelical ardor of the young student into indifference, and sent him out with the
							admonition that the business of the twentieth century minister was to lead in
							sociological reform rather than convince of sin and the need of salvation; provide a
							better environment to the poor rather than preach to them regeneration, substituting
							hygiene for heaven, food for forgiveness, country air in place of confessions of
							faith, and establish what Dr. I. M. Haldeman  defines as
							an "Institutional Church," wherein you can "secure anything desired from a sermon to a
							sandwich, and from theology to the theatre ... The Church that is taken up with
							everything under heaven except the message direct from God and by God," where "every
							man hath a psalm and every man a doctrine," where "the modern machinery has ground out
							the moving Spirit, and the organization itself has dispensed with God—Churches
							of the Laodicean type, churches perfectly organized and up-to-date, but with the
							Christ outside." That is the thing that makes Modernism a moral and spiritual menace,
							and constitutes a rallying cry to every friend of the Bible and Christianity to come
							at once to their defense.
						Modernism has taken away the minister's Christ.
						It has denied the Virgin birth! It has disputed His miraculous works! It has resented
							His claims of resurrection, and scorned His reputed ascension to the right hand of
							God, and it despises His promised re-appearance in power and glory.
						To be sure some of its advocates deplore these positions, denominate them "extreme,"
								 yet they have become so common as to make up an
							essential element in its nature and character. Its devotees increasingly "deny the
							Christ who bought them." Imagine the consequences to the churches that receive such a
							ministry and the effect upon the lives of young men and women who, in the student
							days, are attracted and taken by its tinsel show of science and its false promises of
							mental and social premiums.
						I never think of that great student body that throngs the halls of college and
							university, female and theological seminary, but to remember what soul-dangers they
							are sure to encounter, and to be reminded afresh of Beckford's "Vathek." You recall
							it! "The games of the day went forward with all alacrity, and at length concluded just
							as the twilight began to overcast the mountain; and Vathek, easily the leader of the
							hour, was still standing on the edge of the chasm, and suddenly called out with all
							his might, 'Let my fifty favorites approach me separately; and let them come in the
							order of their class. To the first I will give my diamond bracelet; to the second, my
							collar of emeralds; to the third, my aigret of rubies; to the fourth, my girdle of
							topazes, and to the rest of them portions of my dress.' 
							The direction was received with acclaim, and all extolled the liberality of a Prince
							who would thus strip himself for the amusement of his subjects and the enjoyment of
							the rising generation. The Caliph in the meantime undressed himself by degrees, and
							raising his arm as high as he was able, made the diamonds glitter in the air. But
							whiles he delivered it with one hand to the child who sprang forward to receive it,
							with the other he pushed the poor innocent into the chasm where the Giaour, with a
							sullen muttering, incessantly repeated, 'More! More!' " Then Beckforth remarks, "This
							dreadful device was executed with such dexterity that the boy who was approaching him
							remained unconscious of the fate of his forerunner; and as to the spectators, the
							shadows of evening precluded them from perceiving any object distinctly. Vathek having
							in this manner thrown in the last of the fifty, and expecting that the Giaour on
							receiving them would present the key, already fancied himself as great as Soloman, and
							consequently above being amenable for what he had done; when, to his utter amazement,
							the chasm closes and the hole was as smooth as the rest of the ground."
						It is a frightful thing to say, but I do not  believe
							there ever was a more perfect parable presented in literature, if it be but applied to
							that professor who holds before the eyes of ambitious young men and women the diamond
							glitter of so-called scientific knowledge, the emerald light of promised efficiency,
							the ruby red of gratified tastes, the tango girdle of acquired gold, until the very
							Adversary that waits to destroy them, is both denied and disdained. Nor do I think
							there ever was a more perfect parable of the engulfing plain of skepticism, now
							existing in such schools as permit the Bible and spiritual experiences to be laughed
							at, and even the saving power of Christ to be denied! Let me call every young man and
							young woman who has honored me with audience to turn from such a Caliph's field to the
							cross of Christ, and tell you what that cross, even though it be weakly interpreted
							and poorly understood, may do for every one who looks upon it. A young woman lay in
							our city jail, incarcerated for nameless crimes. Girls from the church went to her
							cell and talked to her of Christ and His cross. Once they were out of her sight she
							raised a clinched fist and stamped her foot and said, "The cross be damned!" Leaning
							forward she looked between the iron bars through the open  window; and lo, in the very heavens, as it seemed, there glowed the great cross
							outlined by electric bulbs on the top of the Wesley Methodist Church. At the sight of
							it she screamed "The cross !—The cross!" and sank, unconscious, to the floor.
							When she was revived, they explained to her that she had seen no vision from heaven,
							but merely an advertising sign. To this she responded with intelligence, "I care not
							who put the sign there; God has spoken to me through it, and never again will I
							willingly sin against the Christ of the cross." From that moment she has walked in the
							ways of righteousness and joined in intelligent service to the Son of God. Any
							education that takes the cross from the sin-cursed world is nothing short of a
							soul-tragedy ! Such schools as accomplish that crime in the name of culture, were
							better wiped, at once, out of existence!
					
				

				
				

					CHAPTER IV.
						HAS THE STATE UNIVERSITY BECOME A HOT-BED OF HETERODOXY?
					
					
						"Render, therefore, unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God, the
							things that are God's"(Matthew 22:21).
					
					Has the State University become a hot-bed of heterodoxy? Before attempting to answer
						that question in :any measure, let me make plain some secondary matters. 
					First of all, I have no personal grievance against the State University, nor any
						phillipics against an institution which is justly esteemed, and is splendidly efficient.
						I am a stockholder in the State University of Minnesota. It is not the institution of
						the Board of Regents; it is not the institution of the faculty, it is not owned by the
						student body; it belongs to the citizenship at large, and it ill becomes any man to
						speak against his own. 
					There are a great many of us who object to the combination of Church and State; but
						that does not mean that we are all for the  Church and all
						against the State; it merely means that each has its place in human society, its
						separate part to perform; and, while there are many necessary instances of over-lapping,
						there are no necessary points of antagonism. When such exist, either the Church or the
						State, or both, are wrong, and it then becomes necessary for the individual to
						discriminate and choose.
					There is a story told of Tolstoi that one day in Moscow he saw, near one of their
						famous gates, a persistent beggar, asking alms, and loudly exclaiming, "A little penny,
						brother, in the name of Christ." Just as this appeal smote Tolstoi's ears a police
						officer,—young, martial, and commanding, approached. Thereupon the beggar fled!
						Tolstoi looked into the officer's face and said, "Brother, can you read ?" "Yes," said
						the officer politely. "Have you read the Bible ?" "Portions of it" replied the officer.
						"And do you remember Christ's orders to feed the hungry ?" "Yes," said the officer.
					"And now, may I ask, Can you read ?" "Yes," replied Tolstoi. "Have you read the police
						regulations ?" "Yes" was Tolstoi's answer. "And do you remember that begging in the main
						streets is forbidden?" When the course of this world and the  Word of God are in conflict, the individual is compelled to choose; and unless the
						public is altogether mistaken, certain State University professors are creating more and
						more a conflict between the evangelical church and the modern State; and are, thereby,
						producing effects, which some of us regard as deleterious to both Church and State;
						hence the necessity of this discourse.
					But let me add another word before entering fully upon some definite themes and
						propositions. After twenty years of observation upon the State University I am fully
						persuaded that more than one half of its professors have no controversy with either the
						Christian Church or its Sacred literature,—the Bible. It is a custom, however,
						centuries old, for unbelievers to be blabby! Considerable fuss comes as easily from the
						lips of infidelity as smoke pours from a chimney.
					I pass over, therefore, that great body of grand men who make up the real strength of
						the State University, and purposely elect to speak of that small but more vocal company
						who use the University professorship to exploit infidelity; and I lodge against them
						three indictments ! They are inconsistent; they are incompetent; and they are
						irreverent!


					
					
						Inconsistent.
						They exercise, as their right, that which they refuse to others.
						They are set to teach Biology, Botany, Sociology, or History; they essay to speak on
							the authority of the Scripture, the Deity of Christ, heaven and hell, and whatever
							religious subjects they like. The moment, however, a minister invades their realm they
							resent it, and remind the pupils "He is only an ignoramus in realms of Science."
							Evidently it does not occur to them that the minister, if he be educated at all, has
							spent at least four years in the study of these scientific subjects; and in case
							University instruction has been worth anything, he has at least a basis of opinion
							upon scientific subjects. But when did instructors in Science study Scripture at all;
							and where? What fitness have they to pass sentence on Scripture subjects? I was
							present recently in a University, and was waitting my time to address the faculty and
							students at the chapel hour when a young professor in cap and gown, set on that
							special morning to the task of leading the devotional exercises, got up from his
							chair, walked with great importance to the desk, announced a  song, and backing up sat down again quite demurely. The hymn once sung, he
							walked forward with equal importance and said, "Let us pray," and started in to lead
							the company in what is known as "The Lord's Prayer." At the middle of it his memory
							slipped a cog, and there was an embarrassing hesitation. He finally remembered the
							next word and started again, to balk twice before he could finish it; and yet, I have
							little doubt that in his class room he could speak "ex cathedra" upon sacred subjects,
							owing to his prestige as a professor and his consequent privilege of delivering his
							own judgment in the presence of boys and girls who did not feel at liberty to reply;
							and at a somewhat safe removal from the minister who is an expert in that branch of
							learning.
						The minister, however, is always a welcome voice with skeptical professors, provided
							he speaks their shibboleth. When Rev. John C. Kimball writes a book entitled "The
							Romance of Evolution" and makes "a god of science greater than any of the gods old
							Olympic knights ever imagined," and proves himself a devotee of Darwin rather than a
							defender of the Divine Son of God, he is received with as much warmth as though he
							wore a cap and  gown. That same circle of skeptical
							professors literally spew out the conservative preacher, but a crowded sanctuary is a
							gentle reminder that they do not thereby silence him, or even keep University men from
							sitting at his feet.
						No more consistent is the custom, common with this somewhat critical company, of
							resenting "all assumptions" about the Bible, or about Jesus of Nazareth, while daring
							to rest their entire philosophy of life upon "an assumed foundation." Darwinism is a
							theory, not a demonstration; a speculation, not a science; and yet it is confessedly
							the foundation of so-called modern history, philosophy and science, and having begun
							in assumption, skeptical teachers are not troubled when they continue on the same
							basis.
						In Minnesota State University Menzies' "History of Religion" is a text book, and
							Menzies writes after this manner: "We shall not pretend to set out on this enterprise
							without any assumptions. The first and principal assumption we make is that in
							religion, as in other departments of human life, there has been a development from the
							beginning even until now, and that the growth of religion has gone on according to the
							ordinary laws of  human progress." From that point to the
							end of his book it speaks far more often in the language of assumption than in terms
							of science. It assumes, for instance, that religion is the output of civilization,
							when history attests that the opposite is true. The Fiji Islanders had no civilization
							until the Christian religion was preached among them!
						Menzies comes eventually to the conclusion that Christ is the greatest exponent of
							religion yet appearing upon the face of the earth, without at all consenting to His
							deity—the only sane explanation of His infinite influence. In other words, the
							upshot of the whole matter is exactly what Reginald Campbell (once notorious, now
							seldom mentioned) voiced in his "New Theology," namely that according to the Bible
							"God made man in his own image ;" according to Modernism, man has returned the
							compliment, "and made God in his image." The God of Menzies is as absolutely an
							evolution from some mental monad that moved in the brain pool of an anthropoid ape as
							man himself is an evolution from that first life cell, the ancestry of which is
							unexplained and inexplacable. When you invade the minister's realm to teach the young
							people who go from his parish such "assumptions," do not deny  his right to resent it and say to those same young people "Such an
							explanation of the universe is inane; it reduces one to the absurdity of a creation
							without a Creator; thought without a Thinker; designs without a Designer; power
							without a Personality; angels and men without a God !" But permit me to remind you of
							the second point of inconsistency upon the part of such professors:
						They pass judgment against the Scripture without granting it a hearing.
						The Bible is not to be read in State schools in Minnesota and other commonwealths, if
							you please. State law is interpreted to oppose it. But in the judgment of some men,
							the moment you don a cap and gown, the Book you cannot read, you can rip! Think of
							teaching young people who have never made any special study of the Bible that "the
							nation of Israel and the religion of Israel came into the world at the same time," and
							that "the tribes retained their separate gods and religious observances;" and
							"families among them had their own family cults ;" but that "Moses was great enough to
							inspire in them all a kindred enthusiasm; and united them on one God,  Yahwek, or Jehovah." Think also of telling them that the
							early Psalms contained the mention of many "gods;" and that only the later ones
							declared exclusively for Jehovah. This is the thing for which the text book (Menzies)
							—"The History of Religion" stands, and the interpretation that is often put upon
							the Bible by men who talk about it; but was never found in the Bible by men who know
							the Book at first hand. I. M. Haldeman says truly, "In this way, every day, thousands
							of the young men and women of the land are being led to repudiate the God of the Bible
							and the standards of the Bible. Thousands of the very flower of our youth are being
							taught insidiously to set aside every law and precept which does not give full and
							personal liberty, and are being led to believe that they are in themselves as the
							throne of God and the final tribunal."
						The greatest calamity that has befallen the modern state is the legislation against
							the reading of the Bible in State schools. That legislation has taken away from the
							modern student familiarity with the finest specimen of the English language. That
							legislation has taken away from the modern student the only volume on moral philosophy
							sane enough to  stand the test of centuries. That
							legislation has taken away from the modern student familiarity with the fundamental
							laws of all advanced civilization—the only adequate moral codes to be discovered
							in human history. That legislation has taken away from the modern student the one Book
							which has inspired more men to great endeavors, and made more women of great character
							than all the remaining volumes of the millenniums of human history put together. I
							insist that to pass sentence against the Bible without permitting it to speak for
							itself is a wicked inconsistency, and is unworthy a man fit for any professor's chair,
								
									"A glory guilds the sacred page,
									Majestic like the sun,
									It gives a light to every age,
									It gives but borrows none.
								
								
									"The hand that gave it still supplies
									The gracious light and heat:
									Its truths upon the nations rise:
									They rise, but never set."
								
						
						But permit a third remark, These same men profess non-partisanship and
								practice an utter partiality. The State University is supposed to represent the
							entire people. The Believing minister's interest in it is fundamentally  as large as that of any man in the State; and yet there is
							but one way, apparently, for him to secure even the nod of recognition by skeptical
							administrators, and that is to adopt the philosophy and theology of Modernism. That
							once done he is as much in demand by school circles as his more conservative brother's
							services are in evangelical churches. Failing in that, his voice must be silenced! The
							preacher who ministers to a hundred and fifty people Sunday morning, and fifteen
							Sunday night, is an accepted spokesman at the University chapel if he speaks the
							Darwinian shibboleth; but Paul Rader, himself a college man, addressing every Lord's
							Day more than five thousand people who crowd to hear him, has about as good a chance
							to be heard in a Turkish harem as to be invited to speak within the precincts of a
							modern State University. Grattan Guinness, the famous founder of Harley House,
							originator of the great Congo Mission, author of many books, preacher of world fame,
							was positively refused an audience by the powers that were in a State University,
							while the skeptical head of one of the most skeptical theological seminaries of the
							denomination to which Grattan Guinness belonged was brought a few hundred miles, at
							the  State's expense, that students might sit under the
							shower of his mental sparks and hear the Scriptures discredited. Not one minister of
							all those coming to Minnesota in the twenty years of my pastorate here, no matter how
							great his influence or following, has ever been asked to appear on any State
							University occasion to take part in the exercise thereof, provided he was known as a
							radical conservative.
						"Taxation without representation" once affected a Revolution in America; the present
							generation is more peaceful than were their Puritan fathers; and some of us believe,
							correspondingly more puerile.
						But inconsistencies on the part of men are so common that this is not a matter of
							such moment as that suggested by our second remark.
					
					
						Incompetent.
						There are a few principles upon which thinking men are pretty generally agreed. Let
							me make mention of two or three of them.
						First of all Special study is essential to intelligent
								understanding That principle the average professor of the University often
							exploits; but he is particularly reminded of it  when a
							man from. some other department of learning enters his domain. I do not blame him! If
							one is to say much of biology, he ought to be a fairly good student of biology. If he
							is to say much of botany, he ought to be a fairly good student of botany; if he is to
							say much of sociology, he ought to be a fairly good student of society; if he is to
							say much of history, he must be fairly familiar with history; and even an expert
							knowledge of English does not render him a Scripure authority unless he studies the
							Bible. Mr. Darwin devoted his life to the origin of species, and while he was about it
							lost all interest in music and declared that the esthetic, emotional side of his
							nature was atrophied in the process. I wouldn't expect Mr. Darwin, then, to be a judge
							of Beethoven and Handel productions! While the Bible has to do with biology, with
							history, and with society, more than all the other books put together, yet many a man,
							studying in these realms has practically ignored its content and is therefore
							incompetent to pass upon its character. A recent writer says, "The other day, I
							ventured in the presence of my son, to make some observation upon the subject of
							football, and was met with fine scorn. And the scorn was righteous!  I had never seen a game of football; I had never put my
							foot inside the gates; I did not know a quarterback from a canvasback." And all that
							we ask is this—should we expect those men who have little more information
							regarding our religion than we have upon football to be experts upon the subject of
							Christianity? I heard of a city girl awhile ago who went to the country to visit. They
							had milk on the table and she went out and saw the man milk the cow. It was the first
							time in her life she had witnessed such a procedure. The next day they had honey, and
							the sweet girl innocently said, "Oh, do you keep a bee also ?" We cannot help laughing
							at her, but we have no right to blame her. But if she sat down to write a book upon
							the beehive, or even cast reflections upon honey-making, then her blame would begin.
							The greatest students of the Bible the world has ever seen are the greatest believers
							in that Book; while those who know least about it, doubt it most. The men who have
							given the most time to the consideration of Jesus of Nazareth have accepted Him as
							their divine Lord; those who study Him least, doubt His deity most; and this seems to
							be a sufficient illustration of the righteous principle that special study makes  for the most intelligent understanding.
						There is another principle equally righteous, namely this—
						Sympathetic approach invites the secrets of any science.
						The time used to be when Germany was the land of faith. For the last fifty years
							Germany has been equally famed as a land of "infidelity," under its new guise of
							"Advanced Thought"—"Higher Criticism" now named "Modernism !"
						What has affected it? The modern German looks much like his fore-fathers. He is the
							same stockily built, square-headed individual; but the Bible does not speak to the
							modern German as it spoke to his illustrious sires; it does not say the same things to
							him it said to them. It no longer commands him as it used to command them.
						What is the reason? You look into the Bible and find it has not changed a whit. Lower
							criticism has not changed the one thousandth part of it, and Higher Criticism has not
							unsettled one of the sixty-six books. Is not the difference solely the result of the
							attitude of scholars? The German sires approached the Bible reverently; the modern  German sons approach nothing with reverence.
						To those fore-fathers the Bible revealed its sweetest secrets and resulted in the
							richest spiritual experiences! Martin Luther was simply a product of that spirit; but,
							alas for the religious havoc wrought with and by their descendants! And yet, when in
							the University you have your side reading suggested, I notice two-thirds of the names
							sound like the Teuton headlines of the morning paper; the Vons are there, and the Maxs
							are there, and the Vans are there, and if you take the other end of the names, the
							hoffs and hoffers are there; and the havoc wrought on the battlefield of faith is more
							to be deplored than the devastation of Belgium or the destruction of Poland, or the
							crucifixion of Armenia. One of the cruelest things about war is that it fattens on the
							flesh of beautiful boys; but infidelity, more cruel still, is no respecter of sex, but
							feeds by the destruction of sons and daughters alike. The man, therefore, who cannot
							sympathetically approach the Sacred Scriptures is by that fact unfitted to be a
							teacher of young men and women who dwell in a land that has received all its light
							from this Sacred source.


						
						But we take an additional step—A Spiritual experience is
								fundamental to Scripture study.
						The Bible itself declares the "natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of
							God" and the Bible claims to be from the Spirit. "Holy men of old spake as they were
							moved by the Holy Ghost." The natural man, with the natural eye, can dissect the
							natural body, but when he has finished he will tell you he has found no soul. It was
							never expected that he should find a soul; his natural eye is not adapted to that
							discovery. That is no proof, however, that the soul does not exist. I cannot see the
							will, but all scientists believe the will exists; they take it on the ground of
							evidence. There are also evidences of the soul, and there are evidences of the
							divinity of the Bible, and there are evidences of the deity of Jesus Christ. The fact
							that your pocket light of science does not reveal them, then, is no proof of their
							non-existence. Paul Rader never said a keener thing than when in my pulpit he employed
							his parable of the forest. "I imagine myself the owner of a great forest of several
							hundred acres. The finest trees in all the land grow there. They are famous; the
							newspapers write them up; make mention of their height, the wide spread of their  branches, the beauty of their proportions, the character
							of their wood, the splendid furniture possible from the same. Herr Professor falls
							upon the news report and says, 'I will go and investigate' and at Io.30 at night, when
							I am ready to retire, he comes and tells me, 'I came to see your forest.' I say to
							him, 'My friend, come tomorrow when the sun is up and you can see it.' Whereupon he
							pulls out a pocket light, presses the button, flashes it into my face and almost
							blinds me, and says, 'I do not need to wait until tomorrow; I brought my light with
							.me.' 'But that is not big enough.' 'Not big enough? It blinds you, doesn't it?' 'Tell
							me where your forest is and I will go and turn my light upon it.' And he starts away,
							and when he runs against the bark of a tree, he knows that he has arrived; and now he
							flashes his little light, and sees what looks like rafters over his head, and takes
							his little note book out and writes 'rafters,' 'many rafters.' And he turns it toward
							the ground and he sees a lot of dead leaves and brown burrs. He picks up a handful and
							rubs them together and says, 'Rubbish.' Then he puts his hand in his pocket again and
							pulls out his note book and writes 'Rubbish.' Then he presses his hand on the  bark and picking off a piece, he rubs it into powder and
							says, 'Brittle, unfit for furniture.' And while he is writing it in his note book, he
							feels something moving about his feet, and not knowing that it is a rabbit scared by
							his light and scurrying away, he flashes it, and says 'Spontaneous life!' He picks up
							a fallen branch that has a few green tufts growing upon it, and he makes a fifth
							notation in his book, 'Life without roots; growing without any actual hold upon the
							ground or deriving any sustenance from it,' and with these observations he hastens
							back to the seclusion of his own study and writes an article on 'Forestry' and tells
							the people honestly what he saw and what observations he made as a scientist, and he
							tells them in all sincerity." What is the objection? Only this; he saw so little; his
							light was too small! What he needed was to wait until the sun came up and bathed and
							baptized and flooded that forest with light, and then he could have found out the
							truth about it.
						But some men do not believe in the sun so long as they keep a pocket light, even
							though it be the Sun of Righteousness, or the illuminating Spirit of God ! In fact,
							they hate Supernaturalism; they dote on the "Scientific ;" they would prefer a pocket
							lamp (of their own  invention) any minute to God's
							midday. Pardon me if I am not scared when the Herr Professor shoots his little paper
							wad of science at my theological form. Pardon me if even the awe that I used to feel
							for that same gentleman has passed in part. I have seen a little two by four preacher,
							who could not get four hundred people to hear him on any occasion, and who could not
							find a publisher in all the land that would take a manuscript from him and risk the
							expense of printing it, called to a professorship in a great University; and instantly
							he blossomed into authority on all scientific subjects; and I have seen that occur so
							often that I know what takes place behind the curtains, and am not deceived when the
							play is staged, and a fine scholar (?) faces the crowd and calls himself Prof. Edwin
							Booth, or Prof. Henry Irving, or even Prof. Wm. Shakespeare. Do not misunderstand me,
							I am not holding the title "Professor" to scorn! Lord Kelvin was a professor but he
							knew enough to make use of the Sun rather than trust his pocket lamp. Do not
							misunderstand me, Sir James Simpson was a professor, but he was wise enough to do his
							work in the bright day of God's revelation, rather than by the uncertain torch of
							modern philosophy.  Do not misunderstand me, James Orr
							was a professor; but for him the Sun of righteousness had risen, and he walked with
							his face toward that Light, bathed in and baptized by it.
						There never was an hour when young men and women so sadly needed to have professors
							with spiritual experiences lead them in Scripture study; teachers after the order of
							John, who could truthfully say, "That which we have heard, which we have seen with our
							eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the Word of life;
							declare we unto you." How can the student follow his professor, and walk in the light
							except that professor be found walking in the same? And, is it different now from
							Christ's day, when if the blind led the blind they both went into the ditch
							together?
						But I have brought a third indictment,
					
					
						Irreverence.
						This is the exact charge I mean to make! If the young people in the University are
							trustworthy, if a mature observer like Harold Bolce knows what he sees and hears, then
							sarcasm and skepticism are alike  employed in the
							students presence, and even pitted against sacred things.
						Sarcasm employed against sacred things is a proof of shallowness.
						Sarcasm and science are not convertible terms. If a professor in English, for
							instance, while his class reads Milton's "Paradise Lost" or Milton's "Paradise
							Regained" takes occasion to say, as one is reported, "I do not think I want to go to
							heaven; they wouldn't let me smoke there; and if they did, there would be no place to
							throw my ashes" he may excite laughter, but he is not fulfilling his office as
							instructor; in fact, he is reminding the thinking man of Bob Ingersoll. Bob met a
							friend and said "Take a cigar with me." "No," said the man, "I do not smoke !" "Then
							come across the street and let's have a little drink together." "No," replied the man,
							"I do not drink, either." "Then," said the Colonel, "let's go over to the stable and
							get some hay and chew that." "No," said the man, "I do not eat hay." "Then good-bye,"
							said Bob, "you are not fit company for either man or beast !" Too bad that the man had
							not learned to eat hay, he would then be a fit companion for a jack-ass; or swallow
							liquid damnation, or suck  at a cigarette, then he would
							have been at least company for some. But it may still be debatable whether he would
							have been good company for a true man. When a man objects to heaven because he cannot
							smoke there, some men would say, "Let him that is filthy be filthy still." God has
							prepared a place for him; all hell is a smoke room. As for me, I have been even in
							favor of doing away with smoke on the back end of a street car. I confess to you
							frankly that the heaven described in the Bible, "into which there shall in no wise
							enter anything that defileth," is far more attractive to me than one that might look
							somewhat like the so-called wash room of a pullman sleeper, packed with morning
							puffers.
						But aside from all this, our insistence is that such remarks have no place in
							University instruction, and make no addition whatever to the information of the
							University student. They do remind one, however, of the small boy who had a smart dog,
							and a man, seeing his tricks, offered a fabulous price for him and led him away. Ere
							long he returned with the dog and demanded his money. He said, "I cannot get him to do
							anything for me," to which the small boy replied, "Mr., you can't learn a dog nothin',
							less you know more 'an  the dog does." On the testimony
							of the students themselves, I know that they do not regard such sarcastic professors
							as imparting instruction.
						But permit another remark on this general subject of irreverence.
						Skepticism employed in a State School is a moral and legal outrage.
						Menzies is not irreverent; but, considered from the standpoint of orthodoxy, he is
							skeptical. No one could read his book and imagine that he had any sympathy whatever
							with the Genesis account of creation; no one could read his book and imagine that
							Jesus Christ was begotten by the Holy Ghost. No one could read his book and imagine
							that he takes the least stock in the resurrection from the dead. No one could read his
							book and imagine that Christ will ever come again in person, with glory and power, to
							be Ruler of the world. These things are not so much opposed, as ignored. They are not
							treated with opposition, but with silent contempt. And yet when you go to the library
							and take down another one of the reference volumes, by Josiah Royce, from the pen of
							William James and other essayists, you will find him insisting that  "it is absolutely essential to Christianity that one
							believe the report of the life of Christ as a Divine part of the original plan for the
							redemption and salvation of man. That one believe the report of His death, as the
							historical church has always maintained; yea, even that one believe the prologue to
							the fourth Gospel, which reviews His eternity and declares that He was with God, and
							was 'God,' and that in Christ, God was made flesh and dwelt among us."
						It is not a necessity that a professor be himself a Christian; it is hardly to be
							expected, in a State School, that every instructor will subscribe to the formulus of
							orthodoxy, but when one remembers that America is what she is, and Minnesota is what
							she is, and our State University exists, solely because the foundations of the State
							were laid in biblical teaching, every believing parent feels that skepticism is an
							attack upon the foundation itself, and is, therefore, a moral and legal outrage. Look
							back over the centuries as far as you will, and history attests that unbelief has
							never helped anything, and that skepticism has never resulted in righteousness or
							fruited in strength; while faith in God and His Word have produced the flowers of
							civilization. It  is a serious thing then to either hold
							that faith to scorn or destroy it by skepticism.
						Finally, The education that ignores the soul is both a signal and sinful
								failure.
						One question surely is pertinent enough. Why is it that our great big institutions,
							with money back of them, are not able to produce their own professorships? Why does it
							happen now that a majority of the strong men of the University itself, and
							particularly those older men who have been tested, and whose value has been proven
							past dispute, were trained in schools where the religious life was positive, or else
							during the entire student days have been members of churches where there was a
							positive evangelical fervor? How does it happen that when we need a new President for
							the University itself, we do not pick up one of its brilliant outputs; but have
							announced to us, through the newspaper, that the man chosen was graduated some years
							ago from a small college famed for its Christian atmosphere, whose noble President was
							a consistent exponent of Christianty; and the entire faculty was framed much after the
							same manner. In all probability he will be found to be a man in accord, now, with what
							is known as  "Modernism," but it is practically certain
							also that he has taken that on as a result of his more recent association with the
							critics, so that it in no wise effects the foundations that were laid in his earlier
							life. The truth is that the whole tenor of education has recently met with a sharp
							turn, and the present tendency is to make machines,—capable, fast running,
							effective machines; machines that can coin a mint of money; mental machines I grant
							you, that can master difficult situations; mental machines that can provoke
							admiration, and affect even astonishment. But the old method had only one thing as its
							objective, and that was to make a MAN. Our forefathers believed that the first
							fundamental in manhood was not morality even, but spirituality; it was not
							effectiveness but faith; it was not even greatness but godliness! In the language of a
							recent writer, whose book ought to be in the hand of every college student in the
							land, "For nearly a hundred years our poor little colleges; with no equipment, stood
							by their guns so effectively and did their work so well, that such a thing as a dearth
							of men was never heard of." Their output were statesmen whose fame will never drop
							from the annals of American history; physicians who converted sorcery  into a science; lawyers whose high mentality was along
							Mosaic lines; preachers who elevated pulpits, in which they stood, to such eminence
							that we have been searching twenty-five or thirty years to find their successors. If
							we ever produce their equals again it will be when we turn from the false philosophies
							of materialism to the divine doctrines of spirituality. I tell you, in the language of
							the Master of masters, the Teacher of all teachers, the eternal President of all
							presidents, that they are "to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness"
							knowing that, as a result, all other "needful" things will be added; and knowing apart
							from that, no essential things can be retained.
						I have no objection whatever to personal hygiene, but I know that personal holiness
							involves it and a thousandfold exceeds it. I have no objection whatever to commercial
							economy, but I know that any philosophy regarding it will fail unless Christ resides
							in the individual life and His language becomes the law of Society. I have no
							objection to teaching "social service"—the fad phrase of the last five
							years—and I certainly have no objection to its practices; but all thinking men
							ought to know that that practice will shortly  fail
							except it be strengthened by individual salvation and personal consecration to Christ.
							I have no objection to the man who says "My religion is for this life," but I prefer
							for myself the religion of Jesus Christ, which provides for both this life and the
							life which is to come. I could personally enter a class in philosophy and listen to
							the instruction of the Professor there with pleasure, whether I agreed with it or not.
							His fine phraseology and his philosophical speculations might quite delight me, but
							when it comes to daily living I had rather have one word from the Lord Jesus Christ
							than a whole volume from his pen. And when it comes to dying, give me the confidence
							of the old sailor, who, as he neared the close of life, and friends at his bedside
							bent down their lips to his ear, and said, "Man, how are you now ?" opened his eyes,
							and, as if coming out of a dream, said, "Oh, I am all right ! My anchor holds !"
					

				

				
				

					CHAPTER V.
						DO OUR DENOMINATIONAL COLLEGES DENY THE EVANGELICAL FAITH?
					
						"But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false
							teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying ,the
							Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. And many shall
							follow their pernicious ways; by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken
							of. And through covetousness shall they with feigned (well-turned) words make
							merchandise of you: whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not, and their
							damnation slumbereth not" (II Peter 2:I-3).
					
					The question of this theme is not necessarily answered by the quotation in our text.
						The bolstering of special position by detached texts is a trick easily turned; but it
						may depend upon calling a contortion of Scripture an interpretation. President King, of
						Oberlin, never made a truer remark than when he said: "One of the greatest dangers of
						the educated man is to be found in his ability to defend more or less successfully any
						position. He finds it easy, therefore, as Fichte puts it, to 'go on subtilizing until he
						loses all power of recognizing truth' and readily persuades himself either that what he
						wants is true, or  that all convictions are about equally
						justified. Yet indifferentism (to the text of Scripture) is neither breadth nor true
						tolerance. Shaler Mathews sanely remarks, "Indifference to doctrine will sooner or later
						make religion anaemic."
					It shall be my endeavor, therefore, to array before you the facts; then rest the answer
						to our question with the individual judgment. It so happens that in this instance the
						facts are not in controversy; they exist in plain print. The instructors in our
						denominational colleges and theological seminaries have given themselves to magazine and
						book writing, thereby putting the attitude they maintain toward the whole question of
						evangelical faith past dispute. The saying of Jesus is especially applicable to these
						writings, and judgment upon these very professors is in this sentence, "For by thy words
						thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned" (Matt.
							12:37).
					It is quite essential, however, to clear and convincing reasoning that we adopt
						definitions; and there are at least two sets of words in this subject that ought to be
						clearly understood, "Denominational Schools" and "Evangelical faith." By denominational
						schools we  mean, of course, such academic, college and
						theological schools as are conducted by our evangelical denominations. The second phrase
						is not so simple.
					
						The Faith Defined.
						At least three remarks, each to be followed by some considerable discussion, should
							be combined in order to make clear evangelical faith. They are these—Evangelical
							Christianity builds on an inerrant book; Evangelical Christianity believes on an
							infallible Christ; Evangelical Christianity emphasizes a spiritual experience.
						Evangelical Christianity builds on an inerrant Book.
						The Baptist denomination, perhaps the most ancient of all those that are spoken of as
							evangelical, has never, at any time, put forth a declaration of faith that did not
							affirm that "The Holy Bible was written by men divinely inspired, and is a perfect
							treasure of heavenly instruction, and therefore is, and shall remain to the end of the
							world, the supreme standard by which all human conduct, creeds, and opinions are to be
							tried."
						As late as the year 1916, the General  Assembly of the
							Presbyterian Church called the attention of the Presbyteries to its deliverance of
							I9IO, which was that "It is an essential doctrine of the Word of God and our
							standards, that the Holy Spirit did so inspire, guide, and move the writers of Holy
							Scripture as to keep them from error."
						Dr. Munhall, in speaking of "Methodism Adrift" reminds his readers that every man
							ordained a deacon in the Methodist Church, or to the ministry in the same, is asked
							the question, "Do you unequivocally believe all the canonical Scriptures of the Old
							and New Testaments ?" and is compelled to answer, "I do believe them," and to take a
							solemn oath to "teach nothing but that which he shall be persuaded may be concluded
							and proven by the Scriptures."
						In paragraph 33, of the General Rules of the Methodist Episcopal Church, the Bible is
							spoken of as "God's written Word, which is the only rule and the sufficient rule, both
							of our faith and practice." "The Confessions of Faith" adopted by other evangelical
							denominations of the land, put equal emphasis upon the inerrancy of the Bible. There
							may be individual churches, prejudiced and trained by critical pastors, who would
							gladly repudiate  these "Confessions" and formulate for
							themselves a supposedly broader standing ground; but as yet they have not dared to do
							so, understanding full well that such action might result for them as it did for a
							certain Baptist Church of Grand Rapids, Mich.; namely in a withdrawal of fellowship.
							The sentence of Scripture expressing the standing of every evangelical church in
							existence today is found in Isaiah 8:20, "To the law and to the testimony; if they
							speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them."
						Evangelical Christianity believes in an infallible Christ.
						Take the same denominational standards and you will find their declarations
							concerning Christ equally unequivocal and strong. The Baptist finds in "the unity of
							the God-head there are three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, equal
							in their divine perfection, and executing distinct but harmonious offices in the great
							work of redemption."
						In the minutes of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of 1916, that
							Assembly calls the attention of the Presbyteries  to the
							deliverances of the General Assembly of I91O—"It is an essential doctrine of the
							Word of God and our standards that our Lord Jesus Christ was born of the Virgin Mary.
							It is an essential doctrine of the Word of God and our standards that Christ offered
							up Himself a sacrifice to satisfy Divine justice and to reconcile us to God. It is an
							essential doctrine of the Word of God and of our standards concerning our Lord Jesus
							Christ, that, on the third day, He rose again from the dead with the same body with
							which He suffered, with which also He ascended into heaven and there sitteth at the
							right hand of His Father, making intercession. Presbyterians, therefore, are hereby
							not to license or ordain any candidates for the ministry whose views are not in
							accordance with this deliverance of 1910."
						There could hardly be found in all the world a declaration of faith put forth by the
							Lutheran or Methodist denominations, or any other that is worthy to wear the name
							"evangelical" that does not declare for the deity of Christ in equally unequivocal
							terms. Henry Van Dyke, to whom believers are indebted many admirable statements of
							truth, never expressed a more fundamental one than when 
							he declared "The unveiling of the Father in Christ was, and continued to be, and still
							is, the paladium of Christianity. All who have surrendered it, for whatever reason,
							are dispersed and scattered; all who defend it, in whatever method, have been held
							fast in the unity of the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God." In the
							language of John Watson, "The life-blood of Christianity is Christ !"
						Evangelical Christianity emphasizes a spiritual experience.
						It stands for the language of Jesus Himself, spoken to one of the finest specimens of
							manhood known to his day, even Nicodemus—"Ye must be born again" (Jno. 3:6).
							Principal Fairbairn, once contending for a continued revelation, affirmed, "Unless God
							be heard in the soul, He will not be found in the Word." Evangelical Christianity
							proceeds on the opposite line and says, "Unless God can be found in the soul, He will
							not be heard in the Word." "The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit,
							neither indeed can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned." President
							King is quite right: "Religion is a personal relation of man to God." At least that is
							true of the Christian religion; and has  always been
							affirmed in every evangelical faith. No man can defend the deity of Jesus Christ or
							understand the word of the Lord, or mark spiritual growth until he has had John's
							experience and can speak "that which he has heard, which he has seen with his eyes,
							which he has looked upon, and his hands have handdled of the word of life." A liberal
							theologian recently affirmed of regeneration, "I never experienced any such a thing,
							and neither has any member of my family;" and then he strangely concluded, "Such an
							experience is not essential to a place in the Christian Church," as if the failure of
							one man to understand the Divine demand, abolishes the demand itself! Ward Beecher has
							often been spoken of as the Shakespeare of the modern pulpit, and Ward Beecher was a
							marvelous expositor of the Word, and Ward Beecher was one of the most efficient men
							known to the American ministry, and he affirmed that he had just such an experience,
							and dates all the spiritual successes of life to the same. It was in London in I866
							that he was addressing a missionary conference, and referring to the days when he was
							a theological student in Ohio, he said, "I know not what the tablets of eternity have
							written down, but I think  that when I stand in Lion and
							before God, the brightest thing I shall look back upon will be that blessed morning in
							May, when it pleased God to reveal to my wandering soul that it was His nature to love
							a man in his sins for the sake of helping him out of them; that He did not do it out
							of compliment to Christ, or to a law, or a plan of salvation, but from the fulness of
							His own heart; that He was a being not made angry by sin, but pitying it. In short,
							that He felt toward me as my mother felt toward me, to whose eyes my wrong-doing
							brought tears, who never pressed me so close to her as when I had done wrong, and who
							would fain, with her yearning love, lift me out of trouble. And when I found that
							Jesus Christ had such a disposition, and that when His disciples did wrong, He drew
							them closer to Him than He did before—when pride and jealousy and rivalry and
							all vulgar and worldly feelings rankled in their bosoms, He opened his heart to them
							as a medicine to heal these infirmities. When I found it was Christ's nature to lift
							men out of weakness to strength, out of impurity to goodness, out of everything low
							and debasing to superiority, I felt that I had found God. I shall never forget the
							feelings with which I walked forth  that May morning.
							The golden pavements will never feel to my feet as the grass felt to them, and the
							singing of the birds was cacaphonous to the sweet music of my thoughts; and there were
							no forms in the universe which seemed to me graceful enough to represent the being, a
							conception of whose character had just dawned upon my mind."
						Evangelical Christianity has never intended that all men have their experiences after
							the same manner, nor that the phases of them be identical in any measure; but
							evangelical Christianity has never at any time departed from the declaration "Ye must
							be born again." It has believed and taught that a spiritual experience was essential
							to its very existence. And whenever and wherever regeneration is denied, there
							evangelical Christianity is dead. Do our denominational colleges deny the evangelical
							faith ?
					
					
						The Faith Denied.
						It follows as conclusion from premise that, if evangelical Christianity has rested
							its entire contention in the authority and instruction of the Bible, then every man
							who opposes that opposes and denies the evangelical faith. Here the statement of a
							Divinity Professor  —(Baptist) is quoted,
							"Theology must wait for history; history must wait for criticism; criticism must wait
							for interpretation, and interpretation again for criticism." In other words, according
							to his declaration, Criticism is henceforth to determine alike our creed and our
							conduct, or our Christianity. That is a flat denial of the evangelical faith; and yet
							we confess with humiliation that our schools are today largely dominated by such
							sentiment.
						The Critics are capturing denominational colleges.
						It is probably past dispute that there are not three English speaking schools in the
							entire Northland, belonging to any one of the greater denominations, such as the
							Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian, or Congregational, that are without an infection of
							that infidelity known as "Modernism !" In some of them it is small as yet, but a
							specked apple is not in savory estate. There are thousands of Christian parents in
							America who debate with the deepest anxiety the question "To what college can we send
							our children and be sure the Bible will not be discredited in their presence, the
							deity of Christ denied, and their spiritual lives reduced if not wholly destroyed ?"
							Dr. I.. WV.  Munhall cites a number of instances where
							parents, with tear-dimned eyes, have told him of how they have sent their children to
							Methodist schools for the purpose of strengthening the faith that was in them, to find
							them graduating at last, confirmed infidels. Without apology he mentions the Wesleyan
							University of Middleton, Conn., the University of Boston, the University of Syracuse,
							and other outstanding Methodist institutions. He reports a Bishop's daughter who
							declared that at the Boston University her faith was destroyed and it took her six
							months after returning to her home to feel that she was back on the rock Christ; and
							she declared that her experience was a common one with the girls of that college.
						Paul Rader, one of the most outstanding of American ministers, was educated in a
							Methoist school, having entered the same intending to give his life to the ministry.
							When he quit it his faith was so attenuated that he turned from his ministerial
							intention and gave himself to business. But more mature thinking and a special
							visitation of the Holy Spirit, showed him the utter absurdity of that which had been
							taught him in the name of "Science" and brought him not only to the ministry  again, but to his present enviable and blessed position
							of ministerial power. Our Baptist schools are little, if any better off. The greatest
							University wearing the Baptist name in America has, for years, kept upon its faculty
							men who are known to be the most outstanding infidels of the age. The President of the
							Baptist University of second importance in America said, in my presence, "Jesus Christ
							was no more an authority upon questions of modern Biblical criticism than Thomas
							Aquinas was upon the modern electric light." If one would know what is the attitude of
							a famed professor in Rochester let him read what he has to say upon "The attitude of
							the Modern Theologian toward Jesus Christ."
						Or if he would marvel that changes so rapid as to make their accomplishment seem most
							unreasonable, let him consult the opinions of certain professors in either Crosier or
							Colgate, on the questions of Christ, the Bible, Satan, and Sin.
						The effect of criticism on Congregational schools has been so pronounced that in many
							instances, that which was once evangelical, is now Unitarian in everything but name.
							The small college at Wheaton is lonesome in its 
							loyalty. Princeton has been for a long time a sort of Presbyterian Gibraltar, but it
							is very generally imagined through the length and breadth of the land, that its
							President objected to the presence of Billy Sunday there not so much on the ground of
							Billy's antics as because of Billy's unswerving loyalty to the "faith once delivered"
							and the fair certainty that the world-famed evangelist would not fail on that
							occasion, to defend his faith. Almost without exception the biology professor in the
							present-day denominational college is an unequivocal devotee of Darwinism. In nine
							cases out of ten, his opposition to Moses is in proportion to his defense of
							evolution; and his boast in the name of "Science" commonly contains a sneer at
							Scripture. The age is Science-mad, and the man who speaks in the name of Science is
							likely to get a more cordial hearing than he who brings his message from the Book. In
							the language of another, "Modernism, Skepticism, Agonsticism, Infidelity, and
							worldliness are the inevitable results of the common teaching of our so-call-ed
							Christian schools"—results, no one of which ever aided education in any
							form.
						This couping of the college company has been accomplished for the most part within a
								 quarter of a century. It is a result of the
							deliberate move made by the army of "Moderns !" The Germans are neither better
							organized nor more adequately equipped, nor more doggedly determined in their advance
							to battle than are the Liberals of this moment. In the language of another, "They
							press into every opening, they seek the possession of every college, University, and
							divinity school." They make their canons, construct their armored tanks, build their
							dreadnoughts, and furnish their submarines with what Peter calls "feigned" or "well
							turned words." In keeping with the customs of war, their victims are the young and the
							Belgium of their destructive action is the field of education.
						These critics are subsidizing our theological seminaries.
						When one reminds himself of the fact that Andover Theological Seminary was one of the
							greatest in America, with a creed of the most conservative type possible, and yet
							remembers that only a few years ago while putting their signatures to that creed, the
							professors who signed it. straightway departed to tear it into shreds, he is compelled
							to feel that dishonesty is not a misdemeanor in the 
							eyes of the Modern. Union Theological Seminary is as plain an instance of this as ever
							characterized a denominational college; it is the perversion of the Presbyterian name
							to Unitarian uses without Presbyterian consent.
						This has not been accomplished without rebellion in more than one place, but ofter t
							rebellion has fallen short of revolution. Colgate has known the appeal of a
							considerable proportion of the graduating class to be excused from taking the theology
							they were getting a few years since; but their request was denied. When in Boston
							University a large number of young men, equipping themselves for the ministry,
							demanded the removal of a professor who had broken his own oath by attacking the creed
							of the church, and despising the authority of the Bible, and denying the deity of
							Christ, they were ignored by the trustees, and left to the dilemna of taking what was
							given them or departing the school life. Relief in that instance finally came through
							the power of the Bishop. There are many Baptist and Congregational ministers, and a
							much larger number of laymen, who have sometimes wished for a Bishop in their
							denomination.
						There are scores of professors in theological 
							seminaries, located north of the Mason and Dixon line, whose theology would not be
							tolerated for two months in intelligent pulpits. Yet, as Dr. Haldeman says, "In this
							way, every day, thousands of the young men and women of the land are being led to
							repudiate the God of the Bible. Thousands of the very flowers of our youth are being
							taught insidiously to set aside every law and precept which does not give full and
							personal liberty, and are being led to believe that they are in themselves as the
							throne of God and the final tribunal." What then, will be the fate of our churches
							when they fall into the hands of men infected by such teaching?
						Not content with their accomplishments, the critics are now seeking the
								control of our churches. By "ordaining committees" and "committees on relation
							of church and pastor" and a thousand other phrases that represent "well turned words,"
							they are trying to find open doors for skeptical graduates. Every Pulpit Committee is
							sought out, counselled and even cajoled in the interest of some minister whose
							"modernism" has left him without a message. As yet, however, the churches are not
							greedy in their search for skeptical  leaders. Their
							committees naturally turn to known conservative men for counsel. They are begging not
							to be unconsciously delivered into the hands of destructive critics. They are giving
							attention to the literature that is reaching their membership, and particularly their
							boys and girls. There has never been a time when the relationship of the
							denominational church to the denominational school was as strained as it is at this
							moment. In Canada I found that scores of churches were positively refusing to make
							further financial contribution to their own denominational University, on the ground
							that not all of its teachers were standing for the authority of the Bible and the
							deity of Christ. The day is at hand when the intelligent layman will think twice
							before he endows a college committed to the destruction of the faith, or gives his
							support to the theological seminary that despises the shed "blood" and seeks to
							substitute sociology. In the language of an advanced thinker, "The church that is to
							enjoy efficiency must first seek God. However much we need better organization in our
							churches we need more a prophetic ministry to lead men into fuller fellowship with God
							and a  more thorough cultivation of the power to realize
							that vast spiritual reserve which lies just beyond conscious action. A municipal water
							system needs pipes, but it needs a water supply even more." And you know the
							application in Scripture concerning "water" that it "is the Word."
					
					
						The Infidelity Effected.
						The result of this denial of the evangelical faith is infidelity. That comes in
							consequence of twin philosophies, the result of which is both deadly and destructive!
							They are these: first, The Scripture is made to appear the opponent of Science; and
							second, The Church is charged with having divorced culture.
						The Scripture is made to appear the opponent of Science.
						We are told "the struggle between traditional theology and science really exists." We
							are told, and that by a Baptist professor in a Baptist University, "The world of
							scholarship finds itself in perplexity as it listens to the authoritative word of the
							church. For in the New Testament there are concepts which the modern world, under the
							dominion of science finds it impossible to understand, much  less to believe. To Paul and other writers of the New Testament the earth
							was flat with a series of heavens above and a great pit for the dead beneath; the
							relations of man and God were those of the relations of the subject of an Oriental
							monarchy. Sin was statutory; punishment was a matter of penalty, and justification was
							primarily a matter of acquittal at the world judgment."
						It is just such teaching as that, that led Bishop Fowler to declare of his own
							denomination "the schools of the Methodist church belong more to the devil today than
							they do to our churches." If he had substituted the word "Baptist" or
							"Congregationalist" his remark would have been equally applicable. But, as Dr. James
							David Burrell has said, "The Word of God is now under fire! But the fires are no
							hotter than they have been from the beginning, and the inspired Book is destined to
							come forth seven times tried and without the smell of smoke upon it, for thus it is
							written, 'The earth shall be consumed with fervent heat and the heavens shall be
							rolled together as a scroll; but the Word of the Lord shall stand forever, for the
							mouth of the Lord hath spoken it'." Since God is the author of both the Bible and
							Nature, Scripture and Science  rightly interpreted, will
							forever speak together. The man who pits them one against the other is a poor exponent
							of one or both.
						The Church also is charged with divorcing culture.
						The same Baptist Professor above quoted says, "The churches number among their
							members few of the professional, that is to say, of the scientifically trained,
							classes. They are composed very largely of men and women who, whatever may be their
							culture, are not college bred. It is, of course, to be expected that the great
							majority of our church members should come from just such classes because the
							proportion of college-bred men and women in a community is small. But what becomes of
							the thousands of young Christians whom our colleges and universities report as making
							up half of their entire enrollment ? A recent census in one denomination numbering
							between twenty and thirty thousand communicants showed that, except in two or three
							churches, not one in fifty of its membership was a college graduate." And he asks the
							question, "Are we 'educating away from our churches? If we are, is the trouble with
							our educational system or the church?"




						
						That is a very pertinent question. And there are two things that might be said.
							First, in those churches presided over by virile men, who believe in the authority of
							the Bible and in the deity of Christ, the proportion of college men in the membership
							is much larger than one in fifty; and second, the trouble is with our educational
							system rather than with the churches. The system itself is increasingly steeped in
							skepticism, and for the churches to accept this, or even compromise with it, is to
							accept death, for if they have no authoritative Scripture, no Christ who is God, the
							church has no occasion for its existence and preservation is hardly to be desired! If,
							on the other hand, the church holds God's revealed truth, it would be guilty of
							treason if it traded that truth for a lie, or by the spirit of
							toleration—so-called—brought it into infidel fraternity. The evangelical
							church is the mother of modern culture, and wherever there is a conflict between them
							it is the act of an unappreciative and rebellious daughter, and the direful results
							will be seen not alone in the injury of the Church, but in the triumph of that
							infidelity which will finally undo the pulpit in mind and morals as effectually as it
							is  now undoing its subjects in Scriptural and spiritual
							experience.
						The educated are being doped with incredulity.
						As a father it would be my pleasure to give to my daughter the training of the oldest
							and most widely known of girl's schools; as a Christian I am unwilling to subject her
							to the skeptical atmosphere that now dominates in most of our Eastern female colleges.
							Martin Luther once remarked, "I advise no one to place his child where the Scriptures
							do not reign paramount." Recently the city physician decreed that all students in the
							school my daughter attends must be vaccinated. I confess to no small degree of revolt
							against having an impure virus forced into the pure blood of a girl in perfect health;
							but a thousand times over would I prefer my daughter's blood tainted, and her flesh
							scarred for a time, to having her mind tainted with infidelity and her soul scarred
							for eternity.
						I believe in education, but not in an Anti-christian one! I believe in Science, but
							not in an anti-scriptural one! I believe in the college, but not if it deny my Christ.
							I believe  in the theological seminary, but not if it
							exalt skepticism and oppose spirituality.
						When Christ is no longer worshiped, men will sink back into cannibalism; but where He
							is revered, there is safety and there alone. We are told that some years ago, shortly
							after the shadows of night had fallen, a missionary, making his way up the Congo
							River, was looking for a place to moor his boat for the night—a place where he
							would be safe—and was skirting the shore with keen eyes and careful movements,
							for he knew that many of the natives were cannibals, and to run upon them would be
							certain and cruel death. Suddenly there smote upon his ear the lusty voices of men,
							and listening, he heard:
						
							
								"All hail the power of Jesus' name,
								Let angels prostrate fall,
								Bring forth the royal diadem
								And crown Him Lord of all."
							
						Instantly he turned the prow of his boat toward that part of the shore whence the
							sound came. He knew he could land there in safety; he knew that there he would find a
							blessed fellowship; he knew there were friends worthy of the name. Why? Because they
							were honoring Christ as the Son of God, and the  Saviour
							of the soul! No school is a safe landing for our lads and lasses where Christ is not
							equally lauded as Saviour and acknowledged as Lord!
					
				


				
				

					CHAPTER VI.IS THE MODERN BIBLE SCHOOL GOD'S
							ANTIDOTE TO SKEPTICISM?

					
						"Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, God, that I will send a famine in the land,
							not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord:
							and they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east, and they
							shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and shall not find it. In that day
							shall the fair virgins and young men faint for thirst" (Amos
							8:II-13).
					
					The Divine resources are never exhausted! God is never troubled over the question of
						the next step. The multitude of His opponents, and their apparent successes leave Him
						undisturbed. He may grieve the fate and folly of men, but He never fears the final
						issue. He knows that the future is with Him, and not with His Adversary. He may enjoin
						men to hold fast "the faith once delivered," but He does it for their sakes rather than
						His own. He has no alarm lest His truth fail from the earth, His revelation be blotted
						out and His name be forgotten. His concern, rather, is about the faith of men, lest it
						fail; about their knowledge of the Book, lest it be diminished; about their hold on the
						truth, lest it break, and  they themselves be bruised by
						the fall. The real point of all inspired teaching, and the real purpose of all revealed
						prophecy, and the real intent of all Biblical preaching is the salvation and
						sanctification of man, not the mere retention and defense of the truth. Skepticism,
						therefore, does not endanger the Bible; it endangers the people! It can never unsettle
						the throne of God, but it always has weakened and destroyed its own disciples and
						apostles. The experience of Israel was the truth of yesterday; but it also is the truth
						of today. This text from Amos had its application to the Israel of the past; but it also
						has an application to the present.
					It involves three significant suggestions—the Word-famine, the wander-lust, and
						the waiting-youth.
					
						The Word-Famine.
						"Behold, the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land,
							not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord."
							The world was never in greater danger of a wide-spreading, deadly, destructive famine
							than it is today. If this war continues and sucks into its swirl every nation now
							steadily  drawing toward the same, we shall have a
							complete fulfilment of Christ's sentence "Nation rising against nation, kingdom
							against kingdom, and there shall be famines." The desperate warfare being waged today
							is not one-half so much the expression of hatred as it is the manifestation of fear;
							and the thing that is feared is not the flying machine, not the armored tanks, not the
							submarine; these create some alarm; but the terror of the nations is "famine." Of all
							the enemies that man has ever faced, famine has been the most destructive; and death
							at its hands is as pitiless as painful; and it never works save in wholesale.
						But I am to speak of another famine, namely the Word-famine. This is being brought
							about by such a combination of circumstances as suggests nothing short of Satanic
							cunning. The State schools exclude the Scriptures; the denominational schools
							discredit the Scriptures, the family and the individual neglect the Scriptures! That
							amounts to an onslaught against our Sacred Book.
						The State Schools exclude the Scriptures.
						Twenty-five years ago my wife was a student in a state University. The chapel was  held every morning and was opened by Scripture reading
							and prayer. Now few State schools are so privileged by legal precept and still fewer
							so characterized by practice. In my own State, Minnesota, not a single public school
							teacher is permitted either to read or recite any portion of the Scriptures in the
							presence of his pupils. Protestant leaders have plead with politicians and Papists;
							but in vain ! Even such excerpts as have to do with morals and ethics only, fail to
							receive the approval of law-makers; and the very Book that gave to American
							civilization its foundations becomes an increasingly unknown volume to American born
							or bred boys and girls.
						Unfortunately, however, while Bible-loving professors are not permitted to voice the
							teaching of Scripture, Bible-hating ones are not denied the right of holding them to
							ridicule; and there are not a few state-paid instructors who exploit a skepticism
							calculated to create upon the child's mind the impression that the Bible is altogether
							an unscientific and unreliable book, and may be properly flung to the rubbish heap of
							superstition, credulity, myth, fable, and fetishism. The watch-word of the present
							hour is "Science" not Scripture; and many a teacher who is none to well  versed in either makes the first contribute to a
							professional title, and the second to a professional titter.
						The denominational schools discredit the Scriptures.
						The late Prof. Terry published a book entitled "Moses and the Prophets" to which he
							attached an "Appendix" that ought to be submitted to the Mayo brothers of Minnesota
							and removed! It involved a diseased appendix and the case was so advanced that one
							wonders whether the very life of the Methodist denomination is not thereby imperilled.
							That appendix contains opinions from Dr. Bashford, President of Ohio Weslyan
							University; Dr. Gobin, of De Paw University; Dr. Plantz, President of Lawrence
							University; Dr. Raymond, of Wesleyan University and Dr. Warren, President of Boston
							University. Even Dr. Terry himself expressed surprise that, with but one exception,
							the views of all these men should make up a remarkable unanimity of opinion, and the
							man who reads them is not the less surprised, for they give pith and point to Dr. L.
							W. Munhall's "Breakers Ahead, or Methodism Adrift !" Removing  the exception mentioned, there is not a one of them who believes in the
							Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch! There is not a man of them who believes in the
							infallibility of the Scriptures! There is not a man of them who believes in the
							omniscience of Christ. Dr. Plantz, for instance, declares "It seems to me very
							doubtful whether Christ's knowledge extends to exact scientific and historical
							detail." Dr. Raymond says, "There must have been such a limitation of knowledge on
							Christ's part as to put Him essentially under the conditions of ordinary men."
						If, in this matter, Methodism was alone, the future of the denominational school
							might be less discouraging; but, as a matter of fact, the appendix of
							Congregationalism is even more festering; while that of the Baptist denomination is in
							perilous estate. The President of the most outstanding Baptist University long since
							remarked, "No particular religious profession shall ever be held as a condition,
							precedent to the election of any professor to a chair in this school." Presbyterianism
							is our soundest sect, and yet it has repeated and acute attacks.
						Many a youth, studying in our so-called Christian colleges or taking courses in our
								 so-called theological seminaries, dwells for years in
							an atmosphere frigid and prayerless; for years he listens to the Bible treated, in the
							language of Dr. Pell "as if it were a literary patchquilt in the course of
							renovation," and hears Christ spoken of as if He were an "unidentified being." A. J.
							Gordon, for twenty-five years Boston's outstanding Baptist minister, once remarked
							"The heresies which have afflicted the church have almost, without exception, been
							invented by learned scholars, and the speculations which have blighted the faith of
							believers have generally been hatched and brooded in theological schools."
						All of this is no argument against education! The finest religious atmosphere it has
							ever been my privilege to breathe characterized the Presbyterian college from which I
							graduated; and the most scholarly and saintly men it has been my privilege to know,
							instructed in the theological seminary where I took my course.
						But that was twenty-five years ago! The wave of German rationalism was then beginning
							to beat upon our shores; now it has rolled from coast to coast, and only those men  and colleges that have lived on spiritual heights, near
							to God, have escaped its Scripture-discrediting, doubt-deluging effects.
						The companion of these adverse movements, and in some instances the result of them,
							exists in the fact that the family and the individual are now neglecting
								the Scriptures. We read of how the elder Spurgeon, Charles' grandfather, was so
							absorbed in Scripture study that when a neighbor came to visit him, he arose from his
							study long enough to show the gentleman a chair; but, going straight back to his open
							Bible, he soon forgot the man's presence, and devouring sentence after sentence as a
							hungry child might devour food, he was heard occasionally to mutter to himself,
							"Wonderful!" "Wonderful!" while the inner light radiated from every feature of his old
							face. Our forefathers in America were a Bible-loving, Bible-reading company; almost
							every day began with what is known as "the family devotions," and they were not even
							hurried. Now, in ninety-nine homes out of a hundred, they are either spasmodically
							revived or left to lie in utter neglect.
						The time was in England, and that not so far away, when human greatness was often  accounted for by Bible study. Men believed themselves to
							bring from this Book divine wisdom. When a father consulted Earl Cairns as to what
							books his son should read in his preparation for the law practice, the great Earl
							answered, "Let him begin with the Bible. There he will find the foundation of all law,
							as well as all morality." Sir Matthew Hale declared "There is no book like the Bible
							for learning, wisdom, and justice." Bacon, Blackstone, Lords Littleton and Erskin,
							Wilberforce and Gladstone,—what great students of the Word they were! And what
							great souls they developed by steeping them in Scripture! What a strange contrast the
							present Englishman presents. Dr. G. H. Knight, in a recently published book, says, "An
							allusion to a Bible story has more than once set half the House of Commons wondering
							where it came from." If one visited Washington City and mingled with our national
							lawmakers, and heard them talk on Biblical subjects, he might feel as George Ade. He
							said, "I hoped to see the day when I would represent the Tenth District in Congress. I
							have not realized my boyish ambition; but I have seen Congress, and I am
							reconciled."

						
						It is doubtful whether the English race, once putting aside the Bible, can ever
							duplicate the great names of the past. Ruskin was a remarkable soul, and the flight of
							time can all too seldom see his accomplishments repeated; and John Ruskin wrote, "All
							that I have taught of art, everything that I have been in any thought of mine,
							whatever I have done in my life, has simply been due to the fact that when I was a
							child my mother daily read with me a portion of the Bible and daily made me learn a
							part by heart."
						The direst need of the American nation is not a navy nor army; not colleges nor
							commerce; it is not even a revival of religion, in the common employment of that
							phrase; but it is a revival of Bible-reading. To be steeped in the sentence of this
							sacred Book lends an unconquerable strength to any people, insures an intellectual
							progress that is irresistible, and produces a religious revival that is both deep and
							far-reaching. When God commanded Joshua to be a builder of a nation, He commenced with
							him by saying, "This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt
							meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do  according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way
							prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success."
					
					
						The Wander-Lust.
						"And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east, and they
							shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and shall not find it."
						Strange how Scripture can express the relation between strenuous living and spiritual
							dying; between rapid transit and fading truth.
						Our locomotion has become the enemy of our meditation.
						We shoot from place to place with such rapidity that even reason is upset, and
							spiritual meditation is made impractical if not impossible. I think I never realized
							this fact more than recently when in one day I read the reports of the hardship
							endured fifty years ago by a boy who sought to gain an education, and those being
							experienced now by the lad mentally ambitious. The first related to A. J. Gordon's
							college life, when as a lad it was decided he should go to school, and the place of
							his education was selected. His son writes —"In a suit of clothes made by his
							mother's  hands from cloth spun in the old mill, he
							started from home. A long walk truly, thirty-four miles, when one is baggage train as
							well as infantry. Yet doubtless the bag in which he carried his clothes was not
							heavily loaded —a change of clothing, a Virgil, and an algebra." "The country
							through which he passed was especially beautiful, Cardigan and Ragged mountains, round
							the base of Kearsarge and by Sunapee Lake into the town where the school was situated,
							in New London." What a beautiful and suggestive description! It must have taken at
							least two days for the trip. What thoughts would surge through the boy's soul as he
							climbed the mountain side, descended the valley, and trudged on to college! What
							meditations would fill the mind, when at night, in some country home he lay in a deep
							feather bed, and with all the world shut out, faced God and thought about the future.
							But those days are over. The lad who goes to college now, if he cross the continent,
							is whirled along on iron wheels; the hum of human voices is in his ears; he simply
							spends three days in a moving hotel; and if he go a shorter distance, he drives his
							father's car, and forgets the God above, and overruns the pedestrians below. A recent
							graduate  was asked to tell of the hardships of his
							early education and he replied, "I lived seven blocks .from the Carnegie Library and
							we had no automobile." "They shall wander from sea to sea and from the north even to
							the east, they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and shall not find
							it."
						This strenuous living militates against Bible study.
						If only men would stop a while and sit down and open the Book it would speak to them
							unless they were too tired to give attention to the tale it was telling. Too often, we
							fear, that is the case. Horace Bushnell said, "My experience is that the Bible is dull
							when I am dull; when I am really alive the text comes upon me with a tidal wave of
							living affinity. It opens up discoveries and reveals depths faster than I can make
							note of them." But when do we get the tidal waves ? When do we stop long enough for
							tidal waves to even overtake us? The race of the century is the ruin of Christianity.
							In Liverpool one day I went down to the Mersey River. I saw scores of vessels, many of
							which seemed shipshape; but all of them appeared stranded, or possibly in dry dock. I
							said to my walking  companion, "Why are so many of these
							vessels dragged into dry dock; are they all in need of repair ?" He replied, "No, they
							are in perfect repair, they are in to be loaded. You see, you do not quite understand.
							The Mersey River is running out to the ocean now; but tonight the tide will turn and
							the ocean will come into this river, flooding and filling its every part, and these
							freighted vessels will be lifted to places of power; and pulling out to sea, will ply
							their ways to the ends of the earth." In reflecting upon the remark later, I said, It
							is a parable of spiritual life! The reason so many of us are stranded and cannot go,
							is that the stream of life is running out. If only we knew how to use the closets of
							prayer or the curtains of night to find and face God, and let all the fullness of the
							Godhead flood us, and lift us, we would become vessels of power, and bear to the
							uttermost parts of the earth the golden truths of the gospel of the Son of God. When
							the Mersey river runs out to sea it sinks and grows shallow; but when the great sea
							comes into the river, it rises alike in volume and power. It is a parable! When shall
							we cease from "running to and fro" long enough to  read
							the Word of the Lord ? When shall we know that no professional teaching can ever take
							the place of the personal perusal? More and more this swiftly traveling, starving
							crowd are waking up to the fact that many of their journeys are in vain, so far at
							least as finding at the end of them either spiritual food or drink.
						The non-scriptural minister has produced a Scriptural famine.
						There are people in every city, and their name is legion, who travel from sanctuary
							to sanctuary, and wander from sea to sea, in search of the truth and never find it.
							The sanctuary in which they spend the Sabbath does not prove to be like John Hus'
							"Bethlehem" —"The House of Bread." Many of them are not even respectable lunch
							counters for the soul. The milk they serve is skimmed indeed, and their philosophical
							sandwiches have in them no meat of the Word, only a thin spread of science, or
							philosophy or history, Much of it reminds one of what happened nearly thirty years ago
							in a notable Church of Minneapolis. Dr. John H. Elliott, my co-laborer, had preached
							one night and some interested souls had been taken into a  side room to be prayed with by personal workers, and the sexton showed some
							impatience about continuing the lights; whereupon Dr. Elliott thought to engage him in
							conversation and keep him content until the instruction was finished. After a moment
							it occurred to him to ask the man if he was a Christian, to which he replied "No."
							"That is strange," said Elliott, "and you a janitor of a Christian church." "How long
							have you been in this position ?" "About ten years," was the answer. "Well, why are
							you not a Christian ?" "Well," answered the sexton, "I don't exactly know why; no one
							has ever spoken to me about it." "What !" said Dr. Elliott, "has not the pastor spoken
							to you about being a Christian in these ten years ?" "No" said the sexton, "I don't
							think Dr. C—would like to talk on the subject of religion. We talk on a lot of
							other things but he has never made any mention of that subject." The pathos of the
							story is that it is a parable with increasing application.
						We are sometimes compelled to question whether the Church of God on the whole has
							been profited by the exchange of a farmer preacher for the seminary output. That man
							of former days who divided his time between  tilling the
							soil and steeping his soul in Scripture quotations, and Scriptural thought was no mean
							teacher. At his feet some of us grew up, and we have never ceased to thank God for the
							fact that, while he talked to us in no terms of science and his very tongue would have
							halted at the phrase "moral philosophy" he did know the Word of God; he did know the
							will of the Lord; he did dwell on the "thus saith the Lord," and he did come from a
							sacred trysting place with the Most High; and he did make the impression that he was
							God's man, with God's message; and we were mightily moved by it; moved emotionally,
							moved morally, moved mentally, moved spiritually. We never went to the sanctuary in
							vain! When asking these fathers for bread, they did not hand us out a stone of
							science; or if we asked an egg, they did not for an egg give us the scorpion of
							philosophy.
						I am not asking that the preacher of the twentieth century be as unschooled as was
							his predecessor in the nineteenth; I am only declaring it is a profound pity that
							having become more schooled, he has become less Scriptural. I doubt if for him the
							times can ever even twist, much less change the imperative sentence of Scripture,
							"Preach the Word!"  John Watson never said a saner thing
							than when he remarked, "There are enough men to ventilate doubts without the
							preacher's assistance. From him the world expects faith; and the dynamic of one man,
							believing with all his mind and all his heart, is incalculable. Doubt can be got
							anywhere; faith ought to be supplied by the pulpit."
						And if the relation of the wander-lust to the Word-famine is evident, then the
							relation of both to
					
					
						The Waiting Youth
						is as logical as the connection of Scripture is here close and consecutive. "In that
							day shall the fair virgins and young men faint for thirst." Is that our day? Let's
							see—
						Youth is still strongly characterized by spiritual desires and
							aspirations!
						The young convert comes as close to God now as he ever did. If he be truly
							regenerated he begins the Christian life with the same emotions which characterized
							his grandsires, though he has come to express them differently. His disposition to
							pray is the first proof of the Spirit's work; and the disposition to know what God has
							spoken is in itself the sign  of sonship. As the babe's
							first word is commonly "Mama" or "Papa," so the new-born soul cries Abba Father, and
							listens to hear what the Father will say. Some of us who are older, and whose
							emotional natures like our joints, have become a bit stiff, may have forgotten in part
							how we used to feel in spirit, as we have also forgotten some of the exuberance of the
							flesh; but we may be assured that the race changes not and that Christ is "the same
							yesterday, today, and forever," and that the young men and women who are coming to Him
							now, are just as restless as we were at their age, and just as anxious to know God as
							we were at their same point of experience, and just as thirsty for an additional
							portion of His Word, and for the divine direction of His Spirit as we (who are now) in
							middle life) were when the great soul-decisions of thirty years ago were being
							made.
						If I were a man of the world, and moved only in the social round or commercial realm,
							and was compelled to face from day to day "the bloodless, worn out society," of which
							John Watson speaks, I should well nigh lose confidence in all spiritual things. But my
							soul renews its youth when I stand in the midst of the young men and women now
							studying  in the Northwestern Bible and Missionary
							Training School, the majority of whom have come away from the farm, none of whom are
							far removed from the day of their regeneration and consecration, the most of whom are
							what Gordon once called "the raw material," ready to be hand-made for God. When they
							pray I am carried on the wings of their petitions into the Divine presence. When they
							sing I am caught by the exuberance of their spirit and again reach the mountain-top.
							When they speak I am illumined by the very sparkle of their eyes and the joy of their
							faces; and in that illumination I see God! Oh, what would be the pathos of the world
							without youth; and what would be the prospect of the Church without converted
							children, "Fair virgins and young men thirsting for God !"
						With this company comes the Church's greatest opportunity.
						Let teachers tread lightly here; it is holy ground ! And yet, let them speak with
							alacrity, it is a gracious opportunity. I never look into the faces of this crowd of
							young men and women, the most of whom were converted but yesterday, many of whom are
							too well advanced in years to sit down in the grade school  with what they would call "the babies," and the most of whom are too poor
							in purse to attempt the select school of secondary grade, but I thank God for the
							privilege of teaching them; and I never look into their intelligent faces and mark the
							perfectly marvelous progress they make from week to week, without feeling a contempt
							for those people who can never be interested in any section of society save the
							upper-crust ! They are like the priests and Pharisees of Christ's day, who, when the
							officers sent to arrest Him, returned, saying, "Never man spake like this man,"
							answered "Are ye also deceived? Have any of the rulers believed on him ?"
						The longer I live the less I am concerned about the opinion of the ruling classes,
							for I know that this raw material, if rightly educated and trained for God, will, with
							the true Ruler, reign tomorrow.' Society is in eternal revolution. It is a depressing
							thing to see the top go down to the bottom. But, oh, to watch the other side! What an
							inspiration to see the bottom come to the top! And may I remind you that there is but
							one thing that can lift it, and that is the religion of Christ expressed in the sacred
							Scriptures.
						What then is the greatest spiritual movement  of the
							century? You will dissent, I have no doubt; but I speak from the deepest
							conviction.
						The modern Bible Conference, and the Bible and Missionary Training
							School.
						The first is a short course in Scripture; the second, a more complete training in the
							same. In them God has flung His lines of defense from sea to sea; and destructive
							criticism—the enemy that has come in like a flood—is finding the Bible
							Conference and the Bible School capable of both stubborn and successful resistance.
							Every state in the Union has its Bible Conference in multiplied numbers. Thirty years
							ago Northfield stood almost alone in America, and Keswick was well nigh solitary in
							England; and thirty years ago the Moody Institute was a solitary little sister, and
							looked upon with scorn by the mature and proud-pursed schools of the land; and
							Spurgeon's College was held in disdain by Doctors of Divinity! But that God was in the
							movement can hardly be disputed when we recall the names of the Bible Conference and
							Bible School advocates—Spurgeon, Guinness, Meyer, Morgan and others of the Old
							World;  Moody, Gordon, Simpson, White, Torrey, Gray,
							Frost and other like men in the New World.
						These Conferences and Schools are not the exponents of science, not the special
							advocates of philosophy, not the instructors in history. It is an age of specializing,
							and they have deliberately chosen to specialize in the knowledge of God's Word. Tens
							and hundreds of thousands of ministers and laymen attend upon these conferences every
							summer, and Keswick in England, Northfield and Winona in America are now names that
							suggest two things—the study of the Word of God, and the deepening of the
							spiritual life; and the Bible schools established in New York, South Nyack,
							Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, Los Angeles, and other cities, are making greater
							strides, everything considered, than any class of schools that have ever sprung into
							existence. They have been the subjects of constant criticism, the objects of repeated
							ridicule. They have been characterized as "educational short-cuts ;" their graduates
							have been spoken of as "unscholarly" and "crude ;" but perhaps Dr. Gordon's reply is
							significant, "I prefer a little man with a great gospel to a great man with a little
							gospel !"


						
						Ours is a great gospel! The people that best proclaim it are marked for progress; and
							those that most deny it are destined to perish.
					

				

				
				
					CHAPTER VII.IS A CONFEDERACY OF CONSERVATIVES THE
							CALL OF THE HOUR?

					Isa. 8:11-20.

					"For the Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me that I should not
						walk in the way of this people, saying, Say ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom
						this people shall say, A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.
						Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself; and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.
						And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offence
						to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
						And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.
						Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples. And I will wait upon the Lord,
						that hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him. Behold, I and the
						children whom the Lord ha'th given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from the
						Lord of hosts, which dwelleth in mount Zion. And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto
						them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards 'that peep, and that mutter: should
						not a people seek unto their God? for the living to the dead? To the law and to 'the
						testimony: if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in
						them."




					

					*For twenty centuries the
						visible Church of Christ has travelled by a path characterized by many curves. Some of
						these have been sharp and even striking, and good men have wondered what the new
						direction meant. Today that institution stands before diverging paths and is compelled,
						therefore, to debate which way she shall take, for it is manifestly evident that these
						paths can never have a common termination; for, Christianity, rightly defined, has come
						to the crisis of its existence, and its entire future rests with the decision which must
						at once be made.
					The parallelism between Judah and the hour of our text, and Christianity and the hour
						to which we have come, is at once wonderful and striking. Then there was an unnatural
						combination of Israel with Syrian foreigners against Judah, and the national theocracy
						was threatened to the point where the Prophet pointed to God as the only and yet
						adequate hope. He realized, however, and clearly voiced his conviction, that their
						salvation from the Lord depended upon their repudiation of a popular confederacy, and
						their creation of a
					*This chapter is in pamphlet
						form, published by "The Book Stall," I13 Fulton St., N. Y. City. Herbert Booth's book on
						this same subject is a classic.





					
					confederacy of their own, the inspiring spirit of which should be none other than "the
						Lord of hosts" Himself.
					The parallelism with the present-day predicament is perfect, and the call of the hour
						is
					
						A CHRISTIAN CONFEDERACY.
						Let me hasten at once to define the phrase! "The Christian confederacy," as it lies
							in my mind, is a close fellowship, yea, even an organization, of true and evangelical
							conservatives; or, if you please, of those men and women, churches, schools, and other
							Christian institutions, that are willing to take the exact position adopted by Martin
							Luther when he began his reformation, namely that the Bible is 'the very Word of God,
							and is, therefore, and must forever remain, the only rule of faith and practice. The
							time has fully come for both energetic and persistent propagation of the "faith once
							delivered" as the only antidote to that infidelity which has forced its way beyond the
							very altars of our churches, and is sliming our schools with its deadly saliva. The
							unmistakable sign of such a confederacy to come exists in the circumstance that within
							two or three years, God, by the still small voice of His Spirit, has spoken to great
							Christian  leaders in different portions of the great
							civilized world, upon this subject; and, as they have met in national and
							international conferences for exchange of thought and feeling, they have again and
							again stood amazed to discover with what unanimity the Spirit had spoken to
							individuals—separated by great distances, by denominational names, and even by
							distinct tongues. It is another illustration of God's own method of making known His
							will. To the men who have had ears to hear, there has been a voice behind them saying,
							"This is the way, walk ye in it." To the conservative prophets of our day God is
							saying again what He 'said to Isaiah, and through Isaiah, to Israel, "Say ye not, A
							confederacy, etc." (vss. I2-20).
						How marvelously this portion of scripture compasses the conception already stated.
							Such a confederacy as is mentioned here is already in existence, and we are enjoined
							by the Lord not to accept and adopt it.
						Its name is
					
					
						"THE FEDERAL COUNCIL
						of the Churches of Christ in America."
						It professes to represent more than thirty denominations, it claims to have a
							co-operative  membership of more than seventeen
							millions.
						Its pretentions and appeal while having no such proportions have undoubtedly met with
							a great and popular response. The bases of this response may be easily discovered.
							They lie in three things.
						It proposes a close interdenominational cooperation; it promises unification of
							sentiment by a common service; and, it has chosen, as its prominent leaders, special
							exponents of liberal theology. In each of these facts, it represents the spirit of the
							times to which we belong.
						It proposes a close interdenominational cooperation.
						That proposition is expressed in its very name—"The Federal Council of the
							Churches of Christ in America." It does not limit its fellowship by any exclusive
							terms. While it has denied Unitarians representation, it was not so much on the ground
							of doctrine as in the circumstance of a name. Unitarians have never professed to be
							"Churches of Christ"
						even by the most far-fetched of definitions. As early as I912 the "Council" claimed
							duly appointed delegates from thirty-two denominations. The very number of
							denominations mentioned 'shows how attenuated is the definition,  —"Churches of Christ." The prominent word therefore, is not
							Christianity; it is "consolidation" instead,—one of the most popular words of
							the age to which we belong.
						That word was employed first of all in the economic field, and in the interest of
							commercial advantages; and there it has been so eminently successful that competition
							is more and more fading from trade, and mergers,—known as monopolies—more
							and more control.
						Certain men, looked upon by some as great religious leaders, have called attention to
							this advantage in the economic world, have reminded their auditors and readers that
							this accrues alike to the monopolist and to the people, and have boldly argued that
							the churches of the land ought to learn from "the children of this generation, who are
							wiser in their day and generation than the children of light;" and that mergers and
							Christian corporations ought to kill out the denominational competition which has
							resulted alike in over-churched villages and no-church communities. It is the dream of
							a great unification!
						This "Federal Council" conception contains features of advantage not to be ignored or
							despised by any thoughtful man. Beyond all  question the
							bitter denominational debates over minor points, while sometimes resulting in clearer
							convictions as to Scripture teaching, more often produced anger, wrath, malice,
							prejudices—anti-Christian results!
						Beyond all doubt, Christ intended that there Should be place for the play of
							individual opinions in the interpretation alike of the Scriptures and Himself; and yet
							hoped that those who might not see eye to eye on other subjects, would ignore their
							minor differences and unite upon the major bases of their belief.
						Again, it is clear that co-operation has advantages in both spirit and method over
							competition; and that where one man might chase a thousand, two, if united, might put
							ten thousand to flight. How often has the human chain saved men, just because six or a
							dozen or twenty men, joined hands and flinging the line out into the surf to the point
							where the deepest wader, might lay hands upon the endangered or drowning one, and, by
							a pull all together, bring him to shore.
						Men have seen these things so clearly, and realized them with such increasing
							interest, that the call for a closer denomination affiliation has met the instant
							response of great  masses of church members; and this
							confederacy has been the easy result.
						Furthermore, it promises unification of sentiment by a common service.
						The language of its present President is: "Christian efficiency lies not in the
							effort to get everybody to agree about everything, but in the effort to free the world
							of sin." It is such a sentiment as excites popular applause! There are so many things
							wrong in the world that need righting, that leaders in religion and reform can
							scarcely afford to despise profferred help, particularly if it be offered by good men
							and they be animated by righteous motives! Their interests are so far identical in
							character—in matters for instance of sanitation, in the necessity of education,
							in the improvement of environment, in social needs, and opportunities of social
							service, that the appeal of co-operation, whenever and wherever possible, strikes the
							most popular of all cords, and men are reminded of the fact, (and it is a
							fact)—that the more they work together, the better they understand one another;
							and, that such increasing acquaintance and fellowship of service crucifies needless
							prejudices and quickens into life mutual appreciations.

						
						That truth is illustrated by every factory and shop in the land. Men of different
							nationalities, different tongues, different opinions, different
							sentiments,—working side by side, at common tasks, become a sort of brotherhood;
							and are much less likely to fight 'among themselves than they are to scrap with the
							fellows from the factory across the way.
						The leaders of "the Federal Council" have seen this and have said, "Let's not debate
							over our differences; but rather, undertake together common tasks, and our unity of
							feeling and opinion will necessarily be fostered by our agreement in action."
						Its prominent leaders are exponents of liberal theology.
						The truth of this is put past all dispute by merely calling attention to their names,
							and reviewing their so-called theological writings. If, by anyone it is denied, the
							denial would only be in the interest of maintaining the unity for which it stands; and
							when our attention is called to the names of known conservatives who occupy prominent
							places, a little study discovers the fact that in every instance they occupy a
							secondary place, and have been elected  to that, in the
							hope of keeping in line with this movement, radical conservatives.
						This liberal leadership is not condemnable, viewed from the standpoint of the Federal
							Council. The very effort to unite all parties in the present-day denominations makes
							necessary some recognition of theological conservatives, and equally necessary the
							leadership of liberals. Conservatism always tends to exclusiveness; Liberalism always
							manifests toleration; and the very life of such a movement as "the Federal Council"
							depends upon toleration. And yet, to prove that toleration is not carried to the point
							where Christ can be utterly put aside, Unitarians were denied representation in this
							movement. It thereby keeps the semblance of consistency in the name "The Federal
							Council of Churches of Christ in America."
						Why then, is not the Council sufficient? Why should the Lord be supposed "o be
							speaking to certain men, insisting that they should not walk in the way of this
							people, saying "Say not ye, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say,
							A confederacy; neither fear their fear, nor be afraid"—speaking to the great
							leaders in Europe, in England, and in Canada, in the East; in the South, and in  the Southwest, in the Northwest, and in the center of the
							land saying "Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself: and let him be your fear, and let him
							be your dread. And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for a
							rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the
							inhabitants of Jerusalem. And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken,
							and be snared and be taken. Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples,"
							advising a definite movement which Herbert Booth has in his book well and wisely
							named
					
					
						"THE CHRISTIAN CONFEDERACY !"
						What would be the essential difference between such a confederacy and the Federal
							Council ? And what would be the advantages, if any, in the latter as against the
							former? And what could possibly be the justification of a new movement, at a time when
							religious movements are already confessedly over-multiplied ?
						Let us understand first of all :—
						Its very birth must come of unity in Biblical faith. The men who
							have thought about such a movement, and who have conferred together about its
							inauguration, and who now have in  mind the calling of a
							great convention that shall represent alike a mighty constituency of the Old and New
							World, are one in their unshaken faith that "the Bible is the very Word of God," and
							"Christ is the very Son of God," and "the cross the only way of salvation." Think of
							our Saviour's prayer concerning His disciples, and in the name of the proper exegesis,
							omit not its main point-"That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I
							in thee, that they also may be one in us." To what end? That they might be unified in
							endeavor? No!; that they might cease from bickerings and debates ? No ! ; that they
							might undertake the task of cleaning up a nasty world ? No !; that they might even
							join hands in the endeavor to save men from sin? No! But "THAT THE WORLD MAY BELIEVE
							THAT THOU HAST SENT ME." There is no sentence possible to human thought or speech that
							could more clearly express at once the authority of the Bible, the deity of Christ,
							and the philosophy of the divine plan of salvation, than does that sentiment; and the
							people "who are one" in these things, scattered through the different denominations,
							are today the absolute answer of God to the prayer of His Son.
						It was after A. J. F. Behrends came back  to the faith
							from which he had temporarily drifted, that he said: "The angel of unity is our pillar
							of cloud and fire, and always has been; and we knew it not. We ache and pray for that
							which has already come. Can it be that our Lord's prayer has remained unanswered, all
							these centuries? For myself, at least, the years have taught me, that we need to say
							'we are one,' as well as to pray that we may be one. I have learned that the unities
							of the Christian faith are more mighty and majestic than the differences. I have
							grasped the hand of many a Catholic layman and priest, when at the clasp of palms and
							mutual greetings the yawning chasm vanished."
						Certainly ! The man who is in the Catholic Church, but has the experience of the
							grace of God, (as some of them have unquestionably had,) entertains an unshaken
							confidence in the Bible, seeking thereby to conform his conduct and form his
							character, who accepts Jesus Christ as the very Son of God, and His sufferings on
							Calvary as the atonement for his sin, is a thousand fold more my brother than the man
							who belongs to my denomination in name, but in fact repudiates all of these
							fundamentals of the Christian faith. The time has come, in the Northland at least,
							when it  makes a thousand fold less difference to many
							of us as to the denominational label than it does as to the doctrinal life. We know
							that two men, belonging to different denominations, may hold identical bases, and we
							know that two belonging to the same denomination, and that, evangelical in name, are,
							again and again, as remote apart as the Unitarian and Trinitarian, as far removed from
							one another in convictions, and conceptions as the skeptic is removed from the
							believer; and sometimes as remote as the atheist is from the Christian. Think of the
							incongruity of calling I. M. Haldeman and Geo. Burman Foster both Baptists: of naming
							Reginald Campbell and Campbell Morgan both Congregationalists; labeling L. W. Munhall
							and the late Professor Terry both Methodists, of defining Ex-President Patten and
							President Francis Brown as alike Presbyterians! Has the sentence of the Old Testament
							lost its significance entirely—"Can two walk together except they be agreed ?"
							Has the symbolism of Deuteronomy no longer any spiritual significance—"Thou
							shalt not plow with the ox and the ass together ?" Is there no longer any typical
							truth in the command "Thou shalt not wear a garment of divers sorts, as of woolen and
							linen ?" Can we  afford, just because we fling over it
							the name "Christian" for a covering, the philosophy of an Ingersoll, and say, "You
							have your opinion and I have mine, let it go! Let's join hands and be good fellows ?"
							Is John's (II Jno. 2: 9-II) injunction not to receive the rejector of Christ out of
							date? Has the day arrived when Jude's "certain men, crept in unawares" instead of
							being now condemned as ministers of the devil, because they preach a bloodless
							righteousness, denying the very Christ that bought 'hem, are to be called "brothers ;"
							and, are we to labor together when a part of our company reject the Scriptures,
							repudiate the virgin birth, excoriate the claims of the supernatural, and bring the
							God of the Old Testament to the level of a tribal deity, and the God of the New to
							that of a Jewish bastard? Has the hour arrived when men who are "in Israel, but not of
							her," (in the Church, but not of Christ) can form an alliance with her enemies and the
							true worshiper give his consent to the compact ?
						Should the world marvel, when such a confederacy is attempted, that God should speak
							to certain men, saying, "Walk not in the way of this people; join not a confederacy of
							this kind! Sanctify the Lord of hosts, himself,  and let
							him be your fear." Has the time come when Truth is tolerant and willing to compromise
							with error, when light "should enter into communion" with darkness; and
							"righteousness" into "fellowship with unrighteousness," and "believers" should
							voluntarily yoke themselves "with unbelievers," and Christ come into concord with
							Belial, and the "disciples" join hands "with the infidels," in
								service (II Tim. 4:I)?
						Without at all attempting to name individuals, but standing upon the broad plain of
							what so-called religious leaders have themselves professed and put into print, there
							are scores of us, who believe that the Word of the Lord—"Come ye out from among
							them, and be ye separate" looks to another "confederacy" altogether, namely, a
							confederacy in Biblical faith; to a better brotherhood,—namely one that shall
							seek to let the world know that God—according to the authority of the
							Scriptures—sent His only begotten Son,—Christ, and if we are not "one in
							Him" we are not one at all!
						Truly the time has come for the re-affirmation of the Apostle's Creed, and the
							fellowship that follows the same: "I believe in God the Father Almighty; and in Jesus
							Christ, His  only Son, our Lord, begotten before all
							worlds, the very God of very God, who for us came down from heaven and was conceived
							of the Virgin Mary by the Holy Ghost." And the only church that is worthy to wear His
							name must be "that holy church throughout all the world which does acknowledge the
							Father, of infinite majesty, His true and only Son, and the Holy Ghost, the
							Comforter."
						The value of such a confederacy would depend upon its loyalty to Biblical
							precepts.
						The time has come when the so-called Christian church is somewhat equally distributed
							among the advocates of an infallible Consciousness, an infallible Church, and an
							infallible Book. No one contends that all of these are infallible; and that to believe
							any one of them is sufficient in the sight of God; while to believe in them all is an
							additional merit! On the other hand, they have created partitions in the Church of
							Christ, far more positive than any ever known as denominational barriers! Just as
							Rome, by adopting an "Infallible Church," repudiated the infallibility of the Book, so
							liberal theology, in adopting an "infallible Consciousness" compels the Book to step
							aside when that  Consciousness and Revelation are in
							apparent conflict. The repudiation of Revelation by Rome, and the adoption of the
							"Infallible Church" resulted in the Traditionalism that accounts for the Dark Ages;
							but the adoption of an "inner religious consciousness" as against an external
							revelation, has resulted in Rationalism and Materialism which increasingly read God
							out of His own universe and has flung the world into the horrors of a hellish war
							!
						The true Christian confederacy will make its every appeal to the exact source to
							which Christ turned in defense alike of teaching and conduct, namely—the Sacred
							Scriptures; and insist that not only creeds and opinions be corrected thereby, but our
							conduct as well. The heresy of modern times is no more in theological thinking than it
							is in individual living! As Herbert Booth has remarked, "It is not sufficient to rally
							around a standard of doctrine only. False doctrine is not the sole cause of the
							Church's stagnation and defeat; it is not even the chief cause! Her worldliness,
							self-indulgence and backsliding are even more potent reasons." And only a Confederacy
							that does call professed Christians unto  more righteous
							living, as well as to more correct thinking, will accomplish aught for the world.
						However, never let it be forgotten that "as a man thinketh in his heart so is he!"
							Sound teaching is absolutely essential to sound practice. The relation between the two
							is that of cause and effect; and if such a confederacy as Booth has named, and scores
							of our greatest teachers have dreamed and desired is now to be inaugurated, it must
							mean for ministers of the gospel and for laymen alike, a call to higher living, to a
							course of conduct that will honor Christ, that will exalt the spiritual and repudiate
							the sensual, that will not invite criticism from the world, but, rather, set before it
							an example upon which Christ could put His approval, and into which He will dare to
							put His Holy Spirit.
						The rapidity of its growth will rest with the affiliation of
							covenant-forces.
						By covenant-forces I mean such individuals and organizations as will be ready to
							enter into such a covenant as would concede forever the question of the authority of
							the Scriptures, the deity of Christ, the personality and power of the Holy Spirit,
							salvation by the  atonement, separateness from the
							world, the consecration of self to the cause of Jesus Christ, an acceptation of the
							Scriptural second coming of the Lord; and, a confederacy with others, to bear our
							witness, in this generation, to all the nations of the earth. For such an affiliation,
							or confederacy, we have numerous individuals and organizations ready and waiting.
							Hundreds of the most eminent preachers of the world (and as yet the world's most
							eminent preachers are its most conservative thinkers) made up of the very men who
							believe in a stand for the things afore mentioned, should link their hands and
							recognize the answer to their Lord's prayer, namely that they are essentially one.
							Within a few years as we have said in the previous chapter there have sprung up in
							America and the Old World multitudes of Bible conferences! Almost without exception
							these are conducted by the very men whose unity of faith is the marvel of the hour.
							They should be related, become a chain with which our God could join together the
							evangelical forces of the land.
						In this same period, Bible Training Schools have started up to speak the shibboleth
							of the Scripture, and to turn back the wave of skepticism  created by the very breath of those theological seminaries that have adopted
							so-called "Modernism." And, to these individual leaders and these mighty and
							increasing instructors, should be added the Lord's "little flock" out of every church,
							whose confidence in the Bible and in Christ, has remained unshaken!
						When such a fellowship is created, and when the hands of such men are linked, and
							such instructors are correlated, the tide of criticism, largely German in origin, will
							find that it has met a more stubborn resistance than German soldiers have met at
							Verdun. Some of us believe that such a movement is as sure as God lives; and that
							before it the infidelity which has characterized, divided and cursed our churches, is
							destined to constant warfare, if not an ignominious defeat.
						Out of this Christian Confederacy must come an educational process that will reach to
							the uttermost parts of the earth! Text books for the use of colleges and Bible Schools
							must be provided, and conservative literature that shall be used to the ends of the
							earth should come from the same. It is nothing less than intolerable to longer consent
							to liberalism in our Sunday School instruction. The whole  subject of evangelism should be clearly presented and only evangelists who know the
							evangel tolerated in our believing bodies; and with this movement evangelism itself
							should be forever linked with that social service which is not born of "the modern's"
							philosophy, but is the very breath of the Christian religion, and will be rendered not
							in the power of man's invention, but in the demonstration of the Spirit.
						What then, is the conclusion, save
					
					
						THE CALL OF THE CROSS.
						It is a call to consecration for the professing Christian.
						There has never been an hour when that call was as loud as now. The boasted
							"brotherhood of man" has broken down, and all over Europe, and in parts of Asia, and
							in great sections of the American continent, battle and blood tramples "brotherhood"
							under unholy feet. And yet men learn so slowly that all over America we are adopting
							now the very philosophy (Militarism) exploited in Germany, France and England for the
							betterment, and even the salvation of men! It is all in vain, apart from Him whose
							name we bear, to whom alone we owe our first, last, and 
							eternal allegiance. In the language of Henry Mabie, "We are not to stop short of
							complete crucifixion of everything that stands between us and obedience to His will."
							The Pauline confession is the idea for us, "I have been crucified with Christ, and it
							is no longer I that live; but Christ liveth in me, and that life which I now live in
							the flesh, I live in the faith which is in the Son of God who loved me and gave
							himself up for me." If in the language of the great French preacher Lacordaire, "The
							church was born crucified" then the weakness of the hour may be due to the
							circumstance that we have healed the wound, and how else can we break it than by a
							crucifixion of the flesh of the individual who enters into this membership—such
							a crucifixion as would fill up that which is left of the sufferings of Christ.
						The language of Father Ryan is apropos—
						"Our dim eyes ask a beacon, and our weary feet a guide,
						And our hearts of all life's mysteries seek the meaning and the key;
						And a cross gleams o'er our pathway, on it hangs the Crucified,
						And He answers all our yearnings by the whisper 'Follow ,Me.' "


						

						It is a call to reformation for the professing Church.
						Mark you, I employ the phrase "the professing Church" knowing full well that there is
							a profession in the Churches to which there is no corresponding possession. To be
							sure, we need again the Spirit of a Luther to declare the truth of God's Word, "The
							just shall live by faith;" but we need, none the less, the return of Carey's spirit to
							put our convictions into action; for much of the church, reformation is not
							sufficient; regeneration is needed rather; but for practically all of it,
							reformation.
						In the judgment of some of us the professing church has not only grown great branches
							but developed certain leaves under the shadow of which "fowls of the air" have indeed
							taken refuge in the form of University and College presidents, liberal pastors,
							theological professors, instructors in biology, geology, paleontology, philosophy and
							related themes,—who prove their loyalty to "the prince of the power of the air,"
							by their scoffs at Scripture, their rejection of Jesus, their insistence upon
							Darwinism, their exaltation of man! It is not at all certain that these branches can
							be cut away  or the occupants of the church tree
							dislodged from their comfortable perches, but it is clear that the children of the
							King can give to the world an exhibition of a truer church within the church, and
							preach the Word of life in the power of the same Spirit who came upon Peter at
							Pentecost, and endowed Paul in the old days! Truly, in the language of Sir Robert
							Anderson, "It is essential now to distinguish between the 'Church' as a society the
							administration of which was entrusted to men on earth, and the 'Church' as the body of
							Christ, dependent only upon Himself as its Lord and head." And, we ought to enhearten
							ourselves with the thought that the building up of "the Church, which is his body," is
							His own work, and that it cannot fail. "The gates of hell" have prevailed against the
							organized Society, "the outward frame," as Alford calls it, and is pushing it more and
							more to the point of apostasy—foretold in Scripture.
						But there is a Church within the church, against which those gates will not, and
							cannot prevail—the true body of Christ. To attempt to name that body would be at
							once foolish, and, in the judgment of the world (in the church and out of the church),
							would be an egoism and an assumption,—equally condemnable.  No man knows! But we believe that the exaltation of the name of Christ
							will result in a demonstration of the true Church, and that there will gather to the
							standard that exalts "His name above every name," the true men and women of God
							throughout the length and breadth of the land; and that that
							"confederacy" will increasingly correspond to "the Church, which is his body." It
							ought not to be forgotten that the word "Eagle" is the Old Testament typical word for
							saint, and that in speaking of Christ, it is said that "where the body is thither will
							the eagles be gathered together."
						Finally, It is a call to world-evangelization in this
							generation.
						There never was a more futile hope than that which men are now urging in a multitude
							of ministries. Like the host that went forth in Gideon's day, they are too many! Too
							many by all those that bend not the knee acknowledging the deity of Christ; too many
							by all those that drink not from the wells of salvation; (the Word) too many by all
							those that scorn the efficiency of the shed blood! If every foreign missionary who
							denies the authority of the Book, the virgin birth, the 
							Biblical report of the supernatural—involving all miracle working, the
							resurrection of Christ included—were dismissed from service at once, we would be
							instantly nearer the discharge of our province of preaching this "gospel of the
							kingdom in all the world for a witness." They that "preach another gospel" are not
							aiding in the Great Commission; and Paul tells us, in no uncertain speech, that such
							as are removing from Him that called them unto the grace of Christ, were "preaching
							another gospel," and though they be "angels from heaven," are not
							under blessing, but rather, under curse. The very life of the Commission depends upon
							elimination from among the commissioned, of both the skeptics and critics. Paradoxical
							as it may sound, there is a decrease that looks to multiplication. When in the old day
							certain ones went "out" from the church because "they were not of it," the Church was
							not weaker but stronger! The gospel went forward with greater rapidity after the
							apostate Demas had ceased to speak than it ever could have, had he continued.
						It remains now, as it ever has, for the Church within the church, to realize the
							responsibility of world evangelism. In the  language of
							A. J. F. Behrends, "The missionary spirit is its beating heart, and animating breath.
							The lifted Christ is the adequate magnet to draw diverging lines together, and cement
							His followers not only into a unity of feeling, but into a magnanimity of endeavor,
							making possible this testimony in all nations in this generation."
						The Call of the cross is the Call of the Christ, and as we look into the faces of the
							rising youth of our churches the call becomes a command—"Pray !" We must pray
							for men who believe God; who receive His Word; who trust His only begotten Son; who
							are brothers in Christ because supernaturally begotten, and in whose brotherhood is
							the only hope of either the true church or the sinning, sinking world !
					
				
				
			
		
	
