
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Moran, Thomas Francis, 1866-1928.. American presidents. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1306
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				AMERICAN PRESIDENTS
			
			
			
			
				
					AMERICAN PRESIDENTS
					
					Their Individualities and Their Contributions to
						American Progress
				
				BY
					THOMAS FRANCIS MORAN, PH.D. Professor of History and
					Economics in Purdue University
				
					NEW YORK
					THOMAS Y. CROWELL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
				
			
			

			
				VERSO

				Copyright, 1917BY THOMAS Y. CROWELL COMPANY
			
			
			
				DEDICATION
				TO THE PARLOR CLUB OF LAFAYETTE, INDIANA
			
			
			
			
				CONTENTS
				
					CHAPTER I
						 FROM WASHINGTON TO JACKSON. Washington—John
						Adams—Jefferson—Madison—Monroe—John Quincy Adams. 9
						
					

					CHAPTER II
						 FROM JACKSON TO LINCOLN.
						Jackson—Van Buren—William Henry
						Harrison—Tyler—Polk—Taylor—Fillmore—Pierce—Buchanan.
							63
						
					

					CHAPTER III
						FROM LINCOLN TO WILSON
						Lincoln—Johnson—Grant—Hayes—Garfield—Arthur—Cleveland—Benjamin
						Harrison—McKinley—Roosevelt—Taft—Wilson. 99
						
					

					CHAPTER IV
						THE ETHICS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN. 117
						
					
				
			
			
		

		
			
			
			
			
				AMERICAN PRESIDENTS
				
					
					CHAPTER I FROM WASHINGTON TO JACKSON
					THE bold, determined, and aggressive personality of the Progressive
						candidate for the presidency of the United States in 1912 has been much commented upon
						in recent years both at home and abroad. Whether we agree in our estimates of the
						ability and real worth of Theodore Roosevelt or not, we will all admit, I think, that he
						is a man of strong individuality whose positive views on a great variety of topics find
						free, forceful, and sometimes even copious expression. His vigorous personality has made
						him the subject of much contention. His acts and utterances have been warmly commended
						and violently assailed. He has also been frequently compared with his predecessors in
						the presidential office, sometimes in commendation, but often in disparagement. One
						writer remarked not long since that Mr. Roosevelt lacked in a marked degree the
						essential attributes of the typical President of the United
						States. I wondered at the time who this typical President might be. Would it be the
						dignified Washington, the graceful Pierce, the sympathetic Lincoln, the stubborn
						Johnson, the intellectual Benjamin Harrison, or the lovable McKinley? Or might it
						possibly be none of these but only an imaginary composite character who never in reality
						occupied the presidential chair at all? A quest for the typical President would, in all
						probability, prove fruitless, as far as immediate results are concerned, but a study of
						the personal traits and individual characteristics of the twenty-seven men who have
						occupied the presidential chair in the last hundred and twenty-eight years ought to be
						an interesting one. In making such a study one cannot fail to be impressed with the
						great variety of the personalities and abilities of the American Presidents. There is no
						monotony in the panorama.
					The first President of the United States has always stood as the personification of
						dignity, poise, and sound judgment. He was not as eloquent as Patrick Henry, as
						scholarly as James Madison, or as brilliant as Alexander Hamilton; yet as a useful
						public man he excelled all three. His substantial qualities
						in statesmanship were recognized as early as 1774. He was a member of the First
						Continental Congress which met in Philadelphia in September of that year. Patrick Henry
						was also a member. Upon his return home Henry was asked whom he considered the greatest
						man in the assembly. His reply was: "If you speak of eloquence, Mr. Rutledge, of South
						Carolina, is by far the greatest orator; but if you speak of solid information and sound
						judgment, Col. Washington is unquestionably the greatest man on the floor." This
						statement represents the view of his contemporaries as well as the judgment of
						historians. By his good sense and rare mental poise he dominated public affairs in a
						quiet, all-pervasive, and exceedingly effective manner.
					Washington's unusual physical strength and impressive personal appearance were a
						valuable asset to him as surveyor, soldier and statesman. Even while young in years he
						was mature in both body and mind. The surveyor of seventeen was a sturdy and
						self-reliant lad. The young frontiersman of twenty-one commended himself to Governor
						Dinwiddie, of Virginia, as the proper man to carry the famousmessage of warning to the French after other men had failed. "Here is the very man for
						you," said Lord Fairfax to the Governor; "young, daring, and adventurous, but yet
						sober-minded and responsible, who only lacks opportunity to show the stuff that is in
						him." Washington met every expectation. He carried the message from Williamsburg,
						Virginia, to Fort Le Boeuf in northwestern Pennsylvania, and placed it in due time in
						the hands of General St. Pierre. He then returned to Virginia with the reply of the
						French commander, having travelled 750 miles in the dead of winter through unbroken
						forests and over rivers, rough with floating ice. The tact and endurance which he
						displayed on this journey augured well for his future achievements. "From that moment,"
						says Washington Irving, "he was the rising hope of Virginia "—and, he might have
						added, of the entire country.
					When, at the age of forty-three, he was chosen commander-in-chief of the Continental
						army and appeared before Congress, modestly but unflinchingly, to accept the trust, he
						must have "looked the part." "Mankind," said Senator Lodge, "is impressed by externals,
						and thosewho gazed upon Washington in the streets of
						Philadelphia felt their courage rise and their hearts grow strong at the sight of his
						virile, muscular figure as he passed before them on horseback, stately, dignified, and
						self-contained. The people looked upon him, and were confident that this was a man
						worthy and able to dare and do all things."
					Nature had been kind to him. She had endowed him with great physical strength and a
						rare personal presence. He was six feet two inches tall and weighed over two hundred
						pounds. His ordinary shoes were number eleven and his military boots two sizes larger.
						His hands were so large that he was obliged to have his gloves made to order. He was
						Egyptian in his massiveness. Houdon, the sculptor, speaks of the "majesty and grandeur
						of Washington's form and features," and "every one who met him told of the commanding
						presence, the noble person, the ineffable dignity, and the calm, simple and stately
						manners. No man ever left Washington's presence without a feeling of reverence and
						respect amounting almost to awe."1
					1 Lodge, George
							Washington, Volume II, pp. 379-80.
					
					In his mental as well as in his physical make-up Washington was a symmetrical and
						well-developed character. He was so well rounded and so nicely balanced that to some he
						seemed commonplace. No greater mistake could be made. He was not dramatic, spectacular
						or sensational in any sense, but he was far removed from mediocrity. His judgment was
						rarely at fault. He was usually very slow in coming to a conclusion but when once he had
						done so he maintained his position with a courage as fine and true as that of Sir
						Galahad of old. He was substantial, dependable and circumspect. His appeal was to the
						intellect rather than to the emotions. As the "great silent man" of his time he
						influenced public opinion by means of his example and his writings rather than through
						the medium of the spoken word. He was not a speech-maker and yet he swayed and moved
						men.
					Too big and broad for State lines, he became the personification of American
						nationalism. Matthew Arnold and Goldwin Smith have called Washington an Englishman, but
						to my mind he was a thorough American. He was, in fact, one of the first men in the
						country to lay aside colonialism and to grasp the national
						spirit. He saw as clearly as any one and more clearly than most men that the salvation
						of his country lay in national unity. In working out this national unity he turned his
						face away from Europe and towards the New World. He was distinctly an American—a
						different type from Lincoln but none the less truly American.
					His spiritual nature was in entire harmony with his mental and physical being. He was
						confident, not harrassed by doubts and had no tendency towards the sensational in
						religion. He was a vestryman in the Protestant Episcopal Church and the dignified
						service of the Anglican worship with its stately liturgy and beautiful forms was to him
						both appealing and satisfying. He was practical rather than mystical in his religious
						conceptions and in this matter, as in everything else, had a way of looking facts
						squarely and concretely in the face.
					The reading public has always had a fairly adequate and correct comprehension of the
						official side of Washington's character; but his private life and personal traits have,
						until a comparatively recent time, been more or less veiled in mystery. "Gen.
						Washington," remarked
					
					Professor McMaster, "is known to us, and President Washington. But George Washington is
						an unknown man." Many of the impressions, too, which the public had formed of Washington
						as a man were based upon mistaken notions. Mason Weems, of hatchet and cherry tree fame,
						represented him as a faultless and insipid prig; Professor McMaster speaks of his "cold
						heart;" to Col. Ingersoll he was "a steel engraving;" and to Carlyle, "a Cromwell with
						the juice squeezed out." It was his misfortune,as Senator Lodge has remarked, to be
						"lifted high up into a lonely greatness, and unconsciously put outside the range of
						human sympathy." By means of recent investigations, however, the life story of
						Washington has been humanized. The veil which has hitherto concealed the private man has
						been, in part at least, drawn aside, and it is now seen that Washington was "fed by the
						same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same
						means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer" as other mortals were. In some
						respects he was intensely human. He had a weakness for gold lace, silk stockings, and
						silver spangles. His liking for fine feathers never quite
						forsook him. He was still dancing at sixty-four; he was fond of the theater; and his
						wine cellar at Mount Vernon was not usually empty. He liked a good horse race and often
						entered his own animals, placing a modest bet on the outcome. While a Virginia planter
						he occasionally went fox hunting on Sunday, and more than once he complained that while
						attending church on the Sabbath morning he was compelled to listen to some very "lame
						discourses." Neither was he immune from those plebeian diseases which now harrass
						mankind. He suffered, at different times, from measles, smallpox, malaria, and
						tooth-ache; and late in life he solemnly put it on record that his false teeth were a
						misfit.
					He also did some things which would have given the good Parson Weems a nervous shock.
						At Kip's Landing, when the troops were not behaving themselves to his liking, he
						expressed himself in language about as stormy and violent as the mother tongue is
						capable of. And again at Monmouth, when he found Lee's army retreating, General Scott
						tells us that he "swore like an angel from heaven,"—however that may be.
					
					In affairs of the heart he was likewise human. While still a school boy, for example,
						he loved to romp with one of the largest girls, and the affair became serious forthwith;
						at the age of sixteen he wrote in passionate strains of a certain young lady whom he
						called his "Low Land Beauty;" and be it said that this "Low Land Beauty" might have been
						Miss Lucy Grimes or Miss Mary Bland or Miss Betsy Fauntleroy,—so impartially did
						the young lover bestow his attentions. No one of them could claim a monopoly of his
						favor, and the identity of the young lady in question has never been disclosed. After
						retiring from one of his campaigns in the Old French War he very readily and willingly
						capitulated at another "Fort Necessity," and the fair charmer in this case is again
						rather vaguely referred to as "Mrs. Neil." A little later, and at this time he was only
						twenty-four, he lost his heart to Mary Philipse, only to be rejected in favor of
						Lieutenant-Colonel Roger Morris. During the Revolution Morris was a Tory and fled from
						the country for safety. Let us hope, for the sake of poetic justice, that Washington had
						the pleasure of speeding the parting guest while he was en route, let us say, to Halifax. However that may be, the wounds which were made
						by the beauty of Mary Philipse upon the heart of the ardent suitor were only superficial
						and two years later we find him at the feet of Mrs. Martha Dandridge Custis, widow of a
						wealthy Virginia planter, whose demise had occurred only seven short moons before. The
						courtship was, in military language, short, sharp, and decisive, and resulted in an
						engagement in about three weeks. Owing to the stern necessities of the War the marriage
						was deferred a few months, which seemed an interminable period to the two persons most
						intimately concerned. Washington was now but twenty-six years of age, but was, it would
						seem, rich in experience in matters pertaining to courtship; for in addition to the
						instances already mentioned there were several other maidens of the time who received
						coy glances and side-long looks from this dashing young Virginia Cavalier. Taking it all
						in all, it must be admitted, I think, that the "Father of his Country" did possess some
						few traits and personal characteristics not ordinarily exhibited by steel engravings or
						by Cromwells with the juice squeezed out. Washington himself was not deceived in these matters, if the world was. "That I have foibles," he said,
						"and perhaps many of them, I shall not deny. I should esteem myself, as the world would,
						vain and empty, were I to arrogate perfection."
					And now after the lapse of more than a century, and with the returns all in, thinking
						and well-informed people are disposed, notwithstanding Lowell's flight in the famous
						"Commemoration Ode," to rank George Washington as the "first citizen" of the American
						Republic.
					In making the transition from Washington to John Adams the presidential curve dips
						sharply downward. Adams was a peculiar man, strongly individualistic both in appearance
						and in character. He has been described as being of "middle height, vigorous, florid,
						and somewhat corpulent, quite like the typical John Bull." There was little apparently
						in his Anglican style of architecture to commend him to the patriots of the
						Revoluntionary days, but in his talents and disposition there was much.
					Adams was a native of Massachusetts and was graduated from Harvard College in 1755 at
						the age of twenty. He was as unlike his predecessor in
						office as a man could well be. There can be little in common in any circumstances
						between the Puritan of New England and the Cavalier of Virginia. In this case there was
						practically nothing. The whole background of their lives was different. Their viewpoints
						also differed in many respects. Washington was a surveyor and farmer, while Adams was a
						school teacher and lawyer. Washington was a soldier, while Adams came from civil life.
						Washington's school education was limited and he never went to college at all; Adams had
						been well educated both in preparatory school and college. In religion Washington was
						orthodox, while Adams was inclined to free thinking. Socially, Washington was of the
						aristocracy of the Old Dominion, while the Adams family held a middle rank in
						Massachusetts. The names of the students of Harvard College at this time were arranged
						in the catalogue in the order of the social standing of their parents and the young
						Adams stood fourteenth in a class of twenty-four on this basis. In taste, temperament
						and tact, also, they were widely separated. Senator Maclay, a contemporary, once
						remarked of Washington, "The President's amiable deportment
						smooths and sweetens everything." Adams, on the other hand, quarrelled with almost all
						of his associates in public life. He uttered petty and spiteful things about Washington,
						and the Federalist party was not big enough to contain himself and Hamilton at the same
						time. He looked with contempt upon Jefferson and his whole philosophy of government; he
						abused Franklin and spoke of his "extreme indolence and dissipation," and he
						peremptorily dismissed some of the members of his cabinet from office. He was
						particularly vindictive towards his Secretary of State, Timothy Pickering, whom he
						characterized as "envious of every superior," "impatient of obscurity," and deceptive
						"under the simple appearance of a bald head and straight hair." In most of these cases
						there was, to be sure, provocation enough. Hamilton had intrigued against him more than
						once in an underhanded and unpardonable way and as for Mr. Pickering he was well-nigh
						impossible. John T. Morse refers to him as "the stiff-backed and opinionated old
						Puritan, full of fight and immutable in the conviction of his own righteousness."
					John Adams's was a strangely compounded character. One of
						his biographers speaks of him as the "blunt and irascible old John Adams." He was all of
						this and a good deal more. Combined with statesmanship of the highest order and an
						unsurpassed personal integrity we find the most glaring and even ridiculous defects of
						character. He was vain and conceited to a most absurd degree—a fact which he was
						shrewd enough to recognize and honest enough to admit. "Vanity, I am sensible," he said,
						"is my cardinal vice and cardinal folly." Intimately associated with his vanity was his
						jealousy; and strangely enough he was jealous of Washington most of all. In a recurrent
						mood of churlishness he exclaimed: "Would Washington ever have been commander of the
						Revolutionary Army or President of the United States if he had not married the rich
						widow of Mr. Custis?" Again in speaking of the battle of Saratoga he said he was truly
						grateful "that the glory of turning the tide of arms" was "not immediately due to the
						Commander-in-Chief. ... If it had, idolatry and adulation would have been unbounded."
						When Washington was the central figure of interest at the inauguration of Adams, the
						latter was consumed with jealousy and again let fall some
						foolish and childish expressions; and in the early morning of March 4, 1801, he drove
						quietly out of the city of Washington in order that he might not be compelled to witness
						the triumph of Jefferson, his successful adversary, and to extend to him the customary
						greeting.
					However, in spite of the fact that Adams was at times impetuous, hot-headed, vain,
						conceited, sensitive, dogmatic, combative, and opinionated, he was at the same time a
						true patriot and a statesman of high order. The storms of his passion, though sometimes
						violent, were not of long duration, and never served to obscure his vision for any
						considerable length of time. His indignation, too, was usually a righteous one. He was
						energetic, sensible, and practical, and so methodical in his business affairs that
						Franklin seemed to him to' be lazy on account of the latter's apparent lack of all
						method. In speech he was direct, frank, and refreshingly outspoken. Never ingenuous,
						always clear and incisive in his utterances, there was no mistaking his attitude. There
						was no Machiavellianism, no trimming, no playing to the galleries, and no attempt at
						carrying water on both shoulders. His writings were equally
						crisp, pungent, and forceful. There was much truth in his honest commentary upon the
						religion of his day. "Where," said he, "do we find a precept in the gospel requiring
						ecclesiastical synods, convocations, councils, decrees, creeds, confessions, oaths,
						subscriptions, and whole cart-loads of other trumpery that we find religion encumbered
						with in these days ?"
					In politics he was equally honest and direct, and was moreover usually correct in his
						attitude, as subsequent events have shown. As a foreign minister he was dignified,
						industrious and effective. As a member of the Continental Congress he was a hard-fisted,
						rough-and-ready fighter for what seemed to him to be right.
					As a lawyer he was equally courageous. In 1770 he was asked to defend Captain Preston
						who had charge of the British soldiers in the so-called Boston Massacre. With a keen
						sense of equity and a high sense of professional duty he accepted the task because he
						felt that in an Anglo-Saxon court of justice every man should have a fair and an
						impartial trial with the benefit of counsel for his defense. He undertook the defense
						and secured the acquittal of Preston, although he well knew
						the popular clamor which his course would arouse. He never wavered in his view of the
						moral aspects of this engagement. A few years later he said: "It was one of the most
						gallant, manly, and disinterested actions of my whole life, and one of the best pieces
						of service I ever rendered to my country." Charles Francis Adams concurred in this view
						when he said that he regarded the participation in this trial "as constituting one of
						the four great moral trials and triumphs marking his grandfather's career."
					When the Declaration of Independence was under discussion in Congress Adams was the
						foremost figure on the floor. Jefferson in gratitude and admiration called him the
						"Colossus of that debate," and Stockton saw in him the "Atlas of Independence." He did
						strike telling blows and did it, for the most part, unconsciously. As John T. Morse has
						remarked: "His intense earnestness, his familiarity with every possible argument,
						compelled him to be magnificently eloquent."
					 The principal event of his administration was the trouble with France, popularly known
						as the X.Y.Z. Affair. In this matter also he proved 
						himself to be a courageous, patriotic, and farsighted man. He represented the spirit of
						the nation and of the times when he wrote, after the shameful treatment of the American
						envoys in France, "I will never send another Minister to France without assurance that
						he will be received, respected, and honored, as the representative of a great, free,
						independent, and powerful nation." Fifteen years later, still convinced that his
						attitude towards France in this instance was the correct one, he wrote to a friend that
						he wished no other inscription upon his tombstone than this: "Here lies John Adams who
						took upon himself the responsibility of peace with France in the year 1800." Those best
						competent to judge now agree that President Adams "acted boldly, honestly, and wisely,
						and for the welfare of the country in a very critical period."
					It is both interesting and pleasant to note that in the evening of his life the rancor
						and asperity of the more active days had been greatly softened. He and Jefferson, both
						in retirement, were again on the best of terms. At the age of ninety-one, when the mists
						began to gather and Adams knew that his end was  near, he
						remarked in quiet resignation to those about him: "Thomas Jefferson still lives." He did
						not know that Jefferson had passed away a few hours before. Strangely enough, Adams and
						Jefferson both died on July 4, 1826—the fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration of
						Independence. "The two aged men," says Col. Higginson, "floated, like two ships becalmed
						at nightfall, that drift together into port and cast anchor side by side."
					In Thomas Jefferson a far abler man than his predecessor came to the presidential
						office. Jefferson must be accounted, I think, one of the six greatest men in the history
						of the public life of the United States. He was a well developed, well rounded, and
						symmetrical character. He showed a marked ability, not in one special line, but in
						several different and widely separated directions. No other American, with the exception
						of the many-sided Franklin, gave evidence of such versatility. He was a successful
						diplomat, a fairly strong executive, a leader in educational affairs, a close student of
						science, literature, and religion, an originator and promoter of improved scientific
						methods in agriculture, and the most adroit and successful
						political leader that the United States has yet produced. In addition to this he was a
						good mathematician, a ready and forceful writer, and a violinist of no mean order.
					Thomas Jefferson was descended from a substantial Welsh family which had settled in
						Virginia before the Mayflower brought the Pilgrim Fathers to New
						England. He was the third child in a family of ten. His father was Peter Jefferson, a
						man of superb physique and vigorous mentality. The Jeffersons were well-to-do and lived
						on a farm of 1900 acres tilled by 30 slaves. The young Thomas was graduated in due time
						from William and Mary College; he then studied law and devoted himself successfully to
						farming and to the practice of his professsion until called into public life. At the age
						of 29, he married Martha, the daughter of John Wayles, a lawyer who enjoyed an extensive
						and lucrative practice at the Williamsburg bar. A year later Wayles died and left his
						daughter 4000 acres of land and 135 slaves. The finances of the Jefferson family were
						now in a very prosperous condition, as the landed estate, even before this inheritance
						was obtained, yielded an income of about $2,000 per year.
						In addition to this, Jefferson's fees from his law practice amounted to about
						$3,000—thus making a very comfortable income for a family in Virginia in those
						days. Although never a very thrifty business manager, Jefferson soon became one of the
						leading men of the State. His family, however, was not admitted to the exclusive social
						set of the Old Dominion until after he had arisen to fame. Although we hear a great deal
						at a later time of the brilliant social life at Mount Vernon, Monticello and Montpelier,
						it is nevertheless true, that neither the Washington, Jefferson, or Madison family was a
						member of the select social coterie of Virginia families until after their chief
						representatives had arisen to high office.
					In temperament Jefferson was a striking contrast to John Adams. He was more human and
						normal. He was also more conciliatory and but little inclined to nurse his hatred for
						other men. He did have at one time a very profound dislike for "Monocrats," New England
						clergymen, and Federal judges but was not inclined, as Adams was, to make unseemly
						exhibitions of his antipathy. Mark Twain once remarked, "If a man is a pessimist before
						he is forty-eight he knows too much. If he is an optimist
						after he is forty-eight he knows too little." Jefferson ran counter to this rule and
						presented "the unusual spectacle of one who grew more optimistic with increasing
						years."
					In personal appearance Jefferson was rather impressive but by no means a handsome man.
						He was six feet two and one half inches tall and muscular as well. When he entered
						college at seventeen he was described as "tall, raw-boned, freckled, and sandy-haired,
						with large feet and hands, thick wrists, and prominent cheek bones and chin." His
						comrades described him as "a fresh, healthy-looking youth, very erect, agile, and
						strong, with something of rusticity in his air and demeanor." In early manhood, and more
						particularly in later life, he improved very markedly in personal appearance, although,
						unlike Washington, he was never very fastidious about his clothing. He often shocked
						European ministers, and apparently took great delight in doing so, by appearing in his
						tattered dressing gown and with his slippers down at the heel.
					Although the accounts which have come down to us regarding the so-called "Jeffersonian
						simplicity" have, no doubt, been somewhat exaggerated, it
						is true that Jefferson cared little for ceremony, either in public or private life, and
						this fact commended him strongly to the masses of the people. John Fiske has told us
						that "the American people took Jefferson into their hearts as they have never taken any
						other statesman until Lincoln in these latter days." While Andrew Jackson might well be
						classed with Jefferson and Lincoln as a popular idol, it is undoubtedly true that
						Jefferson had a hold upon the affections of the people never excelled by any other
						public man in the United States. When he was elected President the bells rang and the
						cannons boomed and pandemonium reigned supreme. There was jubilation in every part of
						the United States except in some sections of New England; and even there his praises
						were not entirely unsung, as the newspapers of the time tell us that the denizens of the
						Hartford frog ponds croaked in unison for "the man of the people, the man of the
						people."
					Jefferson's sway was a gentle one. He wielded no big stick. He was a leader, not a
						driver of men. When President, if he wished an Act passed by Congress, he would
							perhaps express himself to that effect in casual
						conversation with some member of that body. There might be no request, no argument, and
						no agreement; but in all probability the legislator would hurry off to Congress and
						quietly make known the wishes of the chief executive, and forthwith the thing was
						done.
					The principles and the character of Jefferson have been the subject of violent and, in
						some cases, of needless controversy. It seems to me to be regrettable that so many of
						the biographers of Hamilton and Jefferson should think it necessary to pull down the one
						in order to exalt the other. It should be accounted a very fortunate circumstance that
						two such men as Hamilton and Jefferson lived in the formative period of the Republic.
						They represented, it is true, opposite poles of political thought, always opposing and
						never pulling in the same direction. While members of Washington's cabinet, they faced
						each other, as Jefferson said, "like two fighting cocks in a pit." Each, however, was a
						valuable corrective upon the other; and each supplemented the labors of his adversary.
						Hamilton was Anglican, and Jefferson Latin in his sympathies. Hamilton was an  aristocrat and exalted the so-called "upper classes;"
						Jefferson was a democrat and had an abiding faith in the masses. Hamilton was a liberal
						constructionist and a centralizer of power, while Jefferson was a decentralizer and a
						strict constructionist. Hamilton was a nationalist and Jefferson an ardent advocate of
						"states rights." In the course of events neither had his way to the exclusion of the
						other, but the line of development of the government has been, in a general way, the
						resultant between these two powerful forces.
					Jefferson's public service was unselfish and free from any mercenary tinge. When he
						entered public life as a young man he made a resolution "never to engage, while in
						public office, in any kind of enterprise, nor to wear any other character than that of a
						farmer." He kept the faith. In fact he neglected his prudential affairs to such an
						extent that when he retired from the presidency on the 4th of March, 1809, after an
						almost continuous public service of forty-four years, he feared that his creditors might
						not permit him to leave the Capital without arrest. Unlike Washington, he was not
						thrifty in business affairs. He was also generous and
						accommodating to a fault. Even late in life, after he had weathered many financial
						storms, he indorsed a $20,000 note for a friend and was compelled to pay it; yet with
						all of his embarrassments the "Sage of Monticello" wielded, from his rustic retreat, a
						mildly despotic sway over the Republican party in particular and the whole people in
						general. There he lies buried, and the shaft over his grave bears an inscription written
						by Jefferson himself: "Here was buried Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of
						American Independence, of the Statute of Virginia for Religious Freedom, and Father of
						the University of Virginia."
					Although Jefferson retired from public life in 1809, he and his principles dominated
						the government for sixteen years longer. Madison and Monroe, whom the newspapers of the
						time facetiously called James the First and James the Second, were his loyal personal
						and political friends and when in need of advice, they invariably consulted the "Oracle
						of Monticello."
					James Madison, another member of a substantial Virginia family and an intimate personal
						and political friend of Thomas Jefferson, succeeded the
						latter in the presidential office in 1809. Frail in body but powerful in mind, he had
						served his State and Nation well before becoming Secretary of State in the Jefferson
						administration. He was graduated at 21 from Princeton University—then the College
						of New Jersey—in 1772 and had returned to his Alma Mater for an additional year of
						work in Hebrew. He was at this time of a distinctly religious and philosophical turn of
						mind and it is probable that he seriously considered the ministry as his life work. If
						so, he was soon diverted and applied himself industriously to the study of law. He never
						wholly lost his interest in religious matters, however, and always set his face firmly
						against that bigotry and intolerance in religion which were all too prevalent in
						Virginia in his time.
					After having had at least one unsuccessful love affair, this prim little man who always
						appeared prematurely old, was married at the age of 43 to Mrs. Dolly Payne Todd, a
						beautiful and vivacious widow of 26. The name of "Dolly Madison" is well known in the
						social annals of the White House. She was apparently a woman of ability, grace and rare
						charm. She exercised a tactful social leadership in
						Washington and her "extraordinary beauty" and "rare accomplishments" are frequently
						referred to by the writers of the time. About the time of his marriage, Madison
						established his beautiful country home, "Montpelier," and there and in Washington, the
						home life of the Madisons was an ideal one for more than 40 years.
					Madison, like Jefferson, was destined to give his best efforts to the public service
						rather than to the practice of law. This service was sound and substantial rather than
						brilliant or picturesque. It was an eminently constructive service. As a matter of fact,
						we may look upon Washington, Madison, Hamilton, Jefferson, Franklin and John Marshall as
						the six vital men in the formative period of the Republic. They were the founders of the
						American Union. In this group, Madison was "the modest scholar and the profound
						thinker." "Unlike his friend Jefferson, who could hardly speak in public, Madison was
						one of the most formidable parliamentary debaters that ever lived. Without a particle of
						eloquence or what is called personal magnetism, with a dry style and a mild, unimpassioned delivery, he would nevertheless have been a
						fair match for Charles Fox or the younger Pitt. His vast knowledge was always at
						command, his ideas were always clear and his grasp of the situation perfect and al-
						though he was so modest that the color came and went upon his cheeks as upon a young
						girl's, he was never flurried or thrown off his guard. He represented pure intelligence,
						which is doubtless one reason why his popular fame has not been equal to his merit.
						There is nothing especially picturesque about pure intelligence, but it is a great power
							nevertheless."1
					Madison will be remembered as a scholar rather than as an executive. No man of his time
						prepared himself so thoroughly and so conscientiously for a public career. While a
						student at Princeton, although frail in body, he gave himself unreservedly to his task,
						and one of his biographers tells us that he succeeded in carrying the studies of the
						junior and senior classes in a single year. In his knowledge of history, political
						science, and constitutional law, he was without a peer among the men of his day; and no
						one of them, with the single exception of 1 John Fiske, Essays, Volume I, pp.
							204-5.
						 Hamilton deserves to be mentioned with him in this
						respect. As a thinker he was both profound and constructive, and is seen at his best in
						the Constitutional Convention. He was the most useful man in that illustrious body, and
						has been deservedly called the '"Father of the Constitution."
					In addition to taking a leading part in the constructive work of the Constitutional
						Convention, Madison became the historiographer of that body. He felt that the convention
						was a notable body of men and was destined to do a work of unusual importance. He had
						also encountered great difficulty in ascertaining the fundamental facts about federal
						government, ancient and modern. He accordingly made up his mind to take copious notes on
						the proceedings and debates of the Convention and thus preserve for posterity a faithful
						record of the acts and sentiments of that great body.
					He preëmpted a front seat in the convention hall and according to his own testimony was
						present every day and almost every hour while the Convention was in session. He took
						rapid notes, making use of a system of shorthand of his own invention, and often sat up
						far into the night making a clean copy of his manuscript.
						These papers, usually called Madison's Journal, are the most important
						and the only complete source of information in regard to the making of the Constitution
						of the United States. Inasmuch as certain parts of the contents of this Journal were not particularly complimentary to individual members of the
						Convention, Madison decided that it should not be published while any of the members of
						that body were living. Strangely enough, Madison, himself, though not the youngest, was
						the last of that memorable body of men to pass away. He died at Montpelier in 1836 at
						the age of 85 and the Journal was published soon after by the
						government of the United States.
					In political information and in ethical ideals his standards were equally high. On one
						occasion, when a candidate for the Virginia legislature, he came to the conclusion, as
						he said, that more chaste methods of electioneering should be resorted to. He therefore
						refused to make a personal canvass or to purchase drinkables to assuage the election
						thirst. This startling and intolerable innovation was promptly rebuked by his decisive
						defeat.
					
					 In debate Madison was quiet and conciliatory but yet effective. He never addressed any
						audience, large or small, friendly or unfriendly, without fear and trembling. He was
						described as "modest, quiet, and reserved in manner, small in stature, neat and refined,
						courteous and amiable." In temperament he was quite unlike Gouverneur Morris, who said
						that he never experienced the slightest nervousness or concern when facing any audience
						whatever. He also differed from his old companion in arms, James Wilson of Pennsylvania,
						who apparently took a rare delight in smashing down the defenses of his adversary in
						debate with his sledge-hammer blows. He also differed from Hamilton, whose arguments
						were of the overmastering, dominating, and compelling kind. And yet in some instances he
						was more effective than any of his three great colleagues. There is an old adage which
						says: "Mediocrity which forbears will accomplish more than a genius which irritates."
						Madison was far above mediocrity and knew how and when to forbear.
					As an executive, however, Madison does not shine so brilliantly. The hand that wields
							the pen with effect is not always the best fitted to
						grasp the helm. The temperament of the cloister recoils at sight of the rough-and-tumble
						methods of party strife. Madison was too sensitive and deferential, not positive and
						decisive enough, to make an efficient executive. As a result, he was pushed aside by men
						more determined than himself. The one great event of his administration was the War of
						1812, and Madison, as a man of peace, held out against this contest as long as he could.
						He was finally compelled to yield, much against his better judgment, by Clay, Calhoun,
						and the other "War Hawks" of the time. Great Britain richly deserved a declaration of
						war—and France, too, for that matter—but the wise and conservative opinion
						in the United States in 1812 was in favor of a pacific policy with further attempts at
						arbitration. If James Madison had had the disposition of a Grover Cleveland the War of
						1812 would probably never have taken place.
					James Monroe, a member of another substantial Virginia family, succeeded to the
						presidency in 1817. He was a native of Westmoreland county and was descended from a
						Scotch Cavalier family which came to Virginia about 1650.
						His particular locality was rich in famous men and came to be known as "The Athens of
						Virginia." It was the home of Washington and Madison as well as of Richard Henry Lee and
						of his famous cousin, "Light Horse Harry" Lee, the father of Robert E. Lee, Confederate
						commander in the Civil War. The old home of the Marshall family was also in the same
						locality.
					As a stripling, James Monroe entered William and Mary College, said to have been at
						that time the richest institution of learning in North America. It had an annual income
						of $20,000. He could not have remained in college very long, however, as at the outbreak
						of the Revolution "two tall and gallant youths" cast their books aside and fought
						valiantly for the independence of the colonies. One of these youths was James Monroe and
						the other, his classmate, John Marshall. Monroe was 18 years of age when he entered the
						service and Marshall about 20.
					 Monroe was always an intimate personal friend of Thomas Jefferson and this fact was a
						great assistance to him in his political advancement. He was a lawyer but did not seem
							to have any great interest in his profession. Public life
						attracted him. In fact he gave so much time to the public service that he had little
						opportunity for the serious or consecutive practice of law.
					Monroe was seven years younger than Madison and unlike him in almost every respect. He
						was six feet tall, broad, square-shouldered and impressive in personal appearance. He
						was a man of rugged physique, raw-boned and by no means handsome. He was, however, a man
						of great physical strength and superb endurance. At one time during the War of 1812,
						Monroe had charge for a short period of three cabinet departments—State, Treasury
						and War—and for a period of ten days and nights he did not go to bed or remove his
						clothing and "was in the saddle the greater part of the time."
					Although there was a quiet dignity about his bearing, Monroe did not impress his
						contemporaries as a particularly cultured man. He was awkward and diffident and without
						grace either in manner or appearance. In his old age he was especially modest and
						sensitive and was scrupulously careful to conduct himself in a manner befitting the
						dignity of an ex-President of the United States. He thought
						it unseemly, for example, for a man who had held this high office to connect himself in
						any way with party politics. Although modest and sensitive, however, he was free from
						that vanity and envy which constituted the besetting sin of John Adams.
					Like Jefferson, Monroe was never particularly effective as a public speaker. He was
						also a labored writer and his state papers are much inferior to those of Madison. Aside
						from the matter of expression, Monroe was not as logical or level-headed as his
						predecessor and these characteristics were, of course, reflected in his writings. He was
						fond of history and although he wrote with difficulty he aspired to authorship. He wrote
						a small book which he called A Comparison of the American Republic with the
							Republics of Greece and Rome. When the manuscript was completed he submitted it
						to Judge Hay and asked for his estimate of it. The estimate came in the laconic
						sentence, "I think your time could have been better employed."
					Monroe was nearly 59 years of age when he became President and had been prominent in
						public life for many years prior to that time. He was not a
						member of the Constitutional Convention of 1787 but was chosen in the following year, at
						the age of 30, to sit in the convention of his own State which ratified the Constitution
						after a memorable struggle. Monroe opposed the ratification very strenuously. He was a
						States-rights man and opposed on principle to centralization in government. He, with
						George Mason and Patrick Henry contended in the Convention with Madison, John Marshall
						and Edmund Randolph. He was also at a later time a United States Senator, an Envoy to
						France, and Governor of his native State, as well as a prominent member of President
						Madison's cabinet. In 1803, he had assisted Robert R. Livingston in the purchase of
						Louisiana and prior to that time had served as minister to France. His mission was a
						failure and he wrote a book of five hundred pages in a futile effort to justify his
						conduct. It was clearly a case of protesting too much.
					Monroe lived in retirement in Virginia and New York for six years after leaving the
						presidential office and died on the 4th of July, 1831. On April 28, 1858, the one
						hundredth anniversary of his birth, his ashes were carried under escort to Richmond, Virginia, and there reinterred in Hollywood Cemetery.
					The estimate of Dr. Daniel C. Gilman, the first President of Johns Hopkins University
						and also one of the biographers of Monroe, is interesting in this connection. "On
						reviewing all that I have been able to read in print and in manuscript, and all I have
						been able to gather from the writings of others," he remarks, "the conclusion is forced
						on me that Monroe is not adequately appreciated by his countrymen. He has certainly been
						insufficiently known, because no collection has been made of his numerous memoirs,
						letters, dispatches, and messages. He has suffered also by comparison with four or five
						illustrious men, his seniors in years and his superiors in genius, who were chiefly
						instrumental in establishing this government on its firm basis. He was not the equal of
						Washington in prudence, of Marshall in wisdom, of Hamilton in constructive power, of
						Jefferson in genius for politics, of Madison in persistent ability to think out an idea
						and to persuade others of its importance. He was in early life enthusiastic to rashness,
						he was a devoted adherent of partisan views, he was
						sometimes despondent and sometimes irascible; but as he grew older his judgment was
						disciplined, his self-control became secure, his patriotism overbalanced the
						considerations of party. Political opponents rarely assailed the purity of his motives
						or the honesty of his conduct. He was a very good civil service reformer, firmly set
						against appointments to office for any unworthy reason. He was never exposed to the
						charge of nepotism, and in the choice of officers to be appointed he carefully avoided
						the recognition of family and friendly ties. His hands were never stained with pelf. He
						grew poor in the public service, because he neglected his private affairs and incurred
						large outlays in the discharge of official duties under circumstances which demanded
						liberal expenditure. He was extremely reticent as to his religious sentiments, at least
						in all that he wrote. Allusions to his belief are rarely if ever to be met with in his
						correspondence. He was a faithful husband, father, master, neighbor, friend. He was
						industrious, serious, temperate, domestic, affectionate. He carried with him to the end
						of his life the good-will and respect both of his seniors and juniors. Many of those who
							 worked with him, besides those already quoted, have left
						on record their appreciation of his abilities and their esteem for his character."1
					Monroe, then, although a man of somewhat less magnitude than his predecessor, was,
						nevertheless, a useful and successful President. While Minister to France he had been
						recalled by President Washington on account of an ostentatious and silly display of
						affection for that country; and he has always been given too much credit for his modest
						part in the so-called "Monroe Doctrine"; yet no man did so much as he to bring about
						that period commonly known as "The Era of Good Feeling." Monroe was a man of impressive
						appearance and soldierly bearing, and when he made his two extended trips, the one
						through the North and the other through the South, delivering cordial and sensible
						addresses wherever he went, he did a great deal towards breaking down that spirit of
						sectionalism and party strife which was then growing strong in the United States.
					Monroe's successor is one of the lofty peaks in the presidential range. John Quincy
						Adams was probably the greatest man in the presidential1James Monroe, pp
							213-150.
						 office from Washington to Lincoln with the single
						exception of Thomas Jefferson. He was not the most influential man of the
						period—Andrew Jackson was that; neither was he the most capable and successful
						President; but, all things considered, John Quincy Adams must be accounted, I think, the
						greatest man to occupy the President's chair for half a century.
					John Quincy Adams was a son of the "blunt and irascible old John Adams," the second
						President of the United States. It would be difficult to find a family in American
						history which has rendered a more effective or a more disinterested service to the
						country than the Adams family of Massachusetts—and the greatest of this family was
						John Quincy. He was born in the year following the repeal of the Stamp Act—in the
						midst of the Revolutionary agitation; and at the age of seven, in company with his
						mother, he climbed a high hill near his home to listen to the guns at Bunker Hill and to
						gaze in awe upon the flames of Charlestown. At nine he upbraided himself in a letter
						because he had just entered the third volume of Smollett, when, according to his
						schedule he should have been half through the book. "My
						thoughts," he said, in a deprecatory way, "have apparently been running after birds'
						eggs, play and trifles."
					Adams had the best of opportunities for culture and intellectual development. He
						traveled with his father in Europe, studied at the University of Leyden and was later
						graduated from Harvard College. He soon became distinguished as a lawyer and statesman
						and at one time or another he filled with distinction almost all of the great offices of
						the United States. While Secretary of State under Monroe he became the principal author
						and most ardent advocate of what later became known as the "Monroe Doctrine." He was an
						excellent writer in both prose and verse and held a professorship in Harvard College for
						three years. He was a "knight without fear and without reproach," and it is safe to say
						that no man in America, in 1825, possessed in an equal degree the characteristics of an
						ideal President; and yet his administration was, in some respects, a disappointment,
						and, for reasons which we cannot now analyze, he was denied the indorsement of a second
						term.
					In discussing the passing of Adams from the presidency,
						Dr. Von Holst remarks rather gloomily: "In the person of Adams, the last statesman who
						was to occupy it for a long time left the White House." He was 61 years of age at the
						time and was what John T. Morse calls "that melancholy product of the American
						governmental system—an ex-President." Adams, however, declined to be a "melancholy
						product" and continued to serve his country for a score of years. Soon after retiring
						from the presidency, Adams was elected a member of the House of Representatives from
						Massachusetts. He held this position until the time of his death, seventeen years later,
						and became known as "The Old Man Eloquent," and as an able and fearless champion of the
						"right of petition." He was stricken at his post of duty while attending a session of
						the House on February 21, 1848. A bronze star embedded in the floor of the Capitol
						building marks the exact spot. There, as his biographer in the American
							Statesmen Series has remarked, "the stern old fighter lay dying almost on the
						very field of so many battles and in the very tracks in which he had so often stood
						erect and unconquerable, taking and dealing so many mighty blows." Two days later he passed away, one of the most cruelly maligned men in
						American history.
					During these seventeen years in the House of Representatives Adams exhibited a
						remarkable fidelity to duty. He was usually present at his post, he was tireless in
						committee work and always voted in an intelligent and well-informed manner. It was his
						marvelous power of public speaking, however, that was his distinguishing trait in those
						years. "Living in the age of oratory," says John T. Morse, "he earned the name of 'the
						old man eloquent.' Yet he was not an orator in the sense in which Webster, Clay, and
						Calhoun were orators. He was not a rhetorician; he had neither grace of manner nor a
						fine presence, neither an imposing delivery, nor even pleasing tones. On the contrary,
						he was exceptionally lacking in all these qualities. He was short, rotund, and bald;
						about the time when he entered Congress, complaints became frequent in his Diary of weak
						and inflamed eyes, and soon these organs became so rheumy that the water would trickle
						down his cheeks; a shaking of the hand grew upon him to such an extent that in time he
						had to use artificial assistance to steady it for writing; his voice was high, shrill, liable to break, piercing enough to make itself
						heard, but not agreeable. This hardly seems the picture of an orator; nor was it to any
						charm of elocution that he owed his influence, but rather to the fact that men soon
						learned that what he said was always well worth hearing. ... When invective fell around
						him in showers, he screamed back his retaliation with untiring rapidity and marvellous
						dexterity of aim. No odds could appal him. With his back set firm against a solid moral
						principle, it was his joy to strike out at a multitude of foes. They lost their heads as
						well as their tempers, but in the extremest moments of excitement and anger Mr. Adams's
						brain seemed to work with machine-like coolness and accuracy. With flushed face,
						streaming eyes, animated gesticulation, and cracking voice, he always retained perfect
						mastery of all his intellectual faculties. He thus became a terrible antagonist, whom
						all feared, yet fearing could not refrain from attacking, so bitterly and incessantly
						did he choose to exert his wonderful power of exasperation. Few men could throw an
						opponent into wild blind fury with such speed and certainty as he could; and he does not
						conceal the malicious gratification which such feats
						brought to him. A leader of such fighting capacity, so courageous, with such a magazine
						of experience and information, and with a character so irreproachable, could have won
						brilliant victories in public life at the head of even a small band of devoted
						followers. But Mr. Adams never had and apparently never wanted followers. Other
						prominent public men were brought not only into collision but into comparison with their
						contemporaries. But Mr. Adams's individuality was so strong that he can be compared with
						no one. It was not an individuality of genius nor to any remarkable extent of mental
						qualities; but rather an individuality of character. To this fact is probably to be
						attributed his peculiar solitariness."1
					John Fiske also refers to Adams's skill and power in debate and to the vituperative
						character of his vocabulary. "As a parliamentary debater," says Fiske, "he has had few
						if any superiors; in knowledge and dexterity there was no one in the house who could be
						compared with him; he was always master of himself, even at the white heat of anger to
						which he often1 John Quincy Adams, pp. 228-232.
						rose; he was terrible in invective, matchless at repartee,
						and insensible to fear. A singlehanded fight against all slave-holders in the house was
						something upon which he was always ready to enter, and he usually came off with the last
						word. Though the vituperative vocabulary of the English language seemed inadequate to
						express the hatred and loathing with which the pro-slavery party regarded him, though he
						was more than once threatened with assassination, nevertheless his dauntless bearing and
						boundless resources compelled the respect of his bitterest opponents, and members from
						the south, with true chivalry, sometimes confessed it."
					Adams certainly had an "ever-ready and merciless tongue." He referred to John Randolph
						of Roanoke on one occasion as a "frequenter of gin lane and beer alley," and on another
						occasion he referred to the falsehoods which "the skunks of party slander ... have been
						squirting around the House of Representatives, thence to issue and perfume the
						atmosphere of the Union." Adams was honest, blunt, and tactless and could stick pins
						into people in a very matter-of-fact and unimpassioned way.
						He was always ready to hew to the line and let the chips fall where they would. It did
						not accord, for example, with his idea of the fitness of things when Harvard College
						proposed to confer the degree of Doctor of Laws upon Andrew Jackson. He expressed
						himself pointedly at the time and took pleasure in referring to the "hero of New
						Orleans" as "Doctor Andrew Jackson." "As myself an affectionate child of our Alma
						Mater," he said, "I would not be present to witness her disgrace in conferring the
						highest literary honors upon a barbarian who could not write a sentence of grammar and
						hardly could spell his own name." Adams was regular in church attendance and read three
						chapters of the Bible every day but he was never "plenteous in mercy" and many of his
						phrases were strikingly unbiblical. The soft answer, for example, had no place in his
						rhetorical arsenal. In spite of his barbed tongue, however, he won, through his honesty
						and ability, the respect of his contemporaries. A striking evidence of this fact was
						seen on one occasion in the House of Representatives. He had been stricken by paralysis
						in the streets of Boston in November, 1846. Three months later, he returned to Washington. When he entered the House, the members, many of
						whom had felt the sting of his whip-lash rhetoric, stood up in their places as a mark of
						respect while the doughty old warrior was being escorted to his seat by a committee
						appointed for that purpose.
					Personally, Adams was not a particularly attractive or magnetic man. In this respect he
						resembled somewhat the late Benjamin Harrison, who, in the political slang of the day,
						was frequently termed "a pretty cold proposition." He was intellectual rather than
						emotional, and his temperament was far removed from that of the popular idol. Being "a
						Puritan of the sternest and most uncompromising sort, who seemed to take a grim
						enjoyment in the performance of duty, especially when disagreeable," he had a splendid
						"talent for making enemies." No man ever cared less for popular favor, if that favor had
						to be gained by truckling to the whims of the multitude. When Edward Everett asked him
						on one occasion if he intended to do nothing at all to bring about his election to the
						presidency of the United States, his simple reply was: "Absolutely nothing." At close
						range such simple honesty as this often appears to be
						stupidity, or at best a species of stubbornness coupled with a haughty reserve. You
						cannot make a reigning popular favorite out of an honest and outspoken statesman. He
						must bide his time. So it was with Adams. In these latter days, however, John Quincy
						Adams is coming into his own. He is coming to be recognized as one of the greatest of
						American statesmen. In ability and acquirements, in honesty of purpose, broad humanity
						and high ideals, John Quincy Adams was not excelled by any public man of his day; and I
						say this fully conscious of the fact that the day of Adams was also the day of Andrew
						Jackson, of Henry Clay, of John C. Calhoun, and of Daniel Webster.
				
				
				
				
				
				
					CHAPTER II FROM JACKSON TO LINCOLN
					BETWEEN Jackson and Lincoln the presidential curve reaches its
						lowest point. This period of twenty-four years constitutes a long, barren, and
						monotonous stretch in the course of which the presidency came perilously near to the
						"slough of despond." During this period, says Viscount Bryce, "from Jackson to the
						outbreak of the Civil War in 1861, the Presidents were either mere politicians, such as
						Van Buren, Polk, or Buchanan, or else successful soldiers, such as Harrison or Taylor,
						whom their party found useful as figure-heads. They were intellectual pigmies beside the
						real leaders of that generation—Clay, Calhoun, and Webster." "Jackson himself," he
						adds, "was something of both politician and soldier, a strong character, but a narrow
						and uncultivated intellect." 
					This judgment, while true in the main, is, like most generalizations, too sweeping and
							indiscriminating to be wholly just. Andrew Jackson, for
						instance, was vastly more than a soldier-politician. He was the most influential man in
						American politics from the time of Jefferson to the opening of the Civil War. He
						dominated public affairs during his own and Van Buren's administration, and after his
						retirement to the "Hermitage," King Andrew, as the papers of the time facetiously called
						him, continued his benevolent reign. He was, as Viscount Bryce says, particularly in the
						early part of his career, a narrow and uncultivated intellect. But this is only one side
						of the shield. He was a man of impulse, but his impulses were, for the most part, sound.
						He was also a strong leader of tremendous motive power and bold initiative, absolutely
						honest and with the courage of his convictions. Andrew Jackson presented a figure little
						less than heroic when on Jefferson's birthday in 1830, he arose in his place at the
						banqueting table and, in an atmosphere surcharged with the spirit of nullification,
						pronounced his famous toast: "The Federal Union: It must be Preserved." Unconsciously he
						was paving the way for the great work of Lincoln a generation later. If he had done
						nothing else his existence would have been abundantly
						justified.
					Jackson was a good representative of that rugged and rigid Scotch-Irish element which
						came to the uplands of the Carolinas about the middle of the eighteenth century. His
						father, also named Andrew, came to this locality from the northern coast of Ireland in
						1765, bringing with him his wife and two sons. The young Andrew, who afterwards became
						President of the United States, was born in 1767, a few days after his father's death.
						Even at the present time there is no agreement as to the exact location of his
						birth-place. It was near the boundary line separating the two Carolinas and some contend
						that it was in South Carolina and others in North. Jackson, himself, however, in at
						least three official documents speaks of himself as a native of South Carolina.
					The schools of his locality were poor and scarce. Even if they had been better and more
						numerous it is not at all likely that the young Andrew would have profited much by them.
						He had none of the traits or tendencies of the scholar. He was not book-minded. He was a
						youth of unbounded and restless activity. He had a fiery
						and ungovernable—certainly an ungoverned—temper and soon drifted into
						military service where his impetuosity was his characteristic trait. From the army to
						politics was an easy and obvious transition in those days and Jackson soon became a
						popular idol in civil as well as military life. At various intervals in his career he
						also gave some attention to saddlery, to farming, and to law. At 14, he was left alone
						in the world to fight his way up. At 17, he abandoned the saddlery trade and took up the
						study of law. He never became much of a lawyer, however; in the first place he never
						applied himself seriously to the study of his profession and in the second place he was
						not legally or judicially minded. His talents lay in another direction. He was, however,
						a successful farmer and plantation master and was kind and considerate to those under
						his control. His financial credit was good and a note bearing his name was always
						accepted.
					In politics Jackson was impulsive rather than judicial. Jefferson said to Webster in
						1824, that he had often while presiding over the Senate seen Jackson get up in his place
						to speak and "then choke with rage so that he could not
						utter a word." Any proposition which did not commend itself to him as honest and
						straight-forward in every respect was thoroughly repellent. His instincts were
						fundamentally honest, but his judgment was often at fault. He never vacillated, however,
						and the sobriquet of "Old Hickory," which he earned in the War of 1812, was
						characteristic of his rigidity in civil as well as in military life.
					This kind of temperament does not commend itself as an ideal one for a man in a high
						executive position, and, as a matter of fact, it was far from being so. Jackson himself
						realized as much at one time. When his friends first broached the matter of the
						presidency, he scouted the idea. "Do they suppose," said he with some warmth, "that I am
						such a d—d fool as to think myself fit for President of the United States? No,
						sir. I know what I am fit for. I can command a body of men in a rough way but I am not
						fit to be President." Clay was of the same opinion. In speaking of Jackson he remarked
						significantly that a military hero was not a fit person to be President of the United
						States. This is perhaps the only point upon which Jackson and Clay agreed and the
							agreement, even in this case, was quite
						unintentional.
					Another element of weakness in the make-up of Jackson was his inclination to believe
						everything of a derogatory character that anyone might say of Adams. The worst was none
						too bad. Politicians said that Adams had made a corrupt bargain with Clay in 1824
						involving the presidency and the secretaryship of State; they said that Adams was a
						monarchist and an aristocrat; that he had written a poem reflecting on the character of
						Jefferson; that his wife was an English woman; that he had made a subscription to a
						turn-pike road and had refused to pay it; that he was wealthy; that he was in debt; that
						he was a chronic office-seeker; that he had purchased a billiard table for the White
						House with public money—these and a score of similar charges found lodgment in
						Jackson's receptive mind. But notwithstanding these regrettable defects of character,
						Jackson rendered a splendid service to the American Republic.
					Jackson stands as the personification of a new era in the history of the United States.
						The colonial days had passed and the national period was in reality just beginning. The
							older statesmen of the constitutional period had now, for
						the most part, passed off the scene. Washington, Hamilton, John Adams, and Jefferson
						were dead and Madison and Monroe were in retirement. A new set of statesmen had arisen
						to take their places and the "Spoils System" in politics was being introduced. A new era
						in industry was also just dawning. This was the time of the beginning of the railroad,
						of ocean navigation, of the screw-propeller, of the McCormick harvester, of the use of
						anthracite coal and friction matches,—the day of the modern daily paper, of the
						founding of great cities, of immigration, and of the Abolitionists and other reformers.
						It was a day of crudeness, coarseness, and even of vulgarity; but at the same time a day
						of the most intense energy. In letters also the new republic was finding itself. Irving,
						Cooper and Bryant were laying the foundations of American literature. Last, and in some
						respects most important of all, the democracy of the West was about to triumph over the
						aristocracy of the East. Up to this time every President had been the product of the
						culture and refinement of the Atlantic seaboard, and the new West, rising like a giant
						in  the Mississippi and Ohio valleys, had never been
						recognized. Then as now there were many wise men in the East who were not tall enough to
						look over the Alleghany Mountains and recognize the possibilities of the great western
						country. In the election of Jackson the common people felt that they had come into their
						own. Jackson, more than any other man, represented the ideals and ambitions of his time.
						He was as crude and as intense as his age. He himself was a western pioneer. He entered
						a law office at eighteen and while attempting to scrape up a speaking acquaintance with
						Blackstone and other legal worthies, with only meager success it must be admitted, he
						was described as "the most roaring, rollicking, game-cocking, horseracing, card-playing,
						mischievous fellow" that the locality had ever known,—which was really saying a
						good deal, as wild oats was a staple crop in Kentucky and Tennessee in those days. He
						fought in the Revolution at fourteen and won his spurs against the British at New
						Orleans in 1815. He was quick and handy with horse-whip and pistol, had killed his man
						in a duel, and in one instance had pitched his adversary downstairs in a tavern brawl
						and carried a bullet for twenty years as a reminder of the
						episode. The constitutional convention of Tennessee of 1796 had certain rules of order
						which impress one as being significant. One of them was this: "He that digresseth from
						the subject to fall on the person of any member shall be suppressed by the speaker."
						Inasmuch as Jackson was a member of that convention the rule might not have been
						entirely superfluous. In spite of his impulsiveness and crudeness, however, he was a
						strong and forceful personality, compelling either loyal friendship or bitter enmity on
						the part of those with whom he came in contact. When he was inaugurated the so-called
						plain people came from all parts of the United States to witness the triumph of their
						great apostle. They were not a silk-stockinged set. A writer of the time has put it on
						record that they overturned bowls of punch and smashed glasses and climbed with muddy
						cow-hide boots upon finely upholstered furniture in an effort to obtain a glimpse of
						their hero. Webster wrote as follows: "To-day we have had the inauguration. A monstrous
						crowd of people is in the city. I never saw anything like it before. People have come
						five hundred  miles to see General Jackson and they really
						seem to think that the country is rescued from some frightful danger." The fears which
						the people expressed were, for the most part, unfounded; and yet the coming of Jackson
						with all his faults and crudities was beneficial to the country. Lincoln used to say
						that the government needs an occasional bath of the people. Jackson administered such a
						bath in 1829.
					The sweeping statement of Viscount Bryce also does scant justice to Martin Van Buren.
						Van Buren was undoubtedly not one of the great Presidents; neither should he be classed,
						however, with the "mediocrities" or "accidents" of the White House. He was, as one of
						his biographers has remarked, "a first-class second-class man." He came to the
						presidency severely handicapped. Jackson and his opponents had sown the wind, and Van
						Buren was compelled to reap the whirlwind; and, to continue the breezy metaphor, the
						"political hurricane" of the campaign of 1840 swept him from the presidential chair. In
						a word, Van Buren was held responsible for the panic of 1837 and kindred evils. "The
						country made up its mind that he was a small, selfish, incapable politician,  and it judged him accordingly." It did him an injustice.
						Many of the catch phrases of the day carried cruel and unjust criticisms. The partisan
						press and hostile campaign speakers heralded him as "little Van," "the American
						Talleyrand," "the little Magician," and "the Machiavelli of American politics."
					Van Buren is another man who fought his way up from the ranks of the poor and humble to
						the highest official position in the United States. His father was a Dutch farmer and
						tavern keeper living in a very modest way at Kinderhook, New York. His early education
						was meager in quantity and very inferior in quality, but he had a good mind and a
						serious purpose and availed himself of every means of self-education. As a result he
						became an eminent lawyer, a convincing debater, and a writer of correct and effective
						English. He began the study of law at 14 and later became the law partner and intimate
						personal friend of Benjamin F. Butler in Albany. As a political leader and organizer he
						had no superior among the men of his time; in fact he had reduced political organization
						to a fine art. He lacked the tremendous driving power of Jackson but he infinitely excelled his gruff chief in tact and in the
						ability to deal with men. His domestic life was happy and above reproach. His one great
						sorrow was the death of his wife when he was 37 years of age. Loyal to her memory, he
						never re-married. When nearly four score he died near the place of his birth on his
						country estate which he had named "Lindenwald." It was here that Irving some years
						before had put the finishing touches on his Knickerbocker History of New
							York. Even when the shadows began to lengthen, Van Buren's political and personal
						enemies were relentless in their persecution and he suffered merciless flagellations at
						the hands of those who hated the whole Jacksonian regime. Much of this
						was undeserved and even now many historical writers are still inclined to look upon Van
						Buren as a scheming, wire-pulling politician. As a matter of fact he was a very capable
						man and would have given the country a good administration under more favorable
						conditions. He was an eminent lawyer, a skillful politician, a refined, polite, and
						cultured gentleman, and a man of regular, correct, and temperate habits. Mr. Edward M.
						Shepard's estimate is probably too high. In his life of Van
						Buren he says: "If to the highest rank of American presidents be assigned Washington,
						and if after him in it come Jefferson and perhaps Lincoln ... the second rank would seem
						to include Madison, the younger Adams, and Van Buren." I am confident that most critics
						would strike out the word "perhaps" in connection with Lincoln and that not all would
						place Van Buren on a level with Madison and John Quincy Adams; yet he was undoubtedly
						above the average of American Presidents both in ability and in character.
					Between Van Buren and Lincoln seven men occupied the presidential chair. Two of these
						—Harrison and Taylor—owed their preferment to military fame rather than to
						statesmanlike qualities. Harrison was somewhat experienced in public civil life, but
						Taylor had been in the army since early manhood and had had no training in governmental
						affairs. Although nominated by the Whigs, he was in no sense a party man. In fact he had
						never voted. He had no definite views upon the great questions of the day and was not a
						little embarrassed when compelled to get some on short notice. Lowell made the most of
						the ludicrous situation in his
						Bigelow Papers. He represented General Taylor as evading inquiries in
						regard to his views concerning slavery, the Mexican War, the Wilmot Proviso and other
						live questions, but as pronouncing with great definiteness and emphasis upon the Bank
						and other dead issues. The candidate is made to conclude as follows:
							
								"Ez to my princerples, I glory
								In hevin' nothin' o' the sort,
								I ain't a Wig, I ain't a Tory,
								I'm just a candidate, in short."
							
						
					
					A well known English literary critic recently remarked: "You are as likely to be born
						with a silk hat on your head as with a good (literary) taste implanted in your breast."
						It is equally true that no man is likely to be born with all of the qualifications of a
						great executive. A man can scarcely hope to be a successful President of the United
						States without a reasonable amount of theoretical knowledge and practical experience in
						governmental affairs.
					It has been truly said of General Harrison that "he was not a great man, but he lived
						in a great time, and had been a leader in great things." Harrison was a member of an
						illustrious Virginia family and was born two years before
						the Battles of Lexington and Concord. His father was Benjamin Harrison who had long been
						a leader in his native state. He had joined hands with Patrick Henry and James Monroe in
						1788 in opposing the ratification of the Federal Constitution but gave it his
						enthusiastic support immediately upon its adoption.
					The young William Henry was a student at Hampden-Sidney College and entered upon the
						study of medicine. His professional education was apparently cut short as we find him,
						at the age of 18, fighting Indians on the frontier. From that time on for many years,
						his career was intimately connected with Indian affairs. At times he appeared as their
						master upon the battlefield and again as the defender and protector of their rights and
						interests. He protected them from the ravages of smallpox and whisky and in many other
						ways strove to better their condition. His most famous victory over the red man was won
						in the Battle of Tippecanoe fought seven miles north of the present site of LaFayette,
						Indiana. After serving with distinction in the War of 1812, in the United States Senate,
						and as foreign minister, he retired to the seclusion of his country home at North Bend, near Cincinnati, Ohio. Here he served his
						neighbors in a modest way as "clerk of the county court and president of the county
						agricultural society." It was from this rustic retreat that he was called to the
						presidency of of the United States. His previous career would not seem to have
						constituted a very good preparation for the presidency and he might not have been
						elected to that position if some one had not discovered that the east end of his house
						at North Bend was constructed of logs. Instantly the name of this man, with the flavor
						of the back-woods about it, became connected with log cabins, coon skins, and hard cider
						and the people began to sing the praises of "Tippecanoe and Tyler too." All this
						appealed powerfully to the imagination of the period and "old Tip" received 234
						electoral votes to 60 for Martin Van Buren. He died of pneumonia—some say that he
						was worried to death by office seekers—on April 4, 1841, just one month after his
						inauguration. His term of service was so short that he really made no record in the
						presidential office. He was, however, a man of sound patriotism and rugged honesty, if
						not of statesman-like qualities. His impulses were sound and courageous. When his end was near his mind began to wander and he exclaimed, as if
						addressing his successor in office: "Sir, I wish you to understand the principles of
						this government. I desire them carried out. I ask nothing more." John Tyler, the
						Vice-President, then served as chief magistrate of the nation for a period of three
						years and eleven months. 
					Tyler was a Democrat elected on the Whig ticket. He had been nominated with General
						Harrison in order to attract those Democrats who were out of harmony with the Van Buren
						administration. When Tyler became President, the Whig members of Congress soon found
						that he had a mind and a will of his own. Immediately after the Whig victory, General
						Harrison felt that Mr. Clay was presuming too much and said to him coldly, "You seem to
						forget, sir, that it is I who am President." Tyler's general attitude might have been
						similarly expressed. His whole administration was a running fight with Congress in the
						course of which he vetoed important measures relating to the bank, the tariff and
						internal improvements. On one occasion (September 9, 1842), he vetoed the Fiscal
						Corporation Bill after having apparently promised the
						leaders in Congress that he would approve the measure when it reached his desk. This
						seemed to the Congressional leaders "a deliberate act of bad faith." When Tyler was a
						small boy in Virginia he attended a school taught by one John McMurdo, who was careful
						not to spoil the child by sparing the rod. Tyler remarked at a later time that "it was a
						wonder he did not whip all the sense out of his scholars." Clay and some of the other
						public men of the time would probably agree that he did so quite effectively in at least
						one conspicuous instance.
					Tyler was born in Virginia in the second year of Washington's first administration and
						was graduated from William and Mary College at the age of 17. While in college he became
						interested in history, poetry and music and became, like Jefferson, a skillful
						violinist. Two years after his graduation, he was admitted to the bar and was soon after
						called into public life. He served in the state legislature, the national House of
						Representatives and in the United States Senate. He also served as Governor of Virginia
						and Chancellor of William and Mary College. He was a man of no mean oratorical ability and was always a factor to be reckoned with while in
						Congress. He opposed the Bank and condemned the "gag rule" against which John Quincy
						Adams spoke so effectively. Referring to the Bank as "the original sin against the
						Constitution," he exclaimed, "Shall I permit this serpent, however bright its scales or
						erect its mien, to exist by and through my vote?" He had his own ideas on all public
						issues. They were not necessarily reasonable or right but they were honest and his own.
						He also had the courage of his convictions. On one occasion in the Senate of the United
						States, he cast a solitary negative vote and on another, while President, he spurned a
						compromise, denouncing it as "a contemptible subterfuge, behind which he would not
						skulk." Clay persistently underrated him. "Tyler dares not resist," said he. "I'll drive
						him before me," to which Tyler, with his bristles all set, retorted, "I pray you to
						believe that my back is to the wall, and that, while I shall deplore the assaults, I
						shall, if practicable, beat back the assailants;" and it must be admitted that he did
						put up a stiff fight on many occasions. One should not be deceived by appearances,
						however. In spite of these facts, President Tyler was not a
						constructive statesman with penetrating insight or breadth of vision. Mere stubbornness
						sometimes masks under the guise of strength. Tyler also lacked those indefinable
						personal qualities which are necessary to true leadership.
					In some respects, Tyler's political preferment was greater than his talents would seem
						to justify. He had none of that self-abnegation which comes to the humble-minded. He was
						exceedingly proud of the social standing of his family and considered himself quite
						infallible in his political opinions. He was correspondingly intolerant of the views of
						others and yet he did have a certain suavity of manner which was very attractive. "He
						was a man of talents and a gentleman, but not a great man."
					After retiring from the presidency in March, 1845, Tyler took up his abode on an estate
						beautifully situated on the bank of the James river and to which he gave the redolent
						name of "Sherwood Forest." There he lived a quiet but influential life until the time of
						his death seventeen years later. He took a lively interest in all national affairs and
						was a leader in the secession movement, although by no means radical  in his views. His ashes now repose in Hollywood Cemetery,
						Richmond, a few yards from the grave of James Monroe.
					It is interesting to note at this point that Tyler was the first vice-president to
						succeed to the presidency. On the whole it must be confessed that the arrangement for
						the election and succession of the vice-president, prescribed in the twelfth amendment
						to the Constitution, has not been entirely successful. It was thought by the framers of
						the document that the vice-president would be one of the leading men of the nation and
						also the "heir apparent" to the throne. This was true in the cases of John Adams and
						Jefferson but the custom soon lapsed. For 24 years after Jefferson's term of office, it
						was the custom in the Republican party to nominate the Secretary of State for the
						presidency but since Jackson's time there has been no fixed rule in this regard. The
						twelfth amendment, adopted in 1801, does not appear to have given satisfactory results.
						Gouverneur Morris opposed it at the time on the ground that a man expressly elected to
						that "ambiguous position" would not usually be of the first rank. He preferred the older
						method whereby an Elector voted for two men without
						specifying which one he preferred for President. The fears of Morris were well founded.
						The vice-presidency is too often used to conciliate a "minority faction" or to comply
						with certain geographical considerations. The natural fitness of the candidate for the
						possible duties of the office are not considered.
					James K. Polk was certainly the least conspicuous man who had ever been put forth by
						any political party for the presidency of the United States. He was a most uninspiring
						candidate whose views were politically "discreet" and not too well known. He was,
						therefore, in the language of politics, an "available" candidate. He was a "dark horse"
						and his nomination was the result of a stampede on the part of those who for one reason
						or another were opposed to the other and more prominent candidates. "Polk, Great God,
						what a nomination!" was the remark of Governor Letcher of Kentucky when he heard that
						the Democratic National Convention of 1844 had passed by Tyler, Van Buren and Calhoun
						and had nominated James K. Polk of Tennessee.
					Polk was born in North Carolina in 1795 and was the oldest
						of a family of ten children. His ancestors came from Ireland and the name was originally
						Pollock, not Polk. His father was a farmer and surveyor and appears to have lived in
						prosperous and comfortable circumstances. The young Polk was well educated, having been
						graduated from the University of North Carolina at the age of 23. He made a good record
						in college—a remarkable one in some respects. The year after his graduation he
						took up the study of law, was admitted to the bar in due time and was building up a very
						successful practice when called into public life. Although born in North Carolina, his
						active career was identified with the State of Tennessee, where the family had taken up
						its abode when the young James was 11 years of age. He was elected to Congress and was
						Speaker of the House of Representatives at the time that John Quincy Adams was leading
						the fight for the right of petition. He was later Governor of Tennessee and was twice
						defeated for the same position. In the course of his political campaigns he became an
						effective public speaker and was often referred to by admiring friends as "the Napoleon
						of the stump." Looking back upon Polk's career one almost
						suspects that there might have been a slight tinge of sarcasm lurking in this
						appellation. Polk did have his good qualities, however. He was thoroughly honest and
						independent. His motives were pure and his ideals high. His will was of iron and his
						purpose definitely fixed. He was intensely religious and his private life was above
						reproach. He was, however, so enamored of the wisdom and righteousness of his own views
						that he had small capacity for harmonious action with other men. As a result of this
						weakness, his administration was characterized by an unusual amount of factional
						controversy.
					Polk's nomination was more or less accidental—the result of a fortuitous
						combination of circumstances. His election, however, was not so. It was largely due to
						the fact that he made a candid and straightforward pronouncement upon the leading issue
						of the day—the annexation of Texas—with no attempt at evasion or "beating
						'round the bush." In April of 1844, he declared himself in favor of "the immediate
						re-annexation of Texas to the government and territory of the United States." And he
						stood by his guns consistently throughout the campaign. His
						opponent, Henry Clay, on the other hand, a far abler man, by the way, declared against
						immediate annexation. He then proceeded to explain this declaration and later explained
						his explanation to such an extent that the people became confused and really did not
						know just where Clay stood. Polk reaped the reward of his candor and consistency.
					In looking back over Polk's administration of four years—like Hayes, Polk
						announced when he accepted the nomination that he would not be a candidate for a second
						term—it is extremely difficult to account for these extravagant words from the pen
						of George Bancroft, the noted historian: "His (Polk's) administration, viewed from the
						standpoint of results, was perhaps the greatest in our national history, certainly one
						of the greatest." It is well to remember in this connection that these words were
						written forty years after the close of Polk's administration and by one who served in
						that administration as Secretary of the Navy. It may be that an honest friendship for
						the President warped the judgment of the historian. Polk was not a great or a brilliant
						man and the results of his administration are not
						outstanding. On the contrary, he was rather mediocre as a public man, narrow in his
						vision, and intensely partisan. The results of the administration accorded nicely with
						the talents of its chief.
					Zachary Taylor, like Andrew Jackson and William Henry Harrison, owed his election to
						military glory rather than to prominence in civil life. In fact Taylor was elected to
						the presidency of the United States upon the same basis that the giant guard or the
						dodging half-back is sometimes elected to the presidency of his class in college.
					Taylor was a member of an old but not a particularly illustrious Virginia family. His
						early days were spent on a farm in the back country where opportunities for education
						and general culture were very meager. There was, however, abundant opportunity for
						military service and in due course of time this hardy lad of the frontier developed into
						an effective Indian fighter and later into the "Old Rough and Ready" of the Mexican War.
						When nominated for the presidency by the Whig party in 1848 over Clay, Webster and other
						leaders, his views were "unknown and undeveloped." He had no political ambitions or aspirations but wished only, when he retired from the army, to
						spend the remainder of his days on "a stock farm in the hills." No platform was adopted
						by the nominating convention. None seemed necessary. As one of his supporters remarked:
						"General Taylor was able and honest and could be trusted to do the right thing." He did
						do the right thing according to his best lights. He was a man of rugged honesty, high
						character and strong personality and these qualities combined with his courage and
						common sense might have given the country a strong administration of public affairs, had
						his life been spared. He died in the White House on July 9, 1850, after a service of
						only sixteen months. He was buried near Louisville, Kentucky, where a fine granite
						shaft, 37 feet high, marks his resting place. He was succeeded by the Vice-President,
						Millard Fillmore, who thus became the second "accidental President" of the United
						States.
					Fillmore was a native of New York and, like Garfield and Lincoln, fought his way up
						from grinding poverty to the chief magistracy of the Republic. His early surroundings
						and opportunities were not promising. He attended the
						back-woods school for three months each winter and thus had, as one of his biographers
						has remarked, abundant opportunity for "forgetting during the summer what he acquired in
						the winter." His home life was also uninspiring in most respects. His father's library
						is said to have consisted of two books—"the Bible and a collection of hymns." "He
						never saw a copy of Shakespeare, or Robinson Crusoe,
						a history of the United States, or even a map of his own country, until he was 19 years
						of age!" As an apprentice to a trade at 14, he had a sad and unpleasant experience which
						caused him to abandon this project for the study of law. His entry upon his chosen
						profession was considered auspicious. He won his first case and with it a fee of four
						dollars. He was later elected to Congress where, as chairman of the Ways and Means
						Committee, he had a valuable legislative experience. In this respect, he had a great
						advantage over his immediate predecessor in office, and he differed from him in many
						other respects as well. He was notably less independent. Clay and other Whig leaders
						found him more pliant and more inclined "to listen to
						reason," as they put it. He did not approach Clay, or Webster, or Seward in ability, but
						as a President he was safe, honest and worthy.
					Second-rate men were now becoming fashionable in the presidency of the United States.
						Franklin Pierce was elected to that office in preference to many other men of superior
						ability. Pierce, a Democrat and strict constructionist, was a native of New Hampshire
						where his father was a farmer. He entered Bowdoin College in 1820 and was graduated four
						years later, standing third in his class. Among his college mates were the poet
						Longfellow, and his intimate personal friend and biographer, Nathaniel Hawthorne. After
						his graduation he studied law and became a successful practitioner. He sat in both
						houses of Congress but finally resigned his seat in the Senate to resume the practice of
						his profession. The Mexican War, however, called him into the public service again and
						he distinguished himself by conspicuous personal bravery. In the convention of 1852,
						Pierce was, like his predecessor, a "dark horse." His name did not appear until the
						forty-ninth ballot. He was nominated on the fifty-second over James Buchanan, Stephen
							 A. Douglas and William L. Marcy—all abler men than
						he, but not so "available" from the political standpoint. Pierce's "exquisite urbanity"
						aided him in the campaign as well as in the convention.
					One of Pierce's biographers, Mr. Bainbridge Wadleigh sums up his characteristics as
						follows: "As an advocate he was never surpassed, if ever equalled, at the New Hampshire
						bar. He had the external advantages of an orator, a handsome, expressive face, an
						elegant figure, graceful and impressive gesticulation, and a clear, musical voice, which
						kindled the blood of his hearers like the notes of a trumpet, or melted them to tears by
						his pathos. His manner had a courtesy that sprang from the kindness of his heart and
						contributed much to his political and professional success. His perceptions were keen,
						and his mind seized at once the vital points of a case, while his ready command of
						language enabled him to present them to an audience so clearly that they could not be
						misunderstood. He had an intuitive knowledge of human nature, and the numerous
						illustrations that he drew from the daily lives of his strong-minded auditors made his
						speeches doubly effective. He was not a diligent student,
						nor a reader of many books, yet the keenness of his intellect and his natural capacity
						for reasoning often enabled him, with but little preparation, to argue successfully
						intricate questions of law."
					The Southern Democrats favored Pierce for a second term but the more moderate men did
						not; and James Buchanan, Minister to England, was nominated and elected in 1856.
					Buchanan, a Pennsylvania man, was well known in public life for many years before he
						became President of the United States. After being graduated from Dickinson College in
						1809, he studied law but soon the allurements of public life drew him away from his
						profession. A Jacksonian in politics, he sat in the House of Representatives and in the
						Senate and also served as foreign minister and cabinet member. In all of these
						positions, he rendered an honest and acceptable service to the country. While not as
						decisive and as out-spoken as many of his predecessors, he did, at times, express his
						views in no uncertain way. In 1852, he opposed the candidacy of General Scott for the
						presidential nomination. "Beware," he said, "of elevating to the highest civil trust the
						commander of your victorious armies." He was, however,
						careful to differentiate between the professional soldier and the soldier who came to
						the defense of his country in the time of crisis.
					The closing years of Buchanan's life were spent in a quiet but influential retirement
						at his country home, "Wheatland," about a mile from Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
					While personally attractive and fairly successful as a diplomat, Buchanan did not prove
						a capable executive in the time of national stress. Dr. Von Holst's view is, however,
						undoubtedly extreme. He speaks of the timidity, the moral cowardice, the dilatoriness,
						the indecision and the lack of statesmanlike qualities of the President and refers to
						him in connection with the events of 1859 as "a weak-kneed old man." George Ticknor
						Curtis, the noted constitutional historian, errs, but not so grievously, on the other
						side, when he says, "No man was ever treated with greater injustice than he was during
						the last seven years of his life by a large part of the public. Men said he was a
						secessionist; he was a traitor; he had given away the authority of the government; he
						had been weak and vacillating; he had shut his eyes when men about him, the very ministers of his cabinet, were plotting the destruction of the
						union; he was old and timid; he might have crushed an incipient rebellion, and he
						encouraged it. But he bore all this with patience and dignity, forbearing to say
						anything against the new administration, and confident that posterity would acknowledge
						that he had done his duty ... Mr. Buchanan's loyalty to the constitution of the United
						States was unbounded. He was not a man of brilliant genius, nor did he ever do any one
						thing to make his name illustrious and immortal, as Webster did when he defended the
						constitution against the heresy of nullification. But in the course of a long, useful,
						and consistent life, filled with the exercise of talents of a fine order and uniform
						ability, he had made the constitution of his country the object of his deepest
						affection, the constant guide of all his public acts."
					To sum up, then, two of the nine Presidents of this period—Jackson and Van
						Buren—have been generally underestimated; two—Harrison and Taylor—were
						military heroes; two others—Tyler and Fillmore—were accidents, somewhat
						distressing but not fatal in character, and the remaining
						three—Polk, Pierce, and Buchanan—were, it must be admitted, rather
						commonplace men for the high office of the presidency. Polk was an obscure man, a
						compromise candidate, and the strongest point in his favor was his advocacy of the
						annexation of Texas. Pierce was also a "dark horse" and his nomination quite took away
						the breath of Stephen A. Douglas. "Alas!" he remarked, "from this time forth no private
						citizen is safe." Buchanan was the strongest and best known of the three and has been, I
						think, blamed over much for his seeming apathy during the closing months of his
						administration.
				
				
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IIIFROM LINCOLN TO WILSON
					THE Presidents of the United States may, roughly speaking, be
						divided into three classes, considering Jackson and Lincoln as dividing lines. The men
						of greatest ability fall in the first class—from Washington to Jackson; those of
						the least ability in the second class—from Jackson to Lincoln; while the
						Presidents since Lincoln occupy an intermediate position.
					Lincoln was, by common consent, the ablest of the Presidents with the possible
						exception of the first, and some would not even except Washington. Upon this point of
						contention, however, let us not tarry. Such comparisons at best are rather ungracious,
						and in this particular case are of little avail on account of the marked dissimilarity
						between the two men. Lincoln was unlike other men. He has been called "the most
						individual man who ever lived." Comparisons with other public men are thus made difficult. It is well nigh futile to philosophize about the
						personality of Lincoln, and this for two reasons which at first thought seem
						paradoxical. In the first place little can be added to the world's knowledge of his
						career, and in the second place he is as yet an unsolved mystery. His history has been
						studied with greater zeal than the history of any other American. In 1909, his centenary
						year, every scrap of available information touching upon his career or personality was
						eagerly sought after and carefully scrutinized. And yet we do not fully know and
						understand the man. At the close of a learned and discriminating biography Mr. John T.
						Morse remarks: "But Lincoln stands apart in striking solitude,—an enigma to all
						men ... Let us be content with this fact. Let us take him simply as Abraham Lincoln,
						singular and solitary, as we all see that he was; let us be thankful if we can make a
						niche big enough for him among the world's heroes, without worrying ourselves about the
						proportion which it may bear to other niches; and there let him remain forever, lonely,
						as in his strange lifetime, impressive, mysterious, unmeasured, and unsolved."
					
					It is, of course, too early to venture anything but a tentative opinion in regard to
						the Presidents since Lincoln's time; and yet there are some facts which seem quite
						definitely settled and a few personal characteristics which appear to be
						unmistakable.
					Andrew Johnson seems from this distance to have been a narrow-minded, stubborn man of
						strong personality. He was the natural product of his heredity and environment.
						Apprenticed to a tailor at ten, he was taught the alphabet by his fellow workmen and
						later learned to read almost unaided. His wife taught him to write but he was never able
						to use the pen with ease until he had been in Congress. As the "Mechanic Governor" of
						Tennessee he showed a natural sympathy with the working classes, and as a member of the
						United States Senate he assailed secession and the South with a virulence almost
						unparalleled. It was his unionism and his geographical location rather than his ability
						or achievements which placed him on the Republican ticket with Lincoln in 1864. He had
						always been a Democrat and in his letter of acceptance he disclaimed any departure from
						Democratic principles; but accepted the nomination, as he
						put it, upon the ground of "the higher duty of first preserving the government."
					General Grant was the most famous man to occupy the presidential office in this latter
						period. Although distinctively a military man, he was by no means unskilled in
						statecraft. In fact he was remarkably successful as an executive considering his lack of
						preparation for the presidency. Up to the time of his nomination in 1868 he had never
						taken any active part in politics and had voted for only one presidential
						candidate—James Buchanan—a Democrat. In early life he had had some
						affiliation with the Whigs, but had never been a pronounced party man; in fact several
						prominent Democratic leaders had interviewed him in regard to accepting the Democratic
						nomination for the presidency only a short time before he was nominated by the
						Republicans. The decisiveness of his military temperament made him an efficient
						executive in some respects, but his unbounded faith in his friends and in the integrity
						of his appointees led to several governmental scandals during his administration.
						Absolutely honest himself, he was slow to suspect others,
						and in more than one instance he shut the door with a bang and locked it after the horse
						had been stolen. As General Horace Porter once remarked: "Wherever he placed trust he
						reposed rare confidence, until it was shaken by actual proofs of betrayal. This
						characteristic of his nature led him at times to be imposed upon by those who were not
						worthy of the faith he placed in them; but persons that once lost his confidence never
						regained it."
					When thoroughly aroused he could lash the money changers from the temple. In 1875, for
						example, it became evident that several government officials were putting their hands
						into the funds collected from the manufacture of whisky. President Grant issued a
						vigorous order for their arrest and prosecution, closing the document with the famous
						words: "Let no guilty man escape." Some of the offenders were powerful in politics and
						had influential friends but these facts did not save them from the prison bars. Grant
						purged the revenue service and, as is usually the case, was grossly maligned as his
						reward. These misrepresentations, however, did not lessen his popularity either at home
						or abroad. Only a short time after this episode he started
						upon his tour of the world and was accorded such receptions as have never been given to
						any other man. His wife went with him on his journey and later remarked that "having
						learned a lesson from her predecessor, Penelope, she accompanied her Ulysses in his
						wanderings around the world."
					Rutherford B. Hayes is not usually thought of as one of the great Presidents and
						perhaps should not be so considered; and yet I have a feeling that in the future his
						name will be written much larger than it is at the present time. Conditions have not
						been favorable for an early recognition of his excellencies. Blaine, and not he, was the
						leading candidate for the Republican nomination in 1876, and the dispute over his
						election has hung like a dark cloud over his administration. Hayes was, nevertheless,
						one of the best of men and an able man in addition. With him a new era in American
						history begins—the period of the United Nation. The country had just emerged from
						the dark shadows of the Civil War, and the so-called "Southern Question" had appeared
						for the last time in American politics in the election of 1876. An era of peace and good
						will was beginning and Hayes was just the man to take the
						lead. Being of a conciliatory disposition, he appointed David M. Key, a Democrat and
						former Confederate soldier, to a place in his cabinet, and one of the first acts of his
						administration was to recall the troops from the Southern States. He was also a tower of
						strength to the cause of civil service reform and his pithy epigram, "he serves his
						party best who serves his country best," has been quoted thousands of times by civil
						service reformers.
					Although a man of conciliatory temperament he also had the courage of his convictions.
						This fact was evident when he removed certain powerful men in his own party because they
						were using their offices to manage and control political affairs rather than in the
						service of the people. He also sent a clear and blunt statement of the facts" to the
						Senate in a special message. Chester A. Arthur was one of the officials thus
						removed.
					In another instance and at an earlier date he gave evidence of his patriotism and high
						sense of duty. During the war he was nominated by one of the Ohio districts for a seat
						in the House of Representatives. He was in the field at the  time and one of his friends suggested that he get a leave of absence from the army
						for the purpose of making a canvass of the district. His reply was this: "Your
						suggestion about getting a furlough to take the stump was certainly made without
						reflection. An officer fit for duty, who at this crisis would abandon his post to
						electioneer for a seat in Congress, ought to be scalped." He remained at his post of
						duty and was elected by a majority of twenty-four hundred.
					What President Hayes was is really more important than what he did.
						The late Carl Schurz was one of many to testify to his moral worth. Mr. Schurz was
						Secretary of the Interior in Mr. Hayes's cabinet and consequently knew him in an
						intimate way. "The uprightness of his character," said Mr. Schurz, "and the exquisite
						purity of his life, public as well as domestic, exercised a conspicuously wholesome
						influence, not only upon the personnel of the governmental machinery,
						but also upon the social atmosphere of the national capital while he occupied the White
						House." In the words of a noted preacher, "purity has been the crowning quality of all
						the epoch-making men." It may be too much to claim that
						Rutherford B. Hayes was an epoch-making man, but that he was pure in thought and act no
						one can deny.
					James A. Garfield, the successor of Mr. Hayes in the presidential office, was a man of
						fine character and good ability whose career was full of promise at the time of his
						tragic death. Mr. Garfield's successor was Chester A. Arthur, a machine politician,
						whose nomination for the vice-presidency had been made, not upon the basis of merit, but
						as a concession to the Grant adherents and the New York "stalwarts." There are many
						points of similarity between the circumstances attending the nomination of Mr. Arthur in
						1880 and those under which the vice-presidential candidate was placed upon the
						Republican ticket in the summer of 1908. Notwithstanding his somewhat objectionable
						record as a politician, however, Mr. Arthur gave the country a conservative and
						dignified, if not an aggressive, administration.
					Grover Cleveland, the only Democratic President since the Civil War, aside from
						President Wilson, was, I think, the strongest and most useful executive from Lincoln to
						Roosevelt. Mr. Cleveland was not a man of fine fiber;
						neither did he possess that delicate sense of the proprieties and ethical niceties which
						characterized Mr. Hayes and Mr. Garfield; yet he was a man of sound judgment, bold
						initiative, splendid courage, and robust honesty. His administrations were vigorous,
						wholesome, and business-like and his policies were far-sighted. In the last few years
						public opinion in this country has been drifting, slowly but surely, towards the policy
						outlined in his famous tariff message of December, 1887.
					Benjamin Harrison was President of the United States for only one term and no event of
						unusual importance is connected with his administration; yet for intellectual power Mr.
						Harrison was probably not surpassed by any American President. The ninety-four impromptu
						speeches which he made during the campaign of 1888 and the one hundred and forty short
						addresses delivered in thirty-one days during his trip to the Pacific Coast and return
						are little less than marvels of their kind. The average extempore
						campaign speech in the United States is not an impressive utterance. It usually begins
						with a compliment, sometimes forced, to the people or the locality where the speech is being delivered. Then follows, perhaps, a mild
						pleasantry, more or less obvious in character. Next in order will come a few
						conventional phrases and high sounding platitudes. A fair modicum of buncombe, not a
						little claptrap, and perhaps a dash of demagogery, prejudice, and partisanship are added
						to make an appearance of strength and to arouse enthusiasm. The orator tries to take
						himself seriously and so do his auditors, but none of us in our saner moments are
						profoundly impressed when we are told that our geese are all swans. What a striking
						contrast we find in Benjamin Harrison's short addresses! One marvels that the terse and
						polished sentences so heavily freighted with meaning and so appropriate to the audience
						and to the occasion could have been turned off with no apparent effort or
						preparation.
					A man of Mr. Harrison's supreme intellectuality must of necessity be a man of positive
						convictions. This fact cropped out in the early part of his presidency. There were those
						who freely predicted that Mr. Blaine, the Secretary of State, and not he, would be the
						real President of the United States. This delusion was soon dispelled. The lapse of time
						will, in all probability, cause us to revise our estimates
						of the acts and capabilities of our recent Presidents and I have a feeling that when
						Benjamin Harrison is viewed in his true historical perspective he will appear much
						larger and more important than he now does.
					I do not feel, however, that the same will be true of President McKinley. His tragic
						and untimely death and more particularly his loveable personality and the purity of his
						life have given his contemporaries an exaggerated notion of his strength and importance
						as a public man. A sensitive man of excessive amiability and shrinking conservatism can
						hardly be expected to dominate affairs with the bold initiative of a true leader. He
						naturally becomes a follower rather than a leader, an interpreter rather than a creator
						of public opinion.
					Now what shall we say of the successor to President McKinley? That man would be indeed
						rash who would attempt at this time to pass anything like a final judgment upon the
						ability and services of Theodore Roosevelt; but that he is a man of unusual ability and
						one who has rendered a valuable service to the country, few, I think, will deny. Some,
						no doubt, would like to see in the chief executive a
						greater degree of presidential dignity, with less of impulse and more of reason. Many
						regret that in the organization of Ananias Clubs Mr. Roosevelt has put so much emphasis
						upon Touchstone's advanced degrees of the lie. They would prefer the "retort courteous,"
						or the "quip modest," or even the "reply churlish," to the "countercheck quarrelsome,"
						the "lie circumstantial," or the "lie direct." In spite of all this, however, it is safe
						to say that Mr. Roosevelt is a man of tremendous motive power, physical as well as
						mental, and that he has stirred up the dry bones of conventionality in a most refreshing
						if not a dignified way; and I should not be surprised if the historian of the future
						were to set Mr. Roosevelt down as the chief leader in the present civic renaissance and
						the first apostle in what President Angell once termed "The Age of the Quickened
						Conscience."
					It is likewise too early to look upon President Taft's administration as a matter of
						history. Judged superficially, it would seem to have been a partial failure; but judged
						from the standpoint of actual achievement it was by no
						means so. Mr. Taft suffered, as Van Buren did, in comparison with his predecessor, and
						he was not always happy in the choice of his advisors. He was also, I have no doubt,
						often compelled by the demands of practical politics to do things which must have been
						exceedingly distasteful to him. In so far as personal character and high ideals are
						concerned, Mr. Taft will compare favorably with any of his predecessors in the
						presidential office. The eight votes in the Electoral College do not represent the
						estimate which the American people have put upon the character and services of President
						Taft.
					President Wilson is a type of man comparatively new to American politics. The type is
						familiar enough in Europe but not in the United States. This type is a power in the
						governments of Europe and if President Wilson's two administrations should meet with the
						general approval of the American people—and I can see no reason now why they
						should not do so—the results will be far-reaching. It cannot be denied that a
						large part of the people are tired of the old-school politician and his "practical"
						methods and are ready to welcome a new order of things.
						Some have been disappointed with the results of the first administration. Possibly they
						may have expected too much. At any rate it should be remembered that a President is far
						more independent and free to act in his second administration than in his first. The
						outcome will be awaited eagerly and, I trust, sympathetically by patriotic
						Americans.
					
				
				
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IVTHE ETHICS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
					
					ONE of the chapters of Lord Bryce's famous work, The
							American Commonwealth, is entitled, "Why Great men are not chosen Presidents."
						Near the close of the chapter he gives this interesting summary: "We may now answer the
						question from which we started. Great men are not chosen Presidents, firstly, because
						great men are rare in politics; secondly, because the method of choice does not bring
						them to the top; thirdly, because they are not, in quiet times, absolutely needed."
					Such a statement as this should furnish food for reflection. While I am not prepared to
						admit, without qualification, that "Great men are not chosen Presidents," we must all
						acknowledge, I think, that there is a measure of truth in the comment of Lord Bryce.
						While with certain exceptions the Presidents of the United States have been great men
						and truly representative of the nation, it must seem
						regrettable to every student of our history that we have not been able to utilize in the
						presidential office the superior abilities of such men as Hamilton, Webster, Clay,
						Calhoun, Blaine, Seward and Sumner. As a general rule, we may say that the presidential
						office has been filled by our great but not always by our greatest men. There are
						reasons for this state of things. It is undoubtedly true that business and the
						professions, rather than politics, have attracted the best talent of the nation and will
						continue to do so until a public career is made more attractive by being made more
						continuous and dignified. It is also true, as Lord Bryce says, that great men "are not
						in quiet times, absolutely needed." It is quite probable also that some of our statesmen
						of superior ability, such as Clay and Sumner, would have been only moderately successful
						as chief executives. It is quite possible that a man of less ability but of different
						temperament might have given the country a more satisfactory administration of public
						affairs.
					Lord Bryce also refers to "the method of choice." This is the part of his comment to
						which I wish to give a more extended consideration. It
						seems to me that the best talent of the nation will not be attracted to the presidential
						office while the methods of the political campaign remain as they now are. A glance at
						the ethics of the presidential campaign in the United States is necessary to an adequate
						comprehension of this phase of the subject.
					The student of current politics might easily become pessimistic and cynical as he
						considers the methods which are employed in the average American political campaign. No
						stone, apparently, is left unturned, and the end justifies the means. The speeches are
						bombastic and sensational; personalities are freely indulged in; principles are often
						lost sight of; and the cry of fraud is raised after every election. Money is freely
						used; some of it legitimately, more of it corruptly, and the partisan press is
						vindictive, mendacious, and unprincipled. Political morals seem to be at a low ebb, and
						if the observer did not employ the comparative method he would undoubtedly be justified
						in drawing some very serious conclusions. The comparative method, however, has its
						comforts. It is only by comparing the present with the past that progress can be noted;
						and when we do this we see that the present deplorable
						campaign methods were preceded by others of a still more deplorable character. In other
						words, while the methods of recent political campaigns are far from ideal, they are, for
						the most part, a vast improvement upon those of almost any other epoch in our
						history.
					We reverence the Fathers of the Republic; we defer to their opinions and ascribe to
						them an almost superhuman wisdom; we look upon their utterances as little less than
						inspired, and yet we find that they fared badly in the political discussions of their
						time. Neither their great service nor their high character sufficed to shield them from
						infamous calumnies. They exemplified Shakespeare's famous statement "Be thou as chaste
						as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny."
					We are accustomed now to look upon the members of the Constitutional Convention of 1787
						as high-minded men of spotless integrity; and so they were, almost without exception.
						Yet many of these men, in fact, some of the ablest and best of them, were relentlessly
						vilified. James Wilson, a man of lofty motives and exceptional force of character and
						one of the greatest of the constructive statesmen of the
						Convention, was referred to repeatedly by the papers of the time as "Jimmy," "James, the
						Caledonian," and the "lieutenant-general of the myrmidons of power." Robert Morris was
						"Bobby, the Cofferer," who wanted a new form of government because he was hopelessly in
						debt to the old; Gouverneur Morris was "Gouvero, the cunning man," and Thomas Mifflin
						was "Tommy," the quartermaster-general, who supported the new Constitution because he
						was $400,000 short in his accounts. Even Benjamin Franklin did not escape the vile
						attacks, and he was virtually called a dotard because of his advanced years. In fact no
						man escaped, however patriotic his conduct or disinterested his motives.
					Any one who imagines that Washington was universally met with garlands of flowers and
						pæans of praise, as at the Trenton bridge in 1789, will be rudely shocked by a perusal
						of the newspapers of the period. After serving his country, without money and without
						price, in the French and Indian War and the Revolution, as president of the
						Constitutional Convention and as President of the United States for two terms, he retired on the 4th of March 1797 to his home at Mount
						Vernon. He had delivered his "Farewell Address," which fell like a benediction upon the
						American people. It would seem that "peace on earth and good will to men" might well be
						the chosen motto of the time, yet the Republican press was most vindictive in some
						instances. On the 6th of March, two days after his retirement, the Aurora published the
						following comment: " 'Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace,' was the pious
						ejaculation of a pious man who beheld a flood of happiness rushing in upon mankind. If
						ever there was a time that would license the reiteration of the ejaculation, that time
						has now arrived, for the man who is the source of all the misfortunes of our country is
						this day reduced to a level with his fellow citizens, and is no longer possessed of
						power to multiply evils upon the United States. If ever there was a period for
						rejoicing, this is the moment. Every heart, in unison with the freedom and happiness of
						the people, ought to beat high with exultation that the name of Washington ceases from
						this day to give currency to political insults, and to legalize corruption. A new era is
						now opening upon us, an era which promises much to the
						people, for public measures must now stand upon their merits, and nefarious projects can
						no longer be supported by a name. When a retrospect has been taken of the Washington
						administration for eight years, it is a subject of the greatest astonishment that a
						single individual should have cankered the principles of republicanism in an enlightened
						people just emerged from the gulf of despotism, and should have carried his designs
						against the public liberty so far as to have put in jeopardy its very existence. Such,
						however, are the facts, and with these staring us in the face, this day ought to be a
						jubilee in the United States." Such was the parting shot which the Aurora fired at the "Father of his Country!" It may not always be true that
						republics are ungrateful, but it is certainly true that the partisan press in a republic
						is without either gratitude or generosity.
					We usually place Lincoln next to Washington in our national thinking. But he did not
						escape the despicable campaign methods of his time. He was abused in a coarse, brutal,
						and personal way. He was deserted by many in his hour of need who should have been his
							friends. Thaddeus Stevens, leader of the House of
						Representatives, declared in 1864 that Arnold of Illinois was the only political friend
						that the President had in the lower house at that time. In the course of the same year
						the Freemont Club expressed its disgust at the "imbecile and vacillating" policy of
						President Lincoln. Wendell Phillips denominated Lincoln's administration "a civil and
						military failure." During the campaign of 1860 Phillips had been still more abusive.
						Referring to the obscurity of Lincoln at the time he asked with some indignation: "Who
						is this huckster in politics?" "Who is this county court advocate?" Phillips also
						published an article entitled "Abraham Lincoln, the Slave Hound of Illinois," the first
						sentence of which ran as follows: "We gibbet a Northern Hound to-day, side by side with
						the infamous Mason of Virginia." Lincoln's personal appearance was ridiculed in the
						papers of the day. He was stupid, vulgar, and repulsive. He was the ape, the gorilla,
						and by some it was said that African blood flowed in his veins. He was a coarse, uncouth
						clod-head, his grammar was perverted, and his rhetoric outrageous; notwithstanding the
						fact that we now look upon his addresses and state papers
						as models of terse and forceful English.
					In 1866 Mr. Edward A. Pollard, editor of the Richmond Examiner, said
						that "the new President (had) brought with him the buffoonery and habits of a demagogue
						of the backwoods." "We have already stated," he said, "that Mr. Lincoln was not elected
						President of the United States for any commanding fame, or for any known merit as a
						statesman. His panegyrists, although they could not assert for him a guiding intellect
						or profound scholarship, claimed for him some homely and substantial virtues. It was
						said that he was transparently honest. But his honesty was rather that facile
						disposition that readily took impressions from whatever was urged upon it. It was said
						that he was excessively amiable. But his amiability was animal. It is small merit to
						have a Falstaffian humor in one's blood. Abraham Lincoln was neither kind nor cruel, in
						the proper sense of these words, because he was destitute of the higher order of
						sensibilities.
					"His appearance corresponded to his rough and uncultivated mind. His figure was tall
						and gaunt looking; his shoulders were inclined forward;
						his arms of unusual length; and his gait astride, rapid, and shuffling. The savage wits
						in the Southern newspapers had no other name for him than the 'Illinois Ape.'"
					It is needless, however, to multiply instances of this character. We are inclined, and
						with good reason, I think, to look upon Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson, Hamilton, John
						Adams, and John Quincy Adams as six of the greatest and best men in the history of the
						public life of the United States; and yet if we were to trust the testimony of the
						contemporary partisan press and of opposition campaign orators we would be forced to
						regard them as the most consummate villains of their time.
					In making an optimistic comparison between the campaign methods of this and other days
						I do not mean to say that statements equally extreme and vituperative are not now
						sometimes made in the heat of a political campaign; but I am confident that they are
						neither so frequent nor so typical as they once were. Neither are they so effective in
						political contests. The people of to-day must be reached more largely through the
						intellect than through the emotions. They are not so easily deceived. They have outlived, to a certain extent, their gregarious
						impulses and are not so easily herded or stampeded as they were a few generations ago.
						In fact, abuse, personalities, and bombast are likely to have a boomerang effect. When a
						prominent candidate for political office said some things, on the eve of a presidential
						election, about his opponent's sympathy for corporations and the use of corporate funds
						in the campaign, and was not able to prove his assertions, he must have been painfully
						aware of the fact that he had made a tactical blunder, to say the least. As soon as the
						fact is fully appreciated by our political leaders that these methods are really not
						effective, they will be wholly discarded.
					Another improvement in the ethics of the campaign may be noted in the attitude which
						public men assume towards their political opponents. There has been, I am sure, in
						recent years, more of dignity and courtesy on the part of public men in their dealings
						with political rivals. "The blunt and irascible old John Adams," as his biographer in
						the American Statesmen Series calls him, was a really great man in
						many respects, and Thomas Jefferson was a greater man, but
						the petty jealousies, bickerings, and animosities which existed between the two men
						redound to the glory of neither. Alexander Hamilton, next to Washington, was the most
						useful man of the constitutional period, and the most brilliant American of his time
						without any exception; yet he and Jefferson, as the latter expressed it, faced each
						other "like two fighting cocks in a pit." Neither was entirely candid, much less
						magnanimous. They must divide the dishonor.
					Hamilton and John Adams were the two leading men in the Federalist party in 1800. Adams
						was the choice of his party for a second presidential term, and Hamilton, of course, was
						expected to support him. This he did outwardly, but under cover his attitude was
						treacherously hostile. He wrote a letter to be distributed, as he said, "in a judicious
						manner," on the "Public Conduct and Character of John Adams, Esq., President of the
						United States." In the course of this letter of fifty printed pages he attempted to show
						that Adams was entirely unfitted for the office which he held. He did not possess the
						talents necessary for the administration of the government. He had defects of personal character which unfitted him for the presidency.
						He was an eccentric, vain, and jealous man, much given to foibles and crotchets; his
						French policy was pernicious; he had an ungovernable temper and gave way to paroxysms of
						anger, and had apparently none of those qualifications which a President of the United
						States should possess; yet, said Hamilton in conclusion, I am advising my
							friends to vote for him nevertheless. The letter was intended for secret
						distribution but a copy of it fell into the hands of Aaron Burr and was spread far and
						wide. The disclosure of this treachery apparently did not perceptibly lessen the
						prestige of Hamilton, yet I am confident that a similar piece of intrigue in our own day
						would relegate its author to political oblivion.
					 Again when Jefferson came to Washington City to assume his presidential duties on the
						4th of March, 1801, he did not find his predecessor on hand to give him the customary
						greeting. His predecessor, John Adams, was petty enough to go out of town under cover of
						the night rather than extend his hand to his successful rival. Such a thing could hardly
						happen at the present time. Political contentions were
						probably never more bitter in the United States than during the presidency of John
						Adams. "Men who had been intimate all their lives," wrote Jefferson, "cross the street
						to avoid meeting and turn their heads another way lest they should be obliged to touch
						their hats."
					The "era of good feeling," too, is very largely a misnomer. It is commonly said that
						during the interval between the downfall of the Federalist party in the administration
						of Jefferson and the organization of the Whig party in the time of Jackson, the utmost
						of good feeling prevailed. It is true, of course, that party lines had vanished for the
						time being and party contentions had ceased, but a contest over principles was succeeded
						by a contest over individuals, and personal animosities were rife in this so-called "era
						of good feeling." The election of 1824 has been called the "scrub race" for the
						presidency. There were seventeen candidates and four of them—Jackson, Adams,
						Crawford, and Clay—received votes in the Electoral College. The issues were men rather than principles, and a deplorable scramble
						resulted in the course of which Mr. Jackson expressed his opinion of Mr. Adams and Mr. Clay in terms more forcible than elegant.
					Undoubtedly the most picturesque character of this period was the eccentric John
						Randolph of Roanoke. He was peculiar both mentally and physically. A Charleston
						bookseller put on record a description of his personal appearance in 1796, when he was
						approaching his majority—a description, by the way, which he never really outgrew.
						He was described as a "tall, gawky-looking, flaxen-haired stripling, apparently of the
						age from sixteen to eighteen, with a complexion of a good parchment color, beardless
						chin, and as much assumed self-confidence as any two-footed animal I ever saw."
						Randolph, although a freak in some ways, was a man of real genius, a hard hitter, a good
						fighter, and remarkably effective in his public utterances. His sarcasm cut like acid,
						and his bold statements and unconventional phrases startled his audiences. When under
						the influence of liquor he was dashing, brilliant, and vitriolic. Under arid conditions
						he was much less interesting. He was quite impartial, too, in the bestowal of his
						rhetorical attentions. Practically all the leading public
						men of the time experienced one or more of his classic flagellations. Washington,
						Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, Clay, and the two Adamses felt the sting of his whip-lash
						rhetoric on more than one occasion. For thirty years he availed himself of every
						opportunity to castigate the two Adamses, John and John Quincy. "The cub," said he, "is
						a greater bear than the old one." Whether sober or intoxicated, or in a state of
						semi-saturation, his invective was copious, continuous, and vehement, when devoting
						himself to these two New Englanders. Sometimes he couched his ideas in polished, stilted
						sentences with an Addisonian suggestion and again he employed phrases and comparisons
						reeking with vulgarity. In 1826 Randolph paid his respects to John Quincy Adams and his
						Secretary of State, Henry Clay, in a speech which, it was said, "exhausted the
						unrivalled resources of his vocabulary." "I was defeated," he exclaimed, "horse, foot,
						and dragoons,—cut up and clean broken down by the coalition of Blifil and Black
						George,—by the combination, unheard of till then, of the Puritan with the
						blackleg." He then took Mr. Clay's ancestors to task for bringing into the world "this
						being, so brilliant yet so corrupt, which, like rotten
						mackerel by moonlight, shined and stunk." President Adamns retorted by applying to
						Randolph the lines of Ovid in which the poet draws a picture of Envy: 
							
								"His face is livid, gaunt his whole body;
								His breast is green with gall; his tongue drips poison."
							
						 And all this, let it be remembered, was in the "era of good feeling."
					It should not be thought, however, that John Randolph was a mere peddler of
						billingsgate. He was really a man of ability and influence, and notwithstanding his
						pitch-fork tendencies did have some lucid intervals and was not always indecent. He was
						a peculiar compound. He had some of the vulgarity of a river boatman, a genius for
						wordcraft similar to that of the late John J. Ingalls, and a dash of the brilliant
						meanness of Roscoe Conkling.
					 It is noticeable also that the "hurrah element" so prominent in the campaigns of a
						generation or two ago now serves, when it appears, only to provoke mirth and laughter.
						For sheer froth and nonsense the campaign of 1840 is without a parallel in our history.
						When the Whigs nominated General Harrison for the
						presidency an eastern paper spoke contemptuously of him and advised him not to aspire to
						that high office but to go back to his log cabin and drink his hard cider in an
						environment of coon skins. Almost by common consent the log cabin, the coon skin, and
						the cider cask became the Whig emblems of the campaign. Carl Schurz remarks in his Life of Henry Clay: "There has probably never been a presidential
						campaign of more enthusiasm and less thought than the Whig campaign of 1840. As soon as
						it was fairly started, it resolved itself into a popular frolic. There was no end of
						monster mass meetings, with log cabins, raccoons, and hard cider. One half of the
						American people seemed to have stopped work to march in processions behind brass bands
						or drum and fife, to attend huge picnics, and to sing campaign doggerel about
						'Tippecanoe and Tyler too.' The array of speakers on the Whig side was most imposing:
						Clay, Webster, Corwin, Ewing, Clayton, Preston, Choate, Wise, Reverdy Johnson, Everett,
						Prentiss, Thompson of Indiana, and a host of lesser lights. But the immense multitudes
						gathered at the meetings came to be amused, not to be instructed. They met, not to think and deliberate, but to laugh and shout
						and sing."
					Some of the speakers did attempt to discuss serious matters in a serious way, but it
						was difficult, if not impossible, to do so in the midst of such surroundings. A Whig
						speech of 1840 to be in harmony with its setting should read about as follows: "Fellow
						citizens: We are gathered together on a memorable occasion. We are surrounded by the
						revered emblems of our nationality. The flag of our country floats over our heads, the
						cider from our orchards flows at our feet, and the log cabin with its door covered with
						coon skins stares us in the face. The Whig party presents to you a candidate who stands
						as the living embodiment of these national emblems. We hold that any man who spent his
						boyhood days in an American log cabin is fit to grace the White House at Washington. We
						also hold that any man who has sipped the cider from our hillsides is abundantly able to
						quaff the champagne of the presidential mansion; and this after all, fellow citizens, is
						the main duty of our chief executive. It is also no small recommendation, my friends,
						that the Whig candidate is able to skin a coon with neatness and dispatch and to nail the pelt, well stretched, to his lowly cabin door. As
						it has been said by some one, if you allow me to write the songs of the nation, I care
						not who makes the laws, so I say, if you allow me to skin the coons of the nation I care
						not who formulates her statutes. I am aware of the fact, fellow citizens, that the chief
						executive of this nation is sometimes called upon to appoint a cabinet, to give his
						sanction to legislation, to negotiate a treaty, or to direct the movements of the army
						or navy, but I prefer in my remarks to-day to say nothing of these things, but to
						confine myself to essentials. It is upon this platform, fellow citizens, that the Whig
						party makes its appeal for the suffrage of a sovereign and enlightened people."
					The most effective campaign orator of this period was Thomas Corwin, of Ohio, better
						known as "Tom" Corwin. Indeed it world be difficult to imagine a combination of talents
						better adapted to campaign speaking than were those of Corwin. The testimony of men who
						knew and heard him repeatedly is all to this effect. Hugh McCulloch in his Men and Measures of half a Century says of Corwin: "Men would travel twenty or thirty miles to listen to the matchless orator, and
						even his political opponents could not help joining in the applause which his speeches
						never failed to call forth. It was worth a Sabbath day's journey to hear 'Tom' Corwin
						tell a story.... He had always something good to say, and he never failed to be
						instructive as well as fascinating. His power over popular and promiscuous assemblies
						was immense. Plain farmers would not only travel long distances to hear him, but they
						would stand for hours under a burning sun or in a pelting rain, seemingly oblivious of
						everything but the speeches by which their attention was absorbed."
					Corwin's oratory attracted attention in Congress as well as upon the stump. He was a
						member of the House of Representatives in 1840, during the Harrison campaign, and added
						to his laurels by a memorable speech made in reply to General Crary of Michigan. General
						Crary had criticised the military tactics of General Harrison, and particularly his
						generalship in the Battle of Tippecanoe. This put Corwin on his mettle. He took the
						floor and made an inimitable speech, of which Mr. McCulloch speaks as follows: "In his off-hand reply to this speech Mr. Corwin gave free rein to
						the style in which he surpassed all men of his day. While he did not fail to vindicate
						Harrison's military capacity, as displayed in the battle, by apt references to the
						action of soldiers of acknowledged merit in somewhat similar circumstances, he
						overwhelmed his assailant with ridicule by showing what his opportunities had been for
						learning how battles should be fought. General Crary was a military general on a peace
						establishment. Taking advantage of this fact, Mr. Corwin described in his inimitable
						manner a Michigan militia parade with General Crary as the commanding figure; the troops
						in motion with hoes, axe-handles, and other deadly implements of war overshadowing the
						field; the general with his gaudy epaulets gleaming in the sun, mounted upon a
						crop-eared, bushy-tailed mare, fourteen hands high, riding gallantly in front,
						displaying the beauty of his steed and his superior horsemanship; and when the parade
						was over satisfying the thirst which his glorious labor has created with watermelons
						which he slashed with his mighty sword and shared with his heroic men. I recollect no speech so provocative of hearty laughter as this speech of
						Mr. Corwin. His exaggerated but somewhat truthful description of a military parade
						(general-training, it was called) in the early days of the West, in the conduct of which
						General Crary was supposed to have acquired the knowledge that fitted him to criticise
						General Harrison's military character, was so absolutely funny that the House was
						convulsed with merriment, and Democrats as well as Whigs shouted as he went on until
						they were hoarse. To such a speech there could be no answer. General Crary subsided. He
						was never heard again in the House or in public in Michigan. 'Slain by Corwin,' was the
						return of the inquest over his political remains."
					The campaign of 1848 exemplifies another peculiarity in our campaign methods. In that
						year the Whigs nominated General Taylor for the presidency upon the strength of his
						record in the Mexican War. Taylor at the time was not a Whig. He had never allied
						himself with any political party. In fact he had never voted. In addition to this he was
						such a novice in politics and statesmanship that even those who were most active in
						promoting his candidacy smiled at his guilelessness. His
						views on civil affairs were unknown. Indeed it is fairly certain, in the light of
						subsequent developments, that he had no clearly defined views; yet he was preferred for
						the nomination to such men as McLean, Clayton, Clay, and Webster, and was moreover
						triumphantly elected. He was a great military hero and no questions were asked about his
						qualifications for the presidency;—an amiable weakness on the part of the American
						people which, it will be remembered, James Russell Lowell roundly satirized in the Bigelow Papers. Lowell puts General Taylor's answers to certain
						questions in the quaint Yankee dialect of Hosea Bigelow "an up-country farmer."
					The absurdity of the whole situation must have impressed the thoughtful men of the day.
						It is not at all likely that the campaign of 1848 could be repeated with success at the
						present time.
					The main purpose of the preceding sketch is to show that the evolution of our campaign
						methods during the last century and a quarter presents some encouraging features. While
						the methods employed in some of the more recent political
						campaigns can hardly be called refined, they were, on the whole, an improvement upon
						those in vogue before the Civil War. The attitude of public men towards one another has
						been more fair and generous than in the days of John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson.
						There are, of course, some exceptions to this rule which will readily occur to the
						reader's mind. The most marked exception of recent years is to be found in the campaign
						of 1912, and more particularly in that part of it involving the two leading candidates
						for the Republican nomination. On the whole, however, the political discussions of
						recent years have centered around principles rather than men.
					The attitude of the press, too, shows a marked improvement. The rabid party organ is
						disappearing, and the tendency is for the really great and influential dailies of the
						country to become independent in politics. From the standpoint of truth and fair-dealing
						in political discussion the journalism of to-day still leaves much to be desired, and
						yet it marks a distinct advance over the journalism of a generation ago.
					Again, the political fortunes of men are no longer made
						or unmade by mere incidents. Non-essentials are no longer as influential as they once
						were. Torch-lights, log-cabins, coon skins, hard cider, umbrellas, canes, bandannas,
						high hats, fence rails, watermelons, dinner pails and blue jeans are no longer the
						deciding factors in American political campaigns. Neither are the people likely to be
						carried away by catch-words, such as "Tippecanoe and Tyler too," "Rum, Romanism and
						Rebellion," "54—40 or fight," and "The Full Dinner Pail." One President rode
						triumphantly into office upon the euphonious couplet: 
							
								"Hurrah for Polk and Annexation,
								Down with Clay and high Taxation,"
							
						 but it is not at all likely that another could be elected in a similar way.
					While, on the whole, then, it would appear that the methods of the American political
						campaign have greatly improved in recent years it must be admitted that the campaign of
						1912 had many regrettable features. There was a marked dip in the curve of progress;
						such, however, is the way in which civilization makes its advances.
					
					In the first place, there was never a more bitter contest for the presidential
						nomination than the one between President Taft and Mr. Roosevelt in 1912. Mr. Roosevelt,
						with his characteristic determination and tremendous energy, "carried the war into
						Africa," and the President, apparently, felt compelled to adopt a similar kind of
						warfare. During the campaign, both before and after the Chicago Convention, the
						President did many things which must have been exceedingly distasteful to him. A
						campaign mapped out by "practical" politicians will inevitably contain many features
						which cannot commend themselves to a man of dignity and self-respect. A President of the
						United States, hurrying from city to city and from state to state, soliciting votes from
						the platform of a passenger coach, is not an edifying spectacle. The White House should
						be the official residence of the chief executive and not his political headquarters. The
						President's Secretary, whose salary is paid out of the public funds, should give his
						time and energy to the affairs of government rather than to the political interests of
						his chief. Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Cabinet members, Speakers, Senators, Representatives, and State Governors, should be compelled
						by public opinion, if not by their own sense of the proprieties of the case, to give
						their first and best efforts to the duties of their respective offices rather than to a
						pursuit of the presidency.
					A fitting degree of dignity can never attach to the presidency of the United States so
						long as that office is made the object of a general scramble. The campaign of 1912, and
						more particularly the campaign for the Republican nomination, humiliated us in the eyes
						of European critics. Never in recent years has there been such a regrettable campaign,
						and it is the part of wisdom, now that it is all over, to profit by the experience thus
						gained.
					There are some indications that we are going to do this. During the last campaign,
						President Wilson gave evidence of a high conception of the proprieties of politics, and
						since his inauguration has conducted himself in a most dignified and becoming manner.
						Then, too, public opinion is aroused upon this matter as never before in recent years.
						The attempt to amend the Constitution so as to provide for a single term of six years
						for the President is one of the concrete results of this
						awakened sentiment. I sincerely hope that the attempt will succeed, but that the
						amendment will not be made to apply to any man who has already held the office. Even if
						the attempt should fail, its effect upon public opinion would be considerable and
						salutary.
					A few other changes would also be helpful. If national nominating conventions are to
						continue to exist, they should be revised and reconstructed on a more equitable and
						truly representative basis. Sections of the country giving little or no support to a
						political party should have slight representation in the national councils of that
						party. The powers of the National Committee should also be reviewed. A body of men
						elected to-day as the result of more or less political manipulation should not be able,
						by means of technicalities of procedure, to thwart the wishes of a majority of the party
						four years hence. Then again, definite and thorough-going presidential preference
						primary laws should be passed in all the States and the primaries for all parties should
						be held on the same day and under exacting restrictions. All of these things would tend
						toward greater dignity and equity in our campaign methods,
						and the campaign of 1912 will have served a good purpose if it aids in the consummation
						of these reforms. The campaign of 1916 has also taught us, I hope, that no party can
						succeed, however worthy and able its candidate, which does not put forth a definite and
						a constructive program. A campaign based largely on destructive criticism is not
						attractive. It is out of date and not in harmony with present day progress and ideals.
						The time will come also when the word "available" will lose its peculiar and technical
						meaning. A noted American publicist is said to have remarked to his friends who urged
						him to become a candidate for the presidency, "Gentlemen, let there be no mistake. I
						should make a good President, but a very bad candidate." This differentiation between
						the candidate and the President will not always obtain.
				
			
		
		
	
