
   ----CITATION---- 
        Lincoln, Fred S.. An Indiana girl. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1112
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        AN INDIANA GIRL
        
      
      
      
      
        
          AN INDIANA GIRL
        
        BY
          FRED. S. LINCOLN
        WASHINGTON
          THE NEALE PUBLISHING COMPANY
          M C M I
      
      
      
        VERSO
        COPYRIGHT. 1901, BY FRED. S. LINCOLN
        All rights reserved
      
      
      
        DEDICATION
        TO MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM H. LINCOLN
        AS AN EARNEST OF THE SENTIMENT PROMPTED BY YOUR FRIENDSHIP TOWARD ME, AND IN
          PUBLIC RECOGNITION OF THAT FRIENDSHIP, WHICH HAS BEEN MORE PERFECT AND UNSELFISH THAN
          ORDINARY FAMILY AFFECTION, I GIVE TO YOU MY FIRST THOUGHTS ON HAVING COMPLETED THIS WORK,
          WHICH HAS BEEN BUILT FROM THE ENVIRONMENTS OF YOUR INDIANA HOME.
      
      
      
      
        PREFACE.
        IT was on my first trip to Ashville that I met Uncle Nace Tipman beside
          the road. " Th' Yaller Front's th' on'y one I knows of," he replied semi-seriously to my
          inquiry, adding reassuringly, " It ain't much fer pretty, but it's all right fer good." I
          have his words yet, written in my note-book of things generally, and I lived long enough
          in that hostelry to have both ends of this sentence verified. To use his words: " Th'
          Yaller Front was not much fer pretty," but like the people who ran it, and those who
          frequented it, the beauty was inside. A rough exterior, surrounding well-kept and clean,
          if crude, beauties. Here was an atmosphere wholesome bodily and mentally. Live where the
          bread is cut to thick slices, the butter served in chunks, rivaling those of the meat;
          where the sauces are thick and the pie is quartered, not sixteenthed, and you will live in
          generous impulses of thought as well.
        I learned to love the people. What else was there to do when they accepted me
          unquestioned and indicated their faith in me first? To me all of this story happened only
          yesterday, and as I read it I am back again in Dole's old rustic splint-bottom chair out
          on the sidewalk, bracing my back against the window casing.
          Overhead is the board awning; beneath are large cracks that merge into the street. One
          crack is broader than all the rest. That is the one that led to dreamland so often in the
          gentle, summer days. Parts of the story—the uglier parts—must have come to me
          then, for they are only fiction. The good things, the lovelier things, were the actual
          happenings and my incentive to write. If I have told enough of what I most wanted to tell,
          to offset my unmerited attributions of base motives, I shall be happy. They have taught me
          much. My gratitude could do no less than show the how of it. But I shall always have one
          regret, and that is that I was not a better pupil.
      
    
    
      
      
        AN INDIANA GIRL
        
          CHAPTER I.
          All along the main street, from the blacksmith's shop to the hotel, three blocks away,
            the tiny stores were closed, their doors locked, and each slumbered in a splendid
            moonlight that bore more gently because this was the night in a day of rest. The lovely
            light carried a holy softness, solemn and inspiring, that recalled other days of
            goodness in a visionary way, as lovely things only half real, while the vigor of an
            almost born strife—a new day of work and effort—seemed but one heart-beat
            away, and it was easy imagining the soft light as being the forerunner of that day.
          Meeting had let out half an hour ago. The street had been a busy hum of babble and good
            cheer, in gossip and good-nights; then the groups dissolved over flagstone byewalks, and
            the night again became silent and serene. But, by virtue of the demands made upon it,
            Orrig's drug-store remained unclosed, and two small lamps extended an invitation to
            belated ones to join the Sunday night meeting of recreative
            humor now in session there.
          "Oh, ho! no. Don't get me to give in my mite," said Landy, blusteringly. "I'm clearin'
            out o' here soon's I get done up to ——," and he jerked his thumb in the
            general direction of his employer's farm with an air of secrecy that each of his dozen
            listeners observed with befitting nods of approval and regard.
          "Well, I ain't sayin' anythin' one way or other," remarked Orrig, as he finished his
            work for the night. After kicking the cellar door into place, and locking it, he
            straightened himself with a grunt and proceeded: "But it 'pears to me that they's been
            more pews'n we need here lately, an' afore we goes to buildin' a bigger meetin' house,
            gospel or somethin's got to strike the old one harder'n it has yit."
          "Gospel don't get in nowhere less'n it's brought," said John Carey, significantly, but
            hung his head in the pause. Each man knew the thought uppermost in the mind of his
            neighbor, and each sullenly held his own counsel until Landy exploded in
            corroboration.
          "As I say, it ain't my party, because I am soon gettin' away, but John, he's right. It
            takes more'n a fine house to make men upset in their head over religion. You got to have
            a exhorter or somethin' to come up against, an' that's what you ain't got."
          Again there was a pause, but no one seemed willing to carry further the line of talk,
            though the unanimity of thought was obvious, and Snellins, who sat against the counter
            in the iron saddle of a sulky plow which had been brought in for repairs, became
            embarrassed by the gravity of things, and, as much in
            self-consciousness as from a sense of duty, said meekly: "The parson's young, men;
            remember he ain't much more'n a boy."
          "Young! young? you say," shouted Landy, when the seat brace slipped from under
            Snellins, letting him to the floor, and the group laughed uproariously at his
            discomfiture. Arising more demure than ever, and rearranging the saddle with unusual
            care and attention, he asked:
          "Well, ain't he?" The smiles were general. "An' that's why I'm his friend," he ended,
            feebly.
          "I guess he ain't much your'n," Landy replied, tauntingly.
          "Why not?" he asked, much pained.
          "Now look here, Snell," Landy began, "it ain't fer you to know everything; you're too
            smart an' bright already, an' if you got anythin' more into your head it would
            crack."
          "Mebbe he's got one idee too many now," said Orrig, with assumed seriousness, which was
            held by everyone until he started the laugh himself, when the witticism received full
            recognition.
          "But tell me why he ain't," persisted Snellins.
          "Well," said Landy, winking largely and screwing up the corner of his mouth, "you see,
            it's this way. I heard some things that you ain't heard mebbe. You didn't know that
            they's been some letter-writin' goin' on between the parson an' the gov'ment, now did
            y'? An' y' didn't know that that writin' was mostly about you, did y'? Well, it
            wuz!"
          "Me?" Snellins replied, startedly.
          
          "Yes, you! They wanted to know where you wuz."
          "Not where I wuz," he mumbled, as he revolved the idea in his poor mind.
          "That's what I said," continued Landy, "an' they're goin' to send somebody here to see you," he ended with forceful emphasis.
          "Mebbe," said Carey, after time enough had been given for Landy's last remark to sink
            in, "mebbe it's about what you been adoin' while you was away last summer that th'
            gov'ment offercer is comin' fer y'."
          Snellin's face took on an unexpected look of understanding at this remark. It seemed to
            awaken a clear, live thought in his bewildered mind, and he stared at the speaker in
            questioning fear.
          "Let him alone now," said Orrig, with a sympathetic smile, as his better nature
            responded to the weaker man's helplessness. "Come on, clear out—everybody!" he
            continued, with a laugh. "I've got to close up."
          "Gov'ment officers!" said someone, in a startling whisper, as the group broke up just
            outside the door, and they all chuckled as they bid "Poor Snell" goodnight.
          Disregarding the two short stretches of sidewalk that bordered the street, Snellins
            stepped out into the road, facing toward the east. The light fell upon his back and cast
            a short shadow before him that he saw without observing, and, as it moved along with
            jerky motion, he tried to uproot the doubt of the parson's friendship, which grieved him
            sorely. Times without number a smile spread over his face
            only to be driven off by a doubt insubordinate to his heart's good inclinations.
          "No, no! Not the parson," he murmured, in a tone that wheedled himself, and smiled
            under the influence of his own reassurance. "But smart men has been deceived before my
            time," he continued, after an interval of jumbled reasoning, his head repeating its
            dubious twitching with each utterance of this sentence, and the sense of
            self-preservation, adding a weight to his slowly yielding assurance, drew that reasoning
            down irresistibly and left him finally without hope or combative energy.
          The wound so fresh, at the thought of the parson's betrayal, would, in other times,
            have served him for a week's sorrowing, but now he could not cling to it; the childish
            effort to nurse the pain and hold it at his heart was fruitless, for the fear that
            followed close upon the betrayal chilled his every consciousness and left him, body and
            soul, unalive to the weight of sorrow or the pain of throbbing self-pity. Yet his mind
            clung with tenacity to the thought. It was a barrier to other things that were creeping
            in upon him, and he transplanted the rambling pity to those who were nearest to him,
            unconsciously hoping thus to ward off the impending danger.
          "I knew it. They told me; sure they told me," he said. "An' Miss Virgie! what will she
            say?" he asked, as his troubled mind ran from cause to effect. "To-morrow they
            said—was it to-morrow—or wasn't it? Yes, it is to-morrow. Poor Miss Virgie;
            and I am bringing the shame!"
          
          He trudged along the imperfect road, up the hills and down again, with an even stride
            that took no note of the changes. His head hung forward in deep dejection as his mind
            grew blank and inoperative under the spell of self-shaming. Then he stepped suddenly
            across the border line of moonlight into the purple shadow of a stretch of sycamores,
            and the change awakened him. Lifting his face heavenward, the sky's light shone on his
            eyes, and a quick resolve flashed back, glistening for the instant with wild activity on
            their surfaces.
          "He will not find me!" he said. Then again, "He will not find me!" And still again,
            until the resolve wore itself into the beating of his quickened steps as he hurried on.
            Another mile in the increasing darkness and the resolution gave way to the counting of
            his measured pace, the rhythm gradually drawing him down again to the pity of it all,
            and his heart would occasionally interject, "Poor Virgie!"
          "One, two, three!" he counted, with feverish application, when "Poor Virgie" thrust
            itself into the calculation. "Twenty-five, twenty-six" . . . and . . . Ah! he held the
            distraction away this time. "Thirty, thirty-one. Poor Virgie, poor Virgie!" he repeated.
            The loss of self-will was maddening; he became confused, gave up in despair, but began
            again inadvertently, and then (wonder of wonders!) found himself fighting against the
            unconquerable rhythm that he had so recently wooed.
          The road was to be wooded now the balance of his journey. On each side the trees sprung
            up with majestic solemnity, and, as he fought against the ringing sway of his footsteps, a vague consciousness such as he had never known took
            hold upon him. It was a consciousness of the awful things of night, and, as the trees
            took up the swing that was carrying him along, his eyes glued themselves with frantic
            fascination upon the caravan. The blackness that stood as a block, fitting in snugly
            with the border lines of trees, held him so closely that his every motion swung the
            whole, and his forward strides seemed to yield no resultant progress. A fleecy cloud
            moved over his head from behind and gave the panorama a backward-sliding appearance as
            he watched it hanging seemingly stationary, while he and his surroundings slipped away
            and away toward the town from which he had just come. He felt as if he were suspended in
            a moving mass, and in despair ceased his efforts. Then the terror of inactivity froze
            his heart, and he could have screamed because of his helplessness. The cloud moved on
            and dissolved with other clouds. It was a respite in which his mind gained new life, but
            it was the life that aided terror. These ominous words, "the officers," recurred to him
            with an inrush of dread that surrounds unknown things, and, as the delusion above his
            head began again, he felt himself drawn backward to vivid impossibilities.
          "The officers," he repeated, as he watched the clouds from under his brows, momentarily
            expecting to be thrown further backward into the talons of some dreadful
            terror-conceived, undefined situation. His arms hung loose at his sides as he stood
            resignedly motionless. Suddenly his face twitched, his right hand jerked, palm outward,
            as if in a gesture to support an action of the brain. His
            head instantly lifted and his seeing-less eyes held the light of a lowering heaven that
            feebly penetrated into the black tunnel of trees. Slowly and low he laughed at first,
            then horribly, with growing emphasis and increasing staccato; but the fear was gone. Not
            a trace of that remained, and, as the strong voice assumed its full force, the echoes
            rung back a wild, mad laugh that wakened the sleeping forest things to a confused
            unusualness.
          Twice—thrice was the apex of his strengthful laughing reached before he came to a
            much lessened chuckling, and then the phrase of a much expressed sympathy came back from
            his shattered mind. "Poor Snell!" he said, and laughed uproariously. The words seemed to
            please him. They were all that were familiar now—all that he could remember, and
            he repeated them unceasingly. Turning, at last, he retraced his steps. Back toward the
            town he went, faster and faster, ever increasing in speed until he ran with all the
            ferocity and energy that had impelled his laughter.
          Where the roads branch he fell, and lay upon his face while he panted and regained his
            breath. Finally, sitting upright, the mile-post caught his eyes, and, after
            contemplating it with a bewildered look, he gradually grew to smile, and nodded, not in
            recognition, but in a sense of companionship. He raised his hands and looked at them
            seriously—wonderingly. Their cuts and bruises excited his pity, and he said, "Poor
            Snell!" though he seemed to know no pain, and, done with this, he arose and tottered
            away toward the river, just at the edge of town. He made his way through the scrub oaks, unmoored a boat, pushed out into the muddy stream and
            floated away, still contemplating his bleeding hands and quoting, "Poor Snell!" 
          Ah, the pity of a man! Think of it—a man gone mad!
        
        
        
          CHAPTER II.
          "Good morning!" came the cheery greeting, in response to a knock, at near the noon
            hour. The young woman wore a pleasant smile of unusual affability, and because of this
            the caller found himself for an instant at a loss for the best manner in which to make
            his wants known.
          "Does anyone named Snellins," he began. Then, reaching into a great pocket, he pulled
            out a bundle of very legal-like-looking papers, and, turning them back until he found
            the desired one, continued: "Benjamin Snellins is the name. Does he live here?"
          "Yes," she said, after waiting patiently through the action that he had depended upon
            to cover his momentary embarrassment, and in which the unnecessary first name had been
            brought into use. "Yes, but he is not here now. Perhaps father can help you, though,"
            she added. "Shall I call him?"
          "If you please," he replied. She turned smilingly and left him standing there while in
            the near regions of the little house, though just out of his sight he could hear, in
            tones that held a world of filial love, "Father, there is a gentleman here who wishes to
            see Ben. Will you please come in?"
          
          The answer was not audible, but her gracious invitation for him to "come in" was
            distinctly so. He entered and remained standing until he heard a pair of heavy, muddy
            boots being scraped outside the kitchen door; then, smiling, he stepped forward to greet
            an old gentleman as he came through the house and into the room.
          "I am sorry to have taken you from your work," he said, earnestly, "and, if you will
            return and let me go with you, I can talk to you there just as well. I wanted to see
            Benjamin Snellins, and, as he is not here, I will have to wait for him anyway."
          "Well," laughed the other, "I was only fixing a bit of fence, but, if you don't mind
            looking on, you are very welcome to come," and with that he led his visitor through the
            neatly kept dining-room, where, with a great apron that reached from her chin to her
            toes, making her look as though her pretty head stuck out of a tent top, was the cause
            of his early embarrassment doing some of the many things that big-aproned women always
            find to do, and, to judge from the odor as they passed through the kitchen, that garment
            had been more or less busy around dinner preparations.
          After the kitchen the pair moved down the walk, past the hen-house to where a fence,
            radiant in the noonday sun, shone back in patches of new additions that had taken the
            place of the old, weather-worn and worm-eaten ones.
          "My name is Harvey," said the younger man, picking up a strip of lath and looking at it
            as critically as though it were the subject of his speech. "Frank Harvey," he went on. "I am a United States special pension examiner, and I am
            sent here for a deposition of Mr. Snellins on a case that he knows something about, it
            seems."
          "I guess he can help you all right enough. I have often heard him speak of the army. He
            enlisted from somewhere down in Vermont, I think, and, I guess from all of his grunting
            and complaining, he's mighty sorry of it. He got a wound in his head somehow, and it has
            given him a sight of trouble, as he expresses it, but he could not get a pension on it,
            and that is what makes him so mad."
          "I cannot understand why he should be held out of it," Frank replied.
          "Ben don't want a pension. I don't believe that he would take it if you gave it to him.
            What's the matter with him is, he is just a natural kicker. He is always full of trouble
            of one kind or another, and, if it was not that, it would be something else."
          "Does he work for you?"
          "In the winter he does. He goes away every summer—no one seems to know where; but
            in the winter he turns up just as regular as clockwork. You are lucky to find him back
            now; it is a week ahead of his time, and he has already been back two."
          "A sort of nomad," ventured Frank.
          "A sort of blamed fool," said the old man, explosively. Then, in fear lest he should be
            taken too seriously, he added: "He is just an all 'round crank that no one can quite
            understand."
          
          "Well, he must be a strange character," Frank answered in quick sympathy.
          "There now—that is done, and I guess Virgie must have something for us to eat by
            this time, so we had better go in. Women are terrible when you keep them waiting," he
            said, in mock fear, as he gathered up the saw and hammer and a few nails that were
            scattered about.
          "Then I may eat with you?" Frank asked. "I had expected to get to Ashville in time for
            dinner, but I hardly think I can make it now."
          "I suppose that the little one has fixed for both of us, and, if she has not, I will
            divide with you," he said, smiling, as they went into the cosey little dining-room that
            would have been appetizing in itself without the many dishes already there heaped full
            of smoking-hot things.
          "I guess I can afford to divide," said the host, as he beheld the bounteous spread, and
            accompanied his remark with a nod toward the table, a look of mild approval stealing
            over his kindly face.
          "And still appease your own appetite," laughingly replied Frank.
          "Yes, indeed; and it would not make much difference how big it was either. Well, little
            one," he added, looking expectantly toward the kitchen door and raising his voice just a
            shade higher.
          "In a minute, father," came the answer, and the men remained standing—a pretty
            compliment from father to daughter that filled Frank with a vague wondering. Then in
            came a great dish of smoking something; he could not tell
            what it was, followed by the most charming representative of sweet and girlish
            naturalness that he had ever seen.
          "Don't let it burn you, dear," her father said. "Here, let me take it," and, as he
            leaned forward and placed the dish on the table, he turned his face up toward them.
          "This is Mr. Harvey, Virgie; and Mr. Harvey, this is my daughter." Then continuing, as
            he regained his upright position, "My daughter, Miss Virginia Brandt."
          The dinner began with a simple thank-offering by the host, father and daughter bowing
            their heads in devout gratitude. Harvey was unusually moved by the sincerity and earnest
            reverence of the two humbly lowered heads, and his heart melted under the tender
            influence.
          "Now, don't keep jumping up all the time, dear," said George Brandt in mild complaint
            as the meal progressed. Then aside, as if in explanation to Harvey, "She works too hard
            altogether. She's a regular little busybody."
          "You must not say things like that about me, father, for a busybody is an old gossip,
            or some such horrible person, and I am sure that I am not old," Virgie laughed.
          "No, I should hardly say you were," he replied.
          In the table's centre was a large bowl filled with golden rod, and, as father and
            daughter sat opposite, some of the matted sprays obstructed his range of vision, and he
            leaned to one side, at the beginning of the table-talk, gazing, you might think,
            critically, as though, under the disguise of his remarks, he would absorb as much of her sweet girlishness as he could while that excuse
            lasted.
          Virgie, naturally, was used to her father's ways; she understood him thoroughly. He had
            been her gallant, her adorer, her sort of worshiper for as long as she could remember;
            but it was only in her later years that she had come to realize the beauty, the
            unselfishness of his devotion. From the child who accepts everything as natural,
            thinking her life filled with only the things that are as they should be, never taking
            into her small reasonings the home love that surrounded her, deeply absorbed in
            appeasing the five senses which, always busy, moved by curiosity—childlife's
            greatest impetus; she had gradually grown into the realization of the care that had
            protected her, through the exploring of baby things, on through the selfishness of
            childhood until now, in young woman-hood (she was in her eighteenth year)—the
            value—the true worth of that love and care—surged in upon her in its daily
            manifestations with a warmth that made her own life glow in sweet response. But, in fear
            that her father's admiration might not be shared by their guest, she hastened to change
            the subject.
          "Have you heard from Ben yet, father?"
          "No, pet; I suppose that we will, though, very soon. Don't you think we will?"
          "No-o," she answered, perplexedly, "I feel, some way, as though he had left for good.
            Something must have happened. Oh! what could it have been? I am worried dreadfully."
          "I hope that he will return soon," said Frank.
          
          "He will be back shortly," George Brandt replied, "for he knows that we have lots of
            work laid out to do. He ought not to have gone away," he added, with just a shade of
            annoyance.
          "I want you to promise me something. Will you, father?" Virgie asked, tilting her head
            one side to get a better view of him.
          "Unconditionally?" he questioned; then added, "I don't know how I am going to keep up
            with your fancies if I have to keep looking into those blossoms all the time. I cannot
            see whether you are for sure serious or just laughing at me."
          "I am really serious," she said, rising and taking the obstructing flowers from the
            table. After placing them on the window shelf, and re-seating herself, continued, "You
            can see now that I am."
          "Well, I promise then," and both men looked at her. The apparently unwarranted change
            made them wait interestedly for her reply.
          "Please do not be cross to Ben if he comes back. He is awfully trying at times I know,
            but he is such a faithful old simpleton, and I am confident he does not mean to do
            wrong. He tries so hard to do what you want him to."
          "But he takes affairs into his own hands too much, my dear, and always at the most
            awkward times. It has come to such a state that I cannot put any dependence in him, and
            now you wish to keep me from having a plain talk with him. You are——"
          "Plain talks always mean disagreeable things," she interposed.
          
          "People who do disagreeable things should only expect as much in return," her father
            protested.
          "Yes, but you have promised me," she said, while the displeasure of her father had
            taken much out of the pleasure of having gained that promise—a fact very evident
            in her sweet face. Then she added, exultingly, as though a perfect solution had occurred
            to her: "Let me talk to him. Of course I cannot scold, but I will be awfully
            serious."
          "A pretty method of casting pearls," he said, yielding the case reluctantly.
          Frank had listened to the amiable discussion, and at its conclusion had no doubt left
            in his mind as to which, if he were to choose between the father's annoyance and plain
            talk or the daughter's impulsive reasoning, would be the least humiliating.
          "It does not matter much to me now what time he returns. I have no other people to see
            this side of Callings, which I should judge is twenty or more miles from here, and I
            cannot possibly drive there to-day, so you see I shall be forced to remain to-night at
            Ashville anyway. No—no more potatoes, thank you," to Mr. Brandt, and, continuing:
            "I was forewarned by my predecessor when I accepted this territory that it rivaled the
            mountains of Switzerland to get about in. Of course I have not found it quite so bad as
            that," he laughed, "but, without a railroad in the county, I am forced to drive
            everywhere, and at times it is most inconvenient."
          "What has come of that scheme to run a road across the northeast corner up there?"
            asked George Brandt, who, with the exception of the weekly
            rural paper that found its way to his isolated home, had lost all knowledge, if not
            interest, in the doings of the outside world.
          "Their plans failed."
          "Was that it?" he asked, putting one of those questions to which no answer is expected.
            In his tone a lack of interest in affairs outside his own was plainly manifest, and,
            with the meal finished, they arose from the table.
          "You will find it rather slow waiting around here," said Brandt, "but, if you care to
            read, there are some books in the other room, perhaps not of the sort you like, but they
            will help fill up the time. I find that in idle hours they carry me over many a gloomy
            thought, and at the same time I feel as though I had accomplished something, even if I
            have only re-read some one that is already quite familiar."
          "Perhaps Mr. Harvey would prefer being out of doors, father, even if he has only you
            and your work to watch," suggested Virgie.
          "If I am allowed to express a preference, I believe I would rather follow your father's
            suggestion, as I drove quite late last night and am afraid I am in for a siege of cold
            now, and I must take no chance of prolonging it," Frank hastily interposed. "That is, if
            I do not intrude?"
          "You will not intrude if you do not try to help me. Men always seem to think that they
            know how to wash dishes and do lots of other such things, and I have yet to see the
            first one who can," she replied, with charming frankness.
          
          "Well, I had not thought of offering my services," Harvey replied, laughingly, "but I
            might prove to be the first one—if you will only give me a
            trial."
          "There it is. You all think you can!" she retorted, with great
            emphasis on the "think." "Men are so wonderfully versatile that they think they can do
            anything, but they never rise to expectations, at least not to their own."
          At this juncture her father, who had been looking from one to the other amusedly, put
            on his hat and went out.
          "You will find the library in the other room."
          "Then you will not give me a trial?" he asked.
          "No," she replied, rather shortly, and commenced to hum as she went about her work.
          "A strange mixture of ideal loveliness with her parent and at times of uninviting
            incivility with a stranger," thought Frank, as he started toward the library indicated.
            "Yet I am a stranger," he mused, standing with his chin in one hand
            and his elbow in the other, running his eyes over the book-shelves in an abstracted
            manner. "What else could I expect? I have, after a fashion, forced myself upon them, and
            uninvited people should not expect too much. It is not the first indifferent reception
            that I have had," he went on, but the too apparent contrast had left a little twinge of
            wounded vanity in his heart that any amount of such sensible reasoning would not remove.
            He took a book at random and seated himself near the window, where he remained long
            looking out on the huge, majestic sycamores that mingled a
            riot of confused colors with the smaller, sturdier oaks, trim maples and angular black
            gums. There was green running into red and brown and yellow and back to green again, the
            dominating color, from which the others had come to make this color harmony, but he took
            no note of these as he gazed in dreamy meditation.
          Brandt's house was situated far up in the hills of Broom County, where few men enter
            from the outer world, and from which the inhabitants—a strange, mixed
            people—seldom come to lend picturesqueness to more civilized surroundings. There
            are many men who can tell you of Broom, by which the district is commonly known. Men who
            have lived nearby, working their lands into rich harvests, which, when garnered, leave
            them naught to do but to speculate on the crop to come. Lands that yield only
            substantial things, material things, and, in the absence of that romance in their lives
            to which all men and women turn in idleness, these nearby farmers and townspeople have
            turned to "Broom." Exchanging their stories, burnishing them up with bits of imaginary
            untruths when the occasion warranted until, on the whole, they are wonderful tales of a
            savage, ignorant people—the descendants of criminals advanced by wild living. From
            these one would be led to think that all of the escaped convicts of the Union had found
            refuge and bred there. But, if you were to ask one of these great tale-relators what he had seen among the hills, you would doubtless find that he had never
            ventured beyond the very border of its wildness, and in the end it might dawn upon you,
              that is, if you cared to follow out the subject, that the
            tales were but traditional and the purest fiction.
          It is true that into these wilds have straggled, now and then, a fugitive in an effort
            to seek seclusion from a rigorous law. They have never remained long; such men are fond
            of darkness, but of the sort that has in it the flickering of dim lights and a sense of
            companionship in a surrounding of fellow beings, even though they may know none of them,
            and not the darkness that echoes back their own miserable thoughts in creaking boughs
            and moaning winds. Her population was more a mixture of chance inhabitants of a far
            different character than Frank Harvey had been led to believe, and as he sat, book in
            hand, before the window looking out upon the road that wandered down in a deep decline,
            edged by a handsome wall of autumn-touched trees, he wondered at the unusual gentleness
            that he had found here, where every tale had spoken of naught but wildness and
            depravity, and he was much at a loss for an explanation.
          With a gesture, that indicated a dismissal of the subject without reaching a result, he
            opened the book and looked at it for the first time. "David Copperfield, as I'm a living
            sinner," he said to himself, and, much pleased with the choice that he had unconsciously
            made, he promptly broke into the middle of it. The book was a favorite of his. Hardly to
            be counted as a novel-reader, he was not without a leaning toward this one and two or
            three others into which he had forced himself until, becoming interested, he had gone on
            to the end. A second reading of Copperfield had not sufficed to tire him, and, with this renewal of old acquaintances, he was soon
            absorbed.
          "You are obeying orders beautifully," said Virgie from the doorway. "You seem quite
            interested."
          "Indeed I was!" said Frank, with enthusiasm.
          "Do you enjoy reading so much?" she asked.
          "Only at times," he replied. "I guess it is because of the smallness of my circle of
            book friends that I feel so well acquainted with each of them. Then, too, I admit them
            so seldom to a review of their sorrows and pleasures that I am much impressed when they
            do talk to me."
          "It is David Copperfield," she said, and the name came in a tone of fondness; then,
            holding before her breast the shining plate and tea towel that she had brought to the
            door, she leaned forward and looked at an illustration in the book, and continued: "It
            was Dickens' favorite, you know, and I believe it is mine, too. I have never quite
            decided which of his works I like best. He has such an uncanny way of bringing the
            people to you, and after you have become absorbed you regain your own surroundings, with
            a feeling of their absence, they leave you then and something seems lacking; so much do
            you miss their going away that you feel disappointed."
          "Then he disappoints you," said Frank, mistaking her impression.
          "Oh! indeed no," she replied quickly. "The real charm for me lies in that—in
            that—what shall I say? 'In that disappointment' hardly expresses it. I guess, after all, his seeming to have written just for me is where
            the pleasure lies," she ended abruptly.
          "I would have given anything to have said that," smiled Frank. "I think that you have
            covered it all in just those few words."
          "And if I have," she said, "I do not suppose he would feel complimented at being so
            easily dismissed. Yet one cannot be a whole review, for, if we were, we would only be
            living the lives of others, and then we could never arrive at anything ourselves."
          "I think that you are right," he agreed, and, after a pause, asked: "Has Mr. Snellins
            returned yet?"
          "Then we are to dismiss poor Copperfield and Dora and all the rest without the least
            bit of sympathy," she said, seeming reluctant to give them up so easily; but,
            continuing, with her interest much abated: "No, we have seen nothing of him yet. You
            shall know, though, just as soon as he arrives." Then her curiosity, seeming to get the
            better of her, she ventured: "Is Ben asking for a pension?"
          "No," Frank replied, in a non-committal way, and Virgie turned her attention to the
            plate again, not knowing how to proceed. "If he does not want a pension," she asked
            herself, "what can a pension agent want of him?" The unsatisfactory answer to her first
            question only served to make her the more curious, and it was a curiosity in which she
            felt no reproach of conscience, for "had not Ben always made a confidant of her, and
            accepted her as a sort of adviser?" she asked herself. "Surely there could be no harm in
            her knowing the present need of him," she argued, and, since a direct question had elicited nothing, she approached the subject
            from another point.
          "I think he failed twice," she said.
          "So your father told me; at least he said that he had failed, though he did not say how
            often. It must have been through some fault of his own."
          "But he was a soldier, so how could he fail?"
          "I would not dare attempt to answer that," Frank replied. "The cause is too remote a
            one to be guessed at, and I have had no opportunity to study his case."
          "But you are going to now," she said, in a way that implied a question.
          "Well, no; I have not come for that, but I shall be glad to help him in any way that I
            can," he said, and she started with instinctive fear, looking at him searchingly. "It is
            as a witness that I shall interview him—in reference to a companion that served in
            the same regiment that he did, and his will be the last deposition that goes to make up
            the case." After which Virgie sighed relievedly.
          "Then it only remains for Ben to decide it?" she asked, regaining partial composure,
            putting her question into a form that would draw from him the most information
            possible—not attempting to conceal her renewed curious interest.
          "Well, hardly," he replied, amused at her lack of knowledge and evident desire to have
            an explanation. He was familiar with the total ignorance of the people at large, and
            individuals in particular, as to the workings of his department, and he had been drawn
            into an explanation of it so often that he had reduced it
            to as few words as possible with which to enlighten the inquisitive and interested ones,
            and though the form was an old one, and he had grown weary of it with the frequent
            repetitions, he felt called upon to again explain the mystery of the work.
          "This Mr. Snellins," he continued, "will have scarcely as much weight in his testimony
            as you seem to think, for, by a count of the depositions that have already been taken,
            there are now forty-three, and each is equally as important as his will be. You see," he
            said, entering into a full explanation, "when the first application for a pension is
            made a list of perhaps five or six names is given as references, and to each of these
            persons it becomes necessary to apply, no matter where they are, for any information
            that they may be able to give. Naturally, the first depositions given are friendly to
            the applicant, so that their statements are as good as valueless, but among them there
            invariably occurs a reference to a somebody else who can shed a little light on the
            matter, and then it becomes the duty of the examiner who has taken that information to
            refer to the someone mentioned when he sends the summary of his interview to the
            department. Then from the department the papers are packed off to the examiner who has
            that territory in which the someone referred to was last known to reside, and, if that
            someone can be found, his deposition is taken, added to the pile and again the lot is
            returned to the department, with the summary of this examiner, which is his individual
            opinion of that one man's testimony. And so the story is piled up, a little added each time the lot are sent out, until the whole is as
            complete as can be made."
          "But it must take a long time," said Virgie, to whom the carting about process seemed
            quite unnecessary, "and a man could starve a dozen times over before his case was
            settled."
          "I suppose it does appear to have a good bit of red tape to it," Frank said, "but, with
            the millions of dollars that are distributed annually, unusual precaution is
            necessary."
          "Why can they not write to these people?" she asked, seeking a simpler and easier means
            for deciding a case.
          "Because the informers are generally quite lacking in a knowledge of the information
            desired, and then, too, the testimony must be given under oath."
          "Oh!" was all she could say, for to her the process of administering an oath, which she
            had never seen, though often wondered at, seemed an awful thing. The mere thought of
            such a proceeding had always produced a depressing effect upon her.
          "Have you any other suggestions?" he asked, feeling well repaid for the explanation by
            her attentive following, and much amused by her earnestness.
          "If I had I would hesitate to give them after so palpable a failure of my first one,"
            she said, regaining her habitual cheerfulness.
          "Then I shall ask a favor of you," he said, his having become master of the situation
            leading him to a facetious bent.
          "And that is?"
          
          "That you bear witness to the testimony of Mr. Snellins if he ever returns." And, in
            her quick change from a cheerful expression to one of depression again, he found a
            strange sense of satisfaction in being able to sway her moods.
          It is difficult to describe the satisfaction that arises in the mind of a good man when
            he finds himself in control of a situation that had, from its beginning, seemed
            hopelessly lost. It is the bringing about of the result that is partially desired, yet
            not directly aimed at because of its seeming hopelessness. Such a conclusion is
            gratifying in the extreme to the man who has never obtained results except by a
            concentration of his best efforts toward the end in view.
          Frank Harvey had been largely benefited by the process of having the corners rubbed
            off, as all young men are supposed to do before they can arrive at anything worth
            arriving at, and he had accumulated enough experience with people and their ways to be a
            very level-headed fellow. He was, therefore, a little reluctant to take credit for the
            moods or humors of the people that surrounded him. He knew that, with Virgie, the fear
            was but the emotion of a previously conceived situation, and entirely outside any
            influence of his own. If she had chosen to cry, or have laughing hysteria in turns, he
            would not have felt responsible for the mood. He was quick to detect other influences
            than his own at work, even though she was following his line of conversation. People
            could indulge flights of either sort of emotion from a central point of stoicism, he
            would have told you had you asked him, but it would depend altogether upon themselves to what degree they carried them. Yet, with all his lack of
            self-crediting, there was within him a something akin to satisfaction in the ready
            sympathy he found where he had thought no one but her father could influence her.
          "Oh! I never took an oath in my life," she said.
          "The service I ask will not require it of you; that will be for Mr. Snellins only. All
            that I ask of you is to bear witness to the testimony, and then sign the document."
          "Will my name go to Washington?" she asked, excitedly.
          "Yes," he replied, smiling at the wonderful importance she attached to that fact, and
            thinking in the meantime of the little note that would be taken of her signature in the
            great bulk of matter that goes to Washington to be seen only by disinterested
            clerks.
          "But, what if they should ever send for me, or write to me, or something," she said. "I
            would be frightened to death."
          "Little chance of that," he replied, smilingly. "Witnesses in the position that you
            will occupy are never called upon."
          "Well, I hardly know," she said, undecidedly. "I must ask father;" and, excusing
            herself, she left him. Unable to concentrate his mind upon the book he closed it, and
            sat looking out the window as he waited for Snellins, who was not destined to come.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER III.
          The afternoon dragged itself out until the short day had reached that time when the
            shadows, that not long before boldly and clearly outlining short counterparts of the
            trees along the road, had grown much longer than the trees themselves. Stretching across
            the road in weak lines, breaking in irregular, sharp angles over the stones, and, rising
            up over the hedge that bordered the opposite side, they died away among the stubble and
            clodded ground in a barren cornfield.
          Harvey arose, his patience much exhausted by the long wait. He had not expected to
            leave the district that night, but the prospect of having to waste the afternoon had not
            occurred to him. He concluded that he could not wait much longer if he was to get to
            Ashville before dark, and to drive there after dark through the irregular country, with
            its steep hills and loose stones, was not to be thought of. With a feeling of regret for
            the lost time, and a little nettled at the prospect of having the hard ride over again,
            he pulled himself together and sauntered into the yard, where he found George Brandt,
            still busy with the building that was in thoughtful preparation for the storms of a
            winter not far away.
          
          "Well, young man," said George Brandt, standing with a hammer poised above his head,
            just where it had stopped when he caught sight of Frank, who wore a gloomy expression,
            and walked slowly with his hands pushed deep into his trousers' pocket, "I guess you are
            going to be disappointed this time."
          "Yes, I guess I am," he replied, trying to regain at least a semblance of cheerfulness
            in accepting the inevitable, but not succeeding with much grace.
          "We have to make the best of these things, though," said Brandt, continuing with his
            work. "Look at my position—can't say a word to the villain when I do lay eyes on
            him. Bound hand and foot, you might say, by a promise. But a man's word keeps him out of
            lots of trouble sometimes, I suppose," he added, philosophically. The thoughts he did
            not speak were very emphatically expressed with the hammer.
          "It will be dark in an hour from now," Harvey said, resolved to give the day up as
            wasted, "so I had better be starting."
          "I am mighty sorry your trip was for nothing; however, you may have better luck
            to-morrow. I cannot promise though. Ben is such an unreliable fellow. You have learned
            that to-day without my telling you, but I think he will surely be back this
            evening."
          Then Frank bid the old man "good-bye," and as he drove away over the rough road he
            could hear the industrious hammer above the rattle of his light wagon's wheels.
          "B'n up to Brandt's, have ye?" said the voluble landlord, rounding up the information
            he had succeeded in drawing from Harvey during the evening
            meal, as they sat down by the office stove—a modest counterpart of the mammoth
            round, two-piece, cast-iron kind we are used to watching from a comfortable distance as
            they grow rapidly redder and redder after a vigorous prodding by the station agent, who
            so easily glides from the menial position of janitor to an exalted "company's agent"
            (that fact being embroidered on his cap), which is donned just as the redness reaches a
            cherry ripe and the train comes in. But the country railway station and agents and such
            things have nothing to do with Silas Dole, the landlord (commonly known as "Jolly Si"
            because of his good nature and his bouncing way of showing it); though the stove has
            much to do with him, because, with the chill evenings coming on, it had again resumed
            its importance as the central point from which many legs of various lengths led out like
            spokes to a wheel of good fellowship. "Si" was about to resume the conversation where it
            was left off in the dining-room, but he was called away to take down a clothes-line and
            attend to other chores, and when he returned some of the "regulars" had dropped in. In
            the introductions that followed he was restrained for a time, but not for long, and at
            the first opportunity took it up again.
          "B'n up to Brandt's?" he commenced. "Smashin' fine man Brandt is—treated you
            square I 'low?"
          "Well, yes, I had dinner there," Frank replied.
          "Couldn't a-b'n no other way; he never was knowed to do a mean thing since he's b'n
            'round here, an' that's thirty-six year."
          
          "Nigh onto thirty-eight," said Lem Henderson, from the other side of the stove, with a
            positiveness that set his foot to bobbing.
          "'Taint now, be it?" asked "Si," a little surprised at his miscalculation, and Lem's
            head nodded a continuous assent in union with his foot.
          "Well, it were in the spring o' the year anyhow," continued "Si," "an' him an' his
            woman come a-draggin' in here so pesky tired that we jest had to give 'em room ef it did
            crowd me an' Faribee some. You remember we hadn't nothin' but that log place
            then—what you an' Peters' boys helped me to build?" he asked of Turner, who up to
            this time had apparently been deep in thought or in a trance, or some other
            brain-absorbing state.
          "I swan I do," said he, rising to the occasion with unnecessary enthusiasm, and,
            continuing, "Sam Peters was shot about the middle—"
          "Yes, I hear'n tell about that," said "Si," breaking in on the equally voluble Turner,
            who at once resumed his thinking attitude, vanquished but not in the least offended.
          "We kept 'em along o' us fer nigh a month," continued "Si" retrospectively. "His woman
            was plum give out, and fust think we knowed she was down with chills an' fever, an'
            Brandt went clean crazy. You couldn't-a no more talked horse-sense into him than
            nothin'. Kept a-callin' hisself a blamed fool an' wuss things, an' when she sort o' come
            round agin she must-a 'greed with him, 'cause she give him one layin'-out I shan't never
            forgit so long as I live. Said she was tired a-bein'
            passeled about over the country 'thout never knowin' whur she was a-goin' to next, an'
            'bout th' time she got through she 'lowed they'd better stop right where they wuz; an'
            Brandt, he didn't seem to know 'zactly what he was a-wantin', so they tuk up that bit o'
            lan' down whur he bees now, an' in less 'an three years she'd managed t' get hol' a
            right smart o' groun' 'round thur. They didn't bother much 'ith thur neighbors then,
            'cause they wan't none noways handy, but we used to see 'the lady' (that's what folks
            got to callin' of her) once in a long while. Well, one night 'long come "Doc" Seebert
            an' gets Faribee an' takes her down thur, an' when she comes back she's got a bundle,
            an' she jest looks 't me an' says. Says she: 'Si,' you'll go an' 'tend t' things;
            Brandt, he ain't fittin'.' An' when I see him I knowed he wan't. 'Lem' can tell you how
            onfittin' he were," said the narrator, looking at Henderson, who with solemn face nodded
            assent without attempting to break into the tale.
          "Then,' he went on, "we kep' that little bundle here with us fer weeks an' weeks, 'til
            'way into the summer, an' one day Brandt, he come over an' says to me; he says, an' he
            was looking mighty down in the mouth, 'Si,' says he, 'I guess I be all right now,' an' I
            says right off—'fine as a fiddle,' an' I jest stood a-lookin' at him. I didn't
            kinder know what else moughten be the best thing to say, an' he jest stood a-lookin' at
            the floor. So what do you think? That blessed baby goes an' sets up a-yellin' in t'other
            room, an' he looks up smilin' kinder weaklike, an' then I knowed what he'd come fer; so
            I calls Faribee an' she brings the baby in, an', when it
            kep' on a-cryin' an' stickin' its little fists in its eyes, Faribee says: 'That ain't no
            way to be a-greetin' of your pop first time you see him. Young ladies should be a-havin'
            of better manners,' an' Brandt, he smiles again more happier an' looks at her, not
            knowin' jest what to do. 'I s'pose I should be takin' her home,' he says. 'I don't 'low
            you will,' says Faribee, speakin' up prompt. 'I ain't a-goin' to give her over jest yet.
            What does men know 'bout colic an' cramps?' she asks him, an' he looks foolish an' 'lows
            he ain't very knowin' on them things, but he keeps on, an' says, 'I'm a-thinkin' she'll
            be a bother.' 'You go about your business,' says my woman, makin' out she's cross, an'
            afterwhile he goes away, an' we jest kep' that baby all through that summer, an' the
            winter too."
          "I remember one night, jest 'bout 'long this time o' year, Faribee says to him—I
            can see him now, settin' up straight, like company manners an' all (he was allus that
            way), an' me back agin the wall, on the hind legs of a cheer, an' Faribee, she'd been
            a-hummin' to the gal, when she stopped all of a-suddint an' says: 'Brandt, you're a
            tyrant; here's this baby nigh a growed-up woman, an' she ain't got no name yit.' 'That's
            right,' says I. 'Well, what would you suggest?' he says, smilin'. 'Lord have mercy on
            the man,' says Faribee. 'If he ain't a-goin' amongst strangers askin' fer a name fer his
            own!' 'Well,' says he, 'sif he wan't jest sure of hisself, 'I have been a-thinkin' of
            it, an' we might call her Virginia, prowidin' it 'ud be all right,' he says, which opset
            my woman a bit, 'cause she'd sort o' settled on 'Jennie,'
            but she had to agree with him, an' first thing we knowed ever'body was a-callin' of the
            little one 'Virgie.'"
          "Well, sir," "Si" commenced again after a short pause, "he tuck her home that nex'
            spring, an' I don't believe the wife an' me was ever lonesomer; it was awful the way we
            missed that baby. But when she was a little gal he uster bring her over to see us ever'
            few days, an' afterwhile she got to comin' of her ownself, an' she never got tired
            a-tellin' her 'Aunt Faribee' 'bout the great things her father was a-teachin' her out o'
            books, 'till the hull distric' tuk her up an' would a-spoiled her, only she wouldn't let
            'em. She don't have much time to come here no more, 'cause she has such a heap o' things
            to do, helpin' her pop an' the new parson an' the poor folks, though Lord knows we're as
            poor as anybody; but sometimes she drops in an', rollin' up her sleeves, she'll put on a
            apron an' work about jest as common as dirt, an' when she laughs an' talks like nothin'
            wasn't a-botherin' of her it's a sight worth seein'."
          "Well, I guess I'll be a-goin'," said Henderson, rising slowly and straightening his
            stiff, weather-warped old legs.
          "Don't be in a hurry," said the host, genially.
          "Th' woman's got rheumatiz now, so she's sort o' cross, an' don't do to aggervate her
            now, so I best be a-goin'," he repeated.
          "Ever'body knows his own afflictions best," said "Si," smiling.
          
          "Now it ain't so bad since it's turned cool," said Henderson, missing the humor of his
            friend's jibe, and continuing, "an' Brandt's girl give her somethin' now, so she's
            easin' up a bit, an' now, so I ain't a-gettin' complained on 'smuch 's it was," he said,
            with his "now so" covering the pauses in which he ruminated through his rusty brain for
            words to express himself.
          "Can't keep a man away from the busom of his family," and, winking at Harvey, Dole bid
            the homeward-bound patriarch a cheery "good-night!" and closed the door after him.
          "Pensions is a good thing sometimes," started Turner before the host could regain his
            chair, but Frank was not in the mood to go over this—to him—tiresome subject
            again; therefore, he rose hastily, and, complaining of fatigue, shook hands all around
            and followed "Si" up a narrow stairway to a little lamp-lighted room, where he soon lost
            the procession of strange characters that had made up the day in a sound, healthy
            sleep.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER IV.
          "Miss Virgie," the name by which she was known among her simple and affectionate
            people, had indeed grown to be a very busy young woman, as she gradually assumed the
            cares of her many friends, who took pains to lay before her their most trivial woes with
            the desire to have her sweet, sympathetic company. In the companionship, of which she
            found time to give to each a little, there was a sympathy tempered by a happy knowledge
            of the ways to extract from a hard, work-a-day and seeming profitless existence the
            happiness to be had from little things. She carried into these prosaic homes the light
            that made her people forget their cares in the analysis of trivial causes. She would go
            deep into the woes of some poor soul, and, as she hushed a wailing infant into repose,
            or in other ways helped to lighten some aggravating burden, seeking out the source of
            their troubles and, taking each in turn, she would laugh them away as imaginary ills, or
            temper them with a sweet and sincere sympathy that never failed in good results. Her
            visits left a better reasoning and understanding of life, and satisfaction in doing
            one's duty even if there were no other reward than that of having done it well.
          
          She loved intensely her wild surroundings. In her early girlhood she had had only her
            father's love, but George Brandt was not the kind of man to understand a child's ways.
            Men seldom do. She was, therefore, without the instinctive sympathy that only a mother
            can impart. She had been given books—always books. Lacking in the inventiveness
            that a mother permits full sway, her father attempted to furnish nothing as a pastime
            for Virgie but his own favorites. Yet she did not suffer for a lack of guidance into the
            mysteries that are always before child-life. The hills furnished rocky caves, into which
            she would worm herself, and there, surrounded by the fairies of her imagination, live in
            purer innocence than a less wholesome atmosphere could yield. She watched the mother
            quail guard her eggs until the great covey was a peeping fact hiding in the heavy brush,
            and at the end, when the little wings grew strong, they would rise in a mighty,
            startling whir when she approached too close. Tumble bugs and bumble bees, wasps and
            butterflies—these were the embodiment of fantastic conceptions. The ants built
            castles for her and did fascinating deeds of toil and carnival in their arenas of sand.
            Once a gopher sat on a fence and quirked his tail, obligingly vacating his tunnel home
            that it might receive her flower offering to fairyland. The sweet William petals never
            would terminate after a most arduous counting, but the heather-bell's day was done with
            her departure, and they drooped in sorrowful slumber out of loneliness. From these
            gentler things, which could teach only goodness and inspire only interested wonder, she grew into a knowledge at once beneficial and tending
            toward the sympathetic.
          From her father she inherited that which was his best characteristic—a love of
            books—an inheritance that he cultivated to its last degree; and from her mother
            Virgie bore in counterpart that force that had been brought out in her later life
            through necessity. It was only natural that, with these two characteristics dominant,
            the knowledge gained from the studying of studies by great men and women, and the energy
            to do that which she was prompted to do, there was always the opportunity occurring to
            her active mind that she should drift among people and sway them with these forces. Her
            influence grew to be an important factor in the Ashville "meeting-house," and gossips
            had been known to say that Royal Kent, its young pastor, was merely Virgie's
            mouth-piece, so strongly did he feel her influence, though it was scarcely come to
            that.
          "But we will have to do something, Miss Virgie; our finances are in an awful bad way,
            you know," said Kent the next morning after Harvey's visit, as he stood, one leg thrown
            over a corner of the kitchen table, and looking a picture of hopelessness.
          "Yes, I know, but the old, stale amusements at which you ask people to give their
            hard-earned dollars at the same time you ask for their souls, is not productive of
            Christians. It leaves a bad flavor, and they will not go together," she answered.
          "Then, why don't you suggest something else? It isn't like you to tear down and not
            build up."
          
          "I have been thinking," she replied abstractedly, looking at him as though he did not
            count in her reasoning, "for some way to infuse a little novelty into it."
          "Yes," he said, awaiting her solution with interest.
          "I was wondering if we could not get up a nutting contest," she said slowly after a
            pause.
          "A what?" he asked in surprise.
          "A nutting contest."
          "What good would that do?"
          "Why, it would do just what you want to do, and the people would know from the start
            just what they were working for without any varnishing over of our real object."
          "I don't see how you mean to do it. I don't quite understand," he said perplexedly.
          "You must first get everybody interested in the contest," she said, beginning to unfold
            her half-formed plans. "Then we must place a sort of premium on labor by making the slow
            ones pay for what they do not do, and those who are energetic will have the tax taken
            off in proportion to their work."
          "But how about the women members, especially the old ones?" he protested, as her idea
            grew clearer to him.
          "Of course the old ones cannot do anything but get their boy and girl relations to help
            them out; but you will see the younger ones take hold all right, and, with everybody
            interested, the rivalry will be great fun. Do you not see what great results we shall
            obtain?" she said enthusiastically, and more confident as she progressed with the idea
            which was rapidly becoming more feasible to her, the
            possible results surging in upon her so fast that they tumbled over each other at the
            risk of becoming confused, which inspired her to convey them to her listener in quick,
            choppy sentences.
          "There will be some who will be glad to pay just to get out of it, but they will take
            it in a good-natured way. Some will fail to gather enough, and they will have to
            contribute for their lagging efforts or inexperience. But I know that everybody almost
            will take hold if you tell them the right way, and the result will be that they will
            scour the country and bring in a harvest beyond the wildest dreams, and this harvest
            will be yours to market. The proceeds will be magnificent I will promise."
          "I don't know," was all Kent said as he tried to foresee the end. He was a peculiar man
            this Royal Kent. Why he had chosen his present surroundings had never been explained any
            more than he had chosen to tell whence he had come; but that he was a respected idol
            among the women of his congregation was very evident in their affectionate references to
            "the parson." He had a way of rousing their sympathies with smooth, sweetly-modulated
            sentences, and, while his great size did not exactly intimidate them, still it had a
            dominating effect; but this, followed closely by his almost soothing tones, left an
            impression akin to the pleasant recovery from defeat, or, to better describe it, the
            re-assembling of jarred emotions into a sense of delicious quietude, and since all women
            are emotional, though in different degrees, these
            endowments had a wide range for action. They very naturally credited him with the more
            pleasing sensation, and it gave him an enviable popularity among them. But with the
            sterner portion of his followers he could never decide just how he stood, and, in truth,
            that portion was a little at a loss to know its own opinion; their impressions were so
            variable. At times his talks had the senescence of borrowed thought, and there could be
            no mistaking the lack of assurance that backed that thought, but in the main he seemed
            to have a hold on some deduction of his own, and then he would clothe it in an
            earnestness, though it might be assumed, that carried conviction, and for the time they
            would discard unpleasant impressions and try to condemn themselves for errors of
            judgment; yet, somehow, they could not feel secure in any reasoning.
          This was unfortunate for Kent, as he was keenly alive to his own faults. He gathered
            the wrong impression and took the wrong manner of correcting it. Striving to create in
            their minds an understanding of what he desired to do, he held out to them possible
            results that somehow he could never quite reach, and in the failure they felt rather
            than questioned his insincerity. They were not given to analyzing a man's mind in its
            more delicate shading. Being men of deeds themselves, they judged by results that he did
            not or could not attain; they, in consequence, felt a slight distrust—an
            unconscious questioning.
          Virgie had often aided him with advice, and it had almost always proven successful in
            results, though his own lack of force had at times caused
            him to fail in carrying her unique conceptions to a successful issue, and here now was
            another scheme, in answer to his request, of which he was very doubtful.
          "What! don't you know?" she asked, and, with the confidence born of many successes, she
            was just the least piqued at his doubting the outcome of her suggestion.
          "I was thinking how it could be pulled through," he replied, half apologetically.
          "You don't need to 'pull it through' at all," she said, not to be discouraged. "All you
            need do is to make the announcement tomorrow and refer everybody to me as the manager,
            and I will see to all the pulling."
          "That would not be fair, now, Miss Virgie. You make me feel like I was not to have a
            hand in it."
          "Oh! you will have plenty to do," she answered gayly, and then, as she was going to
            respond to a rap on the front door, she added, "but you leave the details to me."
          "Has the wanderer returned?" asked Harvey, after the happiest expressions in greeting
            Virgie. The sharp morning air, tempered by the slowly-rising sun, had exhilarated him to
            a most buoyant state of cheerfulness, and he had forgotten entirely his vexation of the
            previous day.
          "Not yet," she replied. "Won't you come in?"
          "I suppose I must make the best of it," he said, as he went indoors; but this added
            disappointment could not depress him for long, nor in any
            great degree, for the beautiful scenes through which he had just come had imparted too
            much of their glorious freshness to permit of a sudden reaction.
          Virgie closed the door and followed him through the house to the kitchen, a little
            annoyed at the ease with which he accepted the freedom of her home, but she would not
            caution him against coming upon her other visitor, although she could anticipate his
            surprise in the sudden meeting, a result that she thought due him for the liberty he was
            taking.
          Frank stepped into the kitchen without any particular reason for going there except the
            slight attraction of having been there before. Following out the impulse he happened at
            once upon Kent, the momentary embarrassment driving from him a sentence already prepared
            for Virgie.
          The men looked at each other in genuine amazement. While the situation was an unusual
            one, there was more in it to strike them forcibly than the chance meeting. They were
            each an almost exact counterpart of the other. To one who might study them closely the
            differences would be easily discernible, but at the first glance, both near six feet
            tall, large and symmetrically built, and smooth-faced, they seemed of the same mould,
            and, as the resemblance struck them on the moment, they observed each other
            closely—earnestly.
          "This is Mr. Harvey, Mr. Kent," said Virgie, after a time in which she enjoyed the
            situation for all it contained.
          
          And then they shook hands heartily, each smiling at the other, conscious of what was in
            his mind, though they exchanged commonplace greetings without reference to it, each
            perhaps half hoping his new acquaintance might introduce the thought.
          "You seem doomed to disappointment," said Virgie, trying to relieve the situation a
            bit, as the young men continued to look at each other in a helpless fashion, addressing
            herself to Frank.
          "I did not have any thought but that he would be here," he answered. "But it is the
            unexpected that happens, and I suppose I must make the best of it," he added, nothing
            better than his first utterance recurring to him.
          "I am sorry you appreciate our hospitality so little," she said.
          "That is hardly a fair way to interpret my remark," he replied smiling. "I do
            appreciate it, and very thoroughly too, only it is the having one's plans so completely
            upset that makes it uncomfortable. Disappointments can be toned down considerable at
            times by introducing pleasant things, but somehow they cannot be buried entirely at
            will. It takes time to do that."
          "Your apology is accepted," she replied jestingly.
          "I am sure there could be no more acceptable hospitality, at least in these parts,"
            said Kent, entering the conversation at the first opportunity.
          "It was more than I could have expected under the circumstances," Frank replied.
          
          "Well, if you are so grateful for our small civilities," said Virgie, purposely
            exaggerating his meaning, "I think we should be able to relieve the monotony of your
            situation the least bit more, and, as the outlook for your remaining with us a little
            while longer seems very probable, we might permit you to share in a little plan we are
            forming."
          Quick to grasp the remotest possibilities, she had readily seen where she might
            relieve, in a measure, his trying position and at the same time make him an added force
            to her plans. She had unhesitatingly laid the foundation for his usefulness, and Harvey,
            too energetic not to accept a diversion from a situation which held only promises of
            complete idleness, readily fell in with her undisclosed suggestion.
          "You may have my services so far as I am capable," he said; "but I would add that you
            must count on me only as long as I shall have to remain to wait for Mr. Snellins."
          They accepted him into their scheme for replenishing the weak treasury of the
            meeting-house, and in the interchange of ideas there were suggestions that grew and
            improved as the plan unfolded to them. The men became mutually sympathetic, following
            Virgie's rapid lead until their talk drifted onto other things, and in the end they
            became interested in each other, and Kent promised that, if the day did not bring forth
            the missing Snellins, and if Frank was to remain in Ashville, that he, Kent, would call
            at the tavern for him after supper, when they could spend the evening  together at Kent's home, an invitation which Frank readily
            accepted.
          The day dragged itself out. Virgie went away on some errand, but returned early, and
            they dined as the day before, but, it being Saturday, both father and daughter were full
            of special work, and as soon as the meal was finished Virgie was off to visit some of
            the church members and obtain their support for the morrow. So Frank read as much as he
            could, and thought more, but when the evening commenced to arrive there was still no
            Snellins, and he was obliged to return without having accomplished anything.
          Harvey was again filled with wondering, and this time at the strangeness of choice in
            the selection of such an odd setting as he found the educated and probably world-wise
            Royal Kent; and he spoke of Kent to "Si" at supper, hoping to find at least a partial
            solution, but the usually communicative "Si" for once failed to communicate, so he
            dismissed the thought from him and simply waited for Kent's arrival.
          "Still with us, I see," Kent said, as he entered the tavern office, and aside, "Good
            evening, 'Si!'"
          "'Evenin', Parson," "Si" replied.
          "I am doomed, I guess," said Frank.
          "You take it easy enough," laughed the parson, and then went on: "Get your hat and come
            on over to the house with me, where we can talk," and Frank, putting his hat on, the men
            left the room, where a speedy jumbling of voices indicated that their striking
            resemblance had not been lost on the "regulars."
          
          The parsonage in which Kent lived was a very small affair, but it sufficed to the needs
            of its tenant. He led Frank at once to what he called his study, a misnomer insomuch as
            it bore every indication of recreation rather than of studious thought, and in the
            things with which he had surrounded himself Frank experienced a sensation of
            familiarity. They spoke of the worldly man and the college man combined, and not of the
            man whose life has been a constant seeking for truths, deeper truths, holier truths;
            yet, withal, he was not surprised, even if he had not expected to find them there, for
            the morning's acquaintance foretold these surroundings. They were of Kent. It was the
            man.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER V.
          "Do you smoke?" Kent asked, offering Frank a cigar and lighting one himself. "I cannot
            educate the people here to the idea of a smoking parson," he went on, "though it is
            quite a general thing in cities."
          It was just the using of other men's deeds and thoughts that marked him as insincere.
            The appropriation of their vices to excuse his own, and, though he had not analyzed it,
            Harvey felt that the man had better have said: "I smoke because I want to smoke," or "I
            smoke because I do not feel that there is any wrong in it," and, in truth, Kent would
            have expressed himself correctly had he said either of these, but it was his misfortune
            to be lacking in expressing his convictions properly, to convey their real truth, and
            thus he was constantly creating a harmful and an untrue impression of himself.
          The young men readily dropped into an easy talk of the place and people with which they
            were surrounded, yet Harvey's knowledge of these things was so limited, and Kent seemed
            so reluctant to talk of the world outside his own, that they eventually drifted, by easy
            stages, to a discussion of the contest that had drawn them together in a kind of mutual
            interest.
          
          "It will be either a colossal failure or the most successful novelty that I have ever
            seen," said Kent. "But, somehow, Miss Virgie has a way of carrying her plans to a
            successful issue, and you cannot help but feel a confidence that the results will be all
            that she predicts."
          "If your people are any way susceptible to novelty the idea must succeed," Harvey
            replied, "for she will sway them irresistibly."
          "Did you ever know a woman to possess the magnetism that she has? Women are naturally
            attractive, but it seems always in a small degree. Their scope is usually limited to a
            smaller field, say their home circle, or perhaps a circle that includes their relatives
            and a few friends, but for them to accomplish anything, that is, so far as humanity is
            concerned, is quite an unusual thing," said Kent, the subject leading him on to other
            observations.
          "I agree with you, but only partially," Harvey replied. "It may be true that a woman's
            influence is confined to a very small circle usually, as you say, but I hold that it is
            scarcely less potent because of its limitations."
          "It was with the results as achieved by men that I was drawing the comparison. What
            proportion of feminine achievements against those masculine have we? Is the percentage
            not a very insignificant one?"
          "I am afraid that you lose sight of the fact that whatever man accomplishes is taken up
            and cried about, while with women the reverse is true. They exert an influence that
            lacks publicity, for it rather seeks retirement, and is
            lost in the home circle of which you speak, while it may be that theirs was the head
            that planned and carried to a successful issue the very achievement their masculine
            relative or friend receives the credit for, which easily accounts for the uneven
            percentage."
          "Yet is it not true that women give less than they receive?" Kent asked.
          "In a material sense, yes; but of the things that we cannot measure, because they are
            without a fixed valuation, there is a decided credit on her side," said Harvey.
          "Supposing, now," said Kent, "that the man loves as intensely as the woman at the
            outset. Don't you know that the time will always come when love will be toned by worldly
            or other affairs into a milder form, and then he seeks to make of its object a
            companion. What happens then? He is brought face to face with the fact that he is no
            longer equal to the occasions of her intensest moods; he cannot meet her fascinations
            with the understanding he once knew, and in the effort to atone for that failure he
            turns to material things as the next most suitable offering. That they are accepted goes
            without saying; for there was never yet a woman who, in lieu of homage, would not accept
            and feel these homelier things desirable. It may be, since homage and material offerings
            are so inseparable in the average case, that she cannot detect the division between
            them, and, taking one for both, she craves and accepts, yet still craves, always increasing her demands until, as I have said, she receives
            more than she gives."
          "I am sorry that I cannot agree with you there," said Harvey, "at least in the motive
            that underlies the result. I am afraid that, in the order of circumstances, you have
            failed to grasp the exchange between the two, as it lies hidden beneath the achievements
            of the man, and yet is most often evidenced in his achievements. Of course we make
            offerings, and why should we not? We, as men, have these things to give. But let us
            suppose what would for many reasons be impossible; still we can suppose the case. Let us
            suppose that we be left a race of men only, and, in the interchange of ideas among
            ourselves, is it not highly probable that long before we became extinct we would have
            lost the effect of what is oftenest termed the 'refining influence,' and in the
            competition for each other's possessions an unholy rivalry would soon exist which, in
            the absence of that better influence, would degrade us. This competition would only be
            the first step on a downward track, until our one generation would surely find us
            indulging our aboriginal instincts, ambitionless, careless, thoughtless at its end. We
            would be everything we are not now, and just for lack of the guidance, the watchfulness
            and the care our women have given us. Surely we should be satisfied to share these
            better results with them."
          "It is a rather sentimental view that you have of it," Kent laughed. "I can hardly
            reach that point where I can take all the glory of a man's achievements and, ruthlessly stripping him of their credit, pass them over to
            his feminine inspirators, parceling out this to his mother, that to his sister, and
            others to his wife."
          "No more can I," Harvey replied earnestly. "But the fact that men reach known heights
            so much oftener than do women does not lead me to believe that only men are successful
            in their aims."
          "Perhaps you are right," said Kent. The view was a new one to him, and, while he could
            not be counted as narrow-minded, his thirty years had not given the clearness of vision
            that Harvey possessed. He was more the man to accept things as they seem, rather than
            analyzing them from a diametrically opposite starting point. Yet he was impressionable,
            and quickly accepted Harvey's reasoning, because it seemed original in its method and
            forceful in its application and results. "I had never looked at it from just that
            point," the parson said.
          "Two people hardly ever do take life and its affairs the same way," Frank replied
            good-naturedly, "and the chances for wrong conclusions are limitless. I am always
            finding myself in error just because an impression has started me on the wrong
            track."
          "Well, there is some hope for the man who will see and acknowledge that he is wrong.
            Don't you think there is?"
          "Indeed I do," Frank laughed. "So we can each continue hopeful, I think."
          "I don't know," Kent said seriously. "I make so many mistakes, and, when they come back
            to me, of course I try to correct them."
          
          "And are you not successful?"
          "Sometimes, but, while I am busy with them, I go on making others."
          "An endless chain," Harvey laughed.
          "That is near it," Kent replied.
          "I fear you are quite hopeless then," Harvey said, and both men laughed, partly at
            their own frank confessions, but more because each felt called upon to accept the other
            unseriously. Their mirth soon waned, as their minds would not relinquish the subject
            where their conversation had ended, and in its continuation there was much to reflect
            upon.
          Men seldom if ever attempt to read their fellowmen by physiognomy, as women often do. A
            man may be aware that his neighbor has an unusually square jaw, but he only looks at it
            as being different from the ordinary jaw. He does not say, "Now, that fellow has a
            square jaw, so he is a prize-fighter with a bull-dog disposition," for he knows that
            there are persons in other occupations with jaws that indicate tenacity, while there are
            fighters without this particular kind of jaw, and since he has never noticed the kind of
            ear a musician has, or the eyes of a poet, in fact any of the features of people whose
            disposition or inclinations are daily before him, he does not judge by these things. At
            times this seeming lack of knowledge comes to him with regret, and he resolves on the
            spot that, at the first opportunity, he will take secret lessons from some of his
            feminine friends, whom he has heard reading character like so much print. It is a
            resolve in keeping with the feeling that he will some day
            read up on art, because someone has in his presence been talking art to someone else,
            and he could not understand; or he sees a lightning calculator doing wonderful sums for
            a gaping crowd, and in that expertness he finds his own mathematics very rusty by
            comparison, which occasions another resolve: "He will go and become expert—not
            just now, but very soon, and after all he does none of these things. The reason he does
            not is because they are out of the line of his daily needs. He could not use the
            knowledge if he had it, so these far-separated occasions only serve as reminders of the
            things in which he is lacking, though they are by no means essential.
          Royal Kent would have given much to have been a physiognomist at the conclusion of his
            talk with Harvey, for he could derive nothing of the character of his guest from that
            talk unless it be his positiveness. He unconsciously depended on others, more or less,
            for the expressing of his thoughts. He never took so positive a stand that he could not
            modify it to another's views if the occasion demanded, for he disliked argument for
            argument's sake, or, for that matter, for any result it might obtain. He was all at sea
            as to the best way to proceed with Harvey, since his first observation had brought such
            an unusual amount of opposition at the outset. The fact is that the best way with most
            men is their own way, but Kent did not have the confidence in himself to act naturally,
            at least when he felt the equality or supremacy of another's mind, and in consequence
            his manner in all such circumstances was an uncomfortable one for his auditor. The knowledge of things in general was in him and easily
            discernible, but his withholding it from you, as he followed and agreed to your line of
            thought, gave the impression that he was weak, and perhaps he was, though you might
            still cling to him in a hope of obtaining that which he had—that which you knew he
            contained, but which he could not produce.
          Harvey found the keenest delight in the study of character. And here now he had
            happened upon a character study that claimed his deepest interest. He discovered the
            free and easy social code upon which Kent was built, and the impossibility of its
            successful application to the calling he had chosen was at once apparent. The manner in
            which Kent toadied to the ideas of his guest amused Harvey because of its palpableness,
            and in Kent's unique character he found much that was fascinating.
          "Then I shall see you at service in the morning?" Kent asked, as Frank rose to go.
          "Indeed you will,' he replied. "I am very much interested in the outcome of your
            nutting contest, and I shall be there to watch the hold it takes on your people."
          "Well, come early; I should like to have a little talk with you before service; 10.30
            we begin. Come earlier if you can."
          "I will be among the first," Frank replied.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VI.
          Of the many edifices that have been built and dedicated to the worship of God there are
            a few that have borne no little interest to the exploring mind. Of these few, the
            interest taken in the ones classed as "meeting-houses," and of the type that Ashville
            has produced, the comment and study has not been the least. Here in the hills of a
            region remote from thriving, progressive humanity, sturdy men and loyal women built
            their little home of worship. The men carried from earlier surroundings only mental
            pictures of the churches they had known. Harassed by their inexperienced labor and crude
            tools, they had arrived at a result very slow in coming, and an irregular, inartistic
            structure was their reward at the happy end. Yet it was the counterpart of many another
            pioneer "meeting-house" beautiful to the builders. Differing perhaps only in wild
            surroundings and the characters who constructed it piecemeal, leaving their sturdy,
            earnest, individual purposes marked upon its every part, making the whole peculiar to
            them.
          On Sunday morning, as Frank Harvey approached its ground, so sanctified by the many
            years of devotion and worship, the sun seemed to embrace
            and fill its beautiful homeliness with a warmth of affection. From the hallowed wall
            there shone back a partial response through clinging vines, resplendent in the bright
            coloring of Indian summer. As he came closer the rapid progress of autumn's devastating
            influence was apparent in the thinness of the remaining leaves. He felt rather than
            reasoned the approach of colder days, when that ruddy coloring would have gone with the
            time that had made it glorious, and only a naked ugliness would be left in its stead
            until a more monotonous mantle of sparkling snow came to cover the remaining vines.
          He arrived early, as Kent had asked him to do—earlier than he at first
            realized—but the triumphant splendor that the light and color contained created a
            delightful sensation of fresh enjoyment, and in the pleasure of the hour he did not feel
            impatient. Even the quiet, unobtrusive arrival of the sexton, a humble man, did not
            distract him. It was not until the decrepit old men and women—those who find a
            peculiar satisfaction in being the first to arrive and the last to leave their
            worship—it was not until these faithful souls came to divert his mind that he
            regained an active interest in people and left off dreaming. He entered and slipped into
            one of the seats nearest the door, watching the old people as they exchanged bits of
            gossip, laughing in a quiet way at their own humor.
          It was not long until Kent arrived. Coming at once to Harvey, he greeted him with the
            cheerfulness that seemed to pervade the atmosphere, and, introducing him to a few of the bystanders, drew him away as soon as he had the
            opportunity, and asked:
          "Get back to the tavern all right last night?"
          "Oh! yes," Harvey replied. "Had no trouble at all."
          "That's good. Haven't seen Miss Virgie and her father yet this morning, have you?"
          "No. I guess they have not arrived."
          "I expect you to share their pew with them. Ah, here they are!" he added, as George
            Brandt and Virgie came out of the group near the door, and Virgie, discovering them,
            came to where they were standing.
          "I was just about to take a little liberty," said Kent, smiling.
          "And," supplemented Virgie, her face radiant with the charm of lovely appreciation in
            the delightful morning.
          "And I invited Mr. Harvey to share your pew with you and your father."
          "Indeed he may. You shall go nowhere else," she added, as Harvey was about to interpose
            some objection.
          "Then I will leave him to your care," Kent finished, and, excusing himself, left to
            mingle with his congregation that he might talk with them a few moments before the
            services.
          Virgie had little chance to converse with Harvey, as there were so many demands upon
            her, and when the little organ gave out its first harmonious chords, as a warning of the
            beginning of service, she had said scarcely anything to him—to his
            disappointment.
          
          "We had better be seated now," she remarked, and leading the way up the centre aisle
            she entered and took a seat beside her father, Harvey occupying the one left vacant on
            his opposite side.
          "You all know, I believe," the parson said, after concluding a list of other
            announcements, and taking a stand at one end of the platform to mark the difference in
            his plain, personal talk from the sermon that was to follow. "You all know, I believe,
            the present state of our finances, and with your knowledge of the necessities before us
            in the coming winter you can understand how much we are in need of assistance. It is not
            my wish to make upon you demands that would be disagreeable, or, on the other hand,
            suggest any plans that will but cover our needs in a small and unsatisfactory way. With
            the aid of one of our congregation a plan has been formed (here many of the knowing ones
            looked toward Virgie) that will give every one of us a chance to help just a little, and
            I think we will each find great satisfaction in giving that help."
          Then he proceeded to unfold the scheme for the next day in its entirety, stating at the
            end that "Miss Brandt would give every one who might take part full information about
            the details," and adding, "I am sure that there are none who will fail to take
            interest."
          There were some, but they were only among the older people, who already knew, and they
            continued looking toward the front in unmoved consciousness. To those though to whom the
            idea came for the first time the novelty and possibilities impressed with a quick delight, and an excited murmur passed among them as
            they discussed its phases in variously audible whispers, smiles and pleased expressions
            indicating popular approval.
          Harvey glanced cautiously around over those whom he could see, and became greatly
            amused at their enthusiastic reception of it. As the sermon commenced the whispering
            subsided, and all eyes seemed turned on Virgie. Frank looked past her father, who sat
            studiously attentive to all that the parson was saying, and he thought at first that she
            was serenely unconscious of her position as she glued her eyes on Kent, but there was
            the excitement in her eyes that indicated plainly her feelings.
          With the services ended she at once became the centre of a questioning group. Mildly
            smiling on the younger boys, who were exceedingly boisterous, she answered all the
            questions she could when able to make herself understood, and in the end each one of
            that small assemblage was filled with a determination to do his best, swayed by the
            excitement of the others, and electrified by her enthusiasm.
          The following morning Harvey started early and drove out to Brandt's. He felt the hour
            an unusual one, and had many misgivings as to whether he had best not wait until later;
            but, as he drove through the town and along the road, he met so many merry parties
            already busy with their chosen work, that he was soon convinced that the day is old or
            young at seven in the morning as habit has made it for us.
          
          He found Virgie finished with her home duties and about to leave.
          "We cannot let you remain here all day alone," she said, "and, besides, you have
            promised to help us."
          "But how can I help any? I know nothing about the art of nut gathering," he replied
            dubiously.
          "There is no need for you to. If you really care to help there will be plenty for you
            to do," she said, starting off through the woods opposite the house, and Frank followed
            meekly, for he had not the slightest idea as to where he was going or what would be
            expected of him.
          The route she had taken led, by way of a narrow path, through the thick underbrush and
            massive trees that skirted the road, and as they moved along the fallen leaves rustled
            harshly as they swirled about their feet. When they came out into a narrow strip of
            clearing he took up a place beside her and resumed the broken conversation.
          "If you are going to town why could not I have taken you there in the wagon?"
          "There are too many parties already out that I wish to see. I cannot leave them to work
            all alone," she replied, and, disregarding his proffered aid, she crossed rapidly a
            small stream, stepping quickly from stone to stone with a deftness that came of
            experience. Then up a gentle slope she passed into another path so narrow that the
            protruding briar bushes forced him back to the single file again until they came upon a
            group of boys so intent in their work that Virgie's approach was unnoticed.
          
          " I can't shake the darned things down," said one of them, aggravated by his fruitless
            efforts.
          "Where are the darned things, Jimmie?" Virgie asked quietly, as she looked up into the
            tree.
          "Well, I can't get 'em loose anyhow," he protested, abashed at her perfect mimicry.
          And, without further reference to his outburst, she asked, "Have you been very
            lucky?"
          "'Bout three bushel," replied the erring Jimmie, and, regaining his interest,
            continued, "Griffin kids an' Tim Sanders 's on'y got less'n two."
          "Well, you are doing well," Virgie laughed encouragingly, and started
            on.
          Another walk of some ten minutes brought them to a party of both young men and women.
            Harvey was soon aware that the ungracious reception that they gave him and Virgie was
            entirely due to his own strangeness to these healthy, simple and pleasure-loving lassies
            and their swain, who had made use of the occasion for a general outing. Still the young
            people accepted the situation good-naturedly, and when asked as to their success rather
            shame-facedly confessed that they "had not commenced yet," though the cause for such
            tardiness was evident in their enjoyment of everything else but the labor portion. So
            Virgie only cautioned them against losing their forfeits, and as she and Harvey left,
            one of the most bold among the young men cried after them that she might expect a record
            by their efforts before the day was over.
          " Why do they all seem so fond of you?" Harvey asked, and, not trusting the reply to
            her, at once answered his own question. "It must be because
            you understand them so thoroughly, is it not?"
          "Is it not natural that I should understand them?" she answered evasively. "Have I not
            been brought up among them? Am I not one of them?"
          "Your having been raised among or with them does not necessarily make you one of them,
            and though you accept their interests as your interests, and their happiness and sorrows
            as your own, still I believe that you will grow out of an interest in their simple
            ways—if not just now—perhaps when you are older."
          "Oh! I know I never shall," she replied positively. "They are too dear to me."
          "Granting that they may be dear to you, is it not because you have only come to
            understand them, and in using that knowledge sway them to actions that are of your
            originating and not their own? Is it not the controlling their lives in a large measure
            that fascinates you?"
          "But they do these things themselves—in their own way. It is only for me to
            suggest, now and then, a small remedy. I assure you that their small demands are in no
            way tiresome."
          "I am afraid that you do not understand my meaning," Frank said earnestly. "You are
            wielding an influence that is more far-reaching than you seem to appreciate, but in time
            I think that you will know the scope of that influence, and when you do you cannot enjoy
            it long without the added knowledge of the limitations. Then you will have grown to a
            fuller appreciation of your capabilities. The smallness of this field of usefulness will surprise even yourself, and you will be inclined to
            cast about for other worlds to conquer."
          "You would have me become a very ambitious person," she smiled, following his line of
            thought as best she could, but wondering at his conception of her. In her own mind she
            had never dreamed of any other future. Her life would mature and end just where it now
            commenced to show results, and his reasoning had opened new possibilities far beyond her
            immediate acceptance. He was giving to her, ambitions that were beyond her imagining or
            filling in of details, just at the present at least, though she was impressed by his
            introducing the thought of greater things into her very busy life.
          "You are ambitious now. I would only have you become more ambitious, for I feel that
            your capabilities are in a measure wasted upon these people."
          "Oh! do not say that. You make me feel that my interest in them is lost in their
            selfishness. They are not selfish, and I will not have you think they are," she
            objected, in defense of her friends.
          "Perhaps they are not, but what do you receive for your efforts?"
          "Their gratitude; and, even if I did not, there is the satisfaction of having done the
            good one has set oneself to do."
          "I suppose it is all we have in any case," he said, half convinced. "But I only thought
            you might have a larger field for your usefulness," he added, as they emerged from the woods and entered the edge of the town, each
            busy with their own reflections.
          They went straight to the parsonage, where Harvey sank into the first chair he could
            find. The long and uneven walk had tired him considerably. Virgie, accustomed to
            continually running about, was not in the least fatigued, and remained standing as she
            talked to the elder "sisters" who were assembled, as is their wont at the least
            provocation where officiousness has an opportunity.
          The party was not a very animated one. Frank likened it to the quietness that pervades
            a polling place on voting day, where everything orderly and almost without interest
            speaks of a suppressed force that only awaits the coming in of returns to burst into
            noisy enthusiasm. As the day wore on, with a little flurry of excitement now and then
            occasioned by the returns from some not over-ambitious individual who had done just what
            he or she was asked to do—no more, no less—he wondered if it would not yet
            fizzle out to an uninteresting end, with nothing to relieve its tameness but these
            spasmodic arrivals. He feared the result for Virgie's sake. He knew her disappointment
            would be keen, and he found himself blaming the people. "A stupid lot at best," he
            reasoned. "She was mistaken to expect them to rise above a mediocre appreciation of her
            ambitions." But he allowed his sympathy for Virgie to carry him beyond a fair decision,
            and when the afternoon had reached almost twilight he grew to have a better feeling
            toward her people.
          
          Wagons, buggies and carts kept driving up in bewildering variety, the merry occupants
            dumping the results of their day's labor upon the lawn. In the rush there were none who
            received a correct credit for his amount, as boxes and baskets, and sacks upon sacks,
            were strewn over the ground, each merry worker adding his contribution with alacrity,
            causing such confusion that Harvey, whom Virgie had pressed into service as a kind of
            record-keeper, finally gave up the situation as a helpless one, and nodded or laughed
            his acknowledgment to each as he could get their attention.
          When darkness came on the excitement grew to fever heat. Someone suggested a
            "bon-fire," and it was taken up with wild shouts by the boys and younger men. Great
            heaps of crisp, dry leaves were gathered and set ablaze until the whole neighborhood was
            lighted by their ruddy glow. The children danced about in broken circles, likening
            themselves to ferocious Indians, shouting and singing themselves hoarse, while parents
            looked on smiling and laughing their sympathy, the fun continuing until the last belated
            party had arrived.
          Then "the parson" was made to mount a box and speak to them. Thanking them for the
            interest they had taken, he gracefully credited Virgie for originating it. When he had
            finished, those who could get to her hugged or kissed her, and bidding her good-night,
            reluctantly dispersed to their homes.
          When all had gone but Virgie, George Brandt and Harvey,
            Kent invited them in to supper—an invitation each refused.
          "Are you ready, dear?" asked Brandt.
          "Quite ready, father," she replied, as she surveyed the great, dark pile at the foot of
            the yard, where the smouldering leaves cast fantastic shadows as they started into
            little blazes of light and burned to ashes in the early evening darkness.
          "Will we see you tomorrow?" she asked of Harvey.
          "I will call in as I leave, for I am going away to-morrow," he answered half sadly.
          "And not wait for Ben?" she asked, surprised.
          "No. I do not feel that I can waste any more time on him."
          "What do you think of my people now?" she asked, her face beaming with the satisfaction
            of his defeat.
          "I am only convinced the more of what I said. That you are capable of greater things,"
            and as she was driven away she was again perplexed by his understanding of herself.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VII.
          "Yes, I am sorry to leave here," said Frank the next morning, shortly after his arrival
            in the house of the Brandts. "I got to thinking what an interesting time you have made
            of it for me when otherwise it might have been fearfully monotonous." "Oh! yes, it was
            you!" he continued, as she was about to deny the credit he gave her. "And last night
            when I went to my room the odor from the smoke of those leaves was still about my
            clothes, bringing up old memories. Strange, isn't it, how some particular thing will
            appeal to our senses—like that smoke did to mine—at once associating itself
            with some old chain of thoughts and setting them in motion again?"
          "What were your thoughts?" Virgie asked simply.
          "Well, I hardly know; they were so varied," he replied laughing. "The most impressive
            one, though, was a recollection of the fires we boys used to have. Somehow it saddened
            me to think that I could never have them again, but now, when I think of it, they would
            hardly prove interesting if I could."
          "Then why regret leaving behind the things once outlived—episodes that are
            without further interest for you?" she asked.
          
          "Perhaps that would be a more philosophical way of looking at it, but at times little
            patches of sentimentality will creep in, and when they do we are bound to wish for or
            regret the loss of incidents that we would probably not care to live over if we could.
            Would you be surprised," he asked seriously, "if I were to tell you that I much regret
            leaving here?"
          "But you are coming back?" Virgie said, attempting to laugh, and not understanding
            altogether his sentiment.
          "No-o" he said slowly. "It is because I shall not be able to come back that I feel, I
            suppose, a regret."
          "You have not seen Ben yet," she suggested.
          "That is true—I have not seen him," he laughed, as the introduction of the
            unreliable Snellins caused him to reach a happier plane. "But someone else will," he
            added.
          "And why not you?"
          "I am going to leave here for Washington."
          "I believe I envy you," she said, smilingly.
          "But are you in doubt?" he asked.
          "Ye-yes," she replied, hesitatingly. "You know I have never been away from here, so I
            do not know if I should like it anywhere else."
          "You would find much there to interest you."
          "Yes, I know; great people, and energy and life, and all that," she said, enumerating
            the things that her conception of the city gave her. "I really believe I do envy you,"
            she said, conclusively, fixing her gaze upon a button that she twisted to a tension and
            allowing it to unwind itself with a spring, she continued in quick explanation: "But not in the way of taking your place. I do not mean that kind
            of envy. Father told me that he once had a brother there—a great man."
          "Perhaps I shall get to see him," Frank said, "and if I do what shall I tell him for
            you?" he asked.
          "You need tell him nothing of us," she replied, alarmed, "for the family ties are
            broken quite beyond repair. They have not seen each other, let alone heard of each
            other, for years."
          "That is too bad," Frank said, disappointedly.
          "It seems so, doesn't it? But it must be as they wish it, or else they would have
            looked for each other long ago."
          "Yet, if I do see your father's brother, your own uncle—would you like for me to
            tell you of him—the sort of greatness he has attained, or any of the other things
            I find out about him?"
          "And how he looks and what he does," she added in breathless interest, "and maybe about
            his family—that is, if he has one. I would be delighted to know of them. But you
            say you are not coming back," she finished, and her face was full of disappointment at
            the thought.
          "Yet I might write," he suggested, amusedly.
          "Would that be quite right?" she asked, her sweet innocence trusting to his honor.
          "If you wish it, yes," he replied seriously. "Then, too, it would be in the interests
            of the family," he added, more to ease his own conscience than to impress her with the
            correctness of it.
          
          "So it would; and if you see them, or—I mean him—you will write to me?" she
            asked.
          "Gladly," he replied.
          Virgie was filled with an anticipation of the pleasure she would find in this news from
            a world as strange to her as her limited reading of it could make it. The very
            meagreness of her knowledge allowed her imagination full sway. She had peopled the
            outside world with beings so superior to those she knew that the good news seemed
            outside the boundaries of belief. The calmness with which this man discussed the things
            she had so magnified for herself brought her to realize that her enthusiasm showed in
            sharp contrast to his serenity, and she tried to make herself believe that that
            enthusiasm was in some way unwarranted. In this she succeeded in only the smallest
            degree, yet enough to introduce another subject, endeavoring to cover the disclosure of
            her own extravagant imaginings.
          Their talk, from her leading, took the form of commonplace things, of which they each
            knew something, until her father came in.
          "Hello, Harvey!" he said; "I hear you are going to leave us this morning?"
          "Yes," said Frank, "I have had to give it up."
          "Too bad, too bad; I cannot understand it myself, but I don't suppose that there is
            much use of your waiting around any longer."
          "Mr. Harvey is going to Washington, father," Virgie broke in after a short pause.
          "He is?" And George Brandt's face lighted up in quick recognition at
            the mention of Washington.
          
          "Yes, I shall go almost directly there after leaving here," Frank explained.
          "Well—" said George Brandt, and then paused musingly.
          "Well, what, father?" asked Virgie, and both of the young people looked at him
            expectantly, each knowing what was in the old man's mind.
          "Oh! nothing," was all that he would say. "Haven't seen the parson this morning any of
            you, have you?" To which neither replied. Virgie had hoped that her father would make
            some reference to his brother. She knew that he had started to, and concluded that it
            must have taken some strong reason for him to change his mind so quickly. She thought of
            the communication she had arranged with Harvey to establish between her and her uncle,
            and feeling, after her father's silence, that perhaps she had better ask him not to
            write, she decided to do so at the first opportunity. But the absent parson put in his
            appearance, and the looked-for opportunity did not present itself.
          "So you were going to leave without bidding me good-bye?" said Kent, in a tone that
            held just the least reproach.
          "Hardly that," Frank replied, laughing. "It would be a poor return for your kind
            hospitality. No, I called to see you early this morning before I left, but you were out
            for a walk, they told me. Such unheard-of hours as you people keep," he continued,
            looking around at each of them. "Why do you ever go to bed at all? Why not just stay up
            if you find it necessary to be about before daylight? You
            might save yourselves the trouble of retiring."
          "You know about the early bird, don't you?" Kent laughed.
          "Pretty example indeed is that," Harvey replied. "But we are not birds, nor do I think
            one misses any of the things that the wandering about before dawn is supposed to get,
            especially as one's own faculties are only partly awake at that time."
          "You should make a difference in the needs of different localities," George Brandt
            advised.
          "I had not thought of that," Frank laughed. "It suggests another bit of wisdom in
            keeping with Kent's. 'When in Rome,' you know—but, never having lived in your
            Rome, I of course did not realize your necessities. But where is this striving to be the
            'early bird' going to cease? You are apt, after all, to follow my suggestion and remain
            up all the night!"
          "Hardly that bad. I think it has reached the limit now," said Brandt, amusedly.
          "I sincerely hope so," Kent added, in earnest good humor.
          "Well, to realize that at least one evil has reached a limit must be a satisfaction to
            you who are responsible for it," Harvey replied.
          "But I cannot see wherein the evil lies," Virgie said seriously, for the custom was one
            of her greatest pleasures, and she followed it solely for the love of the freshness that
            early morning contains. "I am of the opinion that your introduction of adages has given
            you a wrong impression, because you have let only mercenary
            objects apply to our customs. What have you to say against anyone's being up and about
            in the early dawn who enjoys its clearness and its beauties as I do?" she asked of
            Harvey.
          "Yes, what have you to say against that?" Kent asked, immediately sliding out of any
            responsibility, and laughing at Harvey for the predicament he found himself in.
          "Isn't it rather unfair of you to leave the whole thing to me?" he asked. And to
            Virgie: "I am afraid that you take me too seriously. I was arguing more to cover my own
            laziness than I was to find fault with your energetic lives. If you will only forgive my
            attributing so much to the mercenary side I promise never to be guilty of it again.'
          "It it customary for worldly people to excuse themselves at the expense of someone
            else's achievements?" she asked, reluctant to let him off so easily; and, too, she could
            not immediately overcome the offense his first criticism had produced.
          "Hardly customary. I should dislike to think that the knowledge of worldly people only
            broadened them to make them that narrow. But I am afraid that in many cases their wider
            understanding of people and things allows them to handle the truth in a manner to
            convert it to their own needs; in a measure leading you to believe an omission in
            themselves a virtue by comparison, while another's virtue may be distorted to appear as
            folly or even sin."
          
          "But such people are insincere; they are true to none, much less to themselves," she
            asserted, in faint disgust.
          "Most assuredly they are untrue to themselves, but when they have reached the stage of
            absolute self-belief in their own virtues there is no undeceiving them, as they prove
            everything by logic, and you can reach almost any conclusion that is desirable and
            agreeable to you if you will reason that way and at the same time deceive yourself."
          "If worldly people are like that I do not care to know them," she said decidedly, at
            which the men all laughed.
          "Harvey is right,' her father said, retrospectively. "There are many just such people,
            and in the minor details everyone is troubled that way. In a small degree I might say I
            was one of them once."
          "But, father, you did not deceive people? You could not do such a thing as that."
          "Well, I hardly know whether I deceived them or not," he smiled, "but I thought I did.
            Anyway, it turned out that I was the most deceived of them all, which goes to prove
            Harvey's theory in one case at least."
          "I do not quite understand," Virgie said, in an undertone. The idea of deception filled
            her with disgust, and at Frank's having suggested its being general she could have
            laughed, disbelieving his reasoning in its entirety. But for her father to claim it as
            truth—yes, and give the support of his own—to her—perfect and sincere
            life, forced her to accept the subject, repellant as it
            was, and try to reason it out for herself. For many days afterward she reviewed the
            thought, giving her imagination full sway. Bringing to bear upon it the lives and
            actions of such people as she knew, she could derive nothing but her first instinctive
            dislike. That dominated her every self-argument, and when she concluded that her
            understanding of "people and things," as Harvey had called them, was too limited to aid
            her in the solution, she turned to wondering in what her father could be deceptive.
            While she felt that she could never distrust him, still the awakening in her of
            unpleasant truths had commenced. His words came back, always with a lack of their real
            meaning, that made her sad in her misconception of them and him.
          As they all stood at the gate, when Harvey was about to leave, she thought of another
            deception—the one in which she was to take a part—and again she would have
            asked him not to write to her if a chance had occurred, but the farewell was so general
            that no opportunity came to them to speak alone. She broke off a great stalk of crimson
            hollyhocks and stuck them in the whip-socket, thus hoping to come near enough to speak
            to him alone. Her pretty thought was misunderstood. Everyone laughed at the impulsive
            kindness. There was no pause in their conversation, and he drove away, leaving her with
            a heavy heart and reproachful conscience because of her first deception.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VIII.
          When Harvey had gone the men stood just outside the fence and talked of him. Virgie
            went through the gate and leaned against the long chain that served to pull it shut, and
            there waited for him to come into view for the last time on the brink of a far-away
            hill. Her thoughts followed him over the road as far as she knew it on through the
            district she could picture from the stories of her friends—then out into the
            pliable unknown that revolved with a panorama of imaginings.
          From where the men stood the road was obscured by a line of trees, but she knew from
            long intimacy with the hills where best to first sight advancing travelers, and when
            Harvey came into view again, more than a mile away, she was the only one of the trio to
            see him. She watched eagerly for him to turn, forgetting altogether his newness to the
            surroundings, and a merry laugh of triumph was on her lips as she stood in readiness to
            wave him a farewell which would surprise Kent and her father. She watched the receding
            vehicle intently, starting twice or thrice as she judged Harvey was about to turn. As
            the team passed over the brink and slowly sunk from view, leaving only Frank atop the wagon in clear outline against the sky, she
            thought of a geography lesson wherein a ship passed over a round sea, leaving but its
            topmasts to the view, and she could have shouted as the last chance was slipping from
            her. Then he too was gone, and she flushed self-consciously as her eagerness came before
            her, and her wounded feelings made her resent his lack of recognition. All the
            joyousness left her heart, and she would have remonstrated, but neither of the men had
            seen, and she turned hastily and rushed indoors filled with a despair that she could not
            understand.
          "I might think that you two had been brothers at some time long ago if I believed in
            reincarnation—you look so much alike," laughed Brandt.
          "The resemblance is all on the outside," said Kent dejectedly.
          "Maybe so, maybe so," Brandt replied, taken out of his good humor, "but the outward
            resemblance is wonderful nevertheless. I never saw anything so striking!"
          "More's the pity that it could not have struck in," Kent replied, musingly. Then went
            on with a livelier interest in his remarks: "Did you ever observe the interest with
            which likenesses are discussed—the wonderment with which people take it, and all
            that?"
          "Yes," Brandt assented, not grasping the point, but contented to wait the
            continuance.
          "Then did you ever take into your calculations the millions of us that there are
            existing now and have existed in the past, and no two ever of the same exact mould? If you have I believe that you will think as I do, and
            that is that the wonderment should be over our differences within
            apparently so limited a design instead of a similarity being remarkable."
          "I had never thought of that," he replied, knitting his brows and looking at Kent
            studiously, though not contemplating the subject under discussion so much as he did
            Kent's unusualness and strange way of making untimely and valueless observations.
          "I guess I had better get to work," he said after a time, then stood a moment before he
            left Kent awkwardly, and Kent sighed and went in to where Virgie was sitting in a blue
            study.
          No word of recognition came from her, nor was his mood one that missed her habitual
            cheerfulness. He crossed the room and seated himself in the low-silled window, pushed
            the drapery back carelessly and watched a blue bottle-fly reflectively as the last of
            his kind buzzed with frantic energy against the green mosquito bar. His carelessness
            with her dainty curtains caused Virgie to observe him more closely, and in doing so she
            detected his ill-humor.
          "What is wrong now?" she asked, forgetting at once her own dejection.
          "Oh! nothing," he replied, taking his eyes from the fly and turning toward her a
            serious expression.
          "Honest, now?"
          "Nothing much, anyway," he said. "I am just lonesome."
          "Lonesome?" she asked, surprisedly.
          
          "Yes, lonesome," he snapped. "I was thinking of Harvey and where he is going. Somehow
            it brings back old memories, and they make me lonesome," he went on peevishly. "Out
            there, where people do things and live, life is worth while," he concluded with a
            sigh.
          "But people work hard here," she suggested.
          "Of course they do," he assented. "That is all they do do—is work—manual
            work, but it is brains—brains—brains, I tell you, that count in the doing of
            things. What is there here to hold interest? What is there of man-made art, or of
            letters, or of science, or study? No friendly pitting of brains against brains. Just as
            Harvey implied, we are early risers that we may be long workers. But we never think or
            study."
          "Mr. Harvey was only joking," she replied resentfully, and yet without the knowing why.
            She could understand but a portion of his reasoning, and that understanding awakened
            only antagonism in her breast, but his talk of the world of letters and man-made art was
            of things outside her narrow life, and she felt incompetent to debate upon them, though
            in the antagonism he had awakened she sought for reasoning to place against his own, and
            when the thought occurred to her she continued:
          "Of books I know but little, and of man-made art, as you term it, I know less; but we
            have God-made art, which must be best after all," she ended reverently, and the
            incongruity of this remark to a preacher of God's word was lost by both of them.
          
          "Oh! I know, but that is just nature. Are we to stand still there and make of nature a
            means for a bare work-a-day existence? Do you suppose God gave us these things that we
            might simply grub potatoes and raise corn for food and seed, then more food and more
            seed again as the years go by?"
          "I don't know," she replied dubiously, unwillingly accepting a portion of his
            argument.
          " You do know—you must know, that there are better things than these, and out in
            the world is where they live and feel and enact them. Oh! Virgie, there is where life is
            worth while," and he let his thoughts carry him back to the environment that prompted
            his words.
          Virgie watched him intently, waiting for more until she saw he was not to continue,
            then she too slipped off to the things she knew to those of the outer world, using
            Harvey in the very situation her mind conceived, and surrounding him with a visionary
            world of her own conception.
          "I find plenty to do here," she ventured without much force, but to incline him to
            further talk.
          "I know you do," he said tenderly, throwing off the reverie that had held him silent,
            "and, if it were not for your example, I know that there would be much more of my
            present humor for me. You lead me into interesting things that I could not find for
            myself."
          "Then why not continue in them—not half-heartedly, but like I do—with all
            your interest?"
          He looked at her for a moment, then a smile spread over his face and he said: "I am not
            big enough to live little things."
          
          "Not big enough to live little things!" she repeated after him. "I do not
            understand."
          "Perhaps not," he said, seriously, "for you have never known the big men and women who
            live and do little things that make them big, much less the little, superficial people
            who live or try to live big things and are little still. The latter kind do not exist
            about here."
          "I believe I know what you mean," she said slowly. "You mean people who do things ill
            or well. Is that it?"
          "Well, partly yes and partly no; but, from your limited field for examples, that is as
            much as you can derive from the things I have said."
          "I tell you, Virgie, you cannot know how hard this life is after the other. It is wrong
            for me to say such a thing, but I feel it, and I am not living a truth when I seem
            different," he said, his inventiveness ever ready and always convincing where he would
            bolster up his own changes of mind.
          When Kent, in boyhood, wavered in his first purpose, he doubtless found some difficulty
            to explain the weakening, but, with the practice of years, his reasoning became
            ingenious, and at times when he brought this faculty to bear upon some newly-conceived
            desire his arguments were so strong as to awaken his own sympathy, and his heart would
            grow tender under the fancied abuse of his circumstances. With the ability to arouse
            almost to the point of tears his own sympathies for himself, it was not surprising that
            Virgie should follow his seemingly sincere reasoning. She
            pitied him and wished that he might have the things he craved, though she knew not what
            they might be.
          "Is it so different here, then?" she asked.
          "As different as night from dawn," he replied, turning his eyes upward impressively.
            "And, without you here, I should have gone away long ago."
          "Who—me?" she asked, stabbing herself with her finger and looking foolishly
            pleased.
          "No one else but you. You have been much more to me than you can realize. Without you
            here to help me I would have done these things all wrong and ended in defeat and
            humiliation," he said in an insincere burst of self-disparagement that made her forget
            herself and remember only him in quick sympathy.
          "Oh! no," she said, with a gentleness that pleased the vanity he had himself been
            wounding. "You might have done even better."
          "Impossible," he replied, shaking his head dejectedly; "that could never have been. If
            you will not take the credit yourself I must tell you of it. But wait," he said as she
            turned away, "your modesty must not keep you from hearing. When you have done so much
            for me why cannot I give you the credit of it? I have learned more Christianity from you
            than I ever could have from the Book. I have learned more charity, more nobility and
            more love—yes, more love than ever I knew before—for men and women, and,
            teaching me these, you have taught me to love——" She turned quickly and
            looked startedly into his eyes. "Yes—you must have guessed long ago. You have taught me to love you!" he said, remaining seated, but
            reaching out and laying his hand over hers in the old, friendly way.
          "But I have not guessed," she protested.
          "Then it has taken until now for you to know," he replied happily, "and now you know
            from the surest source." He paused. "What have you to say to me, Virgie?" he asked,
            attempting to see her face as she leaned her head forward. Then, when she did not reply,
            he resumed: "Of course you must love me in return. It is just your modesty again," he
            said, reassuringly. "Speak to me—tell me?"
          She raised her head with her eyes opened wide. There was a look of pain within them,
            more of pity and wonderment than of self-condemnation. The avowal was so new and
            unexpected to her that she felt no remorse for herself—only compassion for
            him.
          He looked into her face eagerly—intently, misconstruing for the time her
            expression of gentle sorrow, and watched confidently expectant for the change to smiles
            that would happily herald his victory. She returned his gaze with an intensity born of
            deep feeling, unconsciously struggling to convey her thoughts without words, and yet he
            would not or could not understand. With the quickening of her heart her mind moved on in
            sympathetic unison. She saw the stages of their friendship as it had grown through
            simple happenings and become endeared to her. She was innocent of the poesy of her
            surroundings and knew not the reason for the beauties of their friendship. If she could
            have contrasted the rustic simplicities of her world with
            the stern hardness of Kent's, and realized the impression their ideally tinted
            loveliness had made upon him, she might have foretold the craving he would some time
            have to possess. But she could never have guessed the outcome, with only her simple
            flower and bird friends to tell her with signs that speak nothing of human ambition, and
            the awakening was sad. She reviewed in a tice the joys she had derived from their
            friendship, and realized at the same time that the end for it all had come. Slowly she
            drew her hand away and looked at him with pitiful pleading for an instant only, as the
            sorrow at her heart forced out two drops that dimmed her eyes, and her lashes met to
            take them up as she turned her head.
          He caught her chin in his hand, turned her face up to his own and looked into her
            startled eyes in a temper that clouded his brow.
          "Then you do not love me?" he said, and she drew her head away from his grasp, stung by
            the indignity.
          "You were wicked to make me think that you did," he continued, throwing himself out of
            the window-seat and stalking across the floor. Then she buried her face in her hands and
            wept for fright at the responsibility that he imposed upon her.
          Kent watched her grief with a sense of satisfaction. It tempered some his own
            disappointment at the first, but, as his humiliation grew, just so much did his anger
            increase until he ceased to give her sorrow a place in his reasoning, and with a quick
            resolution he left the room without further word for her.
          
          Virgie watched him leave with mingled feelings of sorrow, anger and perplexity. She
            felt that she was in some way responsible for the outcome of the affair, and
            yet—"Had I but known" she kept repeating to herself. The sense of her own
            innocence aided her to excuse herself. Not entirely, but enough that she came to feel a
            deep anger and resentment for his accusations of deception, and withal she became so
            perplexed she was miserable. She sat rocking a long time after he had left, giving these
            feelings full freedom, and at no time deciding any one thing quite positively.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER IX.
          When the breakfast work was finished the following Sunday Virgie entered into her
            preparations for church with a reluctance that was entirely foreign to her customary,
            eager interest, and she hummed unconsciously a simple air in troubled repetition. She
            had said nothing to her father of Kent's proposal, and he had not guessed that aught was
            amiss with them, though her singing attracted his attention, as he was familiar with
            that characteristic of hers, and wondered much as to the cause for her disturbance. As
            they drove away he addressed himself to her several times in the tones of his
            light-heartedness, and, receiving only monosyllabic replies, finally grew serious and
            troubled over her pre-occupied manner. He was on the point of asking her the cause for
            her worry, but forebore doing so, trusting that she would enlighten him in due time,
            assured that he enjoyed her closest confidence.
          Upon their arrival she led him at once to their pew, carefully avoiding that portion of
            the congregation that were conversing on the front platform, and studiously avoided
            Kent's glance of recognition as he grudgingly nodded to her father from back of the
            pulpit.
          
          "Law me!" said Mrs. Martin, under her breath, as she quickly caught the sign of
            estrangement between the two young people.
          "Did you see that?" asked Sister Callum, astounded, with her eyes glued on Virgie, and
            then both ladies watched her assiduously during the whole service.
          Kent was nervous but forceful, talking over their heads and addressing the wall at the
            back of the room with an overdrawn earnestness that amounted to almost anger. His
            auditors listened in wonderment and were moved by his vehemence as they had never been
            before. Sister Callum and Widow Martin were roused to a high pitch of expectancy as the
            thunderous tones vibrated through the little room and shook them with a momentary
            terror. They felt the responsibility of the new conditions that were constantly becoming
            more evident between these young people, and they absorbed every look, action or word of
            each in the hope of a solution.
          The parson drew his sermon to a close in a voice that died away in despair. The men
            looked into each other's faces for the approbation they felt at his unusual flight of
            oratory and the sincerity that backed it. The choir arose, still under the spell, and
            with an effort brought themselves to sing an anthem in a disjointed way until the leader
            recovered self-control. As they sang Sister Callum collected herself sufficiently to
            say: "Well, if that ain't the beatenest thing ever I see! What you suppose 'tis?"
          "It certainly beats all creation," Mrs. Martin replied, unable to discuss the matter
            further for lack of enlightenment, but speedily resolved to
            learn more at once.
          Virgie passed out of the church hurriedly, bent on getting away from her friends to
            where she could nurse her own feelings and reason out her much-perturbed thoughts; but
            Brandt insisted on remaining for a moment to discuss the sensational sermon with the
            admiring members, and Virgie was drawn back into their midst an unwilling listener.
          Widow Martin made her way hastily to their group and engaged Brandt in a discussion
            that to Virgie seemed interminable. She curbed her impatience with the greatest effort
            for some moments until a mode of relief occurred to her, and, turning to Mrs. Martin,
            she asked amiably, "Why can't you come and take dinner with us, Aunt Sarah?"
          "But the children?" protested the widow meekly.
          "Oh, we have plenty of room for them in the wagon if you will only get them together. I
            expect they are hungry, so we had better start!" And she moved off with her father,
            while the delighted widow went in search of her two offspring.
          "M'land, but she's in a rush!" said Mrs. Callum as she passed, a child in each hand,
            and a smile of eager expectancy spread over her kindly old face.
          "Comin' to meetin' to-night?" asked the sister significantly.
          "Caint tell; mebbe," the widow replied, as she hurried out to take a seat beside Brandt
            in the front of the wagon, while the two children piled in the back seat with Virgie,
            grinning with joy to be in her company.
          
          She took each of them by the hand in pleased relief, smiled on their evident happiness,
            and drew them just a little closer in love and sympathy.
          "Ain't heer'n anythin' o' Snellins yet, hev y'?" asked the widow of Brandt by way of
            introducing conversation.
          "No, we haven't. Funny thing about him, isn't it?"
          "Oh, I reckon he'll be back!" said the widow pleasantly, in an effort at
            re-assurance.
          "Love Aunt Virgie?" asked Virgie, drawing the two smiling faces around in front of her
            own and looking seriously into their laughing blue eyes.
          Gyp, the girl of eight, threw her arms around and kissed her impetuously, while Bennie,
            the boy of four, being crowded out of reach, replied, "Ness, 'um," by way of
            affirmative.
          "And Virgie loves you too. What a pretty pin!" she added, as she caught sight of a
            brooch all too old for the child. "Where did you get that?"
          "Mommie give it t' me. It uster be hers," said Gyp, with no small pride.
          "Didn't," said Ben.
          "Why, Bennie!" said the widow, turning quickly, with a look of disapproval and
            alarm.
          "I seen the man bring it," insisted the boy doggedly.
          "Mommie always had it—she said so, so now!" said Gyp, with childish faith in her
            mother's statement.
          "Babies, babies!" Virgie laughed. "Shame on you for quarreling this way."
          
          "I ain't a baby," said Bennie, for the time diverted by masculine pride from the point
            of his former argument.
          "Well, I ask forgiveness. You are not a baby then, but who would ever have expected a
            man to raise such trouble with two helpless young ladies like sister and I, and on
            Sunday, too?" Virgie said, in a conciliatory tone, as she watched his darkened face with
            an amused smile.
          The child's eyes blinked in perplexity as he tried sturdily to fathom the position in
            which he found himself. He realized his false assumption of manliness, yet could not but
            feel that his deception had carried conviction. The rebuke, however, placed the
            situation beyond his grasp, and he finally yielded with a sheepish smile. Virgie laughed
            outright, lifted his face to hers and kissed him squarely on his ruddy mouth. Recovering
            himself with solemn dignity he looked Brandt full in the face as the old man turned
            about, and his expression was so defiant that Brandt opened his eyes in wonderment.
          "My goodness, what a scare you gave me!" he said, drawing himself as far away as the
            breadth of seat would permit. Bennie laughed foolishly, and followed up the advantage
            with a mild onslaught that ended by his nearly falling out of the wagon.
          "Now, you behave," said his mother, with disgust in her voice, but pride in her
            heart.
          "What was all the row about back here a while ago?" asked Brandt, disinterestedly.
          
          "Why, Bennie he said," began Gyp, when her another's face scowled a warning that left
            the baby mouth wide agape with fear and the unended sentence still hanging to her lips.
            Then the widow as suddenly gained her smiling composure and drew the questioner into a
            discussion that ended all thought of his inquiry.
          Virgie gathered the little girl quickly to her in convulsive sympathy, and, while no
            word was said, each wondered much at the sinister look of warning.
          "What does the secrecy mean?" she asked herself as the boy's statement came back to
            her. "And why should a trivial gift be the cause of so much unpleasant difference of
            opinion in this little family?" Always unsuspicious of wrong-doing, she could supply no
            solution but that of family jealousy; and this only increased her perplexity. It was
            much too improbable that in childish differences a mother could take the exaggerated
            fear Mrs. Martin had shown. Yet no other cause would occur to her, and she carried her
            cogitations the balance of the journey, ever recurring to them in the intervals of the
            others' conversation.
          In the house she assisted her little guests divest themselves of their outward wraps,
            and, pointing to the bureau drawer for the widow to get an apron, she changed her own
            gown for a simpler one, and the party moved out to the kitchen, where Brandt had already
            filled the wood stove and was on the point of lighting the chips.
          "I will do that if you will get some water, father," Virgie said, taking the match from
            him.
          
          "All right," he replied. "Come on, folks," and he beckoned for the children to follow
            him out to the well. "Now, Bennie, you say when, and Gyp and I will be the grinders," he
            said, and the three worked industriously till the kettle and drinking bucket had been
            filled, when they returned to the kitchen not half so breathless as they pretended.
          "As I wuz sayin' when them harum-scarums come in," resumed the widow, covering the
            import of her remarks by a reference to Brandt and the children. "As I wuz sayin', it
            wuz the first real and mighty gospel I ever heard him preach. He's got the power
            a-workin' in him now fer sure; but my land! where'd he get it all a-sudden? That's what
            beats me." She paused and glanced furtively at Virgie, but, obtaining no reply, resumed:
            " Ef it wan't fer his tex' I'd a-thought, an' I 'don't 'low I'm th' only one, thet he'd
            news from somewheres thet wuz full of joy without end. He's jest like rheumatism fer
            signs—always showin' his kind o' weather long afore it comes. But there's his tex'
            again. 'What of that?' I ask myself. When he held out his hand like this (and here the
            widow thrust her hand and arm out full length toward Virgie with imitating emphasis) an'
            said 'Earthly hopes air on'y sorrow. God gives hopes thet air of joy fulfilled.' Thet's
            not happiness," she resumed after a pause, "thet's disappointment—thet's what it
            is—thet made him say it th' way he did," and, though she gave no evidence of
            observing her auditor's agitation, she throbbed with an inward satisfaction difficult to
            conceal.
          
          "I say 'amen' to the sentiment and truth of his statement," said Brandt seriously, but
            the old man's "amen" was not of literal inference, as he only intended to corroborate
            the parson's assertion and not perpetuate it. "Ambition was once my only word, but the
            hope it inspired has gone with it," he said, and sighed regretfully.
          "What a deep impression the sermon has made upon all of you!" said Virgie, smiling
            feebly. "Please let us forget it, or, not forget it exactly, but why not cheer up and
            profit by it. All hope is not gone yet. You know there is still lots and lots of
            happiness for everybody, so why not make the most of it?" And, though still suffocating
            from his words, that filled her with guilty shame and partial resentment, she led them
            back to smiles and laughter through the medium of the children.
          The meal finished, and the women occupied with their feminine interests, Brandt slipped
            away to his room of books, and, throwing himself into his easy chair, gave his thoughts
            over to other days, influenced by the young parson's burning words.
          In early boyhood he had been a firm believer in opportunity. The earnestness of this
            conviction keeping him ever alert to the possibilities of his surroundings and honestly
            desirous of success. His grandfather was an illustrious example of the self-made man,
            and George, being his namesake, had patterned himself as near as he could after the
            grandparent. He had held "opportunity" as the keynote of all success, and yet he had
            failed always in his own opportunities. He knew now, as he
            sat alone, an exiled old man estranged from his own people, the cause of his failure,
            and he reviewed for the thousandth time, as he had done in late years, the elements of
            his failures.
          There was the lack of self-assurance in his nature that was a counterpart of his
            mother's—a sweetly, dependent woman without a will or convictions. From the other
            side he had drawn his father's impatience and feverish nervousness. These had caused him
            to jump at results without going into their causes, and his opportunities had been
            missed for lack of helpful assurance, confidence and sturdy application. He tried to do
            and failed, then tried again and again, and always failure came to reward him. He knew
            now the cause of it all, and Kent's words impressed him with their strangely fitting
            application to his own hopes. They were near bringing him back to his youthful feeling
            of resentment against causes outside his own making when he went drifting off into the
            happy days of his wooing that lasted into a delicious nap of refreshing dreams. His
            tired brain took up the order of his early days in glowing sequence and bore him along
            in a labyrinth of joys unspeakable. The sad departure from home and friends, with all
            its attendant mortification, did not come into the spell as it should have done to make
            the dreams complete. He vaguely felt this portion of his life's story lacking, and moved
            his head uneasily as he slept. His brow contracted as the truant facts eluded his
            control, and the trouble of it all finally caused him to assume a meditative expression,
            and still he slept.
          
          There were those days of his father's disgust and anger, his friends' unwelcome pity
            and his wife's despair. Then the terrible journey, in which he was torn between love and
            compassion for her sufferings and hatred for himself and the world. The days of
            privation, in which she bore the ills so foreign to her old home life with a strengthful
            fortitude, and, helping him through his almost total collapse, lead him up to renewed
            effort that surprised even himself.
          These were the things that troubled his dreams now, for they would not arrange
            themselves in chronological order, and his slumbering consciousness felt their wrong
            connection; but, when he finally awakened with a start, they came about quickly in cruel
            procession. He arose and went out into the yard repeating, "Earthly hopes are only
            sorrow, but God gives hopes that are joy fulfilled," the words consoling him
            mightily.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER X.
          "As th' feller says," began Doles one evening to his assembled guests, as he assumed a
            lofty expression of wisdom, and contemplated each member of the group slowly to their
            individual embarrassment, "as th' feller says, 'th' more you give some folks th' less
            they have time to say "thanks."' An' that's jest it. Now, I ain't sayin' anythin' again'
            Ashville in general, or anybody in partic'lar, but it does seem to me like we all ought
            t' be thankful fer what we've got one way or 'nother. Here's our mysteries," he said
            with an oratorical flourish, and each of his auditors, beginning to perceive the levity
            of his remarks, smiled faintly in restrained anticipation, "an' our marriages," he
            added, "an' the marriages thet's in the egg yet, so to speak, as the feller says: 'What
            of them?' Ef Ashville ain't got more comin' happiness to the inch right now than ever
            before she hadn't ought to celebrate Thanksgivun'," and here the smiles assumed broader
            proportions.
          "Well, I dunno," said Orrig, who had dropped in to deliver some borax to Mrs. Doles,
            and remained to help the host in any bit of jollity that might be afoot, "I never put in much time a-readin' much, an' it's hard fer
            me t' dip down into the waves when talk is runnin' high-flown, so I jest has t' drift,
            as the feller says, an' never get into th' bottom of things. But I'm
            willin'—mighty willin'—t' follow th' lead anywheres it takes me ef I on'y
            has somethin' t' hold to, as the feller says. Lemme understand you now, 'Si,'" he said,
            assuming an expression of inquiring innocence. "I 'low, of course, you air referrin' to
            a couple thet's goin' t' be jined, mebbe?" Here one of the listeners moved uneasily and
            tried to smile with lacking concern.
          "Thet's what I read in th' paper here lately," 'Si' replied, nonchalantly.
          "Wonder how I come t' miss thet?" said Orrig, in assumed disgust. "But then, thet's
            jest me. I never do see anythin' afore it hits me. Lemme see," he resumed after a pause,
            and with apparent change of subject, "I thought I hear'n you say over t' th' store one
            night, Landy, thet you wuz a-goin' away som'mers? I 'low it wuz you as said it, or am I
            out o' my memory?"
          "Well, what ef I did?" Landy replied sullenly, tilting forward on the front legs of his
            chair and cutting a sliver from the floor between his feet with his knife, after which
            he recovered his upright position, but without raising his eyes.
          "Oh, nothin'—nothin' 'tall!" said Orrig. "But—"
          "You an' Doles is all-fired smart, ain't ye?" said Landy, and the confession was
            received with wild laughter, while John Carey and one or two others made efforts to
            congratulate the prospective benedict.
          After the merriment had subsided somewhat he resumed with
            assumed confidence and excited volubility: "I 'low I'll be as thankful as most when it
            comes time fer Thanksgivun'; but, befer y' got t' talkin' on me, I wuz a-thinkin' of him
            as has th' thanksgivun's t' hold up. Th' one thet's in thet business. I don't need t'
            give no 'nitials, an' I am here t' say thet I wouldn't be in his shoes."
          A serious calm fell upon them all at this allusion, each taking into his mind's eye a
            retrospect of his own actions when in contact with the one referred to by Landy, and out
            of them all there was no one who remembered a deed, a word, or look that was to his own
            credit.
          "I see you all know what I'm talkin' about," he began, with more positive earnestness,
            "an' bein' fixed as I am, I know jest how he feels. I dunno how t' feel much neither,
            but ef it wuz me I'd keep my word an' clear out—thet's what I'd do, an' do it
            quick, too."
          "Then, why don't he?" asked someone, "er else shet his mouth an' not cry like a whipped
            baby."
          "As I say," began Landy, arising from his chair and retorting angrily, "as I say, I
            don't know much about feelin's, but what I do know is thet his hurts
            is wuss than airy whipped baby's ever wuz, an' what's more, it's late fer you to be
            gettin' th' first lesson o' how babies feel, but ef y' don't take that back I'm a-goin'
            t' learn y' afore it gits too late."
          "Mebbe I'm wrong about that p'int," said the speaker quickly; but what I do hold to is, that he's gettin' jest what's a-comin' to him, an' I 'low
            ever'body here agrees on that."
          
          Landy cast a hasty glance about him, and, seeing no look of disapproval to these words,
            angered almost to the verge of speechlessness.
          "You're not men!" he said at last, "not a one of you, an' you're the fish-eat-fish
            kind. Kickin' when y' got somebody down. I'm the parson's friend, d' y' hear? Y' can't
            none of y' help a man when he needs help, but where I come from men are men, an' bein'
            as I'm here t' stay now, I'm goin' t' be his friend!" And then he rushed out, leaving
            the door open after him.
          "That's what Snellins said: 'I'm his friend,'" quoted Orrig sententiously, but the last
            vestige of humor was gone from them, and the sally was lost.
          Landy walked quickly the length of the street, and, turning in at the gate, knocked on
            the rectory door. He waited impatiently for what seemed to him an interminable interval,
            and knocked again. Receiving no response he opened the door quietly and stepped
            within.
          "Oh! it is you, Landy. Close the door quickly and come in. I was afraid to respond, as
            I could not let anyone else in now." Kent struck a match and lighted his study lamp.
            Landy looked about him in quick surprise, entirely forgetting his own anger in the
            confusion of his surroundings. The chairs, tables and other furniture were upturned in a
            jumbled mass in one corner of the room, and the lamp hanging from the ceiling was about
            the only article in its normal position.
          "What's happened, parson?" he asked in alarm.
          
          "He's gone," Kent replied in despair, "and I am afraid, Landy, that I hurt him in the
            scuffle."
          "It's you that's hurt. Look at y'! He mighty nigh fixed y'—you're all tore up an'
            bleedin'! But where's Martin?" he asked, in added alarm.
          "She's in the other room overcome with fright."
          Landy rushed away, not waiting to hear more, and Kent examined his dilapidated clothes
            as he tried to bring himself to an understanding of the situation.
          Widow Martin was in an adjoining room, and as Landy entered she watched the door open
            in dumb terror until she realized the change in affairs. With a last effort she arose
            and fell into his strong arms in pleased relief.
          "Oh, Landy, he's gone!" she said faintly; but, regaining assurance, she became excited
            again: "He's killed th' parson, Landy—th' parson, he's killed him! What will we
            do?"
          "Kent's all right," he said, consolingly. "He's cut up some, but I don't 'low he's hurt
            much. Tell me how it happened?" he said, re-seating her gently and placing his big hand
            on her shoulder.
          "It wuz my fault," she began, when the tears came and choked her further utterance.
          "All right, now; all right. Don't cry. I'll bring him back," he said, patting her
            tenderly on the arm and starting to leave.
          She caught his hand quickly, begging him not to go, but he smiled faintly and withdrew
            it as he said:
          "We can't let him get far, y' know; so th' quicker I go the sooner I'll bring him
            back."
          
          "But he'll kill y'. I know he will!" she protested.
          "No, I don't 'low he will," he replied, as, with a last, re-assuring pat upon her back,
            he left her to her tears.
          Landy had not gone long when Kent entered the room, and, looking hastily about,
            said:
          "Where is he? Where is Landy? We must go bring 'Snell' back, and we must go at once.
            Tell me where Landy is, Martin?"
          "He's gone!" she said, in self-reproach, between sobs. "An' it's my fault!"
          "How did Snellins get out?" Kent asked sternly.
          "I opened th' door jest t' look at him," she replied, "an' he laughed at me an' pushed
            me back as you come in, an' you know th' rest," she ended abruptly.
          "Well, never mind—never mind," he said soothingly.
          "Air you a-goin', too?" she asked startedly, as he prepared to leave.
          "Yes, Martin. I feel that I should help Landy find him. Two will be better than one,
            and we must bring him back before anyone meets or has any trouble with him."
          "My land!" she exclaimed, in unconquerable fear. She locked and bolted the door after
            him, and, regaining her own room, locked its door also. Placing a chair with its back to
            brace against the knob, Martin for the first time thought of her babies. She went to the
            side of their bed, and, scanning the boy's face, breathed a sigh of relief on finding
            him in a sound sleep. Drawing her chair up close that she might feel the sense of their
            companionship, she was startled by a whispered "Mommie."
            She turned quickly and found Gyp with her eyes wide open and filled with terror. The
            mother expressed a gentle "Sh!" and, placing her hand under the coverlet, took that of
            her baby's, while she croned an unintelligible lullaby that soothed her into
            slumber.
          Kent reasoned that, as Landy had but a few moments the start, he might catch him if he
            accelerated his own speed. He, therefore, concluded it would be best to take a
            cross-country route, as that would serve the double purpose of aiding him to avoid any
            of the townspeople who might delay him with curiosity over his bandaged head, and also
            give him the advantage of many yards in overtaking Landy, whom he judged would make
            straight for Brandt's by the road.
          He avoided the main street in town, and waited, before crossing it, until he had
            reached the outskirts, and even then he cast a hasty glance in both directions before he
            hastened over. The night was grown cold, and the parson turned the collar of his great
            coat about his ears, which gave him confidence in the secrecy of his identity if anyone
            should, by chance, see him from a distance. It had ceased snowing after an hour's fitful
            attempt in the second fall of the season, and as he crossed the road he looked back at
            his own tracks, and smiled as he thought of the importance a less honest purpose would
            have given them. They were distinct, and without distracting fellow-paths in the hazy
            light, and he worried over them, despite his self-ridicule, as troubled minds will worry
            over trifles. Climbing a fence he made across a lower field to Weller's private footbridge that joined the farm lands, and from here he
            struck off for the section road, a half mile south. Reaching the grove he stopped and
            listened, and back by the bridge he heard a sound that caused his heart to thump audibly
            in his silent surroundings. Only a second and then Weller's dog, that had happened upon
            his path, set up a wailing, hollow and dismal. Another pause and the hound began again.
            Up on the crest of the hill a door opened, and Weller stood, lamp in hand, shading his
            eyes, trying to see into the night. He said something about a "darned rabbit hound" to
            his wife inside, whistled sharply and returned, closing the door. But the dog was
            obdurate and began again with renewed energy.
          Kent dared not move. The door opened, bringing Mrs. Weller to view, her last word of a
            finished sentence becoming distinctly clear. "Wrong," she said, and he readily filled in
            the preceding words by the tone of this last one.
          "She insists that there is something wrong," Kent said, as the farmer stepped out,
            adjusting his overcoat.
          Weller unwillingly stumbled down the slippery hill to where the dog stood, head
            uplifted, emitting his doleful howls.
          "What y' got—a gopher? Darn a rabbit houn' anyway!" And he shoved the dog away
            with his knee. "Well, I'm jiggered!" he said, as he held his lantern close to the ground
            and moved it along from one print to another. Suddenly he jumped to a conclusion, and,
            hastening back to the house, he told his wife of the actual discovery, as he hurriedly bundled himself about with heavy clothing
            preparatory to departure.
          "I didn't put no stock in any o' them mystery tales," he said between tugs at his
            clothes. "Even ef they wuz seven er eight eye-witnesses, an' bein' as it's two weeks now
            sence the last, and I wuz about disbelievin' everybody. But Great Jupiter! ef it ain't
            turned up right in my own dooryard, with this mystery man a-prowlin' about."
          "Be y' a-goin' arter him?" asked Mrs. Weller with quiet concern.
          "Not by my loneself,' he replied. "I'm a-goin' up t' town fusst." At this he took up
            his lantern again and started away by the road, constantly alert for surprises, with the
            hound close at his heels.
          Kent remained standing in the brush until all was quiet again at the house, and when
            Mrs. Weller had closed the shutters, unrolled the shades and turned down the lights, he
            turned and resumed his journey. Having lost so much time, he concluded that he would now
            be unable to overtake Landy, so he stepped out into the road and walked slowly, as he
            swung his arms across his chest to revive his circulation, forming plans of procedure
            for his approach to Brandt's.
          Weller hastened on, constantly increasing his speed as the importance of his find grew
            upon him. He hurried up the street, and, bursting in upon the remainder of the group in
            the hotel office, exclaimed:
          "Git yer lanterns an' coats on, ever'body. I've got him cornered!"
          "Got who cornered?" laughed "Si."
          
          "The mystery man," said Weller, anticipating the effect of these magic words.
          The room was all excitement on the instant, each man making for his outer garments and
            lantern in confused haste.
          Weller, scarcely awaiting their preparations, started away, spreading his news into the
            stores as he held their doors open. Thus the crowd was soon augmented to a point of
            containing nearly all the prominent citizens, and they followed Weller's lead as he took
            the short cut returning homeward.
          "Is it a man, Mr. Orrig?" asked the druggist's apprentice, as he remained close to his
            employer.
          "Men don't live on roots and stones," Orrig replied mysteriously, to which the lad gave
            a shudder for response and an unspoken wish to be at home, though he dared not leave and
            return alone.
          "Now here's where I discovered him at," said Weller at last, with an air of pride. "An'
            he made off fer my grove there," he ended, as he shrewdly inspected the direction of the
            footprints and pointed their way.
          "Well," asked someone, "what we goin' t' do?"
          "Lemme see ef th' tracks is a man's tracks?" At which the apprentice raised his cap by
            means of his hair. "They be no hurry t' go into th' woods after him long as Weller's got
            him cornered there," said Doles sagely.
          "Mebbe 'Si' 'd like t' go back an' wait till mornin'," said Weller, sarcastically.
          "I don't 'low I would," "Si" retorted amiably, "'cause long's it's a man's feet thet's
            b'n here, I 'low they's 'nough of us t' take keer o' him."
            And he resumed the march, with the others following eagerly.
          Once they had reached the open road their eagerness grew apace, and knew no restraint
            such as the woods had placed upon them. They hurried on
            breathlessly—happily—until they found the tracks turned to a sharp angle,
            and a broken place in the snow on the top rail of the fence showed distinctly the crude
            method in which that obstruction had been overcome, and then the imprints in the snow
            began again on the opposite side, running away into the densest portion of Brandt's
            thicket. Here their spirits fell, and they stopped to discuss the uselessness of further
            proceeding. Weller's hound climbed the fence, proceeded a few yards, then looked back at
            the group expectantly. Becoming impatient over the delay, he suddenly raised his head
            again and howled.
          "Drat that dog, anyway," said Weller angrily, after being nearly raised off his feet by
            the sudden noise.
          Kent, who was not far away, and reconnoitering about Brandt's house, stopped quickly at
            the familiar sound. He listened intently. Again the dog howled, and, concluding that
            something was amiss, he was driven to a quick expedient. To hurry away meant to have
            that noisy dog follow him home, and perhaps Weller with him. To climb a tree would be to
            make himself ridiculous; but, in any event, to go away without Snellins was out of the
            question. He felt almost helpless for a means of maintaining his secrecy, and was about
            to step forward and disclose himself to Brandt by seeking admission to the house when an
              inspiration came that struck him as effective, if
            decidedly humorous, and he acted upon it at once, the feeling of novelty and risk making
            it appeal with irresistible force. He held in his hand where he stood one end of a
            broken, unused swing rope, and, realizing its usefulness, he took a firmer hold and
            pulled himself from the ground to test its strength. Being sure of this he next threw it
            as far as he could over the limb of a tree, and going around in a large circle, making
            his tracks clearly distinct, he climbed up to the bough, made ready and swung off. It
            was a long reach that he was attempting, and for the instant he doubted the success of
            his venture, but the momentum of his weight on the downward course served to carry him
            on and up until he had reached its apex, just beyond the chicken-house fence. There he
            let go of the rope and dropped off fairly within the inclosure. As he slipped quietly
            into the roost a surprised cackle greeted him, but, remaining quiet, the chickens
            resumed their slumber, and he securely awaited results.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XI.
          The debate between Weller and his companions, inspired at the time by the
            inscrutability of the woods, was of even shorter duration than the one held upon his
            farm at the beginning of the search, and they climbed the fence with weakened
            determination as Doles again took the lead.
          On and on the tracks led them. A straight line—that bespoke familiarity with the
            environment in the mind of their maker, and each one of the party felt within himself a
            growing conviction that the missing Snellins would be found at the end of their search.
            They grew eager as they neared the house, excitement lending volume to their voices;
            but, as they arrived within the yard and came upon the confusing tracks, they halted and
            drew together again for another conference.
          "He's not gone inside, sure," said Orrig, deductively. "Fer they ain't any tracks up t'
            th' door!"
          "Then Brandt don't know nothin' of it," John Carey said.
          "Who thought he did?" Orrig asked contemptuously, though this idea suggested another to
            him immediately.
          
          "I 'low I'll call Brandt," he added, positiveness lacking in his voice, while he looked
            about him hoping for some expressed support.
          "Yes-s, call him," they all said quickly.
          "I would, only I don't want t' scare her," he replied considerately.
          "Then make some other kind o' noise that'll wake him," suggested Carey readily.
          "What a fool you be!" said Doles. "Don't you suppose thet thet 'd scare her wuss'n th'
            other?"
          "Well, I don't know," Carey responded meekly. "What can we do?"
          "Carey, you're wuss an' wuss," Doles began, when the door opened and Brandt stood in
            the light, with his daughter close behind him, both shading their eyes and peering into
            the darkness.
          "What's wrong here?" he asked sternly.
          "Say, Brandt, here's Doles an' me an' some others," said Orrig confusedly.
          "Is that so?" he replied, relievedly. "But, why don't you come in and tell me what is
            up to bring you all away out here to-night?"
          "No, we want you to come out," said Doles.
          The old man's brow knitted in perplexity as he returned inside for his coat and hat,
            and Virgie still stood in the doorway endeavoring to distinguish the visitors through
            the darkness. When her father reappeared she too went after her outer wraps, shortly
            joining the group.
          "Snellins, you say?" she heard her father repeat as she came upon the scene of
            action.
          
          "Mebbe, an' mebbe not," said Orrig; "but it's mighty mysterious all the same that the
            tracks should lead into your yard an' then end up here."
          "But where do they end?" Brandt asked, much concerned.
          "Over there," said several in chorus.
          "We kep' offen 'em on purpose," Orrig explained.
          "Loan me a lantern?" Brandt said, as he led the way, and, scrutinizing the prints
            carefully, he followed their circles until they ended at the tree trunk.
          "This looks like the end of it," he said seriously, in constant fear, lest his
            discovery might prove an unpleasant one.
          "Now we'll see what we'll see," Doles remarked, with a confident wag of his head, to
            which they all chuckled expectantly.
          The tree was barren of leaves, and the combined light from the lanterns permeated its
            every crotch, yet no man nor beast was brought to view. Brandt looked reluctantly at
            first, then more carefully. Seeing nothing he looked across into the faces of those
            opposite him, and, observing only expressions of bewilderment, began to appreciate the
            ludicrousness of the situation, and smiled. Doles sidled around to where Carey stood,
            first looking into his face for a sign of discovery, then turning his own gaze upward
            for another long search. The dog stood on his hind legs, and, with one foot against the
            trunk, barked loudly into the tree.
          "Blooch says he went up all right, drat him!" said Weller, coming to where he could get
            his hound's view, though he soon relinquished it, being
            none the wiser.
          "Barkin' up the wrong tree," said Doles, with painful sobriety, unable to miss the
            opportunity for a joke. His words were followed by a hearty laugh. Weller looked foolish
            and kicked the dog.
          "Must a-cut his suspenders an' went straight up," said Carey, beginning to laugh
            again.
          "If this ain't the beatenest, then I don't know!" Orrig observed to Virgie, to which
            she inclined her head slightly and asked of her father:
          "How do you explain it?"
          Brandt made a trip around the farthest limits of the tree in the hope of finding
            somewhere a path that would evidence a man's departure, but, seeing none, he replied
            perplexedly:
          "Too much for me—too much for me. I cannot understand it!"
          They were all completely baffled, and, as the ludicrous outcome of their search dawned
            upon them, they grew more anxious to solve the mystery, thinking meantime of their own
            discomfiture when the impossible tale became noised about and its truth questioned. With
            renewed care they again held their lanterns high above their heads and scanned every
            nook and corner of the tree only to reach the same results.
          Kent could not see them from where he crouched, but he could easily follow their
            motions and picture their amazement from the fragments of conversation that reached him.
            From fear he came to silent enjoyment of the situation,
            laughing inwardly with the greatest satisfaction at having outwitted them.
          Virgie had said little through it all, rather giving her thoughts to the unraveling of
            the burl, and at the end, as the group drew over to the opposite side of the tree for a
            last discussion, she stood by the hen-house in deepest reasoning.
          Kent heard the voices diminishing, and, supposing the men had gone, changed from his
            strained position, moving closer to the door to catch their last words. Again there was
            a disturbed cackling as his hands rustled the heavy paper that lined the wall. Then all
            was still as he settled for another and more trying wait.
          The smothered cackling jarred Virgie into a quick and surprised understanding. As
            Kent's hands slipped over the paper she almost cried out at her discovery. Running to
            the men hurriedly she found them still excitedly discussing their mystification. Their
            inattention gave her an instant for recovery, and in that instant her inclination
            changed inexplicably, and she shut her mouth tightly until she could regain her
            self-control.
          Brandt took the men indoors, and while the talk ran high Virgie nervously served them
            food and drink. They looked to their host for the best explanation, but he was more
            mystified than they, since no supernatural powers entered into his calculations. Virgie
            watched her father's face in doubt and indecision. She wished to end his perplexity and
            unburden herself of the responsibility she now bore. But, reasoning that Snellins might
            fare badly if discovered in his doubtful position, she was
            distressed with her attitude between the two.
          Kent dared not move for fear of being overtaken. Therefore he waited, cold and
            impatient, for his pursuers to take their leave. All the humor was now gone out of the
            situation for him, as his feet stung painfully and he found himself shaking with
            increasing chills. The hour seemed interminable, but at last it passed and the townsmen
            bid Brandt good-night with their final jokes. Kent heard the doors close. The voices
            died off into nothingness, and he drew himself up, disregarding without fear the murmurs
            about his head.
          Brandt kissed his daughter and, with a last word, shut himself within his study. Virgie
            waited for an instant to assure herself that he had become absorbed, and with a hurried
            swing she re-donned her cloak, slipped out of the house and took up a position beside
            the gate. One minute passed, then another, and her heart beat with frightful energy.
            With the dying away of the men's voices came the sounds that she had expected, and they
            startled her even more than they had done before. Slowly the door opened within the
            inclosure, and the cackling burst out distinctly until the door swung back and muffled
            it again. Her heart stopped completely as she stood in breathless expectancy. Another
            pause and the high fence gate moved slowly outward, an inch at a time, and she felt the
            closeness of the man. She watched him step out onto the walk and move cautiously away.
            She had been unobserved, and Kent, in consequence, slipped away with an elation born of successfully eluding his followers. Virgie cared not
            then that he had failed to see her. She at first underwent a pang of disappointment in
            not seeing Snellins, but this quickly changed to amazement on half recognizing the
            intruder. Close to the fence he moved in guilty cautiousness, but once he had reached
            the gate he struck out with a hasty stride that was free of restraint. She observed his
            every motion with greatest care, at first inclined to doubt her own faculties. Waiting
            excitedly for him to come into better view, she stood hoping against hope for a proof of
            mistaken identity, but when he came to a partially natural attitude his familiar walk
            grew positive, and she caught her breath quickly in keenest shame.
          Try as she would she could find no other plausible reason as the cause of his visit
            than its having been one to herself, and vaguely she associated his proposal with this
            his first return since that event. Revolving the possible excuses in her troubled mind
            as she slowly returned indoors, she felt herself participating in the disgrace, and a
            shadow was over her heart that she should be a cause for all these supposed doings of
            his that were so mysterious and contemptible. Naturally enough Kent's visit served as a
            solution of all the strange happenings that had gone before and about which the
            townspeople were intensely and interestedly mystified. Soon she left off the stumbling
            over reasons for his appearance to-night and the associating of motives for the other
            mysteries that had come to puzzle and depress.
          
          "Oh! what can it all mean?" she asked herself. "What have I done to make him act so? He
            is disgracing himself and the time has gone by for me to help him. He has made that
            impossible. Poor Royal!" she ended, over and over again, as each exploration into these
            things brought her back to the humiliating end he must soon reach, and her whole tender
            regard for his well-being lived anew with unselfish overwhelmingness.
          She drifted into her small chamber and lighted the lamp by the guidance of habit, and
            without the aid of forethought to direct her movements, as she held to her tender
            reasoning.
          Upon the table, where she had purposely left it that her father might see, lay a letter
            that had come that day from Washington and—Harvey. Picking it up slowly she held
            it aimlessly in her hands and looked at the postmark. The weight of its secrecy came
            back to her from the unhappiness its arrival had occasioned.
          Gradually a chill of fear crept over her. She fought with even greater persistency
            against it than she had done against the recognizing of Kent a few moments before; and
            yet it clung—clung with all the tenacity of evil, and she was brought to confess
            to herself that another secret had come to make her its guardian, and this last was the
            knowledge that the secrecy of Kent's exploit lay within her power, either to divulge or
            retain, to save him from disgrace. She had kept from her father Harvey's promise to
            write in the thought that he might never do so. Harvey had taught her of things to her
            experience unknown, filling her world as no one had ever
            done, and in consequence her thoughts had followed him away into this unknown, returning
            to him with a frequency that made her blush in the consciousness of it. Hoping and
            dreading alternately that he might keep his promise through these weeks since he had
            left, she finally became convinced that he had forgotten. Then the letter came, and in
            the happiness of its reception she forgot for the moment the possible anger of her
            father in his never having been consulted. Meeting him as she returned homeward from the
            postoffice she withheld it from him still. All the day it had been a torment, and she
            took it up with a cold fear—an added responsibility.
          First of all now she was perplexed to know whether or not she could protect Kent from
            publicity. The weight of her own wrong-doing also surged in upon her and tried her
            sorely. That she could not make of her father a confidant without a full explanation in
            the parson's case; and, again, knowing that she had gone outside his confidence by
            permitting Harvey to write, were either of them enough to depress her. She foresaw that
            he must inevitably learn the one, and perhaps both, and the sadness he would then
            experience caused her to bury her face in her hands in anticipated humiliation.
          She sat thinking, thinking, thinking. The clock out in the kitchen gonged ten vibrating
            strokes. Brandt came out of the room shuffling his slippered feet along the floor.
            Setting the lamp he held up beside the clock, he opened its Gothic door, inserted the
            key in one hole after the other, turning it over patiently while he watched the changing shadows on the wall. When the springs were taut he
            laid the key carefully within the case, closed the door and, taking up the lamp again,
            returned to his room and rest.
          Virgie listened intently to his movements with a feeling of security, following him by
            the familiar sound until he had reclosed his own door, and then she returned to her
            thoughts with a quick resolve.
          "Father—father!" she said, in mute supplication. "Oh! why have I not told him
            before? Dear old father!" And her face slowly relaxed into a smile of happy relief, as
            she felt the closeness of the morning, on which she would unburden her mind to him. She
            held the envelope at arm's length and blinked shyly, trying to see it more clearly
            through her tears. Then, drawing the letter from its cover with re-assured strength in
            the right to have it, she read a second time, but with deeper pleasure, his words of
            friendliness.
          As Kent neared home his high spirits fell on the change from contemplating his own
            escape to the thought of the failure in his errand. With the return to thoughts of
            Snellins he was sick and careworn, and his feet lagged from over-exertion. He walked
            dejectedly up the path to his study door, and there he turned and looked back along the
            street, whence there came no signs of life to disturb his musings. Quickly inserting a
            key he let himself in and closed the door softly. A stream of light penetrated the
            hangings from the interior room. Seeing it he stopped suddenly with a quick fear lest
            the voices that came from the next room in unintelligible whispers boded ill.
          
          His study chairs and table were still in confusion from the disturbance of the early
            evening, but in anxious dread he forgot their chaotic state, moving across toward the
            door unobservedly. There was no light in his room to guide his movements, and two steps
            brought him down with a great clatter in the midst of a group of overturned
            furniture.
          Martin, who had been listening with intense awe to Landy in the adjoining room,
            screamed nervously under her breath, but Landy took up the lamp, his face set in angry
            determination, and stepped into the doorway between the portieres.
          "It's you, parson?" he said, in astonishment. "I thought it was 'Snell,' though I
            didn't see how it could be, seein' as how I jest got through lockin' him in again."
          "No! you have not brought him back again?" Kent exclaimed delightedly, for the time
            forgetting to nurse his wounded knee as he smiled doubtfully and scrutinized the
            speaker's face.
          "Yes, I hev," responded Landy, with ill-concealed pride. "But, then, shucks, it wuz
            easy 'nough. All I had t' do wuz jest t' foller his tracks, an' I had him."
          Martin had remained quietly in the outer room riveted to her chair with fright, but,
            hearing only familiar voices and no signs of a disturbance, she came to the door and
            cautiously protruded her head within. Landy re-assured her readily, and no sooner had
            she entered than she began in excited admiration:
          "Wan't it grand, parson, an' him doin' it all by his ownself, or did you help him?" she
            asked, her face falling with sudden doubt.
          
          "Tell me about it?" said Kent eagerly. "Is he in the house? How did you do it? Where
            did you find him? You cannot imagine how relieved I am."
          To the first question Landy nodded assent, but the ensuing volley left him embarrassed,
            and Martin, seeing her opportunity, began hastily:
          "Landy tracked him in the snow. Wasn't that smart, though?" she asked, smiling proudly
            at her future partner.
          "Well, partly yes and partly no. In his case it was clever enough, but in some others
            it is not always so," Kent replied, smiling as he cast a backward glance over his own
            experience of the evening. "But, never mind, Martin, let Landy tell me himself."
          Martin was about to begin again, but she stopped hesitatingly and turned to Landy,
            urging him to speak by her expressions of sympathetic expectancy.
          "Well, they ain't much t' tell, leastwise about my part o' it, 'cause I jest follered
            him t' where he went, an' when I asked him t' come back he come," said Landy modestly.
            With renewed interest, aided by Martin's nervous anticipation, he continued: "I follered
            him by th' snow over 'cross Hege's, an' down th' river-bend a ways. Then he'd struck off
            straight fer Nigger Hill, an' when I seen thet I picked up some, not knowin' what t'
            make o' th' way he wuz goin' an' worryin' t' myself, when all at once I run plumb onto
            him a-pullin' away at some big rocks. He stopped when he seen me an' frowned, an' then
            he went t' work again as if I wan't anythin' but a tree er somethin', an' I didn't move
            a step nearer. Bime-by he stops again an' looks fretful at
            the hole he's made, an' I goes t' come closer t' him, when he sets t' diggin' again with
            all-fired strength, workin' faster an' faster. After he gets th' big stones cleared off
            he throws out dozens o' little fellers that looked round like they'd been tuk from th'
            creek, an' all one size, an' then I sets in an' he'ps him till I wuz nigh wore out."
          "Well, what then?" Kent asked, too impatient to wait over the pause silently, as Landy
            looked at Martin, who in turn was beaming upon the parson.
          Casting one glance toward Landy, who smiled assent, she, with a triumphant flourish,
            drew from the depths of her capacious skirt pocket a package that was wrapped about with
            a towel. Undoing this she disclosed a leather receptable about the size and shape of a
            banker's note wallet. It was covered with mould and dirt; the wire that bound it was not
            at first discernible, and as Kent took it in his hand he turned it over critically,
            looking for an opening, while his companions watched his face exultantly.
          "This is strange!" he said at last. "Most clumsily made. Probably constructed it
            himself. Let me have your knife?" he said to Landy, with sudden resolve, and after
            removing the wire he slipped the point of the blade in at one end and slit the package
            all the way across its edge.
          His companions drew closer with eager curiosity, and, as a portion of the contents fell
            out upon the table, they gave vent to exclamations of surprise.
          Kent reached for the three gold coins, and, holding them in the palm of his hand,
            leaned forward to the light to better judge of their
            genuineness. They were spotted with a dull coating of green where they had laid in
            contact with their receptacle, but for all that their yellow glint proclaimed their
            virginity. He turned his attention to the wallet again, and, working it open, carefully
            drew forth the package of bills that it contained. The rubber band that had once held
            them intact was now in separate, shrunken bits glued to the surface, and on the bottom,
            as he turned it over, Kent's eye was attracted by a memorandum on a yellow slip, both
            paper and ink bearing evidence of their long burying. Scrutinizing this closely he could
            only decipher the one portion of writing that had been beneath the fold of the paper,
            and from this—a set of figures—he reached the conclusion that the total was
            one that should correspond with the deposit. Laying the bills over his knee he counted
            them carefully. Adding the three gold pieces his computation was in exact accord with
            that of the memorandum.
          "One hundred and thirty-five dollars," he said aloud, and, turning to the eager
            watchers, he asked, "What do you think we had best do with it until he needs it
            again?"
          "Law! I don't know," said Martin confusedly. "You keep it for him. He don't need it now
            anyway."
          "I hardly know myself what would be best to do with it," Kent said. "But, never mind,
            it is all right for the present. Snellins is too, you say. That's good. I am sure we
            have much to be thankful for. Perhaps you two have entirely forgotten about to-morrow
              though. You have been so unselfishly full of poor
            'Snell's' troubles. Thanksgiving Day is almost upon us, and I have made no preparation
            for it, so I am going to ask that you give me a chance now."
          Landy was confused by this kindly reminder of their wedding day. Martin looked from him
            to Kent apologetically, assisting him to an ungraceful exit, after which she "tidied up
            a bit," humming joyously until she sang herself out of the room to her own domain and
            happy anticipations.
          Kent struggled along with his rebellious thoughts, but all attempts to place them on
            the morrow were ineffectual. He restrained his impulses stubbornly for a time, but
            eventually yielded. He took up the wallet and gradually came under the full spell of its
            mysterious influence. Long into the night he struggled with the problem of Snellins'
            doings, fitting circumstance into circumstance with infinite care, hoping thus to reach
            the end over these assembled parts, but there were too many links missing for him to
            reach a satisfactory solution.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XII.
          Quietly and slowly the snow fell that night before Thanksgiving, laying out its virgin
            cloth with unostentatious goodness, and in the early morn the beautiful spread rolled
            away in broken lines over street to housetop, and housetop to trees, until far up in the
            hills it reached to Heaven in an almost indiscernible border line of gray against the
            hazy sky. Away off to the west lay Nigger Hill, jagged and uncomely, as its sparse trees
            stood out in stubborn relief against the purer mantle. Down at its base generous
            fertility had reared a border of giant growths, and from plane to plane of shelving rock
            leading toward the summit an occasional giant tree had reached maturity; but these were
            few and only served to spoil the more picturesque outline—beautiful under its
            rounding coverlet. High up and at the very apex of the hill a dwarfed and gnarled
            lookout grew, marking the highest point against the sky. Stunted for lack of
            nourishment, deformed and bent by many storms, it was still the peer of them all.
            Diminutive it stood in impudent glory, swaying in saucy arrogance with seeming
            consciousness of its undeserved but fortunate superior position.
          
          George Brandt had observed it many, many times, and as many times had he reflected over
            the grandeur of its position. It had taught him that this example of eminence was but a
            parallel of human position, and, if that man who stands at the top must be dwarfed and
            beaten and exposed to every gale as this tree was, mayhap the fellow-men further down
            were in as good position, all things considered, as they should wish to be. Given the
            opportunity some men could stand against it all, and Brandt assured himself that he
            would have been among these—but reflection brought discernment, and in the review
            of his serene life he concluded each time that his lot had fallen in the best place
            after all, and he was content.
          Youthful Ashville was the first astir. Many sleds of strange workmanship were drawn
            out, their polished runners examined and a speedy test given by merry children filled
            with the double joy of a holiday combined with fine sleighing.
          Orrig's apprentice awoke a full ten minutes late, and, dressing hurriedly, came
            upstairs. He unlocked the front door with surprised joy as he saw the street from
            beneath the curtains. Stepping out on to the walk he was greeted by a merry whiz of boys
            as they sped down the road. "Hi! hi!" was all he could distinguish, but it held such
            bundles full of enjoyment that he responded "Hi! hi!" grabbing up a handful of snow and
            shooting it at the next squad that passed.
          "What y' leavin' th' door open fer? Want-a freeze th' house out?" Orrig asked, stepping
            up from behind.
          "Nozzer," the boy replied with a start.
          
          "An' yer kivvers! Not a kivver teched yet, be they? What's th' matter—air y'
            awake er not?" he said, with great severity, to which the apprentice responded by
            sidling over toward a counter, where he took hold of his work dejectedly.
          "What's th' matter with y'?" Orrig asked again, with strange persistency. "Air yer
            feelin's hurt? I never see sech a lad!" Stepping out of the door he received a rousing
            welcome, accompanied by a volley that was startling, and he turned and looked within as
            a knowing smile spread over his face. "Let them kivvers be!" he thundered sternly. "Drop
            'em right where y' air,"— and, as the boy looked at him in speechless wonder and
            fear, he added, "an' go get yer sled. I 'low I can work th' kivvers one morning a
            year—special' a day like this!"
          Scarcely was the town awake ere the sexton had the church bell joyously ringing,
            proclaiming the day of good old Puritan custom. The air was full of fresh vivacity.
            Happiness was come in the mere joy of living, and the world seemed to impart great
            exhilaration.
          Kent came to his breakfast with a most happy countenance, and Martin met him with a
            more evident joy, illy concealed by her over-indulgent attentions. His first observance
            was of the happy day in which she would again unite fortunes with her ideal man, and she
            responded with a flurried gesture with her apron as she bade him "Go on!"
          Landy arrived sooner than was originally intended, after casting himself about his home
            restlessly for more than two hours, and furtively observing his raiment each moment of that time with insecure consciousness.
            Entering at the study door with unusual care, as he hoped bashfully to avoid Martin as
            long as possible, he happened at once upon Kent, who was laboriously attempting to
            construct a sermon for the morning service.
          "Hello! You here?" asked the parson rising.
          "I got tired a-waitin'," Landy replied, in dogged embarrassment.
          "Well, I don't blame you," Kent laughed. "I suppose that I would be the same way
            myself, only—" And here he caught Landy by the shoulder, and, clasping his hand
            warmly, continued: "You are especially to be congratulated, Landy; for Martin is a
            jewel. I speak from experience. We have not known each other long, she and I, but she is
            the kind that a day does as well as a year in which to learn her worth, and I warn you
            that you will have to be a model to make yourself worthy of her." "No, no!" he added, as
            his companion choked a bit and essayed to speak. "I know what you want to say, and I
            will not listen to promises; so go to her and tell her. Besides I am still without a
            sermon and only an hour for work." At this he laughed again, and Landy smiled with
            deep-moved seriousness.
          Returning to the table Kent picked up the much-corrected few lines of manuscript,
            glanced over them wearily and, raising his eyes, stood, leaning one hand on the table,
            looking out of the window. A disconnected train of thought swirled in his brain. The
            beauties of life and light and freshness were before him, and from them grand deductions of precious truths, each a delicious theme for
            enlargement and exposition, came to him, but he could not hold to a single one. He
            resumed his seat under the spell of these ideally lofty thoughts. Taking up his pen he
            slowly drew a line through that which was already written. He rested his elbow on the
            table, placed his hand against his forehead, slowly closing his eyes. With baffling
            persistence the thoughts would begin at the middle, or near the end, or anywhere save at
            the beginning, and, with happiness and contentment everywhere about him, he finally gave
            himself over to the merry jingle of Thanksgiving in its seductive accompaniment.
          "Indeed it is Thanksgiving!" he mused. "Thanksgiving for Martin and Landy, with the
            bells a double herald of their happiness. Also for me, as I am nearing the lives of my
            people, there must be one tone of Thanksgiving, for I am happily giving my life over to
            this end. Results count. Results—that's it, and my efforts are beginning to show
            results," he was saying contentedly, when ——
          "Ten minutes to service," announced Martin, with customary punctuality, beaming from
            between the curtains.
          "Service! Not service?" he replied, as he arose.
          "No, not service 'zactly," she grinned in confusion, "but fer me an' Landy it is."
          "All right," he said, taking up hasty preparations. "You folks get ready and I'll rush
            through by the time you do."
          "We're ready now," she replied.
          
          "In just a minute, then, and I will go with you," he smiled, redoubling his speed to
            keep down their respectful impatience.
          Martin again gave her attention to her wedding gown, while Gyp admired quietly from
            across the room—Bennie observing the creation not at all.
          Soon the little train was in motion, and they moved off happily, Kent and the babies in
            the lead and Martin following proudly, holding to Landy's unwilling arm. The bell pealed
            merrily as they turned the corner. Coming to the church platform an ovation burst forth
            that caused the already erect bridegroom to expand himself most unusually, Kent laughed
            heartily as he greeted the throng and stepped within, taking his stand on the platform
            to await their coming.
          Slowly, laboriously and with heavy dignity Landy led his companion through the teasing
            crowd, while Martin beamed upon those nearest to her with unabashed security. The
            ceremony was short, owing to the absence of any attendant formality. Of bridesmaids, of
            bestmen there were none. Simplicity pervaded it all. When the end came and they were man
            and wife, Landy kissed her for the first time with ludicrous enjoyment and pride, and
            the onslaught of congratulating friends nearly swept them from their position. Even
            Doles forgot, in the general disorder, Landy's angered speech of the night previous.
          Virgie reached Martin after much struggling and implanted a kiss upon her cheek just as
            Kent was striving to grasp the bride's hand. Each of the young people were laughing
            gayly, and when they met Virgie forgetfully smiled
            pleasantly as she nodded. Kent returned the recognition with pleased surprise, and, as
            she seemed in no way inclined to follow up the greeting, he drew away, happily nursing
            this the first sign of friendliness that he had had from her since his angry
            leave-taking. Without a note for his sermon he stepped into his pulpit and, buoyed up by
            the happiness that surged within him, he signified his intention to begin. Landy and the
            new Mrs. George sat in the front row—she fussily settling to outsit the ordeal and
            he striking at once an attitude of absorbed interest.
          "Filled with the joy of this glorious day," Kent began, "and moved by a spirit of
            genuine gratitude, we have always come here to give thanks to a generous Providence for
            His goodness. In all Broom County I do not believe that there is a man, woman or child
            who could live such a day as this one is without a responsive feeling and satisfaction
            that he is part of it; and this is Thanksgiving, the time in which we lay out our
            blessings, our benefits, our successes. Following the good old Puritan footsteps, we
            bring the past year back again and go over it, counting out of each month the things
            that were given us for happiness. It is a good way, for these are the joys that we have
            in hand; we can hold to them and add them together as much as we will. The next year may
            give us disappointments, because we are hoping for so much for ourselves. The happiness,
            though, that we have had is a sure happiness, because we can cling to it and no one can
            take it away. For this we should indeed be thankful!"
          He became serious as he progressed, taking up condition
            after condition with an ease and fluency of handling that evidenced familiarity and
            interest. He was growing nearer his people's interest, or they to his. He came to speak
            as if he were one of them, forgetting entirely in his earnestness the lack of notes or
            preparation. After passing over many localisms with engaging feeling, he arose to an
            eloquence that held his hearers in a spell of astonished admiration.
          "Providence," he said forcefully, "has, among His most gracious gifts, given you
            common-sense, and you have exerted it nowhere with more kindness than in my case."
            Smiling faintly he paused for the inference to take hold. Resuming he said: "Among our
            weak I have been the very weakest. To be good is to do good, and there is not a man
            among you who has done less than I. Yet I look back over the past year and see my
            blessings sticking up like fence-posts. I have them all in mind now, and each one gets
            bigger as I look upon it to-day, for they mark the line that leads into your land, and
            that is where I want to be. The coming year may bring sorrows to you and me, but, no
            matter what they are, I am holding fast to the thought of the past blessings I have had
            from your hands, and with these to guide me I want to—and I will return to you all
            that my power may permit me to."
          Again he paused, and they watched him with expectant faces, deeply moved by his sincere
            eloquence. He stood their fascinated gaze well, as he searched his mind for a
            continuance of the thought; but, when he found himself barren of further words, he was
            forced to a speedy termination. Finally he said:
            "Thanksgiving Day is turkey day, too. I must not let you forget the turkey!" And this
            was rewarded at once by many relaxing countenances.
          Brandt was one of the first to greet him as he came down to the door, but Virgie
            evidenced no intention of doing likewise. In the hearty handshakes that took up his
            attention Kent felt vaguely a disappointment in her failure to join the group, as was
            her usual wont. Landy and Mrs. George had also their throng of admirers, and to these
            Virgie quickly added her company, grateful for the relief to escape observation and
            cover her indifference. She had been deeply and favorably impressed, after her surprise,
            by the goodness in his sermon, and under its spell had been drawn to his new strength
            with irresistible admiration. But, once that spell was gone, the memory of a series of
            circumstances rushed in on her, the most distracting of which was her discovery of his
            mysterious visit, and somehow she could not help but feel his new role an evidence of
            insincerity, and she sickened in this thought.
          Kent waited expectantly at first for the appearance of her face among those about him,
            until the group had dwindled sufficiently for his complete survey of the room. Even then
            he glanced hurriedly to the outer edge of the thinning ranks, hoping to find her amongst
            the last. Then he looked even farther over their heads in growing fear, and, in some
            hesitancy, turned about to find her entirely vanished from the edifice. All his triumph
            was gone on the instant. He disengaged himself with a sudden coldness from the
            stragglers still about him that awakened no small surprise
            among them, and would have walked away alone but for "Si," who caught up to him and
            awkwardly pushed beneath his arm a package in newspaper tied with thread.
          "Faribee couldn't get over t' th' house while services wuz on," he said,
            apologetically. "She thought as how she'd surprise Martin—er I mean Mrs. George.
            Dern! I can't never get myself t' call her that, an' bein' 's I see you, you can give it
            to her. It's a weddin' present ere sunthin'. Hope y' hev a good dinner,
            parson—good's yer sermon. I heerd it. Ef Martin don't feed y' right come over t'
            th' 'Yaller Front;' we'll hev some leavin's anyhow!"
          "Thanks, 'Si,'" Kent replied, laughing. "I'll give this to Martin, and, if the wedding
            feast gets too much for me, remember I'll hold you to your word!"
          "All right!" said Doles, with a merry twinkle in his eye. "But, remember, I said 'on'y
            th' leavin's!'" And, turning, he marched away with a proud chuckle over his own wit,
            while Kent laughed again in momentary forgetfulness.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XIII.
          "This is a day to be thankful for, isn't it, dear?" said Brandt contentedly, as they
            drove home after services, and then, addressing the horse, he continued: "Gee up Billie.
            Thanksgiving dinner is waiting fer you and me!"
          "I don't know; I suppose that it is," she replied abstractedly.
          "What?" he asked in surprise. "You suppose that it is? Good gracious! What is the
            matter to put you so out of touch with everything? I thought that you were the happiest
            of us all!"
          "Well, I am not," she replied, in quick anger with herself.
          "But what is wrong?" he laughed.
          "I have disobeyed you," she said bluntly. But, catching her breath, she hurriedly
            resumed; "Not exactly disobeyed, but, then, I have gone outside your confidence and
            perhaps your wishes, and it makes me miserable to feel that I will have angered you when
            you know what I have done."
          She waited then for him to reply, but he only appeared strangely serious, and
            studiously avoided her anxious glances. Twice she essayed to speak, yet held herself in check, hoping that he might relieve and aid her
            confession. But he continued silent, and she finally resumed:
          "I had a letter yesterday from Washington—from Mr. Harvey, and in it he has told
            me some of the things you never wished me to know!"
          "And—" he interposed as she ended, while he turned his head away to conceal the
            relief his face uncontrollably expressed.
          "They were about your family and other things that you would never talk to me about,
            and I have felt as if I were spying when I read them. They have made me awfully unhappy.
            My night was spoiled, as my day has been, because I did not tell you about it
            sooner."
          "How came Mr. Harvey to write?" he asked, regaining his composure.
          "He asked if he might the day he left, and I wanted to know what it seemed like to have
            letters, and I wanted to know about the things in his world, so I did not refuse when he
            spoke of it; but I am so sorry now that I did not," she ended, her voice burdened with
            contrition and supplication.
          "Well, I wouldn't worry about it," he said, re-assuringly. "Of course I should like to
            have known, but, then, Mr. Harvey is all right without doubt, so there you are—and
            I will not scold. But never do it again, mind you!" he ended, raising his finger
            warningly and covering her hand with his own in the same gesture as he smiled
            forgivingly.
          "You are the dearest old father in the world!" she burst out happily, patting the hand
            in her lap lovingly.
          
          He laughed in delighted embarrassment as he sat silently enjoying her relieved change,
            but after a time he asked:
          "I suppose your correspondence is secret—or is it?"
          "Why, of course not!" she replied quickly, and, drawing off her mitten, she dove for
            the letter, offering by a gesture to relieve him of the reins as she held it toward
            him.
           "No; you read the parts you want me to hear," he said teasingly, with a significant
            glance.
          "You old simple!" she replied, confused. "As if there were any things in it that you
            should not hear!" She spread the large pages out on the lap-robe, where the great,
            scrawly words were very distinct, and, with a last slap at them, began:
          
              
                
                  "MY DEAR MISS BRANDT:—
                  Back in town again in an environment of rush and hurry, with all its attendant
                    clatter, I find myself drawn to the quiet of your life irresistibly, and this,
                    too, after but a month here. It is a strange thing how humors take hold of us at
                    times, and we want just what we have not and grow sick in the wanting, because
                    we must take other things willy-nilly. Nothing new in that sentiment I know. I
                    do not mention it to say anything new, but only to get up to what I want to say,
                    and that is, that I have become an apostle of country life. It led me into a
                    strange thing the other night, this talking about having the smell of earth in
                    one's nostrils instead of dust as we have it here, and a lot of other like
                    observations. I had only been back about a week when it happened, and intended
                    to write to you then about it, but waited and followed it up, and now I am glad
                    that I did, for I can tell you better, as I know more.
                  "As I say, I was talking like a farmer would, and telling all I knew about you
                    of the good kind—the nutting contest, Mr. Kent and your father and all,
                    when one of the boys asked: 'What's that name again?' And I said 'Brandt,' and
                    asked him if he knew your father. Of course he said that he did not, but he went
                    on to say that he was with a Brandt, a lawyer, and that maybe you were all
                    related. But yesterday he asked me to come up to
                    his office and see his employer, and, surprise of surprises, I found your uncle,
                    I think, if you have one! Ask your father if Stanley Brandt isn't his
                    brother?"
                
              
            
          Here she paused and turned to her father a look of inquiry.
          "Yes," he answered quietly, motioning her to proceed.
          
              
                
                  "If Stanley Brandt isn't your uncle he was immensely interested—asked me
                    a lot of questions I could not answer and some that I could. I asked him why he
                    didn't write and find out if you were related, and he started to tell me
                    something, but caught himself before he had said a word, and coughed and took
                    your address, and that's all. This all struck me as being strange, so I thought
                    that I would tell you, because I don't believe he thinks your father and himself
                    brothers, and being a big man, hard-pressed for time, I concluded he would
                    forget it in the press of business, so that, if you care anything about
                    following it up, I give you his address on a card, and this explanation may help
                    you some."
                
              
            
          "The rest isn't anything much—just wishes to be remembered to Mr. Kent, and then
            says some clever things about city people and city life to make me think it all
            tiresome," she explained, as she absorbedly folded the letter. "But I will not believe a
            word of that," she asserted, and turned to her father with a doubting laugh that died
            away into silence, as she beheld his face filled with pain and without a sign of having
            heard her last words.
          Brandt was gone back with rapid strides to his early days, when he and his brothers
            were at home. Instantly Harvey's hurting words brought up each failure of his own in
            those unfortunate times, as well as the contrasting successes of his brothers, that had
            been forever to his shame. Years of peace and solitude had
            uprooted, bit by bit, caustic remembrances and dulled each incident into an easier
            forgetfulness. He had remembered them lately only at times, and then with but the
            vagueness that desire and time made easier. He saw again, as the living image of his
            brother Stanley was brought before him, all of that intrepid young man's triumphs, all
            of his achievements, and his final opportunity coming out of them to go to Washington.
            He saw also his other brother, Wesley, who had reached a fair medical practice at home,
            while George was still successively failing. It was not in envy at that time that he had
            found his humiliation, no more was it that that reached him now, but, his having served
            as a contrast to their successes always at the beginning and even now, was the thrust
            that hurt, and it wounded his pride sorely. He could not tell his daughter how he had
            failed and how he had run away—hers was not the nature to understand. Of her
            sympathy he was sure, but her ideas of himself were that exalted that the running away,
            and leaving the stigma of utter defeat to cling to the memory of his name, would be a
            sad awakening, and he dreaded the loss of position he had always held with her. In her
            happier moods he had often thought to tell her, but as often remained dumb for fear of
            saddening the mood, or at least this was the reason he gave himself for retaining the
            thought; and yet it was more that he could not tell the story and spare himself without
            holding his honor in greater contempt than silence gave him. In her serious moods he
            feared the thoroughness of her questioning, but, now that
            she seemed about to learn that which he had held from her for so long, he was sore
            perplexed.
          Virgie, impressed by the gravity of his expression, respectfully restrained the running
            comment she would have liked to express, and permitted no word to escape her to break
            his, as she judged, reminiscent thought. They rode along in silence until he had
            resolved upon the course of accepting things as they were, and trusting that
            circumstances might deal with him leniently. He assumed to take her letter happily, and
            re-opened the conversation in a manner and tone so buoyant that she was at once
            radiantly responsive.
          At dinner he railed her about her correspondent, and asked, in feigned seriousness, if
            there was aught in her mind that she believed would prove of interest to her "city"
            correspondent. To this she replied with happy assurance, though the suggestion of her
            answering rather appalled her.
          "Well, never mind," he said, on noticing her weakening. "I will write to him for you.
            Perhaps he would rather that I would anyway?"
          "Oh, you tease!" was all that she could reply. But he persisted.
          "And you can convey his regards to the parson, so as to have a little part in it. That
            is, unless you wish to turn it all over to me?"
          "You may have it all or none," she said quickly.
          "Woe is me," he responded; "and Kent coming over this afternoon too, and I thought that
            you would let me tell him. I do believe that you are becoming selfish!"
          
          "Is he honestly coming?" she asked, hopeful that this was a part of his joke.
          "Honestly!" he answered, unconscious of her chagrin on his re-assurance, as she arose
            hastily and went to the kitchen with no evident excuse.
          "Speaking of Kent," he began when she had returned, "brings back this mornin's
            sermon—and such a sermon as it was. The boy is changing wonderfully. He is, as he
            says, getting nearer to his people and their lives. I am glad that he begins to see, for
            this is the only way. People about him are different people from his own. Youth would
            not excuse him in his position. I know that it hurt his pride to come down from the
            notions he had formed, but then he is all the better off for having formed them, as
            burning a young man at the stake of disappointment like that will bring out his better
            side most surely, and his selfish instincts will become unselfish instincts. I tell you,
            daughter, his words conveyed to me the beginning of a new life of thought and feeling in
            him. He spoke cheerily and extemporaneously the happiness he felt, but back of that I
            listened to his sobs as he must have sobbed in silence. It is a hard experience, but he
            will know its reward."
          "Are such changes usually so sudden?" she asked incredulously.
          "The ways of the mind are less inscrutable than those of the heart," he said: "But, be
            assured, his heart is becoming the dictator."
          Impressed with her father's words she reasoned hopefully in an effort to reach his
            plane of deduction. She saw, after his having pointed out
            the signs of regeneration, but she could not, try as she would, accept them as a true
            indication of Kent's inward self. Doubt's anguish had hold upon her, and those other
            thoughts intruded to spoil the admiration she sincerely desired to bestow. All the
            afternoon the enigma was with her work and leisure. Brandt, filled with a renewed
            vividness of his past, sought seclusion for himself and left her to her own devices. At
            the first, in her after-dinner work, when most under the spell of her father's laudatory
            words, she felt guilty to hold another conception than his usually keen and correct one,
            but as the hours wore on, and she had not his combative influence, the sway of self
            gained strength and brought her again to her original opinion.
          From his library Brandt was the first to see the parson on his arrival, and he opened
            the door most hospitably ere Kent had passed the gate. Welcoming him he drew him to his
            own chair, and talked readily in pleased relief. In surprised gratitude the younger man
            accepted the courtesy, uncertain of his standing, and scarcely comprehending the
            situation. Brandt talked freely of the day, the people and things sage with an unsual
            volubility, and Kent grew less self-conscious as his interest deepened until he had
            forgotten altogether his original lack of assurance.
          "Would you know an ungrateful man? Would you know an unfeeling man? You should look at
            him!" Brandt said warmly, after he had spoken of Snellins for some moments. "Eccentric?
            Perhaps. But, however valid that excuse may be to you or me, it is yet without the foundation that will make his actions forgivable."
          "Without doubt," Kent replied, "his taking off was other than under his own
            control."
          "Then why have we not heard something? It was evident that he feared Harvey's coming,
            from that which was said at Orrig's the last time he was seen, and, if anyone has caused
            him to go away, why have I been unable to learn of it?"
          "Because I would not—could not give you the sorrow of knowing."
          "You do not mean—" And he paused as he leaned forward excitedly.
          "Yes, it is I who knows; but it is not of his end that I must tell you. It is worse
            than that—worse than death," Kent replied, his voice filled with a pathos of a
            double sympathy. "Snellins' eccentricity has taken a more violent form," he went on,
            adding re-assuringly, "but he is at my house now, and I have brought Landy in to take
            care of him. It is a good arrangement, since Martin is already there, and all that can
            will be done for him. I must swear you to secrecy, for your daughter should not know
            until we find out what hope there is, and if the public should learn they would be sure
            to apprise her at the first opportunity."
          Brandt was stunned beyond accepting details, and he stared at the speaker blankly.
          "I must go to him at once!" he finally said. "Tell Virginia anything—any excuse
            will do; but I must see him."
          
          "Calm yourself; calm yourself," Kent said soothingly, and wait until this evening, when
            you come in. I have anticipated your desire to convince yourself of the seriousness of
            his trouble, and Landy will invite you to the house this evening so as to cause no
            comment."
          "But I cannot wait," Brandt persisted.
          "You must. If you will be reasonable you can see how it would excite your daughter's
            curiosity for you to rush off this way. You must exercise some caution, and to-night I
            tell you—it will only be four hours or so until you shall see him. So be calm for
            her sake!"
          "Oh, this is terrible!" he said, arising and walking nervously back and forth across
            the room. Then, turning quickly, he asked fiercely:
          "Why should she not know?"
          Kent looked at him in amazement and anger, surprised at his extreme agitation and angry
            because of his excited forgetfulness.
          "Why should she know?" he responded with like words, but in a tone of masterful
            rigidity.
          Brandt stood before him and, after his reply, watched his face closely; but he bore the
            gaze and returned it unflinchingly, and the older man slowly turned and resumed his
            walking.
          Kent followed his movements back and forth until he grew tired of watching, and then
            relaxed his attention, as he no longer remained expectant of words from the absorbed
            man.
          Brandt walked unceasingly save when he raised his head and halted for an instant and
            afterward began again.
          
          "You are right," he said finally, stopping opposite Kent. "You are right. It would only
            worry her and could do no good, but I cannot see her now; she will be sure to observe my
            agitation. Give me my hat and coat, Royal—my hat and coat. I will go out
            somewhere. What a horrible thing it all is!"
          "Promise not to go in town?" Kent said suspiciously, assisting him with his coat.
          "I will not go until you say," he replied quietly, and Kent closed the door after him
            in full confidence.
          When Virgie entered the room later she was startled into speechlessness to find Kent
            alone, giving himself over to abject meditation in the gloaming. She stood undecided as
            to what she should do, and as her confusion grew she became less and less mistress of
            her actions. He finally turned, and, discovering her thus close, arose to his feet with
            hasty respect.
          "Miss Brandt, good evening!" he said jerkily, and she disregarded the salutation from
            sheer embarrassment.
          "Your father has just stepped out," he ventured guiltily, pointing toward the door as
            if to prove this statement, and then she turned her eyes in the direction indicated only
            to bring them back upon him, where they slowly dilated with the arising anger that was
            back of them. He read aright in the gradual change the impending storm and attempted to
            avert it by a pleasantry.
          "Yes, he went out and left me all alone with my thoughts here in the sticky gloaming,"
            he said, and laughed lamely.
          
          "Why have you come here?" she asked.
          "Your father asked me to," he responded quickly, and then he could have bitten his
            tongue for the very stupidity of that ready excuse. She would think him so mean as to
            return at the first opportunity, and he had only used it to cover the real object of his
            visit. But it was said now, and, think what she would, he could not enlighten her if
            silence was to cost him the last vestige of her respect.
          "Was that sufficient to bring you back?" she asked and her scorn hurt him like a sting.
            "After the other how dare you come?" she went on angrily, her cheeks aglow with burning
            indignation. "Oh! are men so base?"
          "Miss Brandt, stop. I pray you, stop! You do not—you cannot understand. It was
            not only because your father asked me that I came to-day, but there is
            more——"
          "But father does not know," she interposed. "It was only I who saw you."
          "What?" he cried in astonishment, as he divined the reason of her anger. "Is it of last
            night that you are talking? You did see me, then?" and he smiled faintly in relief,
            knowing how he would have her full forgiveness when she should learn the reason of that
            escapade. But she only flushed the hotter to see that he had thought her so bold as to
            introduce again the subject of his proposal, and they stood facing each other
            confusedly. It was the tragedy of errors!
          But she could not hold her anger long, and, even though she strove to nurse the
            indignity of his presence, her hopes relaxed the vigilance
            over the goodness in her heart, and involuntarily she asked:
          "Can you explain, then?"
          "Certainly I can," he replied, with a readiness that bespoke a happy ending. Then he
            paused, appalled to realize that he had bound himself to secrecy that would not permit
            him to do so.
          "Well?" she asked eagerly.
          "I can," he resumed, "but—" and then he paused again, looking helpless, and after
            a time he added abruptly—" but I cannot. Good afternoon!" and rushed away, leaving
            her in astonishment.
          Slowly, resistlessly the doubting crept back into her heart after he had gone, leaving
            her more deeply indignant and farther away from the charity she had tried to force into
            it; and he, guessing what she would feel, magnified her hatred against himself, and was
            miserable to know that he could not help the situation by even so much as a word of
            explanation.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XIV.
          In the evening Virgie refused to accompany her father. He coaxed in mild surprise, but,
            despite his pleading, she remained obdurate, and he was forced to go alone. Their
            separation was filled with pathetic dissembling, for each would hold to themselves the
            sorrows in their keeping, while each strove to shield the other from pain. Brandt bid
            her guard herself with fine care and unnecessary precaution, and as he lingered fondly,
            guiltily, she kissed him a second time with strange alacrity. Then closing and bolting
            the door she threw herself prostrate upon the floor, crying in desolation to feel
            herself apart from him, without a chance of courting his wisdom or confidence. And this
            was all before he had turned quite away. He started down the walk, simply unconscious of
            her outburst, and wondering if he had betrayed aught of his thoughts to her by an
            unguarded look.
          Landy greeted him without a sign or word, and together they went to the parsonage.
            Brandt grew quickly weaker in anticipating a scene, and he leaned on his companion's
            arm. As they neared the house, and eventually stopping outside the gate, he stood with
            one hand upon a post while he overcame his dread. They
            proceeded then slowly, Landy uttering constantly rough words of re-assurance, and Brandt
            seemed to establish a better control over his fears that compassion and intimate
            familiarity with the patient had inspired. The house was apparently deserted, though in
            the quietness a lamp burned low, shedding a cheerful light through the study window.
            Kent and Mrs. George and the babies were all over at the church, and there were none
            left here now to distract the old man from his sorrow. He followed Landy to a bolted
            door, and the horror of Snell's having a keeper and being guarded, locked and barred,
            created at once a new sentiment. Indignation quickened his blood, and with the impetuous
            resolve to deliver his one-time charge he hastened into the room and stood before the
            demented man, his mind forming fine reasonings that he tried to voice. He would have
            talked, argued, consoled, pitied—but no words came. He laid his hand upon
            Snellins' head with silent gentleness and entreaty, but there was no sign of recognition
            or even of consciousness of his presence. He paused and looked steadfastly into the
            man's eyes.
          "Ben, don't you know me?" he asked at last, so low that Landy caught only the pathos of
            his voice. It was a tone that pinched his heart, and he turned his face away to shut out
            the sight of the utterly hopeless pleading that distorted the features of the kindly old
            man.
          "Ben!" he said again, "Ben—Ben Snellins!" in ineffectual experiment, and then he
            waited expectantly. After a time he tried again, and flung the poor man's name into his face with all the force of eagerness. Still
            this was without result. He watched hopefully until the hope could live no longer. Then
            he turned to Landy, all the pitiful expression of a lifeless grief, stunned with dull
            helplessness, but as he turned Snellins moved uneasily, and Landy motioned Brandt's
            attention toward him again with quick expectancy, anticipating the man's only words
            before they were uttered.
          "Poor Snell!" he said, and chuckled. And Brandt's heart beat furiously with deluded
            hope until the inane tone perforated that hope and entered his reason like a sharp
            point—and then he buried his face in his hands and wept.
          Landy waited inactive, bound by the awful scene, until he felt his own strength
            yielding, and then he drew the sorrowing man away, leaving him to suffer alone, while he
            hastened around to the church to remain out the evening with his wife, thus to save the
            comment sure to follow his non-appearance so soon after their marriage.
          Kent saw Landy enter, and derived from his unusual seriousness an instantaneous
            enlightenment of that which had occurred. He lost then, somehow, the sparkle and
            happiness that he was appropriately attempting to convey, and his words drifted with his
            thoughts into gems of pathetic beauty that were spontaneous and noble. His listeners
            realized slowly the unwonted change, but as surely they came to a respectful following
            that led them on to deeply-moved sympathy. He talked of sorrows that knew no respite. He
            told of undeserved pain that came, no one knew why,
            unless—and here a bright opening from the tunnel of darkness in which they were
            living seemed to come before his view, growing—growing—growing with nearing
            perspective. The sunshine of happiness, narrowed by funneling walls standing at the end,
            ready to burst into a world of light infinitely larger, surpassingly beautiful, dwarfing
            beyond previous conception the old way—the present way of hardships and darkness,
            and he said:
          "Yes, there is pain and there are pangs that come, no one mortal knows why—unless
            that out of it all we shall live to know the glorious goodness of being free from these,
            and also the goodness of living, knowing that we are happy, knowing that we are well
            off, and knowing what the good things are, because we can hold them against the bad and
            be joyous in the favorable comparison. If one day's suffering can give us a week of this
            knowledge, or even if a year of pain can give us the touch to feel an hour of delicious
            happiness, and feel it deep into our hearts, the pain is worth the bearing. May we all
            learn to recognize the goodness we may have at hand and enjoy its fullest blessings, as
            we should learn to bear our reverses, looking forward to the happiness that must come
            some time."
          He was uttering the reasonings and dictates of his suffering self quite as though he
            were not before nearly two-score people, and like as if he might be musing in his study
            alone. But these thoughts were not inappropriate, for they were words of his inner self,
            counseling the humanly human in the depths of other sufferers, and it drew them to him
            with poor resistance on their part, for men suffer much in
            silence, and reason much in silence, until they are awakened to find themselves but as
            simply constructed pieces in the machinery of events as are their neighbors, and then
            they surprisedly give vent to foolish and guilty confessions of private self-study,
            being aroused to the plan simple in human patterning.
          Here again, for the second time in one day, he had bent his classic intellect to the
            level of their understanding, speaking not in words, but in the deep, sweet language
            which the heart can understand. The happiness that followed, in having their responsive
            feeling, moved him beyond the reactive thought of condescension, pointing clearly the
            way for self-enoblement and giving a taste of the bliss in pure sympathy, and he held to
            the lesson with a hope of its future inspiration.
          When the little household returned they found that Brandt had gone, but they were not
            surprised, as they had anticipated that he would leave soon after collecting himself.
            They strove to be merry, or at least light-hearted, but Kent was filled with the glow of
            his new sensation, seeking seclusion at the first opportunity, while Landy told to his
            wife the occurrences of the evening visit, throwing her into the depressed state of
            pitying good-heartedness, magnifying for himself the sadness of it and swaying his wife
            with constant re-countings, making her suffer and suffering for her.
          The weeks slipped away with unaccountable rapidity. Virgie found her time so filled
            with the multiplied Christmas interests and her correspondence with Harvey that she scarcely noted the change that had come over her father, and
            the buoyancy of her nature permitted the worry over mysterious things to trouble her but
            shortly. She met Kent not infrequently, and gradually the doubting of his honesty and
            sincerity fell away from her, leaving only a dull remembrance. Yet she could
            not—would not accept him as the others were beginning to do. He was becoming
            strong in the moving of events. His people, her own people, apprised her constantly of
            his newer personality—whether wilfully or thoughtlessly she did not know. This as
            a doubtful penance of a former misconception. Still she held away from the changing tide
            of opinion, drawing her own line of comparison. Kent's old self, as she had known him,
            weak, vacillating and obviously insincere, was still Kent's own self. She could not
            place the mantle of the people's new conception upon his shoulders so as to cover the
            Kent she had known.
          Harvey was writing to her now breezy, clever letters, filled with thoughts rare to her
            own domain, and his lacking graphicness gave scope to imaginings unreal, but not
            foundationless. She idealized her surroundings when in the humor of splendid
            conceptions, and in the midst of wonderful people she held to him as the one claim to
            make her fancy-pictures genuine. Again, she loved to confuse herself with city noises
            and distraction, and to find him a master in it all, strong, cool and delightfully
            polite. That he was so used to all that the world held, and yet so indifferent, handling
            the things she read ecstatically from his letters in such common-place wording, caused
            her to become awed with the importance of her
            correspondence. She gave her whole mind to the betterment of her portion, often taking a
            day entire to form the correct rounding of a sentence, and, in struggling for the
            subject-matter, she worked devotedly. The parson had become a bit of unimportant
            property in the scenery of her home, although they made her think of him—they
            forced him upon her; but he was little nearer to her than some of the others, and she
            blotted out all past remembrances, using him only for comparison with Harvey, and this
            to his detriment.
          Kent saw her father often, as Brandt called frequently to see Snellins, and he longed
            many times to ask about the things that were on his mind. Where once he was confident,
            under the ban of her unjust anger he had now grown hopeless, as her manner changed to
            tolerating indifference; and he would have almost dared to talk to her
            father—seeking light. He grew sorrowful and broken through the desolation of his
            cares. Her manner was not uninviting nor repellant toward him, yet the barrier of
            chilling disinterest was ever evident, and he learned to accept her scant courtesies
            with a resignation that taught him tenderness. He learned the deepest lessons of
            fortitude in the days he suffered most. He diffused a gentler, more welcoming
            resignation to his people because of his own sorrow and the steadfast purpose of the
            ennobling insight into unselfishness which he had given that Thanksgiving night. Virgie
            did not see, much less did she understand.
          
          It was late in January that she came one day to the parsonage. Little Bennie had been
            down with fever three weeks, but her calls there had been infrequent during the early
            part of his illness owing to the unavoidable meeting of Kent, though he quickly
            understood and found excuses ready at hand to make the home freely at her disposal on
            her second and subsequent visits. To-day he had drawn away from the sick child's bedside
            and shut himself in his own sanctum. "Three or four hours at most," "Doc" Murray had
            told him quietly, and it had tried him sorely to give up a chance of the last word that
            he had hoped for from the child he loved now most dearly.
          All through the fever he had watched alternately with the mother, almost arising to the
            mother's anxious care and dread. The world came back to Bennie finally. In it were the
            old funny-faced clock and frosted windows—and Kent, and he grew to be ill-content
            if the world—his world—was without these. The parson always listened to the
            child-life wonders with eagerness in their unfolding revelations, and, catching the key
            of Goblin Land, he went within, drawing forth an array of strange old things that were
            new even to him, and paraded them in different garbs, as fairies and beggars, princes
            and pages, and awful giant men, for the child. This was friendship at first, then love
            all in one day; and when the relapse came, "Doc" Murray must tell someone that which his
            practiced eye caught at a glance, Kent seemed the one. He felt bitterness toward the
            physician at first; then an eager yearning, as if he hoped to say good-bye to the baby-boy's conscious mind before he was gone, took hold upon
            him, and he watched oh! so eagerly for the returning spark that would be the last.
          An hour slipped by and the relentless clock in ungrateful return of Bennie's friendship
            gonged off the short respite. Martin had divined from the two men's anxiety the
            approaching end, and she sat apart from them rocking in grief-stricken tenseness. A half
            hour, then an hour struck, and Kent moved uneasily. He was leaning toward the bed,
            watching intensely the peaked, fever-worn little face, with all the will he controlled
            centered upon drawing a sign of recognition when the fleeting instant should come. He
            was becoming momentarily more expectant when "Doc" led Virgie into the room. He turned
            reluctantly and, in the first glance, she seemed only the friend she once was, and he
            raised his hand warningly. She stopped short at the gesture and moved as if to withdraw.
            It was then that Kent came back from the past into the unhappy present with an agonizing
            sense of indecision. Slowly he gave his place to her and withdrew from the room. Once in
            the hall he was overwhelmed by the loss of his place at the bedside, and though he
            fought the deception as best he could he was drawn back to the doorway with irresistible
            force. He was just going away again when Bennie stirred, and his own self-control was
            spent.
          Slowly the child opened his eyes. They were too weak at first to express the wonderment
            his brain felt, but he soon smiled wanly, and, as his last spark of strength revived,
            his lips moved until he had formed a word.
          
          Virgie laid her hand gently on the coverlet. Kent leaned forward eagerly in the
            doorway, and Mrs. George stopped rocking, though she did not rise.
          "Auntie Virgie,' he said, scarcely audible. Then louder, as his strength grew: "Auntie
            Virgie—man—did—bring Gyp's pin—man did." And he looked at her
            wistfully.
          "Yes, dear, yes," she replied, quickly attempting to re-assure his doubts of her
            belief, and smiling tearfully.
          "He did," he began again. "He's in the house too!"
          Kent moved uneasily, but Virgie did not hear, and the mother came quickly to hush his
            innocent confession.
          "Mommer, darling mommer—and Royal!" he said, on beholding her, moving only his
            eyes in an effort to find Kent. It took all the parson's strength to overcome his
            inclination to respond, for his first name, as he had taught Bennie to say it, sounded
            ineffably sweet. Virgie remained rigidly expectant.
          "Darling Royal," he said softly, closing his eyes as if the image in his heart were too
            dear to let escape, and then they watched his breathing sink, growing almost breathless
            themselves as they followed the respirations. Finally "Doc" stepped forward and took up
            the limp hand tenderly, when Virgie arose and drew the mother away. She passed Kent with
            a surprised stare—first to find him so close, and second, in the quick knowledge
            that he had foreborne to intrude himself upon her, while his rapt expression conveyed
            more of the depth of feeling he contained than she had ever credited him with.
          
          When she was gone he came and stood over the still form of his little
            friend—thinking, thinking, thinking—the bitterness in his heart at the lost
            opportunity near crowding out the sorrow over the baby's death. Standing in an attitude
            of resignation as he did "Doc" Murray derived only the idea that Kent was contemplating
            the change, as men had often done before in his presence, but the good man missed
            entirely the trend of Kent's thought as he stood repeating to himself despondently the
            words, "Too late," following them into the pathetic hopelessness they conveyed with all
            the abandonment of self-censure.
          Virgie was haunted even into the soothing of Mrs. George by the look of
            self-restraining that had hallowed the parson's face when she discovered him standing by
            the door, and though engaged with actions and words foreign to the thought it remained,
            an accompaniment at once unfathomable and persistent. She alternated between applying
            her affectionate pity and condolences and the desire to be alone. Landy had remained in
            the kitchen during the crisis dreading, then hopeful, then fearful, but in the knowledge
            of his own roughness not daring to come to the succor of his wife, and when the end had
            come he struggled long with his instinctive awkwardness before mastering it. When he did
            appear Virgie readily yielded her place to his comforting, withdrawing at once.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XV.
          It was just a month and a day from the date of Bennie's death when Virgie took up one
            afternoon the second of Harvey's unanswered letters, reading and re-reading it with all
            the zest of freedom after her penance to the baby's memory. Longing as she had to give
            them their deserved reply the time had seemed interminable, but she set herself to mourn
            the child's loss in the formality of a month's devotion, no matter if she would retain
            his memory throughout the years to come. The month's sacrifice appealed to her as short
            enough at best, and she would not break her resolve, however much Harvey's letters
            tempted her from her purpose. But to-day she took them back into her life with welcoming
            relief and set her thoughts at work forming a reply.
          "You are the one person in your community who seems to know that there is more in the
            world than Broom County," he had written. She looked over the lines a second time. The
            pleasure of his having exalted her above her people was tinged with a doubt, though it
            served as an inspiration, and she began to write.
          
          
              
                
                  "DEAR MR. HARVEY:—
                  Your last letter has come, as well as the other about two weeks before it, but
                    the one is so much better than the other that I am only going to answer that. I
                    should have written sooner, and no doubt you are beginning to think that I am
                    trying to shirk, though I am not. It was out of respect for Bennie—you
                    know little Bennie? You may think that this is foolish, but I could not do less
                    for the darling, and that is the reason I have not written. It is all too
                    sorrowful to think about—our having lost first Big Ben and then his
                    namesake so soon afterward. I will not write about either of them, for it makes
                    me sad; but this is the reason.
                  "In your last letter you have so much to say about Annapolis and your dance
                    there. Of course I would like to see Annapolis, but I hardly know what you mean
                    by telling me to 'lookout for the brass buttons!' Soldier stories and soldiers'
                    lives always have been fascinating to me. But I cannot believe that I could go
                    among all the war things that you say are there and be happy, because I should
                    be always thinking of the young men and boys who are trained to shoot and be
                    shot. I should think they would want to dance and be gay all the time that they
                    can to keep from worrying. Do they grow old soon? Their mothers must be nearly
                    crazy about the little boys.
                  "What a good joke it is to have you think that I am the only one here who knows
                    anything is going on outside our hills, even if it is unfair to father
                    and—oh! lots of others, who know just what is going on, or almost know
                    from having seen it, while I have seen absolutely nothing? Perhaps my interest
                    has made you believe me very wise, but you must not let yourself be deceived, as
                    I am only the more anxious because I have never known about these things, and I
                    want to know; so I must keep asking questions to find out.
                  "I told father about my cousins, whom you met at the party, but he did not seem
                    to remember them. You did not tell me anything except that they were grown young
                    women. You know I have never seen or heard anything about any of my relatives,
                    so I wish that you would tell me their names and what the one about my own age
                    looks like; also all about both of them. I cannot tell you how grateful I am to
                    you for writing to me of them, because I had often wondered if I did have
                    relations like other people. It seemed so lonesome not to have any. I felt so
                    different some way. But now I have somebody to think of all the time, and they
                    are so much nicer than outsiders ever could be. Tell me if my uncle is a big,
                    cross man like father—only father's not cross. And is he fat, with
                    whiskers?
                  
                  "Something that you said to me when you were here comes back to me lots of
                    times lately. You have forgotten what it was of course, but I have not, and when
                    I think about it I am so afraid that it may come true. You said that I would
                    realize some time how little this place is, and that I would want to be where
                    things are different. Those were not your words, but they are what you meant.
                    You also said that the people were selfish and unappreciative. This last thing I
                    will never admit, but the other—well, I hardly know. It does seem at times
                    that I want more than there is here, and then I feel ashamed, because this life
                    has been so good to me. I feel, too, a little sorry and quite afraid when I
                    realize how much I am thinking of outside things and wanting to see them. But
                    maybe my uncle and cousins will satisfy all my wants now, so that I can think of
                    them and settle down and be sensible again. I do hope that they will. Please
                    tell me all you can about them.
                  "Everything is dull and dreary here now, as it is impossible to go anywhere or
                    have anyone come to see you. Every year winter seems to come a few days later,
                    and this year it was after New Year's a long time before it came, but it is here
                    now in real earnest. Everything is a foot below the snow, and cold—my gracious! it would make you shiver to look out of the
                    window into the blue air. Warm weather seems a hundred years off. It seems
                    terrible to have nothing to do but think quietly for so long, shut in from all
                    the folks you know. The prospect is dreadful. I don't like it when I have
                    nothing to occupy myself. Can you keep quiet without anything to do? I never
                    can.
                  "Remember, now, I want to know about my cousins when you write again, so please
                    do not disappoint me.
                  "Your friend,
                    "VIRGINIA BRANDT."
                
              
            
          When the letter was finished she contemplated it with cordial disapproval, but could
            find no words nor thoughts for substitution. She folded the sheets together with
            inattentive precision, then unfolded them again, dipping the pen with quick decision to
            make a change that she fancied would be quite the thing, but she poised the holder above
            the pages a moment indecisively, and the thought was gone. Reading the last paragraph aimlessly her words influenced the trend of her
            thoughts. The bleakness of her surroundings pervaded her imagination, and, as she
            touched up the last flourish to her signature without any view toward beautifying it,
            she felt the desolation keenly, sighing in the regret of having finished, lonesome and
            unoccupied now that it was done. Arising she went to the window and breathed on the
            glass. Then she removed her one plain ring, making fantastic pyramids of circles into
            the frost in total idleness. She cleared a space with the warm palm of her hand,
            stooping to look out at the brilliant yet dull landscape. Everywhere was snow—the
            bushes were submerged, although they served to break the line of the otherwise even
            surface. The gate-posts were capped with loads that hung askew, and she observed them
            closely, attempting to find a difference in the twin garments. Turning from the window
            she moved a step or two, but hastened back on the instant eager and filled with
            surprise.
          A sleigh-bell or, better, a cow-bell dignified by its present use, sounded faintly in
            the muffled room. Peering toward the point where the road dropped below the farm, she
            strained her eyes eagerly until they were blinded by the dazzling light without. She
            shut them tightly once or twice to ease her vision, and, hastily brushing the pane again
            with her hand, resumed the watching. It was not long until a vehicle came to view, and
            in it were discovered Landy, Mrs. George and Gyp, wound in a mountain of blankets and
            robes that would have made them well-nigh unrecognizable to anyone but Virgie. The horse
            stopped in front of the gate panting and steaming, and she
            left the window to go for a wrap that she might greet the visitors and bring them in.
            Then she paused under the inspiration of a different thought—she would let them
            surprise her. The happiness would be more complete, and she sat down by the table again
            endeavoring to control her elation.
          Gyp and her mother floundered up to the door talking low but excitedly. The child,
            restrained by the mother, uttered words that were distinct in meaning, if not in form,
            to Virgie. She sat out Martin's last warning, withholding her breath expectantly and
            ready to greet them on the instant of their bursting in upon her. They were waiting for
            Landy. The pause was too prolonged. She moved just a little and then, unable to wait
            longer, she flew to the door, threw it open joyously and grabbed Gyp with all the
            impetuous gladness in her heart.
          "Bless your heart!" she said, snuggling her face into the great hood Gyp wore.
          "My land!" said Martin. "How you scare a body. I 'low it's us as is th' ones
            surprised!"
          "Oh! it just seems too good to be true," she said, hugging Martin in turn, drawing them
            into the house and looking expectantly for Landy.
          "He needn't come in. I'll explain it to y' later," Martin said, in reply to her
            expectant looks. "He's in a hurry, an' mebbe best go 'long 'thout stoppin'." Raising her
            voice she continued:
          "We're all right now; you needn't t' stop. Be keerful now, an' look out fer
            drifts!"
          
          Landy evidenced his understanding by at once climbing back into the sleigh-box, pulling
            the robe about his legs carefully and yelling "Howdy!" to Virgie's wave of the
            hand—"Dup!" to the horse, and "You take care yer ownse'f—I be all right!"
            merrily to his solicitous wife as he drove away.
          "This is a perfect treat, Martin. Where did you come from, and where's Landy going?
            Tell me all about it this instant? I'm simply burning up with curiosity!" Virgie said
            disconnectedly, as she worked with Gyp's outer garments and chafed the little hands
            between her own.
          "Landy had t' go up t' Uncle Nace Tipman's fer a couple a' days t' straighten out
            things fer next season. They b'n a-dickerin' back and for'ards right pert since Nace
            hear'n 'at me an' Landy wuz married, an' thet he wan't a-goin' away like he'd figgered
            on doin'."
          "And you thought that you would come and spend the time with me," Virgie interrupted,
            "and you bundled yourselves up and came through all the cold and snow and everything
            away out here. And you are going to stay two days? What a visit we will have!" she broke
            off delightedly, as she carried Martin's woolen stockings that she had worn over her
            shoes, together with Gyp's clumsy arctics, out to the kitchen, setting the one pair on
            the oven shelf and hanging the others over the tea-towel rack back of the stove to dry.
            When she came back Martin was fluffing out Gyp's tightly-crimped hair, and Virgie
            stepped at once into her own room. Returning with a comb she sat the little girl before
            her on a stool and took up the hair arrangement, leaving
            the mother without occupation.
          "Tell me something?" she said eagerly. "Not a word have I heard from town for a week.
            What's going on? Anybody sick or married, or anything, since I was among all of you
            last?" Then to Gyp, "You sit right still, young lady, until I come back!" as she arose
            and made a trip to the cupboard. Gyp's face brightened expectantly. Returning she handed
            the child a large piece of gingerbread and resumed her pleasure task, tying the short
            ribbons into dainty bows.
          "They be nothin' new much," said Mrs. George, assuming to be disinterested, but
            secretly elated with her opportunity for gossip. "The Craigs is sick—all 'cept
            Millie, an' th' postoffice has a'most b'n runnin' itse'f. They've got the croup mostly.
            It do beat me th' trouble they're allus a-havin' an' th' way that Millie Craig carries
            on 'sif her pa hadn't 'nough t' pester th' life outen him as 'tis. How's your pa?" she
            asked abruptly.
          "Father? Oh! he's well. He is somewhere about out in the yard now. But tell me more of
            Millie. What has she been doing lately?"
          "Oh, it's that Fisher young man. Their carryin's-on is scand'lous. Thet girl is a
            caution! Why, when the Craigs's twins hed diphtheria, there wuz no keepin' her away from
            other folks's young 'uns, an' I'll swan t' goodness it wuz her 'at give it t' nearly
            every child in th' hull neighborhood. Mostly ever'body knows how they air cuttin' their
            didos, an' ef her pa gets hold onto it he'll cut up his ownse'f a bit."
          
          Virgie smiled amusedly, for she was not so far behind events as she had supposed, being
            thoroughly conversant with the Fisher-Craig subject of gossip, as Millie had told her
            its deepest import two months before Ashville awakened to an observance of the
            happenings right under their noses, so to speak.
          "My!" she ejaculated encouragingly.
          "It's outrageous!" Martin resumed warmly, drawing Gyp to the hearth and brushing the
            crumbs from her dress into the fire. "On'y yestiddy they wuz out galavantin' aroun' with
            his pa's best geldin', gettin' theirselves all wet an' near killin' th' horse. Sister
            Callum seen their goin's-on, an' she told me she wuz a-goin' t' tell Martha Craig jest
            what she thought. It's nothin' but keerlessness. Wonder t' me Millie ain't caught her
            death o' cold a'ready."
          "What, if Millie's mother knew where she was, Martin, and said that she might go with
            Kenneth. Do you think that she would want Mrs. Callum's interference?"
          "You don't 'low she did, do y'?" Mrs. George asked surprised, but alert for further
            information.
          "I would feel safe in saying that she did," Virgie replied without further commitment.
            "Ken Fisher is a good boy, and there can be no harm in his and Millie's friendship. They
            have been almost brought up together, so why should they not grow to be better friends
            and more constant companions?"
          "Y' don't mean t' tell me? Well, my land!" Martin said explosively; "so that's it, is
            it? That Callum woman tries to spoil ever'thin' she sets her eyes on," she ended,
            shirking entirely the responsibility, and Virgie laughed
            appreciatively at her cleverness in withdrawing her late avowal of disapproval.
          They talked then on other things, Virgie confessing reluctantly to her correspondence
            with Harvey, knowing so well Martin's propensities for news-spreading, though unashamed
            to have her friends know of it if from a reliable source. Brandt came in, and, seeing
            the garments in the kitchen, hastened to learn who his callers might be. He greeted
            Martin with happy dignity and Gyp with a fatherly kiss, removing his coat, which Virgie
            insisted on taking, talking cheerily to them during the operation.
          "How are you, Martin?" he said, as he drew Gyp between his knees and held his cold
            fingers against her cheek.
          "Middlin'," she replied. "H' ar' you?"
          "Never better," he laughed. "To what circumstance are we indebted for this welcome
            visit?" he asked, as Virgie came and sat on the floor beside him, resting her arm on his
            knee.
          "Landy went up t' Uncle Nace's an' jest dropped us out here," she said, attempting to
            be humorous, but not quite succeeding, as she was always more or less confused in his
            presence, his language being at times incomprehensible—his sentences complex.
          "Up to Tipman's, is it? I hope that he will get back there again this spring."
          "Oh! he'll get back all right," she said confidently. "It's jest th' terms thet their
            hagglin' over."
          "So that is the trouble. They should be able to arrange
            that," he said, turning Gyp around and lifting her to his other knee, opposite
            Virgie.
          "What!" he said suddenly, looking from the pin the child had at her throat down into
            his daughter's face, then back again, and becoming appallingly agitated.
          "What, father?" Virgie asked excitedly.
          "Where did you find it, you minx?" he said, unclasping the pin and looking at it
            reverently.
          "Me? I didn't find it," she said, but he gave no heed to her words in his completely
            absorbed examination.
          "It was your mother's last trinket," he said finally, in a qualm of tender emotion,
            without raising his eyes. "I thought that I had hidden it securely."
          Gyp looked from the pair to her mother, fearful and almost moved to tears. Martin was
            suddenly speechless and consumed with a dread lest he should call forth an explanation
            from the child.
          He lifted his head at last and a forgiving smile was spreading over his face. He would
            chide them gently, if at all, for their sacrilege, for his heart was tender now,
            influenced by the token.
          Virgie repeated timidly: "I did not find it, father!"
          "Where then—how, tell me; how came this baby by it?" he asked in pained
            agitation.
          Virgie turned toward Martin helplessly, and her father followed her gaze for
            enlightenment.
          She sat under their scrutiny with ill-concealed resolutions passing through her mind.
            She could not lie outright in her daughter's presence, and to tell the truth might
            provoke him to a surprised confession of the donor's
            present whereabouts or condition. Her mind was sorely perplexed.
          "Come, Martin, tell me?" he said, impatiently.
          "He gave it to her," she answered shortly, endeavoring to warn him;
            but, too agitated to discern the hidden meaning, he would be persistent.
          "Who did?" he asked.
          "Why, the man Brother Bennie spoke about," Gyp supplied quickly, feeling that she had
            now the solution of one of her own troublesome problems.
          Martin frowned down her elation instantly.
          Virgie remembered then the two instances in which the baby-boy had insisted on his
            having seen a mysterious man leave the pin with his mother.
          "Why need there be any mystery about it, Martin? If you will I know you can explain how
            you come to have it. Surely it is not as bad as it looks?" Virgie said.
          Mrs. George was frightened by these kind words, that held an imputation of guilt, and
            the tears came to her eyes all too readily. Gyp, in sympathy, began a dolorous wailing.
            Brandt grew stern and half-suspicious.
          "It—was—Snellins," she finally confessed, breaking down completely.
          "What! Snellins?" he asked, his composure shattered into fear, pity and sorrow. "That
            must have been the beginning of the end," he concluded,
            retrospectively—unconsciously.
          Virgie was alert at his first words, eager at the last ones, looking from one to the
            other in open-eyed wonder, feeling the bond of
            understanding that existed between the two.
          "Ben, father! Where is he—do you know?" she asked, seeking his eyes. "Ah! you do
            know. I see that you do, and Martin does also. Why do you keep it from me? So he is in
            trouble? Tell me—you must tell me!"
          He laid his hand gently on her head, looking the refusal into her eyes that he could
            not speak; then he turned slowly away from her pained humiliation on finding herself an
            alien to the secret.
          Later he endeavored to restore good cheer, infusing as best he could, while himself
            under the weight of sadness, a little of the thoughts commonplace. His guests responded
            quite readily, relieved at his newer and less stern attitude. But Virgie could scarcely
            bring herself to the revival of easy conversation with that mystery still dragging after
            her thoughts.
          In the evening she left them to their own ways. They watched her withdraw, filled with
            regret and alarm lest their further discourse would be heavy without her, and their
            fears were amply realized.
          Her appearance the next morning was watched for eagerly by both father and visitors,
            and she relieved them instantly on the commencement of her talk. Her words had the hard
            ring of gold; yet they were gold in warmth of color. It was as if she were coining the
            atmosphere into words, each one bright and valuable, even though a hard resolve sounded
            through them. The night, alone—un-trusted with a secret that she could not
            fathom—was indeed hard, but the day that followed
            was infinitely harder, though she held to her resolve and filled it for those about her
            with a part of the radiance that symbolized her calmer, more natural self.
          When Landy came for his loved ones they greeted him with all the joy of unburdened
            hearts, reviewing their pleasures for his happiness; crying their farewells merrily,
            leaving so filled with radiant elation that they missed entirely a thought of the sorrow
            they had innocently planted to grow and throb long after they were gone.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XVI.
          Virgie's last letter relieved its recipient of all the qualms he had previously felt.
            The refreshing innocence that ran through all her expressions; the wonderment, the
            sympathy and the lack of blaze discussion in even the most trivial things had at first
            led him to partial disbelief. The continuance, though, of her simple style, soon carried
            him over the doubting point, and, as he caught the true, fundamental matter from which
            her thoughts emanated, he became happy with the discovery that he had unwittingly made.
            To have shared with his friends the pleasure of her freshness would have been his
            greatest delight, but there were two things that caused him to forego this pleasure.
            First, he knew that a partial quotation from the correspondence would have taxed their
            credulity and lessened their belief in his own sanity, but to substantiate the truth
            would necessitate a complete exposure of her letters, and this he could not
            conscientiously do. What delight it was, then, when she sought a nearer relation with
            her cousins and begged his services as a medium! It presented at once the opportunity
            for a free discussion of her own personality, with all the use of her letters that he
            could have desired for substantiation of his claims. He
            sought the first opportunity that presented itself. Nay, better. He made an opportunity
            at once to have the society of the Misses Brandt, and, with that opportunity, introduced
            early in the conversation the subject that filled him with pride and elation.
          "I have, without a doubt, found your cousin!" he said, suppressing as best he could the
            warmth of pride that was forcing him to a conclusion that he would rather have
            prolonged.
          "Indeed?" said the elder young lady suavely. "My dear Frank, you are not going in for
            genealogy? It's already done to death, you know," she ended with more animation.
          "Well no; hardly that," he replied, laughing. "But, honest; this is deeply interesting.
            I thought you might care!"
          "Don't mind her," the younger woman said, with a small show of pique; "but tell us
            about her. Has she the family characteristics?"
          "Yes, a bit proud; but humble to the last degree," he replied, with covert sarcasm for
            Barbara, the elder.
          "Works, I suppose?" Barbara retaliated.
          "Barbara, you are the worst!" Norma laughed, while Frank smiled
            good-humoredly.
          "Come, my dear, if you are going with me!" Mrs. Brandt said to her eldest daughter, as
            she came into the room unceremoniously. Then, discovering Harvey—"How do you do,
            Mr. Harvey? I did not know that we had company."
          
          "Do take Barbara away quick, mamma; she's wretched!" Norma put in before Frank could
            respond, and, as the two laughingly passed from the room, she resumed: "Now—is
            your Indiana girl really our cousin?"
          "I sincerely believe her to be," Frank asserted rather stiffly, chilled by the sister's
            treatment of the subject.
          "You believe she is? I thought you were more positive. Come—don't pay any
            attention to Barbara; you should be used to her by this time. Tell me of our
            cousin?"
          "I thought that I had lots to tell," Frank replied to her coaxing, "but it has sort of
            oozed. Never mind, though; Miss Virgie is your cousin, and she has become deeply
            interested in you. She wants me to tell her all about all of you. Have you any news to
            send?"
          "What a sweet name—Virgie!" she answered evasively, and Frank revived all of his
            former interest at once.
          "And a much sweeter girl!" he replied. "She knows almost nothing, yet she seems to know
            almost everything!"
          "A paradox," Norma smiled.
          "I mean she is—or—I don't know how to say it; yet she is—well,
            anyway, she has all the simplicity of innocence, while everyone who knows her gets some
            learning from her good-heartedness. She lives where people know how to live. Not rapid
            like we do, but taking all there is out of every day instead of pulling up time and
            throwing it away just to get to some business climax or
            social climax, as we are all the time doing."
          "I know—I know," Norma said, impatiently. "No preaching on the 'pace that kills,'
            but stick to the original text."
          "Well," he said, drawing a letter from his pocket, "perhaps this will give you an
            insight into her character." And he read an extract that covered Virgie's opinion of
            Annapolis.
          "How delightfully interesting! Such a view to take! That girl is impossible—there
            never lived such an inconsistency."
          "How inconsistent?" he asked, contentedly.
          "Why innocent, of course; yet with the wisdom that discerns the fallacies of war even
            beyond our statesmen's perceptions."
          "There you are!" he said, triumphantly. "There is my paradox. Everything she says has
            that odd association of things opposite in it, showing how strange she is."
          "But tell me—has she traveled?"
          "Not fifty miles away from her home."
          "Never been to college?"
          "Never."
          "Nor seen the world? Certainly not, as you say she has not traveled. How does she do
            it?" she asked, perplexed.
          "She is natural," he replied summingly.
          "What a dear she must be! Read me some more—but wait," she said quickly. "You
            said that she is natural. I would say that she is unusual.
            How do you reconcile the two?"
          "To be natural is to be unusual, isn't it?" he smilingly asked.
          "Why you are absurd—inconsistent!"
          "No, I am not," he replied confidently. "I can reason it out for you very readily. Now
            listen!" and he moved forward, sitting on the edge of his chair.
          "I am listening. Oh! wise man, you were ever a logician, and logic proves anything. Go
            on!"
          "You seek to disconcert me, for you scent defeat," he said, laughing. "But I will have
            my say. Tell me—where would one derive naturalness but from nature? You grant
            that?" he asked, as she poised her lips in good-humored stubbornness. "Well, then, we
            people see nature so little that it affects us not at all, and we are far from natural,
            which makes that virtue unusual among us. We only ape each other. That's what all of us
            are—just apes."
          "If you please," she said, in suppressed mirth, "you may count me out of your reasoning
            hereafter. If you must make confessions—well—" And after the pause they both
            laughed heartily. "You have made your point though, I guess, so please tell me more of
            Virgie or read something more."
          Frank was an ordinary man, insomuch as he was invariably self-convinced by his own
            logic. Norma had left an opening for the continuance of his reasoning by her careless
            assertion of "I guess" at the end of acknowledging defeat. He pondered over it a second,
              then struck an argumentative attitude, and was about to
            resume when she broke in:
          "I am convinced. Why continue? You are very natural anyway, because you have all the
            usual back-country verbosity, and you are an old ape; so am I an ape. We are all apes!
            Now let the matter go and tell me some of the things I want to know. Doesn't she care to
            come out into the world? Doesn't she want to travel and see things? Isn't she tired of
            her limited surroundings?"
          "I hardly know," he replied, as he scanned several sheets of Virgie's letters, which he
            had just brought to light. "Listen to this!" he said, his face becoming suddenly
            animated :
          "I can scarcely understand or comprehend so many people as you write
            of being together, living within touch of each other, where they neighbor as our
            townspeople do here in Ashville."
          "She is always writing about cities and people," Frank interpolated, in partial
            explanation, continuing with growing pride:
          "What a number of people everybody must have to remember! I should
              think it would be awfully inconvenient. But, then, people must congregate for
              self-advancement. My own narrow surroundings have taught me that; and yet, when I
              think of it, no one here has advanced much—I mean like you seem to have learned
              things. Of course everybody is better and more gentle. I would not have you think me
              dissatisfied with my people—not for the world! There is poor, old, good-natured
              Uncle 'Si,' who is doing nearly all of Aunt Faribee's work around the hotel because
              she is sick again. He is better and gentler for having talked to and been with lots of
              people, but that, some way, is not the kind of being better off that I mean. You
              seemed to know about everything, and I suppose all city
              people are that way; maybe not so much, but nobody seems to know those things here.
              You are different. Parson Kent is most like you of anybody here, though he has
              changed. I really believe sometimes that I am growing dissatisfied because your
              standard is too high for the others. I shall have to be careful, or else I will find
              myself longing for city people and city life. Wouldn't that be ungrateful of
            me?"
          "What do you think of my standard now?" Frank asked, with ill-concealed pride, as he
            re-folded the letter.
          Norma's lips parted, but she did not speak. She raised her handkerchief from her lap
            and drew the edge slowly through her fingers. The admiration that the letter expressed
            carried a more true meaning to her previously unsuspicious heart than it had to his, and
            the shock, on fathoming her cousin's unspoken confession, was near to being
            unconquerable. Keen, womanly perception took her through the half-evident individual
            admiration in Virgie's words, and back of them she found an innocence, sweet, yet all
            the more hurtful to herself—for she could have resented boldness or even rivalry;
            but, with her cousin, all unaware of the glorious happiness or poignant grief to which
            she was leading herself, Norman could not find in these seconds so small a morsel of
            comfort as resentment.
          Virgie had exalted this one man above her home, her life and her own townsmen. This in
            itself would have been significant to any woman who might make deductions from
            indications. Norma's own admiration and love had gone where her cousin's were surely
            going; so to her the words but poorly covered their author's unconscious position, and
            she jealously guessed the end quite some time before
            Harvey had finished reading. He had read the lines through a dozen times to himself; at
            first with a surprised pride that had since never quite left him, although his position
            from her standpoint became later ludicrous and wholly untenable even in his own mind.
            Norma derived from them much more than his happy vanity allowed him to. No other
            construction could have made the real facts more clear to her. The word-grouping was
            only a network or pattern woven and interwoven with guileless patchery, and through it
            the growing tumult shone with rare glint.
          "What do I think of your standard?" she repeated after a pause, her tone so suppressed
            that the words seemed only the vibration of his own.
          "Oh, I say now, Norma, don't take it that way! You know it was only a little silliness
            that I indulged myself. Any other fellow might have taken her the same way. There is
            novelty in it for both of us. I liked the country novelty and she the city; that's all
            there is in it. Of course she put me on a pinnacle, but—well, this is just what I
            feared. I have never said anything about it to anyone, for the reason that they would
            think me a fool possibly; and that is what you think," he said earnestly, as she raised
            her eyes and looked into his half angrily. "Oh! I know," he resumed, with a resentful
            though unassured forcefulness, "that's what you think. There was a time when I took all
            the praise and favorable comparisons with a foolish satisfaction, and who wouldn't? She
            is wise enough to give her arguments strength. But that time has gone now, and I have come to be sensible about it. I like the correspondence
            best now because of her piquant sentences; because of its freshness; because of her
            unusualness; and, with my vanity gone, I felt that I might tell you of it all because
            she is your cousin. I thought you would understand—you usually do understand, Norma. She always wanted to know about—"
          "Listen!" she said quietly, for she was calmer now. "Do you know what you are
            saying?"
          "I was explaining," he said, apologetically.
          "Then explain no further," she said, and he waited for her to resume. "Your explanation
            is as transparent," she commenced coldly, "as are Virgie's letters. Oh! the poor
            stupidity of men," and she tossed her head angrily.
          "Thanks!" he said, with a sarcastic smile.
          "I am not playing with words," she retorted angrily. "Men are stupid,
            careless—contemptibly so!"
          He gazed at her fixedly—surprisedly. She laid her hands in her lap, pressing them
            hotly together, and returned his gaze fearlessly because of her rising anger: "You are
            given power to lead, the right to lead, and in your stupid self-glorification you step
            into by-ways hugging your petty vanity. You have loved your friend's letters because
            they flattered you. You have smiled over them, gloried in them and lived with them
            because of this pleasure that they gave you. Did you ever think of what she may have
            derived from it all? Did you ever reflect on the consequences of this admiration that
            she has expressed? Perhaps you have deluded yourself with
            the thought that it is only environment—your environment—that has given her
            so unusual an opinion of you. Yes; therein lies your stupidity. I should hate you!" she
            said passionately, "I should hate you with all the strength of bitter disappointment if
            it were different! But you are a man, only a stupid man, not to have seen aught save
            your own pleasure."
          "What do you mean?" he asked, too moved by her violent attack to feel anger or
            resentment—only mystified by her many words and startled by her ferocity.
          "I mean," she said, and her voice sank to the softness of tender sympathy; "I mean that
            my cousin is beginning to love you, and you—you—only love yourself, which
            should bring you shame for your blind selfishness."
          "Oh, that's nonsense!" he replied, laughing nervously. But she only looked into his
            face, and he could not continue because of her hurt in finding him so undiscerning.
          Frank essayed to laugh again in his sorry abjection, but her gaze restrained him, and
            his eyes turned toward the floor in embarrassment. She had solved for him convincingly,
            in one sentence, the cause of Virgie's flattering admiration. Norma's tones were too
            full of pity for her and condemnation for himself to leave a doubt as to the correctness
            of her conclusions. The words "she loves me" at first flushed him inwardly, but instant
            reaction came because of the steady gaze before him, and he became ashamed. He grasped
            the arms of his chair, then relaxed the hold, and, raising
            his eyes to hers, he said timidly:
          "I did not know."
          Norma turned her head confusedly, for she gathered at once his complete innocence. She
            was ashamed to have made him confess his lack of love, and yet her heart beat with
            relieved joy. It was he now who gazed almost questioningly. She could not meet his eyes,
            and in total embarrassment she arose and went to the window, where she stood behind him.
            Frank watched her until she had passed, though he did not turn to follow her further,
            and when she was out of his range of vision he knit his brows perplexedly.
            Self-condemnation engaged his thoughts. Her actions tormented his contrition. As she
            passed his chair she passed from his reasoning, and Virgie alone filled his thoughts. In
            and out she came and went, through a winding mass of circumstances, entangling him more
            and more in the mesh of contemptible doings and sayings of mostly his, but partly her
            authorship, until he was humiliated bitterly.
          "Rank stupidity," he mused. "Anyone with half sense would have seen and understood. I
            wonder why I did not! She saw, so why not I?" he said, coming back to Norma. "But women
            understand these things more readily than men" came the thought, and his pulse
            quickened. His thoughts flew then. Stagnation and bitterness were gone on the instant.
            "If women know, why do they know? It must be sympathy. Could it follow that her quick
            perception can come from the sympathy of experience?" he asked himself in an elated hope. He moved slightly, but sank back again at once;
            then stiffened with a sudden resolve, firm in the belief that he must retrieve his
            position in Norma's favor just now, if ever; and he rose and walked to where she stood.
            Drawing the portieres together so as to hold them with one hand, he closed out the
            street. Norma offered no resistance, only permitting her hold to relax, and her arm hung
            loosely at her side.
          "I know why you understood," he said positively, though his eager eyes belied the tone
            and implied a question.
          Her eyes indicated that she did not grasp his meaning, as she pondered the words; but
            slowly his expression gave her the solution, and she turned quickly to leave. The first
            flush of understanding was not so fleet, however, but that he observed it, and, as
            quickly as she sought to cover its significance by flight, just so quickly did he grasp
            her with his disengaged arm, drawing her to him. She struggled feebly, and he was
            re-assured.
          "If you are not quiet," he said, "I will have to let go of the portieres."
          "You are mean," she replied, becoming at once passive.
          "I don't feel so," he retorted joyously, and forgetting to further guard the window, he
            relinquished the portieres and, placing both arms about her, held her gently to him and
            kissed her repeatedly with tender reverence.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XVII.
          "Whew!" "Doc" Murray ejaculated, as Kent rushed forward in surprise and drew him into
            the room. "I don't believe I ever see sech a 'tarnation ol' rouser ez this un is. I like
            t' got drifted under," he said breathlessly, as he unwound his yarn muffler from around
            his neck and shoulders and shook the snow out of it in a spray that filled the small
            entry hall.
          "Sure you're not in the wrong house?" Kent asked. "Nobody sick here."
          "I 'low I can make a call where they be nobody ailin' can't I?" "Doc" responded,
            seemingly aggrieved.
          "Well, I should say you can," the parson replied, heartily. "Take off your duds and
            come in where it's warm. Who ever heard of 'Doc' Murray making a sociable call—and
            such a night? Here," he said, as they went into his study, "Doc" rubbing his hands
            together delightedly and Kent awakened to the full pleasure of hospitality; "here, take
            my chair and pull up to the logs. What a night it is! Looks like winter meant business,
            doesn't it?" Then, stirring the burning sticks into a ruddy bed of coals, he tossed a
            few chips onto the fire, where they burst into a cheerful blaze.
          
          In the interim he had continued, various rounds of approving exclamation, his guest
            looking on in a delicious sense of warming comfort, making no effort to respond other
            than with an increasing smile. Kent laid a log across the andirons and then resumed the
            one-sided conversation. "I suppose that I am to ask no questions, but I am
            glad—mightily glad that you have come, even if I do not know to what I am indebted
            for the call. I was more than lonesome before you came—lonesome is no name for it.
            I felt like a station agent up somewhere in a little Dakota two-store town once said he
            felt. It was just this kind of a night, snowing in chunks, and Boreas seeming to have
            nine heads blowing from all directions at once. No. 38 had gone by two hours or more,
            and there was nothing due for another two hours, and that only a freight that would
            probably be late. He said that he wished something would happen."
          "And did it?" "Doc" asked, expecting a story.
          "Yes. He heard his instrument tick. Rushing to the table he responded eagerly. 'No. 39
            lost—in—the—storm,' came the message. 'If she—reaches
            you—report here.' That was all that happened."
          "But didn't No. 39 reach him?" asked "Doc."
          "No; and he sat all night listening to the storm," Kent laughed.
          "What kind o' story do you call that?" "Doc" said, disappointedly. But, with renewed
            animation, he continued: "They've been some good stories come from up in that country. I
            wuz up there in my young days fer a right long spell, but I couldn't stay. It wan't my
              kind o' country. Th' on'y trees I ever see all th' time
            I wuz there wuz the double-trees on 'prairie schooners.' That's right!" he chuckled, as
            Kent laughed. "They've not enough trees in th' whole country to cover a small-sized
            Fourth of July pic-nic. Speakin' o' pic-nics, did I ever tell y' o' th' Centre Pole
            pic-nic we had about five year ago?"
          "I don't believe you ever did. This is good pic-nic weather, though," Kent laughed.
            "Have a cigar and tell me about it?"
          "Well, Centre Pole, you know," "Doc" began, but paused to puff up his freshly-lighted
            weed, as he rolled it in his mouth like a sweet morsel that it was; "Centre Pole is
            about thirty mile due east from here. Called Centre Pole 'cause it wuz the middle o' th'
            population o' th' United States then, though I think the stake's gone further west now.
            'Milt' Craig wuz down t' read the 'Declaration,' an', as everybody hereabouts had heerd
            him, nobody'd go, so I felt 'at I had to. We driv' over on th' third an' come back on
            th' fifth, an' set me ef I ever want a-nother sech trip!"
          "What happened?" Royal asked, deeply interested.
          "It wan't what happened; it wuz what didn't happen. Didn't you ever hear about it?" he
            asked, seeming reluctant to believe his auditor entirely ignorant.
          "I assure you I have not," Kent responded quickly, eagerly.
          "Well, they wan't no pic-nic 't tall; but 'Milt' done th' oration fer my benefit alone,
            an' when we got back I thought I never would hear th' last o' it."
          
          "Then you—" Kent began, but broke into a laugh that was greatly aggravated by
            "Doc's" woeful look.
          "Yes, I driv' thirty mile t' hear 'Milt' Craig. That's one time I wished 'at somethin'
            had happened," "Doc" said, joining his host with a thunderous "Ha, ha!" that shook his
            mighty frame.
          They both settled finally to thinking attitudes. Kent still wore a smile at the
            realizationn of "Doc's" clever return story, and he moved his seat toward the fire with
            a quick hitch. Leaning forward, his chair tilted to its front legs, he sat balancing
            himself, with the poker clasped in both hands, bouncing it up and down in an
            accompaniment to his thoughts.
          "Doc" slipped down in the big easy chair, a little back of Kent, and, with his legs
            crossed on a level with his chin, he completed his comfort by placing his elbows on the
            chair-arms, lightly touching his fingertips before his face in an inverted V, while he
            contemplated the parson, with secret, pleasurable anticipation playing over his
            features.
          "Have you heard what they're talkin' about over t' th' store lately?" "Doc" finally
            asked, with careful slowness.
          "This isn't another 'nothing happened' story?" Kent inquired.
          "It may be," "Doc" replied, "but I don't hardly 'low it is. They've decided t' build a
            new church fer y' in the spring."
          "What?" the parson said quickly. Turning he scrutinized "Doc's" face joyously. "You
            don't mean it!"
          
          "That's what I called fer," was the laconic reply. "I 'lowed nobody else 'd tell y', so
            I thought I would. Yep, thet's th' talk, an' set me, I b'lieve they're in earnest,
            too!"
          "Well, that is good news," Kent replied radiantly. "Only—only—"
          "On'y what?" "Doc" asked.
          "Only I don't think they ought to do it," he went on seriously. "I believe that we can
            get along without it another year. The old one has done this long, why not a little
            longer?"
          "But I thought you wuz th' one 't wanted it," "Doc" said, in surprise.
          "So I was; but that was some time ago. Things have changed since then—changed
            with me anyway. I have learned to love the old one best—far better than I could a
            new and finer one. There is room enough in the old one yet. Don't you think so?" he
            asked anxiously.
          "They do say you're changed," "Doc" replied, ignoring the question. "I hadn't noticed
            it none; but, now you speak, I b'lieve y' air someways different. What's up—you've
            changed yer mind?"
          "I didn't know then all I do now," kent replied readily. "I wanted to be big and do big
            things, but I am beginning to understand my surroundings better. To be honest, I would
            hate to see the old church go, for one thing; and then, I don't believe my congregation
            can afford another now. You see I know better what to expect now. I know what the people
            have not, and I didn't know that before."
          
          "But, ef they want to be generous, let 'em. I'm older'n you be, an' ef you're wise
            you'll get all y' can when they're willin' t' do it. Take my advice on that."
          "You know better than that, 'Doc,'" Kent replied, calling his visitor to account. "How
            much have you ever taken from them? Tell me now, how much?"
          "I didn't know any better; but that's no reason fer you t' be foolish," the old man
            replied apologetically.
          "Just as I thought," said Kent, triumphantly. "You know yourself, that it would be more
            than they should undertake, if you will only admit it. See the hundreds of places where
            you have forgotten or ignored your chances for personal gain to save someone else. This
            little world is well adapted to the cultivation of generosity—all the rest of the
            world is too, I presume; but here we get nearer to our chances. Nowhere can we go
            without seeing some one between us and the horizon who is needy and—and, well,
            they build no new church if I can help it," he ended emphatically.
          "Set me!" "Doc" replied meditatively, surprised into a heretofore unknown admiration.
            "I've thought many's th' time o' th' fool I be, but I'm gettin' too well along t' change
            my ways now. An' so you're a-goin' t' fergit your ownself jest fer them as won't
            appreciate?"
          Kent made no response, only looking straight before him into the fire, and after a
            short pause "Doc" took up the voicing of his thoughts in this retrospective turn:
          "I wuz sayin' thet they don't appreciate, but mebbe I'm wrong. What I've done has been
            what I wanted t' do, an' I 'low 'a man ought t' be
            satisfied with that. Ef he ain't he certainly don't know what he's livin' fer. After
            all, th' thing about it is t' know when you've really done what y' wanted t' do.
            Sometimes I git t' thinkin' how I might 'a been rich sommers else, er famous an'
            great—then 's when I don't know what my blessin's is. Fer ef I wan't happy an'
            content it would'nt be no use. An' I don't b'lieve I ever could be thet way less'n I
            knowed ever'body an' ever'body knowed me. You take people now, special' children," he
            said, turning toward Kent a benevolent smile; "they ain't one hereabouts but'll say:
            'Howdy, "Doc!"' er 'H'ar y', "Doc!"' ever' time they see me jest 's if I wan't a day
            older'n they be. That alone's worth workin' a lifetime fer, an' I 'low," he concluded,
            with a contented sigh, as he lay back in the cushions, "thet thet's more worth than
            anythin' else I could a-set out t' do."
          "I only hope that I can do as well," Kent replied dubiously, deeply impressed by the
            older man's philosophy and the sweet contentment he seemed to find in so small a thing
            as the faith and confidence of the children about him.
          "You're startin' right, anyway," "Doc" said, approvingly. He had been feeling the pulse
            of his people figuratively as well as professionally. Kent's growing favor pleased his
            benign heart, and at once attracted him to the younger man. He had found the object of
            his interest worthy the changing temperament. Under the false sympathy which he had at
            first expressed for selfish, personal gain, Kent stood without wavering. He had had the strength for resistance of "Doc's" test, as well as
            the insight to reveal his better understanding of the inquisition. This at first
            surprised the older man, but at once produced a respect that invited his confidence. It
            was the beginning of a friendship—a friendship that would benefit Kent with a
            stimulus for his self-uplifting.
          "I didn't 'low you sensed th' idee of our folks around here," he resumed. "They're not
            like folks mostly is other places. They's some things they don't take in right
            quick—but set me! They're quick 'nough t' see when a man's on their side; an' when
            they do see it they's your friend quicker'n a cat kin climb a fence."
          "I am beginning to realize it," Kent replied. "The news you have brought of their
            intentions makes the fact more evident. I have only commenced to see my mistakes," he
            went on more seriously; "but, if the small change I have made in myself finds a
            reflection in them, and so soon, I believe that I can agree with you most heartily about
            their quickness to recognize and reward effort. Though I must say that their manner of
            showing appreciation is entirely unmerited. It certainly is a good place to be in when
            one does right."
          "Well, I guess I've had my visit out," "Doc" finally said, grunting as he was arising
            from his chair reluctantly. "I'm gettin' t' be a regular ole woman, carryin' news about
            th' way I hev been lately."
          "So long as it was such good news you need not find fault with yourself," Kent replied,
            laughing. "But what's the need of your going? The night is young yet."
          
          "Yes, I know; but my time's never my own. I feel like I've been stealin' now," "Doc"
            said, resignedly. "Some time I'll be too old t' get about—then I kin set around
            all th' time, an' nobody t' bother."
          "That time will never come. You never will be too old to be active!"
          "Mebbe YOU think not, an' mebbe y're right. Anyway, it ain't come yit," he said,
            laughing and moving toward the door.
          "Wait. Let me get your things," Kent said quickly, as he pressed "Doc" back and went
            for the coat, cap and muffler himself. When he returned he helped his guest don the
            outer garments before the fire, meantime talking light-heartedly.
          "Oh! I'll be all right," "Doc" replied to Kent's solicitous precautioning. "Set me!
            I've seen a hundred worse storms 'n this, an' I'm still ploddin' aroun' yit." "'Night!"
            he said, as he set his head into the storm and floundered away over the unbroken
            path.
          "Good night!" Kent called, looking after him a moment. He closed the door then, and,
            after re-adjusting the strip of carpet along the bottom crack to keep the snow from
            driving in, he returned to the study and threw himself into the chair where his guest
            had sat.
          From the first position he had taken he did not move. The sunlight of love played over
            his thoughts and warmed them to fanciful conceptions. His people were become
            appreciative and he was radiant with joy. Not that he cared for the reward. No; not
            that. For he had decided that their intended gift must not
            be made. But the consciousness of their appreciation was the thing that caused his head
            to reel with joy. He became giddy under the growing spell. In his mind he thanked them
            extravagantly, and hugged the pleasure of humble gratitude close to him. It had been a
            hard struggle—the mastery of false pride and false notions of his own importance;
            but he was succeeding. The people testified to that by their changed attitude toward
            him, so he loved the people. His mind became diseased with foolish fancies, that were as
            the pepper and salt of hot condiments, and he stumbled on, amazed that he had not sooner
            found the way.
          Looking back through the few months that were gone he came to thoughts of her who had
            first helped him to the right way, and he was at once rational. He opened his eyes
            slowly and, gazing before him, a greater sense of joy—a more tender gratitude came
            over him, while he was now keenly alive to its deepest influence. "She must soon know,"
            he thought. "Will it change her contempt for me? Surely her sympathy must come back to
            the work, if it never does to me. Ah! if she would only care again as she used to," he
            ended, his face illuminated with the hope. He leaned forward with his chin in his hands,
            becoming again absorbed in fancies that the fire made real. For an hour he sat thus,
            never moving save to blink his sleepless eyes. Martin stepped into the hall and pulled
            his curtains aside. With a start he turned toward her, scarcely comprehending her
            presence.
          
          "There is somebody knocking," she said, with suppressed excitement. "Didn't you hear
            'em? They've been there this five minutes gone!"
          "Somebody—knocking?" Kent repeated, adding quickly, "Let them in, Martin; let
            them in."
          She first slipped the bolt and drew the door only wide enough to permit her to see
            without. Then, satisfying her fears, she held it wide ajar, and "Doc" Murray stepped
            in.
          "Parson here?" he asked excitedly.
          Martin nodded toward the study. Kent, recognizing his voice, crossed the room, and they
            met in the doorway.
          "I've come t' get Martin," "Doc" said. "She must get ready t' go with me at once. Now
            bundle up good, Martin," he said authoritatively to the surprised Mrs. George, who went
            to prepare herself for the trip in the cold without further questioning.
          "Doc" stepped over to the fire, rubbing his hands briskly. Kent ventured no remark at
            his sudden return.
          "They'd been lookin' fer me ever'where," "Doc" said finally, "never thinkin' I wuz
            here."
          "What has happened?" Kent asked.
          "George Brandt's dead," he replied quietly.
          Kent stood stunned and staring at the speaker.
          "Happened about two this arternoon. Henderson's boy Ray come aroun' thet way from Elder
            Blossom's 'bout five an' stopped in t' get warm. Then he rushes here an' gives out th'
            news. Ever'body's wild!
          
          They wuz all a-lookin' fer me. But I can't do no good," he ended in a heart-broken
            tone.
          "I'll go with you," Kent burst forth excitedly.
          "Now, they be no use o' thet," "Doc" said soothingly. "Martin an' me'll go do what we
            can an' stay with th' girl to-night, an' ef y' want t' come out with th' others
            to-morra—why, that'll do. But they be no use, ez I say, o' your goin'
            to-night."
          "But—" Kent began.
          "I know. You can come out to-morra. Here's Martin now, all ready, so we'd better be
            a-goin'."
          Landy went as far as the sleigh to tuck his wife in, and Kent stood in the door
            watching, the wind flickering the flame of the lamp he was holding, which gave him no
            chance to see them clearly. They were gone, and Landy had returned almost to the door
            before he knew.
          "Terrible!" said Landy, when they were inside. He had gotten the news at the last
            moment, before the sleigh left.
          Kent made no reply, but returned to his study stricken with grief that had no outlet
            because he was stunned with its newness. The fire had burned low, but he gave it no
            heed. He leaned with one elbow on the high mantel shelf, and Landy, standing in the
            doorway, awaited some observation. But, soon realizing that the parson was beyond
            talking, or being talked to, he dropped the curtains silently into place, closed the
            door back of them gently and tiptoed down the hall.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XVIII.
          Landy George, now semi-elevated by his association with respectability, was contented,
            happy and ambitious to maintain his standing, where only a few months ago, and in all
            time previous, his whole life was the life of unsettled, unappreciated, unambitious
            slouching about over the face of the earth. Born somewhere North, he had somehow gotten
            into the South, and the Southern languor had gotten into him, holding him a willing
            victim. He grew careless, and his indifference was rebuked. He became rebellious, and
            the punishment was ostracism from the sociability of the lowest of the lowest. His
            antagonism to the world was a constant bid for men's hatred, and he received his full
            share and more. Bitterness overtook him, but he knew not his faults until he stood alone
            from the acquaintances he had made. Then he moved away from them. The change was an
            impressive relief. A week and he had moved again. He found that strangers were dearer to
            him. The knowledge of their indifference released his thoughts from self-analysis, and
            he became more content to move on and on until he realized that he had been accepted
            into the fraternity of tramphood. He was stunned, then, at this awakening. His pride rebelled at the thought of his situation. Hated by everyone
            who knew him, destined to find that regard with any other man who might later find him
            out, he was hopelessly beyond gaining a permanency anywhere. Resentment against those
            who had treated him with scorn had developed his pride abnormally, and he now found
            himself helpless and undecided at the mouth of the two channels that lay before him,
            each as uninviting as two narrow back alleys in the night might be. He made no decision
            then, but drifted in the line of events, circumstance dictating always his
            movements.
          Into Louisville and out again he moved within a day. Over the great railroad bridge
            that crosses the Ohio river he started with only a benumbed perception of his
            surroundings. He stopped aimlessly and leaned against the guard-rail and watched a boat
            far below him churn slowly up the current of muddy water, her stern-wheel lifting glassy
            ribbons that broke into spray when the wheel had ended their flection.
          "She's a Cincinnati packet," said a boy that had stopped beside him.
          Landy gave no evidence of having heard except to turn and move on impatiently. The boy
            trudged at his heels, stepping deftly from tie to tie with the perfection of practice,
            and when they were over resumed his advances with friendly persistence.
          "We're in Indianna now," he said, much as if he were glad to have made the change.
          Landy looked down upon him with an outward indifference, though the ingenuous
            assumption of acquaintance stirred him into partial
            interest, while the news also compelled him to resume a little mental vigor.
          "Yep, we're in Indianna," the boy reiterated.
          "What d'y' think I care?" Landy brought himself to say, and, while it was scarcely the
            most amiable way of accepting his overture of friendship, the boy seemed quite
            satisfied. Having recognized instinctively his companion's social standing, and being of
            the same calling, he was content with the reply as expressed, for incivility was the
            finest mark for distinguishing his kind; and Landy was at once uncivil and ugly in
            mind.
          "We're out'n th' South now," the boy said, again bidding for a closer acquaintance,
            though his assertion was more respectful than his previous ventures had been.
          For an instant Landy was startled by his words, but for an instant only. His dulled
            intellect could not accept all at once the full joy of a new-born opportunity. But from
            the dying spark of that tiny hope a warmer fire grew up, and at each successive
            expansion of its blaze his mind unlimbered until he had grasped the importance of this
            change, and his eyes were kindled with ambition.
          The boy walked silently by his side until they had reached the end of the railroad
            yards. Then he stopped.
          "So long!" he said cheerily.
          "Ah, come on!" Landy replied, and the boy again took up his place.
          
          "Where y' goin'?" the boy asked, after a time, but received no reply.
          Landy knew not himself, much as he should have liked to have known. In nowise
            suppressed the boy began to whistle, and they stepped the little suburban sidewalk
            behind them at a merry pace.
          Into the busy town they went, the boy perfectly content in his new companion; Landy
            moved by his infectious good spirits. Stepping into a store, and leaving the boy
            outside, he demanded work. All the determination of his new resolve was in his voice,
            giving it an offensive inflection, and an immediate refusal rewarded him. The boy looked
            into his face inquiringly when he came out, but asked no questions, only dropping into
            his stride and resuming his improvised tune. After Landy's third attempt the boy
            ventured:
          "Say! 'Tain't no use grubbin' this town. It's hoboed t' a frizzle." Adding sagely, "I
            know. I been here before!"
          "Who's hoboing?" Landy replied quickly, sullenly. "I'm a-lookin' fer a job!"
          "Not wo'k!" the boy ejaculated in surprise, drawing a long breath that afterward came
            out sharply between his teeth. "Say—" he began; but Landy turned into a
            feed-store, ignoring the balance of his speech, and he resolutely followed.
          "Are you strong?" the man asked, in reply to Landy's query.
          "You don't know him er y' wouldn't ax," the boy responded quickly, while his companion
            stood dumbfounded.
          
          "Well, that's pretty good," the feed man laughed. "Do team-work I suppose?"
          "Yep!" replied the boy.
          "You'll do," the man said promptly. "You're working right now, so get your coats off!"
            To which they both responded with alacrity.
          This marked the turning point in Landy's existence, and from then on his spirits, his
            interest in the things about him, and his future path took an upward turn. The
            companionship of the boy drew off much of the surliness that had grown within him. The
            work gave him no time for misconceptions or the imbibing of wrong impressions, and he
            was becoming duly happy. The boy worked three days, and innocently lent his buoyancy for
            the three evenings of those days to revive Landy. Then the habit of roving, the spirit
            of discontent, took hold upon him, and his companion awakened next morning to find him
            gone. All the day Landy waited—now hopeful, now despondent—and that night he
            did not sleep. Tossing about on the folding cot that had been allotted to him, he made
            the poor bed squeak from his restlessness.
          When the week was over he too left and went out into the country, where he soon found
            other work. From town jobs to country jobs, and back again, he wandered unceasingly, yet
            no one place seemed to fill his needs or claim his whole attention. He drifted into
            acquaintances, but was long before he permitted men to gain his friendship.
          In town he came to know first laborers, and later jail-guards and
            attendants—those who worked at the State institution
            nearby. In the country he fell in with farm hands, and their hearty, rough, good
            fellowship won him more than his town acquaintances had done. But he was soon back
            again, deeply surrounded by an atmosphere of brisk, city-bred knowledge, no matter how
            low, that was revivifying, and in the lives of his friends he lived, for he knew no
            other deeds than theirs—no other events than those their conversation developed,
            and their interests became his interests.
          Of the laws he came to have the greatest respect; with crime he became disgusted. The
            State's criminal history was constantly before him, and from his narrowed view he found
            the State a wicked one indeed. But, aside from all this, there was a deeper impression
            made upon him by the constant allusion to the mentally deranged charges with which some
            of his friends were spending their working hours. A morbid curiosity compelled him to
            listen with eagerness to all that he could hear, and in the times when the keepers were
            silent, or seemed barren of further episode, he incited them to talk, an influence to
            which they gladly yielded. Thus he learned much that was later of great benefit.
          After a year of work along or near the Ohio river he grew restless and wandered north
            still farther into Indiana. Near Ashville he found more work, but when the season had
            ended he would have started again his journeying, with no definite destination, had not
            the good-will and friendship of the place awakened a respect hitherto unknown to him.
            Then there was the Widow Martin—good, generous and sympathetic—bidding for his friendship through her kindly interest. The friendship
            of men had hitherto been a rare blessing with him, but the friendship of a woman had
            never occurred to him as being within the range of possibilities. She seemed the
            embodiment of all that was kindness, and he was suspicious; but when he allowed at last
            his confidence to respond it was the beginning of a reverence that was at once love of
            the—to him—near ideal. He became readily her adorer without ever having
            known the intermediate stage of friendship that most men in his sphere have usually
            enjoyed. There was no telling by what Martin was attracted to him. It may have been his
            imperturbable silence that attracted her loquacity, or his stoic seriousness, indicating
            unusual wisdom for one of her equals, that invited her efforts to extract him from
            himself; but, whatever it was, she became deeply interested and found a happy pride in
            doing with him that which others could not do. The sequel came by natural stages to her,
            and the end, quite in contrast to Landy's emotions, seemed not unusual or startling. She
            accepted and married him much as she would have performed any of her daily doings,
            because circumstances had clearly pointed the way to her in each advancement. Landy was
            joyous, buoyant and sentimental. Martin was calm, self-contained and full of plans for
            using his elated state to his own betterment, as she realized that he was to be pliant
            under the influence of his love for her. Her conection brought him into the household of
            Kent, and this step seemed to him to be the zenith of all that he could ever have
            desired. When he looked back his present position awed
            him, for out of all the good things that he had ever known as great a confidence had
            never been given him. This, then, was more than any hope would ever have pictured, and
            to-day he felt almost as insecure in the parsonage as the day he first took up his abode
            there. With care and scrupulous pains he watched Kent's and his wife's desires, and
            followed them religiously. Kent soon learned of his gratitude and faithfulness, and by
            degrees, as his own time was consumed by the cares that Virgie had relinquished, he gave
            Landy the custodianship of Snellins.
          Early in his experience Landy found his pity becoming secondary to his interest in the
            charge, and when Kent finally permitted him the freedom of the demented man's quarters
            he was overjoyed. In the evenings, when Martin was busy with domestic affairs, and the
            parson with things literary, he slipped away to converse with Snellins. He learned to
            disregard the patient's ailment, and from short sentences he soon took to long ones, and
            eventually talked by the hour to him just as though he were in the enjoyment of all his
            faculties. Once Kent found him in the swing of a long argument on the advantages of
            working early and late in the summer to prepare for winter.
          Snellins sat in his chair radiant and seemingly filled with delight. His hands fitted
            over his knees much as Landy's were, and Lady sat directly in front of him talking
            earnestly.
          "I say—men must work sometimes, Snellins, Snellins. Did you get
            that, Snellins?" he said, each time repeating the name
            sharply. "And it 'd better be summer than winter. Eh! Snellins, Snellins. Did you get that, Snellins?" Then he laughed quietly, though his face
            showed no trace of mirth—only a hard determination, drawing his eyes into
            contracted points that searched those of his companion.
          Snellins laughed, seemingly impelled to it by the sounds forced upon him, though a
            shade of reluctance was in his voice.
          Kent stood astounded at the revelation; then stepped forward eagerly.
          "Whatever induced you to try that?" he asked, admiringly.
          Landy arose quickly in much confusion, though the strain of intense application still
            contracted his features.
          "I've heard th' keepers tell about it," he replied, apologetically.
          "And have you made him know you or understand you?" Kent asked.
          "No-o," Landy replied sorrowfully. "Only kin make him laugh."
          As the days became colder they were forced to bring Snellins up to the living floor,
            and in the change the little household had the greatest fear lest by chance their secret
            might be discovered. Every precaution was taken to prevent surprises. Landy watched and
            guarded with redoubled care. His time eventually was given to no other work, and in
            these hours, through the long nights and short days, he labored unceasingly with his
            charge. Snellins grew physically perfect, becoming
            round-faced, vigorous and hearty through Landy's ministering. For a long period covering
            many weeks they had all despaired, as he grew much weaker and refrained entirely from
            speech because of his weakness. They worried for him and for themselves, as they knew
            not how right or how wrong they were in keeping him in private bondage. But the time
            came when his improvement was marked by more flesh and a heartier appetite, and they
            were overjoyed. Later he laughed and afterward took up his earlier lamentations of "Poor
            Snell" with a lustiness that discarded all of its old dolorousness. Then it was that
            Landy became jubilant. He chose a set of words that he used repeatedly in a vain effort
            to impress them upon Snell's mind. Failure upon failure rewarded him, though they never
            discouraged. He went on and on, with a growing interest despite the fact of there being
            no signs to warrant it, until the experiment became a desire, and the desire his whole
            ambition.
          The evening that "Doc" Murray drove away with Martin Landy was but little disturbed by
            his wife's departure. He had been deeply occupied, and there seemed some slight chance
            for a successful issue. The news of George Brandt's death impressed him only for the
            moment; then left at once to give room to his feverish hopes. Kent was distressed beyond
            expression, and Landy cared not, though out of his supreme respect for the parson he
            hesitated long enough with him to speak one word of condolence. As he stood awaiting a
            reply a thought, inspired by Kent's dejection, electrified him into quick action, and
            after he had tiptoed down the hall he stopped to listen,
            fearful lest the parson might follow him; then moved on again hurriedly into Snellins'
            room.
          Pulling a chair directly in front of Snell he assumed his customary attitude and began
            to laugh sharply. It was the only thing that would attract the patient's attention.
            Snellins responded with his parrot-like reproduction and ended with "Poor Snell!"
          Landy began then with his usual sentence, repeating and re-repeating the few words
            until he had centralized his whole will upon the object he sought. Then, with sudden
            force and an intensity of application that thrilled and startled even his own pulse to a
            rapid beating, he said:
          "George Brandt's dead, Snellins. Snellins, George Brandt's dead!"
          It was as if he were holding to the other man's mind, so sharply did he peer into his
            eyes, conveying by concentrated effort through both senses—of sight and
            hearing—his word of mouth.
          Snellins sat upright, attempting to avoid his eyes, while a struggle far deeper than
            the one of fascination with which he was battling spread over his usually stolid face,
            and Landy, seeing his vantage, pressed closer with fierce persistency. Snellins drew
            himself up to his fullest height, but could not take his eyes from those before him. His
            hands twitched and his face worked convulsively. Landy pressed still closer. Their faces
            almost touched. Snellins' lips moved just a little, yet Landy held to his gaze. Still
            again he essayed to speak, though no sound came. Then, joy of joys! The words, almost unintelligible, were spoken—"Poor Virgie!" he
            said; and Landy, released from the strain under which he had labored, was nearly frantic
            with joy. He patted Snell approvingly on the shoulder. He danced with delight and
            laughed unrestrainedly. Snell joined in and laughed mirthlessly an echo to his outburst,
            and said again: "Poor Virgie!"
          "Good fer you!" Landy replied happily. "You're comin' round, my boy. You're comin'
            round sure. Well, well, well!" he went on, as he stopped before Snell and looked into
            his face approvingly. "Needn't drop yer eyes, y' ought not t' be ashamed. Ef y' knew how
            happy you've made me you'd be happy too. Well, well, well! Now there be somethin' worth
            livin' fer, old boy. We'll have th' kinks outen you in no time, mark my word!" he said
            affectionately, shaking his big finger positively before Snell's face. "I didn't listen
            t' all thet talk about insane people down there on the Ohio fer
            nothin'," he soliloquized. "I've wisht many's th' time sence I knowed you thet I'd
            listened with my ears wider open then I did, but 'Susan Ann, man t' man, I think I've
            got th' idee.' Thet's po'try, Snell, good po'try. You'll be up t' sayin' them things
            fust thing you know." With a slow change he gradually talked his
            happiness out, and the events of the evening came back to his previously overcrowded
            mind. He thought of his wife's long, uncomfortable trip; of the bitter cold without, and
            shuddered imaginatively in sympathy for her. He felt that he saw her arrive safely; then
            he transferred his thoughts to the grieving one and he
            said: "Poor Virgie—poor Brandt!"
          Snell echoed again: "Poor Virgie!" His lips moved, but he said no more.
          Landy stood over him and, laying his hand on Snell's shoulders, said:
          "You'll have wuss things 'an that to say when you know what's happened," and sighed
            sympathetically.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XIX.
          Ashville spent less than a day under the shock of its loss. Virgie and Virgie's future
            became the whole topic of conversation ere another sun had set, and the consideration
            shown in every man's or woman's desire to do something for her was the greatest evidence
            of their love. As the days went by, and no change was made, each household became more
            hopeful of its chances to secure her. Martin remained a firm companion through all the
            ordeal, but when the week had ended and all was over Virgie was made to see how near
            impossible it would be for her to return to her lonely home to live in solitude. She
            accepted the fact with an agonizing, last struggle against her desires. Her home seemed
            to be going from her forever. That she could make arrangements for companions and return
            to it in the spring seemed not to impress her at all. Beyond the fact that she was
            leaving, her grief-dimmed vision could not go, and it was with a terrible struggle that
            she yielded. Next to her own home no thought of other abode than Dole's place occurred
            to her. The only solace she could give herself was the kindness she would find there,
            and, while she was rebelling against the change, she was also struggling between these two—her home and Aunt Faribee. Thus it
            was that she began and lived out her deepest mourning within the walls of the
            hostelry.
          The winter days dragged with almost interminable slowness, and after her first grief
            she watched them from her room, alone, dry-eyed and calm. Those who called obtained a
            moment of sweet gratitude and then prompt dismissal. Her mind was inscrutable. Ashville,
            sympathetic, became at last curious to discover the reason of her calm and quiet grief.
            That her father's death should be the heaviest blow of all sorrows that could have
            reached her they well knew, but, though they were in one mind in this, they were widely
            divided as to why she should show outwardly so little sign of suffering.
          "Si" was questioned and cross-questioned, yet he could only shake his head solemnly,
            significantly. Aunt Faribee made more effort to explain.
          "I know she's takin' it right hard, God bless her. Mebbe she don't show it, but she
            be," she said loyally, though her words held no more information than her husband's
            silence did.
          Ashville was feverishly interested. Visitors became so numerous that Virgie begged not
            to see them, and " Si," respecting her wishes, became a diplomat in guarding her. Then
            they turned to the parson as a last resort, trusting to his intelligence to understand,
            and hoping that through him they might learn enough to re-assure themselves of her state
            of mind.
          Kent had not been to call on her since she came in to the hotel. Twice he had seen her
            at the window—once when she ran away quickly on
            perceiving him pass, and again, when she had acknowledged his salute distractedly. Her
            position had caused him the deepest anxiety. The fact of her being alone was sufficient
            cause for him to reason that he must not force himself upon her. He knew of the
            bewilderment of her friends and of their inability to fathom her condition. That their
            sympathy was well meant he accepted without debate, but that it was coarse and rough he
            also knew, and it hurt him that he could in no way help to soften her suffering or
            console her grief. A week he watched and listened silently to all that came from that
            strange chamber—a hope growing within him that a change might occur. Still another
            week and another went by, but things remained the same. As Ashville became more puzzled
            Kent came to understand. Intuitively he gathered from the things he heard that she was
            suffering, not as the world is used to sorrow, but quite alone. Hers was a living coal
            burning within, away from all the balm of sympathy or of love. No words or caress could
            reach her grief and assuage because she could not reach it herself. It lay too deep,
            and, if it were not yet evident in her face, it was none the less there. Kent felt that
            the time must come when her strength would yield. It was marvelous, though, through
            these terrible days. He listened eagerly until the suspense was overwhelming for the
            final news to come. That it would come he knew. It was not a question with him of how he knew. He simply lived in a torment of fear lest the outbreak
            should delay until her sustaining powers were gone, and
            then—"what then?" he asked himself.
          Oh! how eagerly he listened and waited to hear that she had succumbed to her grief and
            buried her face in lamenting relief. The nights were too long—a hundred times too
            long—for in them he could learn nothing of her. The days found him about where he
            was nearest in touch with those likely to know.
          It was more than a month that she remained thus at the hotel, and he found himself so
            pressed by his desire to go to her that he feared his self-restraint would soon weaken
            under the continued requests of her friends that he should go. As their urgings grew his
            strength waned. A subterfuge occurred to him, and he prevailed upon "Doc" Murray to go.
            The experiment, however, was only wasted, and he was at last forced against his will to
            make the call.
          Taking yet another half day, after his decision had been made, to prepare himself for
            the visit, he rehearsed those things that he had best say to make the time less
            uncomfortable for her and, if possible have it prove of some benefit.
          When he did go to see her "Si" showed him to the front room on the second floor with
            all of the solemn regard Kent's call inspired in him. Virgie sat beside the centre-table
            as the men entered the room, her arm over an album that lay with its clasp turned from
            her. She had been loosening and refastening it slowly as she awaited their coming, and
            when they approached her only change was a discontinuance of this nervous toying. She
            was still outwardly calm though evidently defiant. "Si"
            opened his lips as though he would speak, but closed them again and withdrew awkwardly,
            leaving the door partially open behind him. Kent bowed seriously, and paused under the
            restraint of her questioning, suspicious gaze. She did not rise to greet him, neither
            did she speak, only acknowledging his arrival with the slightest bow as she regarded him
            closely.
          "Am I unwelcome?' he asked, venturing no further toward her than he had already
            gone.
          "You may come in," she said quietly, dropping her eyes and resuming the fumbling of the
            album clasp.
          "I have not come of my own will,' he said, apologetically.
          "Why, then, have you come at all?" she asked, with some resentment.
          "It was not that I have not wanted to come," he replied quickly. "Not that. But I would
            not force myself upon you until they compelled me to."
          "Quite like your old self," she responded with a sigh.
          "Don't—please don't, Virgie," he said, pleadingly. "I have not used that excuse
            to ease my path to your good-will; I have rather tried to show you that of my own
            volition I would never have come. I am merely the agent of your friends and mine,
            seeking to influence you to receive their well-meant kindnesses. All Ashville is
            grieving for you to know that you are suffering, and suffering alone, and you will not
            let them show their love. You will not accept their sympathy or let them lighten your
            burden. Have you forgotten all that they once were to you
            and all that you are to them?"
          Through the obstinate determination behind which she had fortified herself her
            perception penetrated to the things that he was saying and gathered new traits that she
            had never known him to possess. His independence, his apparent disregard for her opinion
            of himself—both of these surprised her out of her first determination, and, while
            she made no reply, she listened attentively.
          "The time is going by," he resumed argumentatively, on observing that she intended not
            to answer. "The time is going by in which they might have reasonably expected you to
            seclude yourself, and yet you are getting farther from them instead of coming back. Your
            ways are yours to do with as you please. No one realizes that more than I, and far be it
            from me to attempt to induce you to do other than that which is best. Knowing your right
            to do as your inclination dictates, I have respected it, but Ashville—our simple
            Ashville friends—they know not what to make of your self-estrangement. Each
            individual rebuff that you have given has been taken home to them all. You owe them more
            than this. Ah! I see you know that you do," he said condemningly, as she turned her head
            impatiently from him.
          "You do not understand," she said, and there was an unusual hardness in her voice.
          "I do not," he repeated solemnly; "nor does anyone else."
          "And if you did, what then?"
          
          "It might relieve us and you," he replied.
          "You have changed much," she said, as she surveyed him calmly, and he frowned at the
            implied compliment. There was a pause then, but soon she continued: "Once you were all
            for Royal Kent, but now you are for your friends first, then me, and yourself not at
            all. Would you have come if they had not made you?" she asked quietly.
          "Why?" he questioned in turn, too surprised for the instant to answer.
          "Would you?" she repeated.
          "No, I would not," he said, much disconcerted, and Virgie became very thoughtful.
          He watched her with a growing conviction of his preconceived solution of her actions.
            She was steeling herself against her grief by constantly building about it all of the
            bitterness and resentment against people and events that she could lay hold upon. Her
            happy life had been a love-filled life. In sorrow she could derive no comfort from the
            well-springs of those other days. Each happy incident marked too sharp a contrast; each
            love was an added pang, and she would not think of them because of their hurtfulness.
            This, then, was the inflicting upon herself other sorrows to cover the one she would
            most care to forget, and, innocent as she had hitherto been to seeing things in a sear
            light, she was becoming rapidly adept in nourishing the seed of bitterness.
          Kent watched her pityingly, his deep regard for her self-imposed suffering almost
            forcing him to withdraw. He was scrutinizing her face carefully for some sign of relenting, all of the tender compassion and love he
            held for her being evident in his own, when she turned quickly and met his eyes.
          "Why don't you go?" she asked waveringly.
          "Because I cannot," he replied passionately.
          They heard Dole's heavy tread on the uncarpeted stairway, and Kent, anticipating an
            interruption, stepped over and closed the door.
          "Now listen!" he said, coming to where she sat, and standing over her he talked
            feverishly. Virgie bowed her head, and with a deathlike whiteness upon her face invited,
            yea, craved his bitter words of denunciation, for the fire within her had consumed all
            her own, and she was thirsting for others that differed from the mellow, sweet tones of
            her previous callers.
          "Listen to me, Virgie. I must tell you of yourself. I must tell you of the things I see
            that you cannot see," he said. "You would have it that I think of our friends first and
            then of you. You know better than this, and it is only with your words that you reverse
            the two. It is of you first—you always—that not only myself, but all
            Ashville is thinking, and for our regard we are receiving the cultivated ugliness of a
            once beautiful mind. Is it unreasonable of your people—your people and
            mine—to expect now, when sorrow has come to you, that they may share it? In the
            old days, when there was naught but sunshine for you, the darkness of sadness came to
            them from time to time in their turns, shutting out all of the gold and blue of the
            heavens. In those days you were everywhere, and everything that was good and bright came
            with you. You lifted their sorrows, and the radiance of
            your sweet heart shone through their trials and withered them with its good and cheering
            warmth. To-day, yesterday—for many days and weeks you have been bearing a sorrow
            that is changing you. Your friends suffer for you, but they cannot suffer with you
            because you will not let them. Think of what their tender love for you means to them. It
            was a God-given grace that led you into their affections; it is a bad side of yourself,
            hitherto unknown, that is leading you out of them."
          "I do not want to lose their love," she said, deeply moved.
          "No, but you would wound them and turn them away from you though. I cannot understand
            what it is that makes you do it. Do you think that you can do that and retain their
            love?" he asked.
          "But I did not mean to do that," she replied, sorrowfully.
          "And yet you have done that and nothing else. Are you blind? Is your heart turned to
            stone that you cannot see and feel these things?" he asked, impatiently. "What strange
            motive was it that caused you to wish yourself so completely alone in your sorrow? No
            matter what it was, you have near reached the fulfillment of your desires. Do you
            realize," he said, impressively, "that you are alone, utterly, solely alone, and all the
            world has about turned from you?"
          "Oh! not that," she said, looking up into his face wistfully, as tears sprang to her
            eyes at the thought of her isolation.
          
          Kent saw instantly that the flood-gates of her long-restrained grief were breaking, and
            he held to his untrue statement with fixed resolve. Looking full in her eyes he echoed
            her words impressively. "Just that," he said, and then went on, while she lowered her
            head again and began to cry softly.
          "The love that they have given you merits a better return than the mean one you have
            given, Virgie. You have been cruel to their kindnesses, ugly to their sympathy and
            hateful to their love. Think! think—not as you have been thinking—of
            yourself alone, but of them and yourself! And then you must humble your head at their
            very feet, for you have proven yourself unworthy, utterly unworthy. In this you have
            indeed grievously sinned. For shame, Virgie; for shame! You should bury your face and
            weep for a deeper sin than ever you were permitted to know.
          Relentlessly he had continued, while her sobs had grown deeper and more pitiable. Even
            though the pain at sight of her tears was choking his voice, and he must frequently
            clear his throat of its excited huskiness, he went on laboriously shaming her. To break
            the spell of her stony, unfeeling condition had cost him the pangs of bitterest
            suffering. To attain his object, with the remedy he thought best for her, he had had to
            wield an implement of denunciation as painful to him in its construction as his honest
            conscience could make it. It was doubly hurtful. In wielding it he had cut himself more
            deeply because it was hurting her. Her tears were as salt upon his open wounds, and he
            writhed inwardly under their smarting; and yet he bore the pain as stoically as she had
            earlier borne her own self-inflicted bitterness, and would
            not yield himself for his own relief because her outburst must result beneficially for
            her. He sacrificed her for her ultimate good. He sacrificed himself for—he knew
            not what. It was not a time in which he could think of himself, therefore he had gone on
            and attained his end in view without a faltering thought.
          "I am going," he said, very low, taking up his hat from the table beside her.
          She made no sign of having heard him, only crying quietly, her sobs swaying her whole
            frame as they racked every fibre of her being, and with a last backward glance he
            withdrew.
          She heard the door close gently after him, and with the sound she was overwhelmed by a
            sudden loneliness. Her heart felt isolated from the world. Her mind fancied the ranks of
            her hitherto friends breaking and falling away from her, their footsteps chiming
            hollowly with those of Kent. When she could hear him no longer she checked her sobs and
            listened. All about her was absolute quiet. In the full glare of midday light she was
            overcome by the horror of a complete loneliness, physical and imaginative; and she stood
            erect for an instant, agonized in mind, broken in spirit, her hold on life struggling to
            support her; but the long strain had been too much. Slowly swaying she gave one last,
            inarticulate gasp as she would have called for aid, then sank to the floor and
            consciousness left her.
          For many moments she lay where she had fallen; no one had come to find her. Half dazed
            she found herself, prostrate. She would have risen, but
            her strength refused the dictates of her uncertain will, and she moved not so much as an
            arm. Quietly then and slowly her consciousness returned, and with it came all of the
            broken-hearted understanding of her terrible grief. She moved her arm under her face and
            cried with the bitterness of her whole torn heart. Her tears were first a balm, but her
            weakness permitted not their ceasing; and from the tears of sorrow she came to those of
            frantic uncontrol, that grew momentarily fiercer.
          Aunt Faribee came into the room at dusk and would have left again, surprised at not
            finding her, had not a sob caught her ear. In quick alarm she ran to the prostrate girl,
            stooping and lifting her head into her lap.
          "My little lamb," she said soothingly, to which only a low moan responded. Lifting
            Virgie into her chair she hastened to the doorway and called "Si," the excitement in her
            voice bringing a ready response from all the men in the office, "Doc" Murray among the
            rest.
          "She must be got t' bed at once," "Doc" said compassionately, adding in explanation:
            "She's exhausted herself. Th' long strain was too much t' stand this un, an' now she's
            jest collapsed nacherally. She'll want care now, Aunt Faribee," he said, "an' mighty
            good care. Get her t' bed an' I'll be back quick 's I can get t' Orrig's an' back. Mind
            y'—good care is what she'll need!" he ended, in earnest caution, as he hastened
            away, all the others following silently.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XX.
          For many weeks, after the breaking of her long resistance against the outward signs of
            grief, Virgie lay passive. Too weak to be moved, too broken in physical and mental
            strength to admit of vigorous treatment, she hovered between days of lucidity and
            dreamland. In the days just succeeding the outburst occasioned by Kent's rigorous
            invectives she wept unrestrainedly. No words of kindness, no consoling reached
            her—not even the great care that "Doc" gave her modified in the least her
            lamenting. The flood that had so long been checked by her unusual strength, once freed,
            needed to run itself out, and the kind ministering of her friends could no more help her
            check its torrent than she could help herself. But, after this outburst had spent itself
            in the days and nights of constant weeping, she was in the greatest need of their tender
            care. Her strength was gone, together with all her recuperative energy, and she sank
            rapidly into a state of passive invalidity.
          Ashville mourned her condition with tenderest awe, never quite sure of its own
            mind—whether or not to condemn the parson, and withal, too occupied at the
            beginning with the bulletins of her condition to decide the question by discussion. However, in the time that dragged along by weary days
            until the days had become weeks, they became more used to her sad condition. Startling
            rumors had found a beginning from time to time, saying that the worst had come, but the
            frequency of these had taught them incredulity; and after long waiting they began to
            accept her condition as a temporary fixture, and in the interval they took up more
            attentively Kent's part in it, giving his actions a more thorough airing.
          Winter was breaking. The frost coming out of the ground in the few hours of midday left
            a sticky clay that clung to boots and wagon-wheels with ugly persistency until night
            came again and froze it over with a thin crust. It was the ugliest part of all the year.
            The warmth that penetrated to the earth at short intervals was but the taste of the good
            things to come; then the poor, tired humanity of the little community were sent back
            into the cold again, of which they were already so weary. It was the period of
            inactivity—too early to begin any of the coming season's work, yet late enough to
            barely cover them with the fringe of sweet promise, which, when withdrawn, left a
            feeling of impatient, sullen unrest. Ashville was in no humor to be charitable now.
            Tired by their long, enforced rest, her people were moved with an unusual activity, and
            entered into a discussion of the parson in ill-humored diversion.
          Orrig was very busy one evening with some articles of merchandise just teamed over from
            the city and left on the platform that ran along the back of all four stores. He did not see anyone enter from the front. As he
            put his head through the doorway, to call to the apprentice that he might carry in the
            smaller packages, he discovered Lem Henderson, and was much surprised.
          "Hello, Lem! Anythin' y' want?" he asked.
          "No, not's I know of," the old man answered.
          "Then y' better have a look around," Orrig laughed. "Say, Lem! Tell th' boy t' come out
            here."
          "Ain't in hyurr,' Lem said, laconically, as he turned his head and looked about him
            slowly, as if the apprentice might be in hiding somewhere near at hand.
          "Dern thet—Say, Lem! Th' bucket o' Golden Twist's come 'at you wuz a-lookin'
            fer."
          "Well, fetch her in," the old man responded, his face lighted with delicious
            anticipation.
          "You jest wait," Orrig replied, smiling to himself as he continued checking over the
            few newly-arrived parcels with a carefulness that added much importance to himself.
          "Th' Golden Twist's come," Lem repeated to Doles, when that gentleman later stepped in
            for a plaster for his wife, although he seemed in no particular hurry to have his wants
            filled, and gladly accepted Henderson's news, permitting it to divert him entirely for
            the time being.
          "No?" he replied, in questioning undertone.
          "Yep; Orrig jest told me. Out back there now," he said, motioning toward the back with
            his head importantly.
          
          Doles cared nothing for the arrival of Lem's favorite, though he stepped back to the
            rear platform with much expectancy, showing thereby his anticipation of something as
            much desired as had been the Golden Twist. Orrig looked up at him, with an annoyance
            expressed in his face and gestures, and asked:
          "Anythin' y' want, 'Si'?"
          "Hev they come?" Doles asked in turn, ignoring the first question.
          "What? Hev what come?" Orrig asked impatiently, in assumed ignorance.
          "Th' seeds," "Si" answered disturbed, looking about over the goods, though discreetly
            venturing no further than the door.
          "Ain't seen 'em yet," Orrig replied. "But can't y' wait till I get through
            checkin'?"
          "Certain'," "Si" replied good-naturedly. Then half in apology: "Faribee's in a sight of
            a hurry. Pestered me nigh t' death."
          "Well, she has," he reiterated smiling, as Orrig turned and looked at him
            doubtingly.
          "What's th' matter with that Twist?" Lem called in a cracked voice.
          "What Twist? What y' talkin' about?" asked Weller, as he and "Milt" Craig came in, just
            in time to hear Lem's impatient query.
          "Th' Golden Twist's come," Lem replied happily.
          "That's good; I wuz about out," Weller said, adding as "Si" approached: "Hullo, Si!
            What y' got?"
          
          "Flower seed," Doles replied beamingly.
          "Well, open 'er up an' we'll see what's new this year?" said Craig.
          "Better wait till Orrig comes in; he won't be long. Ef th' boy wuz on'y here he'd be
            done sooner. Wonder where the boy is? He's mad ez blazes out thur," "Si" said, motioning
            in the direction of the back door, meantime looking about for the boy.
          "Bark's wuss'n his bite," Lem observed.
          "Wonder ef they's anythin' new in garden stuff?" mused Weller, as he moved the long
            flat box on the floor with his foot so that he could read the label right side up.
            "Right smart o' big-named flowers, but don't 'pear t' be nothin' else," he said
            finally.
          "There. Tag!" screamed the apprentice, coming through the front door just back of
            "Doc," and "Doc," much out of breath, sank onto a sack of soft stuff tagged "Timethy,"
            laughing between catches in his breathing.
          "Hyurr, boy!" yelled Orrig from the rear. "Whur y' b'n?" And, without waiting for an
            answer, "Ef yer done foolishin' y' kin get some o' this stuff inside afore it
            freezes."
          "Bring yer hatchet in an' open ther seed box?" said "Si," impatiently.
          "What's all th' hurry?" asked Orrig, coming in with that tool, but making the most of
            the occasion by complying reluctantly. Prying the lid up carefully he withdrew each nail
            with painful slowness and placed them, heads together, in a little pile on the floor
            beside him. The men all stood or sat close by and watched his progress eagerly. When the nails had all been extracted Orrig raised the lid
            slowly, disclosing a variegated lithograph on its reverse side. The important manner in
            which he did this heightened the effect, and he was rewarded with admiring "Ohs!" from
            all about him. Then from the top he removed a large colored poster, covered with
            faithful copies of each flower in full bloom. An impossibly smooth young lady was
            smiling meekly from their bower. Orrig was obliged to rise to his feet to open the
            picture its full length, "Doc" taking hold of one edge gingerly to aid him.
          "Better ever' year, ain't it?" "Si" observed, but was met with no response. "Thur's
            thet what-y'-call-it?" he resumed. "Thet's what Faribee tried t' raise last year an' got
            on'y that," and, with both hands, he indicated first a gorgeous cluster of roses, then a
            century plant in bloom on a Southern lawn.
          "But them kind on'y bloom once in a hundred year," Lem said quickly.
          "That's all right," "Si" responded, choking with his joke. "Hern ain't come outen th'
            seed yet!" After which he burst forth unrestrainedly, and "Doc" Murray laughed himself
            into a fit of coughing.
          "You kin gimme a sack o' them rose seeds," "Si" said to Orrig, when he had regained his
            power of speech. "We'll see what we kin do this year again."
          "Not tel I've counted th' box," Orrig replied; then, for fear he might be persuaded out
            of this stand, said quickly: "I'm a-goin' t' open th' pail o' 'Flake' fer Lem now, ef
            thet boy ever gits it in hyurr."
          "Wife at prayer-meetin'?" asked "Doc" of Weller.
          
          "Yep," Weller replied shortly. "Say, Lem! How's th' exzemy gettin' on?"
          "Middlein'—Middlein'," Henderson replied, hitching himself around from watching
            the door, with a new interest, and that interest an opportunity to voice his
            suffering.
          "I git a mite o' warmth into me these days around noon time now, so it ain't sech a
            botherence."
          "I wouldn't get too het up," "Doc" advised gratis.
          "Oh, I ain't! It's more likely weather now, so I'm particlar."
          "'Doc'—'Doc' Murray!" came an excited female voice from the door. All of the men
            turned quickly. "Doc" responded to the call at once, and, closing the door after him,
            followed the young lady up the street.
          "Your girl, wan't it, 'Milt'?" asked Weller.
          "She come from over t' th' hotel, where she's he'pin' nurse Virgie," Craig replied
            quietly. "It ain't nothin' up t' my house."
          "I'd go over ef it'd do any good," "Si" soliloquized. Then, in explanation, he said:
            "They won't let me near her; I ain't seen her fer two weeks."
          "I hear'n 'at she wuz bad again," Weller added, to strengthen "Si's" apology.
          "An' most nobody but 'Doc' knows how bad either," said "Si."
          Lem shook his head sadly.
          "Faribee t' prayer-meetin'?" Weller asked of "Si."
          "Si" nodded his head affirmatively, as he appeared unusually serious. He knew that he
            could be of no assistance at the hotel. In fact, he was at all times more in the way than helpful, yet he felt somewhat guilty
            not to return there when there was some chance of his being needed.
          Weller seemed moved to an equal seriousness by his silent answer, but continued
            bluntly:
          "Wife wanted me to go, but I wan't minded thet way."
          "What's ketched you so suddint? Thought it wuz you ez wuz fer th' new church here a
            month back," said Orrig, with apparent innocence, as he continued his work.
          "Well, ef nobody'll say it I will, though they's plenty thet's been thinkin' like I hev
            here of late: Passifyin' is more in a preacher's line, it strikes me, than brow-beatin'
            is. Thet's why I won't go!" Weller replied sullenly, turning and
            looking at Lem, who kept his eyes glued to the stove-pipe damper, though he crossed his
            legs, thereby indicating his uneasiness.
          "They's no need o' putting it so strong," "Si" said quietly, a lack of positive defence
            being evident in his tone.
          "Puttin' it strong? Y' can't put it too strong!" Weller retorted.
          "Mebbe y' can't an' mebbe y' can," "Si" replied. "Fac's gits twisted sometimes, y'
            know, an' I think that's what they air in this case. Now I know."
          "What do y' know?" Weller broke in heatedly. "That's the question. Mebbe ef you'd tell
            us all you know things 'd be wuss 'an they air? Ef there's airy a thing 'at you can say
            why don't you say it? Nobody's hinderin' y' as I can see. That's jest it," he said, turning toward the group, "nobody'll say a word; all jest
            sit around an' think. I know what y' think all right, an' I know what I think too an'
            it's the same thing as you—that's what it is, on'y you won't none o' you up an'
            say it!"
          "They ain't no use gettin' too riled," said Orrig venturesomely.
          "I ain't riled, leastwise no rileder than I hev been," Weller replied explainingly, and
            turning his remarks upon the storekeeper. "What ef it was your daughter, er Craig's
            here—think you wouldn't have nothin' t' say? You'd be riled, too, I'm a-thinkin',
            an' ef you wan't here y'd want ever'body else to be fer y'."
          "But mebbe he ain't done no harm," "Si" ventured pacifyingly.
          "I don't 'low he hev now," Weller answered sarcastically. "What d' y' call harm?
            Drivin' her near crazy with grief, an' that ain't harm? Puttin' her to bed so she needs
            "Doc" and all the women ever' minute! That ain't no harm neither, is it?" he asked
            explosively. Then, at the height of his anger, he put another awful question to "Si,"
            which made him blanch with horror, and caused Lem to tremble in fear.
          "What ef he'd a-killed her—would y' a-called that harm?"
          "Si" paused for an instant to reply, but for an instant only, his face darkening as he
            looked steadily into that of Weller's. Lem moved still more uneasily, and Craig, rising
            precipitately, caused Orrig to move quickly toward the group. "Si" remained seated, with an undisturbed gaze that Weller returned sullenly.
          "You're wrong, Weller!" he said, when the spell of their looks had been weakened by
            "Milt" regaining his seat, and Weller let his eyes move slowly to the floor, back to
            "Si's," then to the floor again, as he awkwardly turned his hand over on his knee.
          "Mebbe I did say it too strong," he replied, and "Si," too amiable to retain his own
            anger, spoke up at once.
          "I know," he said, "You wan't satisfied with the way things wuz goin', and y' thought
            mebbe the rest of us didn't see all thet you see; but we hev, an' we've thought about it
            ez much ez you, on'y we wan't minded t' talk about it 'cause we might be wrong. I 'low I
            know ez much about this thing ez anybody, an' that's nothin'; so
            thet's what's held me to the idee thet th' time t' arg'y about it ain't come yit."
          "But there's th' evidence before y', ain't it?" Weller asked, with a lingering
            persistence.
          "Evidence ain't all in yit," "Si" replied sagely.
          "You fellers better go t' law," said Orrig jocularly, hoping to inject new humor into
            the breach as he moved away.
          "It ain't between me an' 'Si,'" Weller replied, in an appeal to Orrig, that evidenced
            his friendly feeling toward his former antagonist.
          "No it 'tain't 'tween us nor nobody else," "Si" said, with a positiveness that
            completely subdued Weller.
          "How about th' Golden Twist?" Lem asked diplomatically, and all accepted the diversion
            gladly, Orrig displaying greater alacrity in opening the
            pail than had graced his previous movements.
          "Say, Mr. Orrig!" the boy began, when voices were heard outside the front door, and
            Orrig raised his hand warningly. There were a few muffled words, then a woman's voice
            broke in upon them as the door opened, and Mrs. Weller entered, while the parson held it
            ajar for her to pass.
          "Thank you!" she was saying. "If Sam's here I'm all right. But come on in. You can walk
            our way a piece soon's I get some things."
          Weller held his breath and his heart stopped in alarm as they awaited the reply.
          "I will just come in and see if he is here; but I must hurry up to the hotel then!"
          She agreed half-happily, half-sadly.
          "Sam here?" Mrs. Weller began, when she discovered the group about the store. "Oh, yes;
            there you are!" and, turning to the parson, she concluded, "All right now; much
            a-bliged."
          "Hello, boy!" Kent said, placing his hand on the grinning apprentice's shoulder.
            "Hello, 'Si' and Lem!" And, stepping so that he could see all the others, he saluted
            them by a wave of his disengaged hand.
          "Si" arose and came hurriedly to where he stood, though covering his action by a
            careless motion.
          "Harr y'?" he asked, grasping Kent's hand and giving it an unusual sqeeze that
            immediately attracted his more close attention. Then, under his breath, with startling inflection, "Si" said, "Th' hotel!" and nodded in
            its direction.
          Kent's face contracted slightly in alarm, but, quickly recovering, he bade them all
            good-night and hastened away.
          Mrs. Weller "visited" with "Milt" and "Si." Her husband was silent. Orrig busied
            himself with her small commissions.
          "How's your exzemy, Lem?" she asked considerately, finally turning her attention to the
            old man.
          "Middelin' since the weather warmed up; it's eased a bit now, so I'm feelin' better!"
            he replied in great pleasure.
          "Hear you've got a inkebator—never see one. How's it work?" "Milt" asked all in a
            breath.
          "I've jest set it. Don't know yet," Mrs. Weller replied proudly; "but ef we get all th'
            circilar says we will me an' Sam'll be chicken-rich afore summer!" she laughed, and
            Weller smiled in doubtful amiability.
          They had talked thus socially for about an hour when "Doc" Murray entered, his face
            radiant, and his benevolent eyes sparkling with a happy light.
          "Fill that!" he said triumphantly, as he handed Orrig a small phial from his case. His
            voice quivered with suppressed emotion. Turning to the hushed group, who were smiling in
            sympathy, their faces eager in silent questioning, he spoke slowly with suppressed
            emotion. "The change has come," he said. "Our darling is resting now. The nervous spell
            is broken. She will recover!"
          
          "Bless God!" responded Mrs. Weller, who was a Methodist, fervently, and each of the men
            breathed an "amen."
          "It was the parson who did it!" "Doc" added exultantly. "He broke the spell weeks
            ago—that's what saved her, and I am free to say now that it wuz him that did
            it."
          "Don't y' 'low she'd a-been all right without that?" Weller asked in repentant
            surprise.
          "It wuz him thet did it," "Doc" reiterated firmly, as he placed his phial within his
            grip again and started to leave.
          Weller turned to "Si." As their eyes met a quick flash of understanding passed between
            them. "Si" conveyed complete forgiveness; Weller, absolute repentance.
          "Si" linked his arm in "Doc's" as they moved up the street, and when they reached the
            hotel volunteered his services.
          "Not now, 'Si;' I wouldn't go up now. She's sleepin', an' he's there, all broke up.
            Better wait till morning," "Doc" said.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXI.
          When Kent left Orrig's that night he followed out, with fearful uncertainty, "Si's"
            meagre suggestion and went at once to the hotel.
          Once in the office his fears were allayed by the absolute quiet and lack of excitement
            about the place. He paced up and down the small room impatiently awaiting the landlord's
            arrival, feeling confident that "Si" would shortly follow him.
          The time moved but slowly, and he felt that he had been there hours when "Doc" happened
            down the stairs and discovered him. Their conversation was brief, but of the happiest
            sort on "Doc's" side, while Kent mostly listened. Fearful lest he might intrude Kent
            held against "Doc's" urging until his every doubt had been dispelled, then followed
            softly up to the little bed-chamber. Close to the bed he came. Millie Craig looked at
            him in surprise, then turned away and followed "Doc." When they were gone Virgie's eyes
            slowly opened, and, as he gazed into them with all the intensity of longing compassion,
            she smiled wanly, half-happily. His faculties rebelled against the gentle inference. His
            head became dizzy with the confusing truth of her sweet capitulation and his long-borne
              resignation. Self-condemning, self-tortured, he had
            believed himself outside the possibility of her graciousness. It was cruel
            delusion—a trick of her weakness that led her to invite him back to the
            deliciousness of her friendship! He was wild with restraint, while his heart expanded
            painfully, conspiring to delude him further. He was torn with emotion that cautioned him
            to be honorable, yet urged him to accept the change.
          In the instant that he hesitated she moved her hand feebly toward him from where it lay
            on the coverlet, and in the greatest of ecstatic joys he placed his own over it,
            kneeling beside her. Slowly she closed her eyes again. He did not move, in fear lest she
            show some impatience with his grasp, and he held to the little emaciated fingers with
            tenderest firmness; but as the moments sped he breathed suppressedly; her respirations
            grew more regular, more deep. Then she slept. Oh, the beauty of it! It was true, true!
            The temporary hopefulness became a more assured fact. Her friendship had come again.
            Kent opened his eyes wildly as he looked into her sweetly-calm face. Gazing long he
            drank the precious truth with all the goodness, all the pleasure that this dearest of
            earthly things could give to him; and when "Doc" came again he found him yet on his
            knees, contemplating her features—all the joy he felt and longed to express
            shining radiantly in his face.
          Admiring and believing in Kent's new sincerity and new manliness, "Doc" felt the need
            of giving to the young man the support of his own firm position, and in the bulletin of
            the last happy change he linked the circumstance of Kent's
            splendid achievement. That Virgie had passed the last crisis of her long, uncertain
            tenure to life, and was now in the pathetic beginning of surety, was, it would seem,
            happiness enough to cause her friends the greatest ecstasy; but to have added to this
            the news of her renewed friendship for Kent, and "Doc's" own statement that it was
            almost entirely due to the parson that her life had been spared, seemed beyond belief. A
            short calm succeeded the heralding of this doubly good news. Unrestrained admiration
            followed quickly, its impetuous generalness indicating the willingness that had long
            laid dormant because of the doubting. Little of the things that were said reached Kent's
            hearing. That a change had come he knew. The continued warmth of his reception wherever
            he went conveyed that to him, but he did not know for how much of this
            he was indebted to "Doc," who had, with astute care, admitted the people to the close
            understanding of their parson that he possessed, and so long as Kent did not know "Doc"
            enjoyed his part the better.
          Events moved quickly now for Kent. He counted away the days, then the weeks, as he
            yearned for the time when she should be well and strong again. The plans for the new
            church had reached a settlement. The little community, in supposed secrecy from their
            parson, worked over them with the greatest interest, and when the details were all
            arranged they laid before him their proposition. That was a happy hour. Kent accepted
            their offering with delight, though he was near dumb from the gratitude which surged
            within him. Afterwards he thought, "Oh! if I could but
            have thanked them," and his silence in that time came back to worry his after-thought,
            though the committee said that they never saw anybody so "took in" as he was, and were
            satisfied as to his feelings. What he did say was that, though he was grateful, he
            thought that the time for a new church had not quite come, but that he would take up
            their plans and, after considering them, give the committee his approval and suggestions
            later. In the one word "later" he found refuge, for he had decided that to him it
            signified a time very remote from the present season, and it served the purpose well. In
            it the committee found no cause for displeasure, and in this then, too, they were
            satisfied.
          Spring came quickly, and with its revivifying influence Virgie's strength returned. It
            was a delightful morning—that first morning that "Doc" gave his permission for her
            to sit up. Aunt Faribee and Millie were at once equalized in years by their motherly
            delight over her change. Solicitous and happy they watched her with great enjoyment.
            "Si" came up, half-bashful and unintrusive, smiling joyously to see her there before the
            window, serene and smiling contentedly. Kent also came to see her, and, while he talked
            restrainedly with Aunt Faribee and Millie mostly, Virgie's eyes were animated with a
            splendid enjoyment, and a flush suffused her wan cheeks whenever he addressed himself to
            her. This first visit was of necessity short, for "Doc," with precautious
            solicitousness, curtailed the patient's recreation to a meagre half hour; but, as her
            strength returned, his caution relaxed, and for many days
            they were left together in uninterrupted sweet communion.
          It was the fourth of a series of very warm days when he came over to the hotel one
            afternoon. He had been reluctant to give up the reveries of dreamy heaviness that were
            claiming him even for so great a pleasure as that of being with her. Laziness,
            drowsiness and invitations to slumber were in the atmosphere. Everywhere about them new
            green was draping nature, and the warmth that stimulated her only enervated those who
            were under the spell. He shook off with effort the seductive influence of it all, and,
            as he became more fixed in his purpose, wandered slowly toward the hotel, living in the
            present deliciousness of changing surroundings, with only dull anticipation of the
            coming hours.
          Virgie saw him from the window and smiled happily, though in the long interval of
            waiting for him to come upstairs to her room she partly forgot his arrival, occupying
            her thoughts with the red-tipped maple-tree buds that hung so as to partly screen her
            window. Kent stopped and talked with "Si" for a time, sitting on the door-step beside
            the landlord, who was taking a sun-bath, deep-seated in an old chair with rickety frame
            of bark-covered rusticity.
          "Lazy weather, ain't it?" "Si" observed, after a long pause that had followed their
            greeting. Kent did not reply, and, after another interval, the host ventured again:
            "It's a early season. Why, I can remember when we didn't git this kind o' weather 'till
            early in June; but, great snakes! that's two-month yet. I
            don't care though; I like it better this way."
          "The winters are shorter than they used to be," Kent observed.
          "Your right they air, but they suits me the shorter they gits," "Si" said positively,
            and Kent smiled languidly, while another pause followed.
          "Ain't y' goin' up? She's all alone," "Si" said after a time, and Kent arose and
            climbed the stairs quietly. Standing in the open doorway he leaned against the casement
            and watched Virgie. She was entirely unconscious of his presence, seemingly having
            forgotten to watch for him. Absorbed with her own reflections her face changed its
            studious expression frequently as he stood there, and Kent's moved in sympathy, being
            equally unconscious of its workings.
          "Why so serious?" he asked quietly. "Have you come back to serious things so soon?" She
            turned her head calmly and smiled at him, undisturbed by his question, for she had
            expected him.
          "I thought that you had forgotten to come up," she replied, "so I occupied my time with
            little debates within my head."
          "You looked as if you were worrying. Is it good for you to have such debates?" he
            asked.
          "Oh! I was not seriously troubled," she laughed. "Not so bad as that. I have not the
            energy to inflict myself with very weighty things to-day. It is too deliciously
            warm."
          "If not serious, then I may share the thought with you?" he suggested.
          
          "Certainly. Come over here by the window and I will show you," she said, interestedly,
            and when he was close by her side she asked: "If that bud can come out and reach the
            form it has in four or five days—you see it begins to show already the shape it
            will be in summer, why does it not—now listen closely—why does it not keep
            on growing at its present rate as the weather becomes warmer?"
          Kent looked from her to the buds hanging almost within the window, then back into her
            face again, and, as she was evidently deeply in earnest, he smiled perplexedly, and
            said: "Surely you don't mean to ask me that seriously?"
          "Indeed I do," she replied. "You wanted to know of what I was thinking—now answer
            the question yourself. Perhaps it will show you why I was serious."
          "But," he protested, "it does grow larger in summer."
          "Of course it does; I already knew that. But it has grown an inch in four days, say;
            and it will take it six months to grow two inches more. That is the problem. Why does it
            not continue to grow as rapidly?"
          "Too much for me," he replied, looking at her in wondering admiration. "But, tell me,
            what made you think of it?"
          "I presume that it must have been because I had nothing else with which to occupy my
            mind," she replied. "Can't you give me something better with which to replace it? What
            is the news? Tell me something. What have the folks over to your house decided to do? Martin tells me that Uncle Tipman wants Landy
            to come back and work for him; of course she doesn't want him to go. She said that she
            did not. Are you going to let him?"
          "That would be news indeed," Kent smiled. "It would be news to me to know what he
            intended doing." Then he added more seriously, "I should dislike very much to have him
            go, perhaps as much as Martin would; but I fear that I am helpless in the matter."
          "Why are you? Is there nothing else that you can get for him, or have you tried?"
          "Tried—tried? I have tried everything that I could think of, but there seems to
            be no place else for him. I would do willingly all that I might be able to do for Landy,
            yet the outlook is anything but bright for my helping him."
          "Naturally you feel interested in him after his having been with you all winter," she
            said thoughtfully, as she endeavored to find some suggestion.
          "There is more than his having lived with me these few months to have caused me to wish
            him well," Kent said slowly, as, with his back toward her, he stood looking out of the
            window.
          "On Martin's account?" Virgie asked.
          "That, and still more," he replied. Then added quickly, "Landy has done me a favor
            beyond the power of most men to do, and he has my everlasting gratitude for it."
          "Can you tell me what it is?" she asked innocently, with great interest, and, since he
            still remained with his back toward her and did not reply, she continued, while she watched him earnestly, "I do not want you to
            answer if you cannot do so willingly."
          "I would like to, best in the world," he said, "but—"
          "You need not seek excuses," she said quickly; "I did not mean to intrude on your
            confidence. I did not, honestly."
          "It is not an intrusion. Perhaps it is right that you should know," Kent said; then
            hesitatingly went on. "I want to tell you. It is due Landy that you should know; but the
            best way to tell you, that's it, that's what makes me halt so."
          Virgie remained silent and waited that he might shape his sentences to suit his own
            fancy. He gazed abstractedly from the window for a seemingly interminable time, then
            turned and faced her, while he leaned with his back against the wall.
          "I do not want to shock you unnecessarily, and that is what makes it so difficult for
            me to commence. If you will prepare yourself for a pleasant surprise, first, it will
            make my words easier. I remember so well your complete mystification some few months ago
            over the departure of one man named Snellins that I hesitate in one breath to inform you
            that I am about to clear the circumstances of all its mystery. Yet such is the
            case."
          "Then he is back?" she asked excitedly.
          "Now there it is! Calm yourself or I shall not tell you," he said, with
            determination.
          "But tell me—tell me?" she said. "Please don't delay so. Tell me, is he
            back?"
          
          "He is here," he said. "He is here in Ashville. The fact is, he has never been
            away."
          "And Landy?" she asked, surprised at the information. "What is Landy's connection with
            it?"
          "Simply this. That Snellins was a very ill man when we took him in, and Landy has
            restored him to complete health and strength. That is Landy's connection with it."
          "I don't understand," she said, with a puzzled expression; "you are so vague. Tell me
            more?"
          "There is nothing more that I can tell," he replied evasively. "Landy has proven
            himself Snellins' friend when Snellins needed friendship most; that is all. Yet it is
            the thing that makes me wish to befriend Landy now. It is causing me to solocit your
            friendship for him."
          "He is a dear," she said. "I shall love him for his goodness. And Martin—did she,
            too, have a part in it?"
          "She certainly did," he replied.
          "Isn't it funny," she said, "no one has ever said anything of it to me, not even
            Martin?"
          "No one but Martin knew, and she was cautioned against speaking of it; so you must not
            hold her accountable."
          "But I will. I shall scold the old dear dreadfully and make her or Landy, or you, or
            somebody bring Snell to me at once. Where is he, still at your house?"
          Kent nodded affirmatively.
          "Umm!" she mused audibly. "I don't think that you have been a bit nice to me. Now that
            is how I feel about it, if you would like to know!" and
            Kent laughed light-heartedly. Resuming she said, "How wonderful that you had been able
            to keep this so secret! Did—did he know?" she asked, referring to her father for
            the first time since his death, and her voice caught on the pronoun, as she feared Kent
            would not understand. Again Kent nodded in the affirmative. "Then I am simply
            overwhelmed at your long and successful secrecy from me! Was it that you thought me
            unworthy of your confidence—or—or" And again her words halted as she became
            confused. "Or did you not wish me to come to him?"
          "You came to the parsonage when Bennie was ill," he said, simply.
          "I do not understand at all. Tell me; tell your reasons, for you must have had
            them?"
          "I thought that the telling you my goodness, would affect you beyond further inquiry,
            but, since it has not, I am unprepared for your question. I must, however, refuse to be
            catechised further," he said, with assumed gayety, that was at once transparent and
            futile; and, realizing this, continued: "Candidly, I ought not to tell you. Please let
            that suffice, and some day you will learn the rest; but just now it is best that you
            should not know."
          Virgie looked at him in astonishment. This unmovable firmness was so unlike the old
            days, when he had ever a ready answer to all her questions. It was a phase for which she
            was unprepared. Then, too, he had given an explanation of his stand to the limit of his
            possibilities without subterfuge or quibbling. This was a
            surprise to her, for through his changes she had not known the gradual raise from
            insincerity to frankness, and, coming upon the latter in its forceful, unmovable
            position, her usual attitude of assurance with him found itself balked and
            rebounding.
          "I suppose that I must be satisfied," she said finally. Her curiosity was in nowise
            allayed, yet she was secretly pleased with his evidence of strength.
          "For the present at least," he supplemented quietly. "All that I have told you, though,
            should be enough news for one day at least, shouldn't it?"
          She shook her head negatively with a pretty smile, and he was forced to laugh at the
            persistency conveyed.
          "Well, it is all that you will get anyway," he said, to which she poised her lips and
            shrugged her shoulders with an assumption of indifference that meant that she was not
            the least satisfied.
          Kent smiled approvingly at her sweet childishness, and led the conversation to trivial
            things. Martin came in later, interrupting their desultory talk with fussy
            solicitousness. The young people were visibly disturbed by her advent, since their moods
            had settled naturally into spiritless yet blissful quietude. Their conversation had come
            to broken pauses between unenlivening platitudes. The sense of sweet companionship had
            served for enough enjoyment, and it was this that the innocent Martin had so effectually
            disturbed; but Martin did not know, nor did their partial indifference serve to
            enlighten her. With customary importance she assumed at once the head of the
            conversation, and permitted her garrulousness full sway.
            Virgie, ever considerate, loaned first a kind consideration, and later her whole
            interest; but the parson could not bring himself out of the late mood, and eventually,
            as Martin indicated her permanency, he withdrew with just the least resentment expressed
            in his tones at his departure.
          "What has Landy decided to do, Martin?" Virgie asked seriously, breaking in upon her
            running comments.
          "Goin' back t' Nance Tipman's, I 'low," she replied dejectedly, at once becoming grave
            and turning silent.
          "I have been thinking," Virgie began. Then said, "If you will pull me back out of the
            sun please, dear?" Afterwards resuming, "There, thank you! I have been thinking that, if
            it were not for your leaving him alone there, that you and Landy and
            Gyp might come out to my house when I am stronger." She hesitated for an instant, then
            began again rapidly without the hesitancy that had punctuated her former words. "I shall
            need someone, and Landy is just the one that I should like best, if you could go with
            him. There is all the place to care for, and it will need a man, and the housework will
            be more than I can do just yet. Oh, if you could come, Martin, how splendid it would be
            for all of us! This warm air and sunshine makes me wild to be back with my garden and
            chickens and things; and you, Martin—how you would enjoy it! Everything your own
            way, you know; that is, until I become strong enough to boss about," she laughed
            happily. "Landy would be better off with us than anywhere
            else he could go. It would be so nice for all of us—except—except him," she
            ended.
          Martin sniffled with emotion that was so mixed by joy, gratitude, anticipated happiness
            and regret at leaving Kent that she knew not why she was tearful. The future seemed to
            have opened to her all of its greatest blessings, and she could have distilled just now
            their sweetest essence but for the one fact of having to gain this happiest of
            arrangements for most of those dear to her at the expense of the parson, who held in her
            heart quite as large a place as any of the others.
          "I'd hate t' leave the parson," she said.
          "I would hate to have you," Virgie replied. "But with all of you staying there now it
            would be too much of a burden, Landy and you and Gyp, as well as Ben."
          "Snellins!" Martin ejaculated in great surprise. "How did you know?" she asked.
          "He told me," Virgie answered quietly.
          "The parson told you? My land! I didn't 'low he would," she said, with strange feelings
            of released constraint and glad opportunity. "Did he say he was right enough to be about
            soon?"
          "He said that Landy had about cured him," Virgie replied.
          "So he did, partly. Got him so's he's knowin' again," she said proudly. "But, ef it
            wan't for the parson, I want t' tell y' there'd never been the chance," she ended in
            double loyalty.
          "Knowin'?" Virgie asked innocently.
          
          "Yes mum, knowin'. He's got so 'at he knows all of us at the house, an' mostly those
            'at goes by outside, though we does have t' keep him out o' sight from them fer a spell
            yit. That's what the parson says; so's nobody'll guess that he's ever been outen his
            mind."
          "Was he so bad as that?" Virgie asked, deeply moved.
          "Yes, an' almost worse," Martin replied, giving her voice all the inflections of
            awfulness possible, and filled with delight at being permitted to talk about him.
          "There wuz a time we thought he'd be took down; he got so low. It wuz a sight o' work
            t' keep him from sickness. But we done it."
          "And, then, he was not sick?" Virgie questioned further, in great surprise.
          "No, of course not. We never let him get—not sick. Yet
            he—was—out—of—— "
          "Oh! Martin, surely Ben was not—he did not—" And then she stopped, struck
            dumb with horror at the possibility that occurred by reason of the only evident
            conclusion.
          "No—not crazy," Martin replied in quick alarm, fearing that she might have made
            an error. The parson said, "Not crazy; only what he called demented."
          Virgie sat motionless, her eyes closed, her face ashen. Martin, now truly alarmed, drew
            closer, but stood without touching her. "I thought you knowed," she said tremulously in
            weak apology.
          "I did know, but not that," Virgie replied, her voice so low and suppressed with horror
            that Martin scarcely caught her words. After a time she opened her eyes and, with an effort at self-control, said: "He told me that
            Ben had been ill, and I naturally thought of bodily illness. Tell me more, Martin; tell
            me all?" she ended feverishly, as she nerved herself for the details.
          "I've told y' all now," Martin replied insecurely. "He wuz the one 'at found Snell when
            his trouble 'd come, an' he took him home an' took keer of him. Afterwards he let Landy
            he'p, an' Landy's got him t' knowin' again. That's all, 'cept 'at Snell's a'most as
            right ez he ever wuz, an' jest because the parson's been so wonderful kind."
          Becoming more encouraged by Virgie's growing interest and animation she talked on, and
            on and on, with graphic enthusiasm until nearly all of the details of that trying time
            had been narrated. When she had talked herself out her listener's face was all aglow
            from gratitude and admiration for those who had been so kind. Martin lost none of the
            evident change, and the happiness infected her to the point of jubilant triumph, Kent's
            part profiting greatly by her enthusiasm. But when the time came for her to leave Virgie
            was without words to express the sweet contentment and joy that glowed within her. It
            was too like an unreal thing to admit of description. Revelations in the present hour
            were rushing over her with confusing goodness. The past seemed full of misjudgments of
            her own, and out of the lovely truths she had just learned she found examples for
            measuring the other and more sinister mysteries and perplexities. Her mind and heart
            were chaos. She would think, she would rejudge—she would take a new and better
            measurement of past events. Therefore, she let Martin go
            with but an abstracted "Good bye!" And when Aunt Faribee came with her lunch she was
            still thinking dreamily, covering old unhappinesses with gentle imaginings.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXII.
          When the days had become permanently warm the whole community was in the happy humor of
            occupation. Snellins' return was but the wonder of an hour, as busy minds had little
            time to question his going or coming. His frequent departures or returns had long since
            ceased to provoke other than a desultory kind of comment, and they questioned not but
            that this had been one of his usual migrations. At first he felt insecure in his secret,
            but his suspicions were soon allayed by the treatment he received, and he slowly assumed
            a stronger manhood than he had ever displayed. His gratitude was unbounded for the care
            both Kent and Landy had given him. With the restoration of the money he had once
            secreted, and that Kent had carefully guarded for him, he became excessively happy. It
            was not long, however, with this small power at his command, until he cunningly devised
            plans for another trip. Permitting no one to share his confidence he awaited patiently
            an opportunity for successfully eluding those who had so recently had his care-taking.
            There were days when he felt the time had come, yet some unexpected obstacle presented
            itself, causing him to postpone his running away. Not until Virgie had established her little household, taking Landy and Martin
            and Gyp, did the real opportunity occur. Martin had forgotten and left behind some small
            thing that Kent thought she might urgently need, and, expressing this belief in
            Snellins' presence, Snell at once grasped the possibility. With slyly-expressed desires
            that he might again visit the Brandt place, he prevailed upon the parson to allow him to
            be the messenger to Martin, and Kent, entirely unsuspicious, yet wholly reluctant,
            permitted him to go. After this two days elapsed ere Kent learned that Snellins had
            never arrived at the Brandt farm, when it was much too late to attempt to seek for him.
            Landy became alarmed to the extent of wild agitation. Kent set his lips firmly, but was
            calm. He swore Landy to secrecy, cautioning him against alarming the folks at his new
            home, and sent him away surprised and wondering.
          The first cares of Virgie's home-coming had filled her thoughts amply and taken her out
            of herself for the time. She was too weak to work much, if any, but Landy and Martin
            needed instructing, and she was happily busied with directing them. Once, while in the
            spirit of unusual elation, she had thrown off her partial resentment toward Harvey owing
            to his never having answered her last letter, and set herself to tell him of the things
            that had transpired that he might, in turn, inform her relatives. On her father's death
            she dwelt at length, the tender reverence that hallowed her thoughts leading her to a
            composition of spiritualistic beauty. Of her own long illness she wrote but little,
            seeming rather resentful that she had ever been so. Then,
            knowing he would be interested in Snellins, she filled the body of the letter about him,
            alternating between sympathy and humor because of their fruitless waiting, while Kent
            might have informed them had he not been so loyal to poor Snell. Ending she hinted at
            his long neglect, with an implied suggestion that he must explain his carelessness
            satisfactorily to be forgiven.
          She was sitting one afternoon, some two weeks later, out in the yard far from the
            house, in a tiny arbor, most effectually shaded by the cherry-tree limbs that hung
            drooping. The air was heavily sweet from the blossoms all about and above her. Kent,
            making the rounds of his country-side calls, sought her out and found her there. She
            greeted him seriously, motioning him to a seat upon the grass, and to his look of
            inquiry tossed him the letter that had lain in her lap, meantime appearing utterly
            indifferent as to his progress with it.
          "Well, what do you think of that?" he said in surprise, smiling benignly, and, as
            Virgie did not respond even so much as with a smile, he looked at her with quick
            suspicion, hurting him deeply. Controlling his voice as best he could he resumed:
            "They're married now—three days, according to this. Well—I wish them all
            happiness!"
          "I do, too," Virgie said quickly. "But it seems so unfair; they might have let us know.
            He could not have cared much," she ended resentfully.
          Kent laughed insecurely, hoping that her resentment was no deeper than her expressed
            opinion, yet fearful of the possibilities.
          
          "It must have been a mean opinion that he held of his future kinsfolk—or else he
            was too absorbed by his future happiness, either of which are unpardonable. But you will
            forgive him? You forgive everybody."
          Virgie turned and looked at him with sudden inquisitiveness, and, as he did not meet
            her gaze, responded: "I am not so sure about that. It will be a long wait, anyway,
            before he has my forgiveness. Laugh if you will, but I'm not always forgiving," she
            said, and as he gazed at her steadfastly she colored perceptibly.
          "I was not laughing at that," he replied, part-seriously. "I only thought how fortunate
            he is to be so situated; that, now you are unforgiving, he has your cousin to console
            him, and later on—well, you know that your anger is short-lived."
          "That is nothing to laugh at," she said good-humoredly.
          "It is for me," Kent replied. "Not to laugh for ridicule, but for mirth and joy that it
            has been so, else—"
          "Else we would still be at odds," she replied proudly.
          "Just that," he said.
          "But you deserve to be forgiven, and he never will," Virgie said, and, as he only
            smiled, she grew earnest. Beginning with the things about him that had first come to her
            learning, she talked with halting insecurity as if she were unsure of the correctness of
            her speaking her thoughts so freely to him. But once she had begun there was no going
            back, and she poured forth unstinted praise for his many good deeds.
          "I have had a world of reasons for forgiving you," she
            said. "One of them was because I was wholly at fault." Here Kent looked at her in blank
            amazement. "And, had I not been, your goodnesses would have melted any ugly coldness out
            of me. You have been magnanimous and good, gentle and brave, and befriended us all when
            most we needed help. Listen!" she insisted, as he endeavored to check her by a gesture.
            The praise, however sweet, was causing him great embarrassment. "You told me that Ben
            had been ill. You did not say how much you had risked to reclaim him from everlasting
            night. You are surprised to learn that I know that; but even more has been told me.
            Landy, and Martin as well, have been dependent upon your bounty, and you would still
            have them so if I had not simply forced them to come out here. By either of these
            generous deeds you merit a friendship higher than mine and praise and love from all of
            us."
          "Have you finished?" he asked, with assumed carelessness, sure that she had, because of
            her well-rounded last sentence, that sounded as if her speech had spent itself. He
            intended to continue in a self-disparaging vein when she had expressed herself as having
            ended.
          "No; I have not!" she replied, much to his surprise, resuming at once a continuance for
            which he was entirely unprepared, and leaving his unspoken sentences still unexpressed.
            Then adding: "There is more, and it is of a personal nature. 'Doc' has told me of your
            premeditated attack upon my stubborn will that, in all probability, saved me from worse
            than what I did suffer."
          
          "If this was all," he thought relievedly, "he could accept her words of thanks with
            partial grace." His changed expression was at once apparent to her, and, knowing its
            significance, she hesitated before resuming. Yet she was started now, and she might best
            let him know that she was acquainted with all that he had done for her; so she
            continued, though it was under slight protest with herself.
          "Royal Kent," she said slowly, "you have made me ashamed of myself—ashamed
            because you have grown better, while I have not even stood still—I have grown
            worse. These things of which I have spoken are not like your old self. They could not
            have come from you in those days. You know that as well as I do. More is the grandness
            of your changing. I do not ask forgiveness now for what happened then, for I was not
            wrong in what I did; but I do regret the time that has gone between, since I would not
            or could not encourage and recognize you." The parson hung his head in confusion as she
            talked thus straightforwardly, desiring to interrupt, yet without the words to do so.
            "Then, to add the climax, you prevented them from taking my home from me while I was
            incapable of defending it."
          Kent rose agitatedly at this.
          "Please, stop!" he said pleadingly, as if the great humiliation that entirely hid the
            gratitude in her tones was hurting him.
          "Why did you do that?" she asked, her voice wavering piteously. "Why was it you, when
            your kindnesses are such a reproach? Do you want me to
            always fear and hate you?"
          With both hands upon her breast she breathed deeply. Her head hung forward slightly,
            and through the tears that had started in her eyes she looked steadfastly into his.
          Kent's heart gave an impulsive bound as his eyes rested upon hers. From the depths of
            her innermost being she seemed calling for his pity and his love. He dropped his head
            upon his chest, partly in the consciousness that he must not again be led to err, but
            more for shame that, he had thought for the instant, to trade upon her gratitude.
          "I am sorry," he said.
          The words stung her as a sharp rebuke. "If your regret comes because of my words," she
            said, "then I am not sorry."
          "But it will make our friendship harder."
          "Indeed it will, if we let it," she replied, and in the latter words he found much
            comfort.
          "How can I help it?" he asked. "Now that you know of them my past deeds will all have
            seemed to have tended toward one point, and in the future—that will be the hardest
            part—each word, each action, each sentence and all my life with you will seem to
            hang from those simple kindnesses. They will always supply a motive, obviously the
            fundamental idea of all that I may do. I wish—so earnestly wish that you had not
            known. Believe me, Virgie, I have been but working out an atonement—objectless,
            save for my own satisfaction, and as remote from a desire of commanding your friendship as it well could have been. How I wish that I
            could explain! You will never understand until I can. I must clothe my acts of the near
            past and the future with a mystery that will not permit you to see the why of them. That
            I may not be too vague, and that, in the time to come you will not think me designing
            toward the end, you naturally would, I must tell you that I am striving to do things as
            I should do them wherever and whenever I can. You have said that I am changed, and to
            your words I find two sets of emotion responding. One is of unusual elation, and the
            other of amazement that the change did not come sooner. Away back in the time when I
            first came here I had an idea of reformation. It was an idea that impressed with its
            novelty—something to experiment with: a pastime, a diversion; that was the
            beginning, and the idea was the inspiration of dejection, sorrow, humiliation—all
            of these. I did not intend that it should sink in too deeply. Exterior reformation would
            be sufficient and fill amply my sense of a just return for past misconduct." Kent
            paused, his face lighting with a smile that was part self-pity and part contempt, as he
            so accurately reviewed his old self. It was the first time that he had given himself
            leave to analyze. Putting the past against the present he found the sharpest contrast
            readily, and, as Virgie followed his words, their underlying motive struggling for
            expression in her sympathetic face, he was spurred to the severest self-censure.
          "I don't like to hear you speak that way," she said, when he paused. "You are
            unjust—you are not at all fair to yourself."
          
          "But those days are gone," he replied seriously. "And from them I learned; therefore,
            they have given me much. Ashville is hardly the place, though—" he began. Then, as
            she smiled appreciatively, he hesitated.
          "Not the place for what?" she asked.
          "I was about to say that Ashville was hardly the place in which to practise deception;
            but I scarcely mean that—it is too severe. What I wanted to say was that they are
            not to be deceived by mere pretense. Truth knows truth here with unerring certainty.
            Why, I tell you, Virgie, a man simply could not live two selves in this atmosphere of
            instinctive understanding. I found myself antagonizing myself and, in consequence,
            everybody else. The exterior reformation was a good beginning because it was in
            continual pride and vanity, consequently always fighting with the internal comfort of
            conceit, and that was the birth of conscience in me. But the placid self-satisfaction
            soon became broken into a tumult of reproaches. To appease it I had to do
            things—lots of them. Activity got hold on me, and there you are. It was all so
            natural that I marvel at it now. The things that I have done I simply had to do. Can you
            understand? You, or anyone else, it would probably have been the same," he ended,
            looking at her with an inquisitive expression that invited an affirmative reply; but,
            since she remained silent, her face depicting no little disappointment over his last
            sentence, he resumed quickly: "Of course, not just exactly the same," he said, but
            stopped suddenly under her look of startled surprise. The words sounded decidedly foolish at this juncture, coming as they did at
            the end of a deeply analytical thought. Unaware that he had read the trend of her
            thoughts he had unerringly apologized to her unspoken disappointment. Virgie was
            startled and confused, not knowing how clearly apparent she had made the disappointment
            that she felt. Kent's confusion was heightened by a sudden elation over the happy guess
            and its import. They had reached a crisis, and each was painfully silent.
          She rather felt than saw his unwavering gaze, and, waiting for him to resume, she
            feared, yet hoped for his next words. Kent also was fearful for the outcome. Hoping
            against that fear, yet too cautious to precipitate them into another estrangement by
            declaring his desire at this the first opportunity.
          Concluding that he was not to continue his advantage her embarrassment waned slowly,
            and looking up she smiled. Kent felt that the situation demanded something from him,
            and, unable to grasp at that instant another topic for conversation, said stumblingly:
            "We are to be friends, aren't we?"
          "Why should we not be?" she asked, with charming assurance, in return.
          "I don't know," he replied happily, though dimly questioning himself whether or not he
            had done enough in asking only what he had. All through their talk he had been aware of
            the propitiousness of both their surroundings and her good humor. It was this
            consciousness that led them on to the climax of their self-hidden thoughts. He had not
            debated in his mind whether he would submit himself to so supreme an assault upon his feelings. The end had come about as the influences of
            surroundings and inclinations had aided it. From above them came the sweetness and
            warmth of delicious blossoms and sun. About them were patches of variegated green. Where
            the light came through between the white, fluffy-banked trees the grass was opalescent
            and brown-green. Under the trees the shade stretched away to the orchard fence, making
            patches of blue-green that were beautifully flecked with the falling petals. Kent's
            happiness suddenly took a facetious bent. He reached above his head and shook the limb
            nearest to his grasp. The shower of loosened petals fell over both of them like gentle
            messages of pure happiness, and they laughed joyously out of the great ecstasy within
            their hearts.
          "May care fall as lightly on your cousin and Harvey," Kent was saying, when Gyp came
            running from the house.
          "Oh! Auntie Virgie," she began, picking up Virgie's hand from her lap and pulling
            excitedly. "Have you seen th' new bees 'at pa's got? Come quick! He's fixin' 'em."
          Rising at once Virgie simulated as great an excitement as Gyp had shown, and all three
            went back to the edge of the berry bushes, where Landy, with cumbersome mittens and a
            face mask, was working earnestly.
          "Where did you ever learn the bee business?" Kent asked of him in surprise.
          Landy looked back over his shoulder at the group, smiled respectfully to Kent, but made
            no reply.
          
          "There is the most resourceful man I ever knew," the parson observed admiringly. "He
            should have been made a general or placed at the head of some big business. His
            confidence is colossal. Feels himself equal to anything whether he knows anything about
            it or not. Better watch him or he will drive every bee you have off of the place!"
          "Well, let him," Virgie laughed. "What's the use of having bees if you can't drive
            them?"
          "Oh, ho!" Kent responded. "So that is the kind of acquaintance you two have gotten
            around to. Guess I had better reserve my remarks to myself and go! Well, he is worthy,
            anyway."
          "You have already proven that," she replied, and continued talking of the new bee
            enthusiast as they walked to the front gate, while Gyp remained behind, a most earnest
            observer of her step-father's work.
          Kent marched along the road with buoyant step. The love that he had so long refused the
            privilege of recognition grew in its new freedom of an hour to vigorous sturdiness. That
            he loved her he had long known, but from the time of their trouble he had not let
            himself think of it. The first love—the love that he had declared had been for
            months a shame and a regret. The new awakening pressed all recollection of that out of
            his thoughts, though, now, and he was supremely happy. He loved now as a good man
            should, and he was proud to feel that he might love her this way always. He became
            heated from the rapid walking, and the relief of removing his coat occurred to him. Then
            the question of propriety presented itself, and his coat
            came off almost at the thought. He was teaching himself to ignore silly yielding to
            questions of this sort, and as soon as they presented themselves just so soon did he
            disobey their demands upon his false pride. A farmer-boy passed by and grinned to see
            the parson coatless, but Kent caught the friendliness his smile contained, and was still
            more happy in his new, growing strength.
          Through the main street coatless he went, vigorously punishing his pride for its better
            subjection. Orrig was sitting in front of the drug-store perusing the weekly paper when
            Kent came up.
          "Anything new?" the parson asked, swinging his coat from one shoulder to the other.
          "Ain't tuk up th' news yit," the druggist responded, resetting his reading glasses and
            looking up amiably. "I wuz jest readin' th' advertisements first. Oh! yes, they be some
            news," he added quickly. "I fergot when y' asked. They's a letter fer y' over t' th'
            postoffice. I jest come from there."
          "Thanks!" Kent replied delightedly, turning to go.
          "Ain't very sociable now, air y'?" Orrig observed; but, taking up his paper again, he
            re-arranged his glasses, hitched his chair about a little and resumed reading.
          Kent crossed the road and went straight to the postoffice. John Carey wiped his hands
            free of the kerosene that he had been handling, as he saw the parson coming, and greeted
            him at the door with the letter extended. Kent received it with a start that awakened
            Carey's keenest curiosity, but, as he simply slipped it into his pocket with an agitated "Thank you!" the postmaster's disappointment was
            deep. He returned to the lamps speculating greatly.
          Once within his study Kent broke the envelope with hasty excitement, then hesitated, as
            he stood and looked at the superscription. His face was a study of doubt, hope or dread,
            as his thoughts flew along the paths of old memories. Then he withdrew the contents from
            the envelope with a hand that trembled, and read:
          
              
                
                  "DEAR ROYAL:—
                  My darling boy—yesterday, and all the months gone by, were black and
                    filled with unhappiness because my boy was gone, and I knew not where. To-day my
                    broken heart is happy and lighter than I have ever known it to be, because I
                    know that you still live, and are well and happy and good. Why have you never
                    let me know? Why did you not permit me your confidence? I do not ask this to
                    scold you, for I am far too overjoyed to do that; but, had you sent your
                    messenger to me, my anxiety would have been lessened. I learned from your father
                    that your friend has been here before, and that he already knew where you were,
                    though his pride kept it secret from me. To-day he came again, and this time
                    your father received him. I did not know that it was of you they were talking,
                    and learned it only by partly overhearing what they said. When I pressed, and
                    would not be refused, he put his arm about my waist in the dear old way, like
                    before the trouble came, and said: 'Mother, I was preparing to surprise you. Mr.
                    Snellins, here, brings good word of our boy!' Oh! Royal, I was so happy; and he
                    was happy, too. He smiled upon your friend, and told him the good news that for
                    weeks we have known, and your friend was overjoyed with us.
                  "Your father is completely reconciled and longs to give you his forgiveness,
                    and ask yours in return. He had hoped to see you first and then surprise me,
                    but, failing in this, he bade your friend take you the news in a letter that he
                    gave him. But I cannot wait—I must reach you first, so that you may know
                    all and be able to understand. First of all, we have found that you are
                    truthful, and the others wrong. This was next to as great a joy to me as knowing
                    that you are to return to us.
                  
                  "I knew. I would not believe what they said against my boy.
                    But your long-continued high spirits and ungovernable will had caused your
                    father to misjudge you. You were both proud; you were both wrong. Naturally he
                    felt that you should be governed by his advice. Perhaps that advice was too
                    severe; perhaps you ignored it too much. Whatever it was, the long interval of
                    silence was just the thing to make the end harder for both of you. It broke my
                    heart to see you daily farther apart. When he found you on the porch that night
                    and, in his anger, believing what he had heard, called you a disgrace; and
                    turning you away from home, and closing the door against you—I felt that I
                    must die. But that is all gone now. The boys of your set have convinced him of
                    their horrible joke upon you, and he will be happy, I know, to welcome you back
                    again. And I—I love you! Mother has always believed in you. Her heart is
                    and always will be open for her boy, no matter what may come.
                  "Hoping that this will reach you, and that you will forgive us for our wrong,
                    and write at once. And with all my love for my darling always.
                  Lovingly,
                    "MOTHER."
                
              
            
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXIII.
          When Saturday came Snellins arrived well-nigh exhausted, but radiantly happy with
            his—to Kent—important and good news. He was three days late with the
            tidings. Even so, Kent received him with a warmth that modified his disappointment, and
            he shared the parson's joyousness with but little diminished satisfaction. On Sunday
            Kent was happily brilliant. The gladness in his heart was evident to everyone, as quite
            all his words were filled to overflowing with radiant expressiveness.
          On Monday he answered at length both of his letters. Resentment over past wrongs had no
            place in his reply. It was all love and happiness and gratitude. He made no reference to
            the practical joke that his friends had perpetrated that night, when the serious outcome
            of having drugged him frightened them away, and they had left him on his own door-step
            to be discovered later by his horrified parents. Too much had already been said about
            it, and there could come no good of recalling by ever so slight a re-utterance of his
            innocence the circumstances in which his father's anger and his own resentment had come
            together, with the outcome of his having been turned away from home. That they had found by themselves the true facts was deeply
            gratifying, but better still was his knowledge that he might return now, not only on an
            equal plane to the one he had held, but on a much more exalted one. In his letter he had
            said but little of his possible return, rather confining himself to the expression of
            sweet recollections of his old home, and intermingling the gentleness and beauties of
            his present surroundings with these, that his parents might understand from inference
            the ties he had lately formed, and how nearly impossible it would be to yield the new
            for the old. He yearned to be back again with the old and dear associations. He thought
            over and over again of the still life things that had made up his home. His own room,
            hallowed by boyish deeds in youthful advancements, when life, to his arrogance, seemed
            as simple as an open page, even though it be filled by fresh surprises—a paradox
            of young manhood—was again before him waiting for his occupancy. Frequent mental
            migrations, however, brought a consciousness of the impossibility of his ever using it
            again as he had once done, and after his letter had gone he sat himself down, with
            Harvey's once-spoken words recurring to him, "Why wish for the things once lived out,
            since one cannot have them back, and if we could they would not fit in with one's later
            ideas?" Kent pondered long over this thought.
          That he could not give up his new associates he well knew. The church, the town, the
            country, all stepped on the scale of indecision and weighed down one side with
            unmistakable overweight. But, when he came to place that
            positive, foregone conclusion of his mother's, wherein he only awaited an assurance of
            his father's good-will to cause him to return home, together with her love and his duty,
            against another and dearer tie, he was much in doubt as to where his future would be. He
            studied for two days and nights over the problem. It was constantly with him, yet as
            persistently refused to be solved. He grew tired—he was weary, and threw it off;
            still it returned less pliant than before, and he would have given up in despair if he
            could.
          "I don't know what to do," he mused one afternoon. He had just come from Henderson's,
            and was walking abstractedly along the road from town. "If someone could only help
            me—if someone could only help—" Here he paused, his face lighting with the
            animation of a new thought. "And why can't someone?" he asked himself hopefully. Then
            the hope slowly died away to doubt as he smiled irresolutely, though he quickened his
            steps for all that. The audacity and risk of asking aid where he had most naturally
            thought to do appalled him when he grasped the full import of what success or failure
            would mean. But it was a chance for the solution of his problem, and his feet showed not
            the hesitancy of his mind as they accelerated their speed out of all proportion. Borne
            on, unwilfully, he gave himself, without strong effort, against a habit he had long
            since suppressed, and the old way of going to her in his hours of perplexity asserted
            itself so irresistibly that he was glad to have it lead him on.
          
          It was shortly after four o'clock. The door of the district school, setting back just
            off the point where the roads cross, was being closed by Miss Simms, who wore a wearied
            look on her careworn face. Kent doffed his hat. Miss Simms courtesied in a very flurried
            manner, and hurried away over the south road at right angles to his own direction.
          Not far ahead of him four barefoot boys and one little girl leapt or ran as they played
            along the way, their superfluous energy working itself out with misapplied efforts
            toward homeward progress. Kent smiled over their antics, slowly but surely overtaking
            them. As he came up John Kinney gave to his sister Nellie the bucket that had contained
            their noonday meal, and almost as quickly little Charlie Schuffler gallantly relieved
            her of it. Kent smiled knowingly over the brother's sagacity, and Charlie carried two
            dinner-pails instead of one the balance of the way, keeping close to his infant charmer,
            as the group wove and interwove a pattern of footprints in the dust.
          On the Brandt's side of the road the farm land was fenced by split-rails, and, as the
            party came within sight of the field, they saw Landy George far over near the grove
            following a plow—happy, even if occupied in monotonous labor. When within earshot
            the children called him over lustily, climbing upon the fence and waving their hats or
            buckets.
          Virgie saw them through the kitchen side-door, and, taking down her sun-bonnet from its
            nail, cut across the corner of the field, making toward them slowly as she edged along
            close to the fence. Kent lifted Nellie to the upper rail,
            where Virgie enclosed her in her loving arms, and, throwing back her own bonnet, she
            buried her face beneath that of the little girl. Nellie's brother stood throwing clods
            at the team that stood in calm, dozing attitudes, their heads hung low and their eyelids
            half-closed. Landy climbed the fence quickly, chasing the boy only a few feet; then
            stopped and shook his fist at him, while he laughed happily.
          "Where's Gyp, Miss Virgie?" Nellie asked in a sweet, little piping voice.
          "Why, Gyp's sick to-day," Virgie answered interestedly; then to Timothy David, whose
            folks had only come into the neighborhood in the spring, "How's your pa, Tim?"
          "All right," Tim answered in great embarrassment, as he scraped one of his feet over
            the other, swinging from right to left and grinning deep creases into his freckled
            cheeks.
          Kent had said nothing in the preliminary talk, though he seemed to enjoy what the
            others were saying. Landy re-climbed the fence and went back to the plow, the boys
            following gleefully, prevailing upon him to permit them to ride in turns after much
            feigned reluctance on Landy's part. Nellie watched their antics, her eyes dancing with
            excitement. She moved uneasily in Virgie's arms, then looked into her face appealingly,
            though out of consideration said no word.
          "You want to go, too, don't you? Well, then, kiss me? There! Now be careful you don't
            get hurt!" She lifted her down, caressed her curls with a last pat and let her run to
            Landy.
          
          Kent came over to the fence, and leaning both arms, midway between the elbows and
            wrists, upon it, looked seriously after the fleeing curls and apron-strings.
          "That is a happy time of life," he said.
          Virgie had been leaning with her back toward him, but she turned quickly in surprise
            since she had not noticed his serious mood before.
          "You speak as if you were a hundred years old," she said simply, though she was made
            uncomfortable by his words; they seemed so out of tune with their surroundings. Kent did
            not reply, and, after watching the children in silence for another period, she turned
            upon him and said cheerily: "Say something. Why don't you talk? Say anything, only don't
            just stand there so serious."
          "I feel as though all that I have to say is out of keeping with all of this happiness,"
            he responded feebly, adding with more force: "I did have a good deal to say, but it is
            not the right time for it nor the right place. I have gotten back into the old way
            again, that is, of coming to you for advice. It is too serious to speak of now. This is
            not a time for seriousness, I'm afraid, so it may be better for me not to talk."
          The mere suggestion of a return to his former way of seeking her advice filled her with
            an undefined delight. She could not conceal her feelings, and needs must turn her face
            away, though there was in her quiet tones a pleasantness that encouraged him to speak,
            as she asked:
          "What is the trouble?"
          
          "If you really do not mind my telling you," he replied, "I know of no better way to
            begin than by asking you to read these?" he said, handing her the two letters that he
            had just drawn from his pocket.
          Virgie took them hesitatingly, finally opening that of his father, and read. Afterwards
            she read his mother's words, and tears sprang to her eyes. Kent was looking far away,
            toward Landy, down in the remotest corner of the field.
          "How perfectly beautiful!" she said sadly, as she read aloud the signature on the last
            letter, "Your Mother." "Mother!" she repeated. "How you must love her!" They stood in
            silence for some moments; then she asked: "Is she little?"
          "Yes," Kent laughed despite himself. "But, why?"
          "And she's beautiful, and has big, loving eyes and sweet, tender ways. I know she has.
            I know just what she's like!"
          "She's the best little mother in the world!" he added happily. "But—I don't
            know——" he hesitated, then went on feverishly: "I can't go back there now. I
            have thought it all out dozens of times. They want me and I want them. That's one way.
            But I want to stay here—where I have gotten on. I never did anywhere else, and I
            was afraid for so long that something or someone would turn up to bring the story of my
            old ways, and make me lose the little start I have gotten. I did not know what I would
            do if that happened. But the danger of it is gone now. I have a right to do and be what
            I am, and I would like more than anyone can judge to know
            and enjoy for a while the freedom from that old fear.
          "Then you will stay?" she asked quietly.
          "I do not know," he replied, shaking his head dubiously, still looking far over the
            field.
          Her wide-opened eyes expressed the sudden fear that pinched her heart, as she turned
            quickly, looking into his face with searching inquiry.
          "It is true," he said, still calm, returning her gaze hopelessly. "I don't know what I
            shall do. If I don't go they will think me resentful of what they did. That would break
            her heart. Don't you see how things are there?"
          "I believe I do," she replied. "But they ought not expect it of you now."
          The rebellion in her words, while at first surprising and almost provoking him to a
            quick retort, gradually conveyed the sentiment that prompted them. In her eyes was yet
            that expression of pain, even though it was tempered by resentment against the claims of
            his parents; and Kent, grasping its full import, brightened at once, losing his
            hopelessness and scrutinizing her features eagerly.
          "If you don't understand their end of it," he said, venturesomely, "you do this end? I
            wanted you to understand both fully, but, if you cannot you cannot, I suppose. At any
            rate, you know now how much of a weight has been lifted from me. I can talk of them, as
            I have never done, for one thing, and another is that I feel better for knowing myself
            not in the wrong."
          "How better?" she asked simply.
          
          "Better because I can have no scruples such as I have had against doing things."
          "Have you had scruples?" she questioned, innocently surprised.
          "I thought you knew that I had," he replied with great intensity. "Perhaps, though, the
            caution was all in my own mind, because you were unaware of any reason for it. Oh!
            Virgie," he continued, "how I have struggled to keep from telling you for a second time
            of the love within my heart, and all because I would not offer you the possible chance
            of future disgrace and sorrow that might come of it!"
          He said this much as he had uttered the preceding words, and for the instant neither
            seemed to realize its full significance, so earnestly were they analyzing this
            reasoning. Virgie was first to give evidence of its importance. She turned completely
            around, standing with her back toward him that he might not see her face.
          "Do not tell me again by your silence that I have been mistaken in supposing that you
            knew," he said agitatedly. "Do not tell me that, Virgie; for I am not come to you this
            time over-confident or arrogantly presumptuous. Far from it. I love you now, not as I
            loved you then, but with all my heart, and in the way you should be loved. My home and
            parents claim me, yet I cannot go. Ashville holds me and I would stay, yet I cannot
            without your love. Tell me, Virgie, what shall I do?"
          She uttered no word, nor even moved. A cold dread lest this was a repetition of that
            other time crept slowly to his heart. The fear that it
            might be so had made his words halting and unlovely. Blunt and arrogant they sounded in
            his own ears—why should they not be an offense to hers? He removed his foot from
            the fence and stood erect, his face distorted as if in physical pain. He moved uneasily.
            His throat was dry and husky, as his lips were dry. To speak again would be to shut out
            all hope and cast his life into its greatest sorrow, for the next words must be an
            abject apology for his double mistake and a farewell to her friendship forever.
          "I—I am sorry to have hurt you," he said, hesitatingly. Bitterness against
            himself occurred to him, but it was for a time so remote that no part of it was in his
            voice. He was wrestling with his soul. Fortitude bade him go, but the agony of her loss
            made him stay and speak, giving utterance to such words and passion as he had never
            dreamed away from her.
          "You have taught me goodness," he began. "All that is good—all that is pure. Was
            it God's mission that I should be shown, then separated from your example? Must I say
            farewell after all these days of sunshine? Am I to be chastised——"
          "Stop!" she said, turning and staring blankly at him in her fright. With an involuntary
            gesture her hand moved slightly toward him. Kent's heart beat violently. He had caught
            the gesture, as he caught the terror in her eyes, and moved toward her. A great flood of
            burning shame suffused her cheeks, and her head fell forward humbly.
          
          "Virgie," he said softly, as he laid his hand upon her arm. There was a note of
            questioning in his voice, but her head still bent low. "Virgie, my sweetheart!" he
            repeated, with suppressed joy, and, as she raised her radiant face, he caught the dear
            cheeks between his hands and pressed her forehead with his lips. "I love you—I
            love you, sweetheart!" he said. "You are my queen—my queen! Tell me, dear, do you
            really love me? Do you?" he asked.
          "You wouldn't have done that if I'd had my bonnet on!" she said, drawing away from the
            fence and saucily adjusting that head-piece.
          "Who cares for bonnets?" he replied, striking at once the tone she had used, in
            imitating irrelevancy.
          "Well, you better care!" she said, in warning, as she looked about.
          Landy and the children were gone. Far away and over the hills the sun's outward
            half-circle of waning light set the farm lands in a fan-background of red and gold. The
            quiet of evening was settling down. First disturbed by gentle sounds—the calling
            of mother cows or the chattering of birds—each announced its coming. Kent's great
            joy came under the influence of these serener things, and took a serious way of
            expressing itself.
          "Come, let me walk back with you?" he said, taking down the bars. There is so much that
            I want to tell you. Let me have your hand to re-assure myself that I am not being misled
            by my own desires?"
          Hand in hand they returned slowly along the road to her gate.
          
          "I am asking myself, dear," he resumed, as she leaned against the gate-post. One of her
            hands held loosely her bonnet by its strings; the other was tightly clasped in his own.
            "I am asking myself why it is that you should be the one to have taught me, first, the
            way, then supplied its reward? You have been the inspiration and the harmony of my
            soul!"
          Suddenly his face lighted with a new inspiration, and became radiant with a great
            expectation.
          "Twice I have told you of my love—a thousand times more do I hope to tell you.
            Just so long as you will listen I will voice the sweet memories that have made me love
            you, for they are a joy to utter. But sweeter still than this would be these words from
            you, sweetheart, 'I love you!' Tell me, dear one, tell me that you love me? You have not
            said so yet."
          With rapturous hope he stood awaiting her response, yet as he spoke he placed his arm
            about her and drew her to him in a quick, passionate embrace.
          She wound her fair arms around his neck and pressed her lips to his.
          "I do love you!" she said.
          The squeak of the old well-windlass came to them from back of the house, and when it
            was silent once more Martin's voice arose cheerily in pre-occupied monotony over supper
            preparations. Landy's "Soo-ee!" sent his little herd of stock into the sheds for the
            night, a door slammed, a clasp rattled, and all was still again.
          "I know you do!" Kent replied, with deep emotion, and, after a pause, went on: "And you
            have answered the doubts, dear."
          
          "What doubts?" she asked, scanning his face seriously.
          "The doubts as to what I should do. Do you think, though, that I shall longer question
            where my future lies? My hunger for your sweetness urged me to stay, and, having it, I
            cannot go. My future is here, love; here with you."
        
      
    
  
