
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Montgomery, M. W.. History of Jay County, Indiana. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2013).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1129
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				Frontispiece.
				
						MAP OF JAY COUNTY INDIANA.
					
			
			
			
				
					HISTORY
						OF JAY COUNTY, INDIANA.
				
				BY M. W. MONTGOMERY.
				
				PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY CHURCH, GOODMAN &
						CUSHING, 51 & 53 La Salle-st,
					Chicago.
			
			
			
				Verso.
				COX & DONOHUE,
					Binders, 53 La Salle-st., Chicago.
			
			
			
				Dedication.
				To the PIONEERS OF JAY COUNTY,
					for their enterprise and fortitude in civilizing the wilderness, and to her VOLUNTEER SOLDIERS, for their gallant efforts to crush this
					wicked Rebellion, this Book is respectfully dedicated.
				M. W. MONTGOMERY.
			
			
			
			
				PREFACE.
				THIS Book is not written for the present generation. He who reads it
					without keeping this in view, will be disappointed. Not that it possesses any merit which
					cannot be appreciated at the present time, but because it narrates those events which grow
					in interest as they recede into the past. There are two periods in the history of Jay
					County of great interest to her people, viz: that of its Early Settlement and that during
					the War against the Rebellion. To preserve for future generations of her citizens a
					correct narration of these epochs, is the object of
					THE AUTHOR.
				July 20th, 1864.
			
			
			
			
				CONTENTS.
				
					First Family in Jay County,
						13
					The Second Family of Settlers,
						26
					Orman Perring—The Hawkins Family, etc.
						45
					The Fugitive Slaves,
						54
					William Simmons—Lost—Found,
						62
					Nancy Hawkins—The Oldest Cabin—Incidents,
						67
					The Pioneers of 1830,
						73
					Settlers and Incidents,
						81
					New Settlers and their Experiences,
						100
					Wild Animals—Indians Fire-Hunting—First
							Election—Lawsuit—Schools,
						104
					Organization of the County,
						119
					Courts—Officers—Attorneys,
						128
					Township History,
						147
					Rev. I. N. Taylor—Limberlost Church,
						179
					Liber College,
						189
					Farmers' Academy—General Items,
						205
					Jay County and the War,
						220
				
			
			
			
			
				INTRODUCTION.
				In 1820 the presence of a white family in the territory now embraced within the limits of
					Jay County had never been known. The aborigines had ranged its forests uninterrupted in
					their wild pursuits. In its wilderness they chased their game, they paddled their rough
					canoes upon its streams, and here and there they kindled camp-fires, built the wigwam,
					engaged in their savage revelries, or fought their battles. But with the first
					encroachments of civilization upon their hunting grounds, they took their departure. The
					flint arrow-head, the tomahawk and the stone battle-axe are the only mementos they have
					left us. Now, much of their forest is cut away, and civilized men, with all the
					institutions of society and progress, occupy their places. To delineate the causes and
					primary agents which have wrought out this noble transformation is the pretension of this
					little volume.
				To gather fresh from the lips of the pioneers, while they still remained, the story of
					their early trials, was necessary to the completeness of the work. They are fast passing
					away. While this work has been going through the press, one venerable pioneer—Samuel
					Grissell—has departed, and he will never read the pages in which he took so lively
					an interest. Had the work been delayed a few years, the history of the early settlement of
					Jay County would have been wrapped in the uncertainties of tradition. One thing has
					embarrassed the author at every step: Most of the persons named herein are now living, and
					he who speaks of living men, bares himself to showers of arrows from the quivers of
					criticism.
				
				When the work was commenced, four years ago, very little was known by the people of the
					county, generally, concerning its early settlement. Less than half a dozen persons then
					living in the county knew who was the first settler, and wrong impressions widely
					prevailed upon that, as well as very many other subjects. Some have boasted of their
					knowledge of the early history of the county, yet they could not tell who was its earliest
					settler, or even who was the first in their own township. To brush away false traditions
					and reveal facts, has been a leading object in preparing these pages. Much difficulty has
					attended the investigation. It has required patient, persevering labor to ascertain the
					truth about many disputed points. To accurately fix a single date has sometimes required
					days of inquiry and cross-examination. To gather the histories of the companies, while
					they were bravely facing the foe, has also been a difficult task, but they make a record
					highly flattering to the patriotism of the soldiers. Jay County has never offered a
					bounty. Her financial condition has been such as to render this course necessary, unless
					she should overwhelm herself with debt. At the opening of the war she was without public
					buildings, or money to erect them. The building of a jail and purchase of a poor farm were
					a necessity. Other public buildings must soon be built. Thus, while many other counties
					have given tens of thousands of dollars to induce their citizens to volunteer, the patriot
					sons of Jay have gone forth uninfluenced by other motives than pure love of
						country, which is patriotism in its noblest sense. Nor has there been less
					volunteering on this account. The number to be drafted in the county under the call of the
					President in July for 500,000 men, shows that the county is equal to her sisters, which,
					no bounty being offered, reflects the highest honor upon her people. The number of men to
					be drafted is 203, distributed among the townships as follows: Richland, none; Knox, 19;
					Penn, 15; Jefferson, 28; Green, 27; Jackson, 19; Pike, 32; Wayne, none; Bear Creek, 5;
					Madison, 17; Noble, 24; Wabash, 17.
				
				How strangely have the fortunes of war scattered the One Thousand Soldiers from Jay! From
					Gettysburg to Charleston, from Rich Mountain to Pea Ridge and New Orleans—everywhere
					over the extended theatre of the war have her soldiers fought. In every contest their
					devotion to their country's cause has been self-sacrificing, and their bravery
					unfaltering. A crown of glory and the gratitude of their countrymen await them. The author
					regrets exceedingly that circumstances beyond his control compelled him to omit any
					history of the fractional companies, only so far as the lists of the members indicate.
					Company F, 40th Ohio regiment, has traversed Western Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee, and
					is now participating in the grand operations of Gen. Sherman before Atlanta. Their record
					is a noble one, of which their children's children will be proud. A sketch of the
					hard-fought battles and brave deeds of company C, 19th Indiana regiment, would itself make
					a volume. It is their all-sufficient, crowning glory that they participated in the battles
					of Cedar Mountain, Gains' Farm, Second Bull Run, South Mountain, Antietam, Fredericksburg,
					Chancellorville and Gettysburg, and are now in the struggle before Petersburg. The
					repeated efforts of the author to obtain a history of company E, 7th Indiana Cavalry, have
					been constantly baffled by some strange caprice of the mails.
				The author now presents the result of his labors to the people of Jay County. That the
					work is imperfect, he fully realizes. When several thousand dates and as many names are
					given in so small a compass, it would be very strange if errors did not occur. Out of the
					abundant material that has been gathered, the chief difficulty has been to determine what
						not to say. But he rejoices in the consciousness that, through it all,
					he has been constantly governed by an honest purpose to do justice to the subject, so far
					as his poor abilities would permit. He hopes the reader will find as much pleasure in the
					perusal as he has found in the preparation.
				The author's acknowledgments are due to many persons  for
					information which they have kindly furnished. First among these are Mary Studabaker, Mary
					Brooks and Nancy Hawkins—that daring trio, the oldest pioneers of Jay County. B. W.
					Hawkins has given much valuable and varied information. Without his aid no correct history
					of the early settlement of the county could have been written. The patient research and
					friendly interest of Hon. J. M. Haynes have added many facts which would not otherwise
					have been obtained. From the complete diary of Hon. Theophilus Wilson the sketch of New
					Corydon is gathered. The history of other villages is not so fully given, because no one
					has kept so faithful a record of them. Mr. Wilson also furnished other acceptable items.
					Rev. I. N. Taylor has also contributed a large share of facts, and J. C. Lotz statistics
					from Washington City. The many pioneers whom the author has consulted and the many others
					who have written him, have placed him under obligations. The principal facts given in the
					histories of the respective military companies have been kindly furnished by the following
					persons: Company C, 39th Indiana, James M. Bromagem; company B, 34th Indiana, Major Nimrod
					Headington; company E, 89th Indiana, Captain J. P. Winters, Sergeant J. W. Jackson and
					Elias Loofbourrow; company H, 100th Indiana, Major J. W. Headington and Rev. E. Tucker;
					company F, 75th Indiana, Lieutenant Joseph Lewis, Lieutenant G. W. McGriff and Charles A.
					Black; company B, 11th Indiana Cavalry, Lieutenant R. C. Harper; company C, 19th Indiana,
					George M. Rathbun; company F, 40th Ohio, Francis McLaughlin, at Lancaster, and the members
					of the company in the field; the One Hundred Days Men, George G. Montgomery and Captain G.
					W. Fairchilds. In the Miscellaneous List, valuable services have been rendered by Provost
					Marshal Cowgill, of Wabash, and G. W. Abel. To all these the author owes his thanks; and
					to his ever gracious Heavenly Father, through whom all blessings come, he would express
					his profound gratitude.
			
		
		
			
			
				HISTORY OF JAY COUNTY, INDIANA.
				
					CHAPTER I.
						THE FIRST FAMILY IN JAY COUNTY.
					ON the 15th day of February, 1821, Mr. Peter Studabaker and Miss
						Mary Simison were joined in the bands of holy wedlock at the house of the Simison
						family, where Fort Recovery,*
						Mercer County, Ohio, now stands. The newly married pair resolved to go still farther on
						the frontier, and hew out for themselves a home in the wilderness. So they gathered
						their household goods, and with several friends entered the wilds, soon striking the
						"Quaker Trace" leading from Richmond to Fort Wayne, which they followed until they
						reached the Wabash river. This spot was their destination, and upon the low bank, near
						the water's edge, they prepared to "camp." Cutting four forked poles, they drove one end
						of each into * See
							map.
						 the ground, laid poles and brush across the top, and their
						camp was completed. A fire was kindled at one end, by which the young wife cooked supper
						for the company—her first experience in house, or rather camp-keeping, by herself.
						Their simple repast was highly relished and soon dispatched, and they retired to rest,
						blankets spread upon the ground serving for beds.
					Sleep had scarcely calmed the wearied company when they were aroused by the yells of a
						gang of approaching wolves. Elsewhere came an answering howl, then another and another,
						till the forests seemed ringing with their hideous yells. The howling became so
						terrific, the dog sprang out and threatened to give battle, but soon came bounding back,
						panic stricken, and jumped upon the nuptial bed. As they lay there, so close to the
						bank, they could see about a dozen wolves at the water's edge on the opposite shore.
						Soon they heard the sharp, savage snap of wolf-teeth near their bed, and glaring eyes
						shone in the darkness within six feet of their camp. The men sprang from the ground in
						alarm, seized their rifles and fired. The howling pack fled in haste and did not return.
						Again the men lay down, and soon "tired nature's sweet restorer" calmed their fears, and
						they slept soundly till morning—perhaps dreaming of the pleasant homes and dear
						friends of their childhood. Thus camped and  slept the
						first white family that ever trod the wilderness which fifteen years afterward became
							JAY COUNTY.
					This was on the farm now owned by Samuel Hall, on the south bank of the Wabash, at New
						Corydon. Soon Mr. S. built a cabin, "all of the olden time," and into it they moved,
						with the naked earth for a floor. This cabin, the first home of that now widely known
						pioneer family—a rude hut twelve by sixteen, of small round logs, with clapboard
						roof held on by "weight poles,"—was the first civilized dwelling ever erected in
						our county. Unbroken forests were on every hand; no house within fifteen miles—no
						mill or store in thirty-five. Their only companions were Indians—their only foes
						were wolves.
					These animals, always annoying by their constant howling, were often very troublesome.
						It was next to impossible to raise stock of any kind. Once a wolf came up to the house
						in open daylight, to attack a calf, when Mrs. S. appeared, and it ran off. At other
						times they were still bolder. One night a pack attacked the hogs. Mr. S. went out with
						his gun, his wife holding a torch while he shot at them five times, but without effect,
						and they came still nearer, snapping their teeth almost within reach. They seemed bent
						on an attack, and the entreaties of his wife at last prevailed on him to go into the
						house.
					
					Mr. Studabaker obtained a livelihood in various ways—principally by hunting. His
						delight was to be in the wilderness, beyond the reach of society and its innovations. He
						loved the quiet grandeur of the forest, and the excitement of hunting deer, squirrels,
						otters, wild ducks, wolves and bears, possessed to him irresistible charms. The game he
						killed furnished meat for his table in abundance, and of the rarest kind. But they had
						other sources of income. Even at that early day many travelers passed along the "Quaker
						Trace," and they all stopped to enjoy the hospitality of these pioneers. In fact, at
						that time it was rather a matter of necessity, as the distance in either direction to
						any other house was a day's travel. The "Quaker Trace" was so called because it was
						opened and traveled by the Quakers of Wayne County, on their way to Fort Wayne to
						market.
					Mr. S. sometimes traded provisions to the Indians for furs, and by selling the furs
						added something to his income. An incident of this kind is worth relating.
					In the fall of 1821, Mr. S. and Thomas Robinson, who then lived on the "Prairie," in
						what is now Adams County, went to Greenville and got some flour, and bringing it to the
						Wabash, dug out a large canoe and started down the river, to sell their flour to the
						Miami Indians, in a town at the mouth of the Mississinewa—one hundred  miles by the river route, and a few miles above Peru, Miami
						County, Indiana. Easily and rapidly they glided down the smooth waters of the Wabash. In
						the afternoon of the second day they came in sight of the town. They soon saw that the
						Indians were on a desperate "spree," and were all dancing, singing, yelling and
						fighting. They wisely concluded it would not be safe to visit the town that night; so
						they rowed up the river a short distance, anchored their canoe, went ashore and camped
						for the night. The next day they went down towards the town. Robinson staid with the
						canoe, while Studabaker went to negotiate a sale of the flour. The first Indian he met
						was a squaw, named "Bigknife," with whom he was well acquainted. She told him they had
						had a terrible time the night before, and that in the fighting several Indians had been
						killed, and that they were then all in their huts, sleeping off the effects of their
						revelry. He inquired if any of the men were sober. She replied that one was, and offered
						to conduct him to the hut where that Indian slept. On their way through the village,
						which seemed almost deserted, they passed by a young Indian who was lying with his
						stomach ripped open, and part of his entrails lying upon the ground, but still alive.
						They went and aroused the sober Indian, who after much painting and ornamenting, went
						with Mr. Studabaker to the  canoe. On their way they passed
						the wounded Indian. A squaw was sitting by his side, weeping, replacing the entrails,
						and with an awl and deer's sinew was sewing up the horrible wound. The Indian looked at
						the flour, and pointing to the sun and the western sky, said that when the sun reached
						such a place the Indians would get hungry and come and buy. At the appointed time this
						sober Indian came down to the canoe, followed by the others, each of whom purchased a
						small quantity of flour. Our adventurers then returned, occupying about three days in
						their upstream rowing.
					This family endured very many severe hardships during their stay at this point on the
						Wabash. So the first families who settled in each section of the county endured
						privations and trials which would have overwhelmed others less patient, energetic and
						brave. To the comfortably situated residents at the present time these trials seem
						almost incredible. Here is a leaf from the life of Mary Studabaker:
					Late in the autumn of 1822, the Indians, as they were sometimes in the habit of doing,
						stole two colts—one from Mr. Studabaker, and one from his brother-in-law, John
						Simison. In the early part of winter Simison came to Studabaker's, and the two men set
						out for Wapakoneta, Ohio, in search of the colts among the Indians of that  country. Before leaving, Mr. Studabaker hired a boy from the
						settlement to stay with his wife, who then had a babe only three months old, to cut the
						wood and build fires. The men had been gone scarcely an hour when this boy proved
						treacherous, and left Mrs. Studabaker and her child entirely alone. This placed her in
						an alarming situation. Her husband expected to be absent nearly a week; the weather was
						very cold, and she had no wood and but little strength. She was fifteen miles from any
						neighbors, in a wilderness full of roving gangs of Indians and wolves. The prospect was
						a dreary one. She saw her dangerous situation, and with heroic fortitude resolved to do
						her utmost to save herself and child. She devoted herself assiduously to chopping wood
						and building fires. Quite naturally she sought the kinds of wood which would chop the
						easiest, and sometimes cut "buckeye," the poorest of all wood. This made it difficult to
						keep good fires; but she managed to get along without suffering much, except from
						loneliness, until the fifth day, when the weather turned extremely cold. All this time
						had passed, and she had not seen a human being. Even the sight of an Indian would have
						gladdened her heart. This day she built a fire, but it would not burn. She chopped more
						wood and piled the great fire-place full; but all in vain. To use her own words, "It  seemed to be, as it is said to be in Greenland sometimes,
						too cold for the fire to burn." Disheartened and despairing, as her last hope, she took
						her babe and went to bed. Here they must lie until assistance came, or freeze to death!
						But the kind care of an ever-watchful Father in Heaven was upon her. In about two hours
						Mr. Studabaker came home, bringing the stolen colt. He soon built a large, comfortable,
						crackling fire. How great was her joy at this very opportune rescue!
					Mrs. Studabaker gives the following account of the survey of this part of Indiana by
						the government surveyors. In the winter of 1821 and 1822 James Worthington, of Columbus,
						Ohio, son of Governor Worthington, accompanied by nine assistants, came to Mr.
						Studabaker's, and made their home with him during the three months occupied in making
						the survey. Having two sets of instruments, they operated in two distinct companies, and
						surveyed the territory now making the counties of Jay, Adams and Wells. They gave Mr.
						Studabaker a plat of their survey, which was very useful to the early settlers for many
						years.
					About forty rods below Hall & Arnett's Mills, at New Corydon, is a tree on which
						many dates have been cut, and among others the figures "1822." They are now grown up, so
						as to be  barely visible, and have every appearance of
						having been put there at that time. It is quite likely the work of the government
						surveyors.
					The first person born in Jay County was ABRAM STUDABAKER. He was born in the little cabin on the Wabash, September 29th, 1822,
						a child of the wilderness—the first born of the family and of the county. His life
						was but a blossom, having died March 11th, 1824, at Fort Recovery. Another son was
						afterward given the same name.
					Mr. Studabaker moved to the Wabash with the intention of making that his permanent
						home; but the frequent overflows of the river at that time discouraged him, and finally
						led him to move away. One evening in the spring of 1822 several travelers stopped to
						stay all night. The Wabash was quite high, but not unusually so. Mrs. Studabaker made a
						bed on the floor, in which the travelers retired to rest. In the night, one of them
						thought he felt rather "moist," and on turning over found the puncheons were floating.
						They got up; one went up in the "loft," and the other concluded to nap the rest of the
						night away on the logs of wood by the fire place. But the family, being more fortunate,
						were on a bedstead, and slept there until morning, when they found all the puncheons
						except the two on which the bed-posts rested, floating about the room. Mr. Studabaker
						waded out and brought his canoe into the  house; and took
						the family to dry land in the woods, where they camped until the water went down, which
						was in four or five days. In this way the Wabash overflowed the land about his cabin,
						and he moved back to Fort Recovery, having lived in Jay county about two years.
					MARY STUDABAKER has been a pioneer all her life.
						She was born March 16th, 1796, in Sherman Valley, Penn. At the age of two years her
						father, John Simison, moved to Kentucky and settled within six miles of Lexington.
						Residing there six years, they moved to Warren County, Ohio. After living there ten or
						twelve years, they moved to Greenville, and from there, in the spring of 1817, to Fort
						Recovery. There was not a single family then living in all the region of the Upper
						Wabash. They were the first pioneers of Fort Recovery—that place so celebrated in
						history as the scene of St. Clair's defeat, and Mary was afterward of Jay, and still
						later of the south part of Adams County. There was a trading house then at Fort
						Recovery, built by David Connor. It was about twelve feet square, and surrounded by
						pickets—logs set in the ground reaching about eight feet high—as a
						protection against the Indians. Into this house John Simison and family moved. Mr.
						Simison farmed the ground upon which the town is now built, while his boys did the
						hunting. He raised most of the living for  the family, but
						had to go to Greenville to find a store and mill. He had a hand mill, and sometimes
						ground on that.
					It was while living here that the Treaty was made with the Indians, October 6th, 1818.
						Dr. Perrine, of Greenville, attended that meeting. Starting in the morning, on foot, he
						expected to reach Simison's that evening; but night overtook him while he was in what is
						now Madison Township. Finding he must camp out, he was much alarmed lest the wolves
						should devour him. Coming upon a much-broken tree-top, he set about building a camp that
						would protect him. Out of the broken limbs he built a very small, oval-shaped pen,
						leaving a hole at the bottom. Into this he crept, and drew a stick, prepared for the
						purpose, into the hole after him, thus effectually blocking all entrance. Curling up
						there, he slept soundly. Some time after this Thomas Robinson settled beside Mr.
						Simison—then soon moved into Adams County.
					But sorrow was in store for this family. Mrs. Simison died in September, 1820, and on
						the last day of that ever-memorable year, she was followed by her husband. His burial
						took place on New Year's day, 1821. Thomas Robinson and Peter Studabaker happened to be
						there at the time of his death, and making a rough box which had to answer for a coffin,
						they buried their  pioneer friend. But for the fortunate
						presence of these men, none beside the mourning orphans would have been there to perform
						the last sad offices for the lamented dead.
					In a few weeks MARY was married, and entered upon her brief life of
						trials in Jay County. After moving back to Fort Recovery, Peter Studabaker was engaged
						chiefly in farming for about twelve years, when he moved to Adams County, where he died
						June 15th, 1840. He was born in 1790, in Moreland County, Pennsylvania. MARY now lives with her son ABRAM, in Adams County, Indiana,
						in a log house, with one of those great old-fashioned cabin fire places, which so
						abundantly dispense warmth and cheerfulness to the inmates. It is about sixty feet from
						the river, upon the banks of which she has lived since her childhood days, nearly half a
						century. By the side of its quiet waters she was wooed and won, and has devotedly braved
						many dangers, reared a large family, and followed her husband and several children to
						the silent tomb. She is now seventy-four years of age, and though in feeble health, her
						mind still retains its original vigor. Strong common sense, quick perception and good
						judgment are her characteristics. Indeed, without these qualities, she could not have
						passed through so rugged and eventful a life. Her son, Honorable David Studabaker, has
						resided for many years in  Decatur, Indiana, where he has
						been, and still is, a prominent attorney. He has represented that county in the
						Legislature of the State, and was for four years the State Senator from the district
						composed of the counties of Jay, Adams and Wells, in which position he sustained himself
						with credit.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER II.
						THE SECOND FAMILY OF SETTLERS.
					ON Monday morning, near the close of November, 1823, a few persons
						might have been seen crossing the Mississinewa river, making their way northward from
						the residence of Mr. Mishack Lewallen, or what is now the pleasant village of
						Ridgeville, Randolph County, Indiana. The company consisted of John Gain, who was a
						Dutch Indian-trader, John Brooks, his wife Mary Brooks, and Nancy Brooks, who was then
						an infant. Mary and her child were riding in a wagon, drawn by one yoke of oxen; John
						Gain was driving, while John Brooks was cutting out the way. They were entering an
						untamed and unknown wilderness, where before only the tragic scenes of the wild forest
						had been enacted.
					The noiseless march of the surly bear, the piteous bleating of the deer, as, wearied
						and  despairing, it resigns itself to the jaws of the
						wolves that have been fleetly chasing it for a day; the terrible howling and bloody
						battles over the booty; the stealthy step of the Indian in pursuit of his game, and
						sharp crack of his rifle and exulting "whoop," and upward curling of the blue smoke from
						camp fires or rude wigwams, and the excitement of the "Indian war dance"—all these
						were the sights and sounds to which these tall forests had been mute witnesses for
						centuries. The sound of the white man's axe was the precursor of the dawn of
						civilization upon that wilderness. The company were endeavoring to follow an Indian
						bridle path called the "Godfrey Trace," which led from the settlement on the
						Mississinewa to the Indian town on the Salimonie.
					The two men kept up a lively discourse upon the new country, the abundance of game, the
						quality of the soil, the prospect for profitable trade with the Indians, and such other
						topics as are always full of interest to the pioneer. Thus slowly wended their way
						forward the second white family that ever moved into Jay County, and the first one that
						made it their permanent home.
					The day was a most beautiful one, and the weather very pleasant for the season. The
						mild brilliance of the autumn sunlight tinted the forests with golden rays, the fallen
						leaves spread the earth with a carpet of brown, and the air was  melodious with the farewell songs of the feathery tribes, as they took their
						flight for the sunny regions of the far South. Save the chirping of the birds and the
						frisking and chattering of the squirrels, the voices and movements of the company were
						all that broke the stillness of those dense forests. The scene before and around them
						was grand and inspiring, and the men moved forward elated and cheerful, while hope
						painted the future with long lives of enjoyment and prosperity.
					On their way they passed over the beautiful knoll on which New Mount Pleasant is now
						situated, and toward evening stopped for the night, and camped on the banks of a small
						creek, afterward called Brooks' Creek, in honor of the family which was the first to
						camp, and subsequently the first to live upon its banks. They kindled a cheerful fire by
						the side of a large log, and Mary Brooks cooked supper by it, getting water from the
						stream. Soon after nightfall they prepared to rest, for all were weary with their day's
						travel. The ground was dry, and they gathered in heaps the fallen leaves, spread
						blankets upon them, and, with feet toward the fire, all lay down under the star-spangled
						canopy which overspread them. But Mary Brooks did not sleep. Her heart was full of
						sadness. To use her own language, "she was sad all that day, as they came through the
						wilderness." They seemed to be entering an  unending
						forest, and going—she knew not where. She had bidden farewell to friends, society
						and even civilization, and was going where, besides her husband and child, her only
						companions would be Indians and wild beasts. Her husband could hunt, trade or travel;
						but what could she do to draw her mind from the surrounding wilderness? A lonely life in
						a dreary wilderness, beyond the reach of society and friends—a sad, disheartening
						prospect! Still more, as they lay upon the ground in the open air, darkness around them,
						the twinkling stars above them, the wolves howled fearfully around the camp. To an old
						hunter such circumstances are fascinating, but to woman—delicate, sensitive,
						home-loving woman—they have no charms. So Mary Brooks lay down upon her bed of
						leaves, and wept bitterly all that long night.
					Many times she besought her husband to take her back to the settlements; but his desire
						to go forward and try the life of a pioneer and secure a home for his family, led him to
						deny her urgent request.
					Early the next morning they set out for the Indian village, on the banks of the
						Salimonie, of twenty or thirty huts. The Indians were of the Miami tribe, and Francois
						Godfrey their chief. A few years afterward he built a brick house there, and since then
						it has generally been known as the  "Godfrey Farm."* The Indians left in 1834, and the
						farm is now owned by a resident of Kentucky. They reached this town about sunset. The
						Indians were very kind, and gave them a camp to sleep in that night. On Wednesday
						morning they crossed the Salimonie to their home, three quarters of a mile distant. This
						consisted of two cabins, built by John Gain—one for a dwelling, and the other to
						keep articles in for traffic with the Indians. They were situated on the low bank of a
						small prairie. No ground was cleared around the cabins, but the men immediately set to
						work and cleared seven acres. Mary Brooks, naturally industrious, energetic and
						cheerful, looked about her and went to work. Though twenty-four miles from any white
						family, surrounded by forests and savages, yet for the sake of pleasing her husband,
						whom she devotedly loved, she resolved to be contented.
					Having introduced the second family who braved the dangers and endured the privations
						of pioneer life in Jay, a brief sketch of their former lives may be interesting:
					John Brooks, born August 6th, 1791, near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was raised a
						farmer, in Maysville, Ohio. Mary Campbell was born October 19th, 1799, in Bourbon
						County, Kentucky. * See
							map.
						 At an early age she moved to Ohio, where, in her
						seventeenth year, she married John Brooks, July 15th, 1816. They farmed until, in June,
						1817, Mr. Brooks came to Ridgeville, Indiana, to see his sister, Hannah Lewallen. He was
						so fascinated with the country that he would not return to Ohio, and sent for his wife.
						Mary, willing to follow the fortunes of her husband, immediately prepared for the long
						trip, bade her friends what proved to be a last farewell, and set out on horseback. Her
						youth, fine health and adventurous spirit made her anxious to see the "new country." She
						arrived safely at the frontier settlement.
					In a few weeks her first child, Elizabeth, was born; but it died in thirteen months,
						and was the first person buried in the cemetery at Ridgeville. There were but three
						families in that settlement prior to her arrival. They were Joab Ward, Mishack Lewallen
						and Stephen Jones.
					One day, one of the men shot an Indian whom he caught stealing cabbage from his garden.
						This aroused the anger of the Indians, and the settlement was very much alarmed lest
						they should all be murdered. They made a fort of Lewallen's house, and the four families
						lived in it for two weeks, in constant fear of an attack. But their enemies did not
						come, and they again ventured forth to their usual avocations. During the  summer of 1823 Mr. Brooks made two visits to the Godfrey
						Farm, and there became acquainted with John Gain, who offered him $60 a year if he would
						bring his family there and keep house. Desiring to get money to enter some land, he
						accepted the offer, and in November John Gain took the family as heretofore narrated, to
						his home on the little prairie.
					John Gain soon began to think that he could do better at Fort Wayne, and in February,
						1824, moved there. This greatly embarrassed Mr. Brooks. It deprived him of the expected
						income, and left him there alone with the Indians, with no means of conveying his family
						to the settlement. In the spring he planted the cleared ground in corn, and there was a
						fine prospect for a crop until the blackbirds came by thousands and destroyed the most
						of it. Mrs. Brooks says it seemed as if there was a bird for every ear. Fortunately John
						Brooks was a favorite with the Indians, and they taught him their arts in hunting and
						trapping, and these were now his only dependence. During his stay there he killed
						thirteen wolves, besides large numbers of deer, raccoon, and other animals. He sold the
						furs in Fort Wayne at high prices. In this way he supported his family the first year.
						The second spring he again planted corn, and raised an abundant crop. After a while he
						got a yoke of oxen, and then commenced  trading with the
						Indians, mostly in flour, which he brought from Stillwater, Darke County, Ohio.
					One time when Mr. Brooks was preparing to go to Ridgeville, he got an old Indian woman,
						who was the mother of Francois Godfrey, the Chief, to stay with Mary during his absence.
						She was a kind old "squaw," and Mrs. Brooks avers was quite good company. They passed
						the time pleasantly together, until one day an Indian came there and gave her some
						whisky, and she drank freely. That night she was taken very sick. Mrs. Brooks did
						everything possible for her relief; but she grew worse. About two o'clock in the morning
						she brought her blanket, sat down on the floor, and leaned her head against Mrs. Brooks,
						and there, supported by her pale-faced friend, in a few minutes she breathed her last.
						Mrs. Brooks laid the corpse upon the floor, covered it up and waited alone with the dead
						until morning, when the Indian who had been there the evening before, came, and she sent
						him to the Chief with the news. A large number of Indians then came down to Brooks', and
						showed many signs of sincere mourning. By their request, Mrs. Brooks baked a large cake
						in the ashes, and they buried it with the corpse. The friendship of the Indians, and
						especially of the Chief, for the Brooks family was now greatly increased. Mr. Brooks'
						business kept him much of the time away from  home, and the
						Chief took great pains to see that the family was not molested. He gave orders to his
						tribe that any Indian who would disturb them should be killed; and whenever Mr. Brooks
						was absent, this Chief would send his son almost every day to inquire of Mrs. Brooks'
						welfare. During the several years in which the Indians were their only neighbors, no
						unfriendliness or cruelty was shown them.
					In June, 1824, Mr. Brooks started to Stillwater for provisions, expecting to be gone
						several days. His wife and child were to be left alone, as was usual in such cases. She
						saw no one for several days, except a traveler on his way to Fort Wayne, who called for
						a meal. A heavy rain caused an unprecedented rise in the streams, rendering it
						impossible for Mr. Brooks to reach his family or get nearer to them than Ridgeville.
						Mrs. Brooks now began to fear for her husband. She knew that he would make every effort
						in his power to reach his family, and greatly feared that he would risk too much and get
						drowned. But apprehensions of her own safety soon added to her perplexities. Her
						provisions were nearly gone, and the Salimonie remained so high that she could not cross
						to the Indian village to get relief. Her forebodings and anxieties increased until, on
						the thirteenth day of her husband's absence, she gave the last mouthful of food about
						the house to her  child. She then had nothing whatever left
						but some sugar and a little milk.
					Still the Salimonie overflowed its banks, and relief came not. Her child lived on milk,
						but cried almost continually, while her own sadness and hunger were overwhelming. The
						belief that Mr. Brooks was drowned, added to her own hunger, made her desperate. In this
						suffering and despairing condition did the poor woman and her child live for three days.
						By this time she gave up all hope of ever seeing her husband again, and supposed she
						must starve; but preferring a watery grave to the slow torments of starvation, she
						resolved to go to the Salimonie and drown herself and little one. Taking the child, she
						went to the river, but her weakness compelled her to rest several times on the way.
						Probably the sight of the swollen, angry current startled her, for she sat down on a log
						when she reached the water's edge. To use her own language: "It was the thought that my
						husband was dead that so discouraged me, and I concluded to go half way across the foot
						log and throw myself into the stream." While there weeping she saw a person coming
						toward her on the opposite side of the river. Seeing he had a hat on, she knew it was a
						white man. After wading a long distance he reached the foot log and came across to her.
						She was so weak that her joy quite overcame her, and for a time she could not  answer his question—"What is the matter?" At length
						she replied—"I'm starving!" It was her old friend John Gain, returning for some
						things he had left there. On learning her condition he went with her, and carried the
						child back to the cabin, and then went over to the Indian village for food. He got
						eighteen pounds of flour and six of bacon, and started back, but by the time he reached
						the river it was night. Wading to the foot log, he found the water had risen during his
						absence, until the sweeping current was above it. To attempt crossing would be certain
						death, and those whom he was trying to succor would also be lost. He stood pondering
						what to do until the increasing darkness placed him in a new danger. There were many
						deep holes along the bottoms, and knowing that the darkness would prevent him from
						avoiding them, he dared not return. Standing in three feet of water, a woman and her
						child starving for want of the flour and bacon he had on his back, while to go forward
						or backward would be almost certain death, he was in a sad dilemma. But there was no
						alternative—he must stand there; so there he stood, sides deep in water, the night
						long! Never was the gray dawn of morning welcomed more gladly. He then made his way back
						to the town and inquired for a canoe, but there was none nearer than three miles up the
						stream. He gave a young Indian one dollar to  bring it
						down, and charged him to make all possible haste. But the Indian took his leisure, and
						it was noon before he returned, and one o'clock when John Gain reached the cabin with
						the long-needed refreshments. He staid and saw the famished ones eat the first meal for
						nearly four days. Their gratification and thankfulness amply compensated him for his
						efforts to relieve them. Then he went his way, and Mary Brooks was again alone. It had
						now been seventeen days since her husband's departure, and during that time the only
						human beings she had seen was the traveler before mentioned and John Gain. On the
						nineteenth day she was greatly rejoiced at the sight of her husband. He left his oxen at
						the Indian town, crossed the Salimonie by falling trees and wading. They then set about
						making a canoe, or "perogue," as they were then called, and after rolling it
						three-quarters of a mile, they got it into the stream and brought over their provisions.
						The Salimonie continued so high that it was nine days before the team could be brought
						home. Thus ended one of the severest trials early settlers are ever called to
						endure.
					The only visitor Mary Brooks had while living on the prairie was Mrs. Hannah Lewallen,
						from Ridgeville, who came twenty-four miles on those occasions, which, as Fanny Fern
						says, "involve the increase of the census." At one time Miss  Barbary Quick came to work for them, walking with Mr. Brooks twenty-four miles in one
						day. This great distance from any settlement was at all times, especially in cases of
						sickness, a serious inconvenience. Once one of the children was very sick. All the
						curative arts which a mother always knows seemed of no avail, and they began to fear
						their wilderness flower was to be taken from them. John Brooks set out on foot for Fort
						Wayne, the nearest place where medicine could then be obtained. He performed the journey
						in two days and nights, and on his return found the child better, and it was soon
						well.
					The second person born in the county, and the first who is yet living, was Allen
						Brooks, March 4th, 1824. He still lives in Jay, and is a respectable citizen. The next
						one was William Brooks, October 20th, 1825.
					While Mr. Brooks was trading with the Indians he went to the Big Miami, in Ohio, for
						some things, and brought back a barrel of apples, which he took to Fort Wayne and sold
						at a very high price. Saving seven choice ones, he brought them home to his wife. Like a
						prudent woman, she saved the seeds and planted them. They came up nicely, and Mary was
						so proud of her little nursery that she visited it nearly every day. But of this and
						what came of it more hereafter.
					John Brooks was delighted with the country on  Brooks'
						Creek around where they camped on the way out, and always said he would enter land
						there. The place was then called Cherry Grove. As they had lived on the prairie about
						two years and a half, and no settlers had come in, they determined to move to Cherry
						Grove, which would bring them within twelve miles of the Ridgeville settlement.
					Early in the spring Mr. Brooks hired a man named Richard Swain for one month. He was a
						traveler. The two men went to Cherry Grove, built two "half-faced" camps, and cleared a
						small spot of ground, where Mary Brooks' orchard now stands. "Half-faced" camps, as they
						were called, must be mentioned frequently in this work, and should be described.
						Generally, they were made thus: poles were cut, and built up at one end in the form of a
						log house, while the other end was left open, and the end of the poles placed between
						posts which were withed together. The whole was covered with clapboards. The open end
						was the highest, and answered the purpose of door, window and fireplace. This fashion
						was often changed in some particulars. Sometimes the back end was built against a large
						log, and poles only on the sides. Frequently the roof was only brush or bark. Hunters'
						camps were still less substantial. Four forked poles were driven into the ground,
						connected at the top by other poles  laid across and
						covered with bark, while brush was piled around the sides. Sometimes the better class of
						camps were supplied with bark floors. These were of course only intended to afford a
						shelter for the family until a cabin could be erected.
					The Brooks camp was covered with bark, and the sun soon curled it up until it was very
						little protection against rain. But Mr. Brooks soon built a cabin and moved his family
						into more comfortable quarters. He cleared three acres of ground, and planted it in corn
						that spring. He also resumed his usual employment of trading with the Indians, hunting
						and trapping. At one time he took one hundred and eighteen raccoon skins to Fort Wayne
						and sold them. He always preferred teaming to hunting, and after the country became
						somewhat settled, that was his chief occupation.
					These years passed slowly and drearily for Mary Brooks. Her husband was absent most of
						the time; she had no neighbor with whom to exchange visits, and the calls of Indians or
						travelers were few. It seemed to her as if she was caged in a wilderness, out of which
						she could not even see, much less escape. Much of the time she was sad and lonely. Her
						heart yearned for society and friends. And no wonder, for she lived there
							seven years without seeing any other house than her 
							own! Think of that, village mothers, whose neighbors, within a few steps from
						your door, are counted by scores! Think of that, farmers' wives, the music of whose
						ringing farm-bell is answered by the sweet chimes of half-a-dozen neighboring ones!
						Seven years in the wilderness, without neighbors! Though the Israelites were kept in the
						wilderness, they had their whole tribe of relatives for company.
					But she had other trials. While living in this lonely condition, a man named George
						Porter and family, now a resident of Blackford County, moved through there and settled
						on the prairie by the Godfrey Farm. This made no nearer neighbors, for it was twelve
						miles there; but Porter and Brooks would sometimes go after provisions together. One
						time they went to Newport, Wayne County, on this errand. As was frequently the case,
						they were unexpectedly detained several days, and Mrs. Brooks, with five children, found
						she was entirely out of flour or meal. She had plenty of cheese, milk and sugar, and
						upon these they lived for three days. They suffered much, especially the children, until
						Mr. Porter came along with some meal, which Mr. Brooks, who was a long distance behind,
						had sent forward. Mrs. Brooks tells of a similar occurrence at Ridgeville, while Mr.
						Lewallen was building the first mill at that place. He had a  number of hands at work, and got entirely out of flour and meal. The hands were
						called together, and Mr. Lewallen stated the case to them. They were all so anxious to
						get the mill done, they said they would work without bread while he went to mill. They
						did so, and worked a whole week without bread! They had, however, plenty of meat,
						potatoes and squashes.
					Mrs. Brooks had carefully taken up her apple tree nursery on the prairie, and set it
						out at Cherry Grove. There were thirty-three in all, and when they reached the proper
						size, she had them set out as an orchard. This pioneer orchard grew rapidly, and by the
						time the country was being generally settled, bore an abundance of fine fruit. To this
						day thirty-one of those trees are living, still luxuriant and prolific. They are now
						extraordinarily large trees. The body of one, two feet above the ground, measures five
						feet and two inches in circumference, while the top spreads out to forty feet in
						diameter. The body of another is five feet in circumference, and the top forty-four feet
						in diameter. The writer measured them in December, 1861. At that time the joists in
						front of Mrs. Brooks' fireplace were hanging full of nice drying apples, while a basket
						of the beautiful fruit was sitting near to regale the visitor. That year, while most
						orchards failed, she had a bountiful supply. It is the oldest orchard in Jay  County, and for thirty years those mammoth apple trees have
						rewarded a hundred fold her early foresight and care. This is what came of the seven
						choice apples.
					About the year 1833 a man named William Van Sickle and his family came through there
						from Muncie, on their way to Fort Wayne. As he was out of money, he concluded to stop a
						short time at Cherry Grove. Accordingly he built a cabin and staid there three years.
						This was the first white neighbor Mrs. Brooks had had for ten years; but they were mere
						sojourners, and moved away again.
					At last, after long years of waiting and hoping, settlers began to move in with their
						families, their industry and their civilization. The wilderness now began to look like a
						neighborhood, and Mary Brooks was greatly rejoiced. The first one who moved near them
						was Mr. Adam Zeigler, who settled within one mile and a half. Mrs. Brooks was so
						delighted to have a neighbor, she thought it was but a "few steps" to Mr. Zeigler's.
					John Brooks died on the 4th of February 1844, of dropsy. Rev. George C. Whiteman
						preached the funeral sermon, and Mr. Timothy Stratton was Administrator of the estate.
						Thus departed the first man who became a permanent resident of Jay County.
					Mrs. Brooks still lives in widowhood, in a log  house
						built by her husband, in the southeast corner of Knox Township.* She is the mother of eleven children. Three of
						her sons were born March 4th, viz.: 1824, '27, '31. She is now in her sixty-fourth year.
						Her life has been rough and wild, and full of privations and suffering, yet she retains
						more of womanhood than could reasonably be expected. While giving the author these
						sketches, the painful recollections they brought up often caused her to weep. Let us
						honor her as the oldest inhabitant of Jay County still living within its limits.
					* See map.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER III.
						ORMAN PERRING—THE HAWKINS FAMILY AND THEIR ANCESTORS.
					SEVERAL years after Peter Studabaker left his cabin on the Wabash at
						New Corydon, Orman Perring and family came there, making the third family of settlers in
						the county. The exact date of his arrival is not known. Mrs. Studabaker gives it as
						about 1826. The "first cabin," however, was already gone. It had been pulled down, a few
						logs at a time, and made into rafts on which travelers crossed the river. Mr. Perring
						lived there until about 1837, when he moved down the Wabash. He lived chiefly by hunting
						and keeping travelers who passed that way.
					On the 8th day of March, 1829, two families moved into Jay County and settled on a
						beautiful bank at the forks of the Little Salimonie. The 
						men, JOHN J. HAWKINS and GEORGE
							TUCKER, had been out the fall before looking for land, and
						concluding to settle on the Salimonie, had built three half-faced camps, and now brought
						their families to them.
					It was the first warm, beautiful spring day, and all nature seemed waking from its
						winter slumber. It was an appropriate time for the settlement of a pioneer family. The
						foundations of rugged Winter were breaking up, and mild, charming Spring was
						delightfully resuming her sway. So these families had broken away from the busy,
						selfish, conventional society of an old-settled country, to enjoy the freedom and
						warm-heartedness of the wilderness. They came from Eaton, Preble County, Ohio, and
						though the distance was but fifty miles, it took them eight days. Their camps were built
						against the side of an immense log, covered with bark, the cracks stuffed with moss, and
						the front end open for a fireplace. The "Recollections, by J. C. Hawkins," speaking of
						this, says: "That fire-place was 'as big as all out doors,' and it was easy to suit our
						fires to the changes of weather. If it was warm, we could use a bundle of sticks that a
						boy could carry; if it was cold, we could put on several cords at a time, and have
						plenty of room for more." Their "back-logs" and "fore-sticks" were drawn to the
						fireplace by the team.
					
					Mr. Hawkins and his family were delighted with the country; but Mrs. Tucker was so much
						dissatisfied with it that she soon prevailed on her husband to move back to the old
						settlement, leaving their neighbors alone in the wilderness.
					As the Hawkins family were so intimately connected with the early history of the
						country, a sketch of them will be in place here: The ancestors of John J. Hawkins
						emigrated from England early in the 18th century, and settled on the Shenandoah River,
						in the Colony of Virginia. They were slaveholders, and spent their time in horse-racing
						and fox-hunting with hounds. They were descendants of Sir John Hawkins, of whom Blake's
						"History of Slavery and the Slave Trade" says: "Sir John Hawkins
								was the first Englishman who transported slaves from Africa to America. This was in
								1562. His adventures are recorded by Hokluyt, a cotemporary historian. He sailed
								from England in October, 1562, for Sierra Leone, and in a short time obtained
								possession of 300 negroes, partly by the sword and partly by other means. He
								proceeded directly to Hispaniola, and exchanged his cargo for hides, ginger, sugar,
								&c., and arrived in England after an absence of eleven months. The voyage was
								very prosperous, and brought great profit to the adventurers."
					From the family of one of the four brothers sprang Samuel Hawkins, who at the age of
						sixteen  ran away from home and engaged in the
						Revolutionary War. At the close of the war he married Christian Worthington, joined a
						company of emigrants, and settled in Bourbon County, Kentucky, and was engaged in the
						Indian Wars, and after General Wayne's treaty came to the Ohio Territory, was the first
						white man who moved across the Miami, and soon after settled where the town of Eaton,
						Ohio, now stands. When the war of 1812 broke out he became a colonel. A call was made
						for thirty-days' volunteers, to go to the relief of Fort Wayne, which was besieged by
						the Indians. He went, and when within about nine miles of the place he was, through a
						mistake, shot by one of his own men, which terminated his life in about one year
						afterward. His son, John J. Hawkins, was born in Bourbon County, Kentucky, on the 25th
						of September, 1789. He married Nancy Sellers, and at that time could neither read nor
						write; but his wife became his instructor, and he soon possessed sufficient business
						qualifications to be elected Sheriff of Preble County, in which capacity he served for
						two terms with popularity. In some speculations he lost his property, and sought a home
						in the wild lands of Indiana. In the war of 1812 he was a lieutenant, and had been a
						scout through the country bordering on the Mississinewa, and had visited it afterward on
						hunting excursions. His wife, Nancy  Hawkins, was the
						daughter of Nathan Sellers, of Irish descent, and was born in the celebrated county of
						Bourbon, Kentucky, on the 4th of June, 1789, to which place her father had moved from
						Pennsylvania.
					Nathan Sellers served in the Revolutionary War, and distinguished himself in the
						battles of Brandywine and Germantown. While in Kentucky he became a magistrate, and
						finally Sheriff, which office he resigned because of the inhumanity of the laws he had
						to execute. A common mode of punishing negroes there was to nail their ears to posts,
						and then whip them! Although offered one thousand dollars per year for the deputyship,
						he refused to have anything to do with the execution of such laws. He was strongly
						opposed to slavery, and seeing no prospect of its abolition in Kentucky, he moved to
						Ohio in 1809, and in 1826 died as he lived, a consistent Christian. Several of the
						ancestors of Nancy Hawkins served with Daniel Boone in the war with the Indians, and
						were victims to the tomahawk and scalping-knife.
					There were six children in the Hawkins family when they reached Jay County, as follows:
						Samuel, the oldest, then aged eighteen, Nathan B., Benjamin W., Avaline (afterward the
						wife of James Simmons, of Randolph County), Joseph C., and Caroline (now the wife of B.
						W. Clark).  As soon as they were settled in their camps,
						without waiting to build a cabin, Nancy Hawkins says, "every one old enough to pick a
						stick went to work to clear some land." They cleared and planted that spring about seven
						acres, and raised a fine crop of corn and garden vegetables. Though they had but three
						dollars in cash when they arrived, they managed to secure an abundance of the
						necessaries of life.
					During the summer and next winter Mr. Hawkins spent much of his time in hunting.
						Killing game was one of the principal means of support for all the earliest settlers. It
						provided meat for their families, and the sale of skins and furs supplied them with
						money. In October Mr. Hawkins built a comfortable cabin, and moved into it, having lived
						in the camp for eight months. On the last day of the year he went hunting, and killed
						three deer near together. "After dressing them, he hung the two largest without
						difficulty; the third being a small one, he did not take the necessary pains to fix a
						suitable place, and while endeavoring to slide it up the side of a tree with a fork
						which proved to be too limber, it fell and wrenched him severely in the chest. He was
						not alarmed at first, but hoping further success, he returned slowly homeward, and as he
						had become warm by his exertions, he took a violent cold, and his feelings were such as
						to convince him that his  work was done."* From that time forward he
						declined. He went to Eaton, and remained several months, receiving the best medical
						attention, but it was of no avail. His physicians told him his case was hopeless.
						Finding that his days were numbered, he was very anxious to return home and die in his
						cabin with his family. After his return an Indian called Doctor Duck exhausted all his
						Indian arts to cure him, but in vain. He died on the 15th of March, 1832. Thomas Shaylor
						and Joseph Williamson, a young man who lived with him, dug the grave, assisted by the
						orphan boys. The next day he was buried. Those present from this county were Thomas
						Shaylor, William Brockus and Philip Brown, and their wives, and Joseph Williamson. A few
						persons from Randolph County were also present. That was the first death and burial
						among the early residents in Jay County.
					The grave was just in front of the cabin, overlooking the Salimonie from a high bank,
						but not now alone. Other graves have since been dug there to receive the mortal remains
						of loved ones of the family. One son of the pioneer, Judge Nathan B. Hawkins, a
						daughter, Avaline Simmons, and several grandchildren are sleeping by his side. George
						Bickel, one of the earliest *"Recollections."
						
						
							FIRST CEMETERY IN JAY COUNTY.
						 pioneers, and others, are also buried there. The marble shown in the centre of
						the cut above marks the tomb of Mr. Hawkins. The modest inscription is: HERE LIES JOHN J.
								HAWKINS, who died March 15, 1832, aged 42 years. The next stone to
						the right shows the grave of George Bickel.
					The estate was settled up, and Nancy Hawkins had just one hundred dollars' worth of
						property left her; but this pittance, coupled with her own 
						perseverance and fortitude, and the energy of her oldest son, Samuel, kept the family
						together, and they prospered. She entered the land by sending her son Samuel to Fort
						Wayne with a yoke of oxen of her own raising, which he sold and paid for the land. They
						passed through many hardships, however, until the country became pretty well settled.
						The boys cleared land, carried mail, hunted, and "showed land" to strangers. In these
						pursuits they obtained a comfortable livelihood. Some incidents which happened while the
						boys were carrying mail will illustrate their love of principle as well as one phase of
						life in Jay County in those early days.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IV.
						THE FUGITIVE SLAVES.
					SAMUEL and B. W. Hawkins carried the mail by turns, from Winchester
						to Fort Wayne, by way of Deerfield, Hawkin's Cabin, New Corydon and Thompson's Prairie.
						One evening in the month of February, 1834, Samuel reached his mother's cabin, on his
						return from Fort Wayne, while a heavy snow was falling. It was already about ten inches
						deep, and continued to fall so fast that objects could be seen only a few rods from the
						door. It was a dreary night out doors, but the family were enjoying themselves around a
						comfortable cabin fire. A loud rap was heard at the door, and, upon its being opened,
						eight negroes, six men and two women, presented themselves and begged for a night's
						lodging. Their request was granted. The men were all common looking negroes, except one.
						He was tall, broad-chested,  very muscular and well
						proportioned. He possessed affable manners, and an intelligent countenance, and was the
						leader of the company. One of the women was about twenty years of age and very black;
						the other was a mulatto, and the wife of one of the men. She was thinly clad and in
						feeble health. The canal through Fort Wayne was then being dug, and was attracting
						laborers from great distances. This company said they were going to work on this canal.
						The next morning they started on their way northward, and Samuel Hawkins went on to
						Winchester with his mail. There he learned that the negroes were fugitive slaves, and
						met their pursuers, who had been waiting for him. They asked if he had "met" the slaves. He replied that he had not. This was technically true, but was
						designed to deceive the man-hunters. There were then two routes from Fort Wayne to
						Winchester; one by the way of the Hawkins' Cabin and New Corydon, the other by Brooks'
						and the Godfrey Farm. Supposing, from Samuel's reply, that the fugitives had not gone
						this road, the slave-holders took the other route, feeling certain that they were on the
						right track. The reward for the apprehension of the slaves was $1,000, and Samuel
						Hawkins, by simply giving the information in his possession, might have taken the money.
						It was a great temptation for one so young and needy, but he  did not for a moment entertain a thought of betraying the fleeing company. He said if
						they would undertake that long, dangerous and wearysome journey on foot and through the
						deep snow, to gain their "Liberty," he could not find it in his heart to betray them
						into bondage. He had the feelings of a man in his bosom, and acted
						accordingly. When the pursuers took the wrong track, he hastened to return, and overtook
						the fugitives at the Wabash where New Corydon now stands. The snow was so deep, and
						progress on foot so difficult, that they had only been able to reach that distance.
						Thinking to have some sport, he rode up hastily and cried out, "Run for your lives, your
						masters are after you!" The feeble woman, who was several rods behind the others,
						uttered a wild shriek and sank down in a swoon. The men were all armed with flint-lock
						guns, and the first word spoken was by their leader, "Look to your priming, boys!" then
						turning to the mail boy, with a look of terrible determination, he said: "Young man, our
						blood may be poured out like water, but none of us will ever be
						taken!" Such firmness and daring Samuel Hawkins never before saw depicted in a
						human countenance, and he believed it was well for their pursuers that they were never
						overtaken. He hastily corrected his deception and told them the facts. Dismounting from
						his horse, the fallen woman was placed upon  the saddle,
						and he aided her as far as his time would permit, and, giving them directions, he
						returned to his route and never heard of them afterward. Perhaps they were George and
						his company, described by Mrs. Stowe in "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
					Another similar anecdote is told by B. W. Hawkins.
					In the fall of 1833, while he was carrying the mail, four negroes called at his
						mother's to stay all night. They were large, fine appearing, well dressed young men,
						carrying gold watches, and had plenty of money. They stated that they were from
						Richmond, and were going to Fort Wayne to work on the canal. They told their story so
						plausibly that it was believed. The next morning, Benjamin set out on horseback for Fort
						Wayne, with the mail, and the negroes started also, traveling leisurely on foot. Upon
						reaching Fort Wayne, the landlord informed the mail boy that a gentleman was there,
						waiting to see him. He was taken to the room and introduced to Dr. Campbell, of
						Kentucky, owner of the celebrated Warm Springs. Hearing that the boy's name was Hawkins,
						the Dr. entered into a very friendly chat, and asked many questions about the family,
						and soon learned that John J. Hawkins was a cousin of his. Thus endeavoring to gain the
						confidence of the boy, he said that he was in search  of
						four runaway slaves. He described their appearance so accurately that Benjamin knew they
						were the ones who had stopped at his home. He, however, said nothing. The Doctor went on
						to tell how ungrateful the negroes had been; that they were his musicians for the
						Springs, and that only during the watering season did he ask them to do anything, and
						then only to play for visitors; that all the rest of the year they were allowed to go
						and do as they pleased; that they went to Louisville and other cities, and gave
						concerts, receiving the proceeds themselves, and that they were better dressed than
						their master. "Now," said he, "I am ahead of them; they left Richmond for this place and
						are not here yet. They are coming on either the Quaker or Godfrey Trace, and if you will
						keep on the lookout on the way back, you will likely meet them, and if you will secure
						them and send me word I will pay you $800 reward." The doctor kept his cousin mail-boy
						with him in his room that night, and treated him very kindly. On his return the next day
						Benjamin thought the matter over thoroughly; he was poor and the money would be a great
						help to him and his mother's family, besides, Dr. Campbell was his cousin, and had been
						a special friend of his father, and he need not do anything but send the Doctor word.
						But then, on the other hand, if he accepted the money his conscience would not be  clear. Should he take $800 for sending four men into
						life-long servitude? The temptation was very great, but this thought settled him in the
						determination not to do an act which would afterward make him unhappy. Having decided to
						do right, and supposing he would soon meet the fugitives, he went cheerfully forward
						through the long woods, whistling a favorite tune. He met them at Yellow Creek, in Adams
						County, and told them they were in the wrong road. They inquired why. He told them they
						were runaway slaves and that their master was at Fort Wayne ready to take them when they
						arrived. They boldly denied being slaves, but he told them where they came from and who
						was their master, and they were forced to acknowledge the truth. He then said he did not
						believe slavery was right, that he hoped they would escape, and that if they would turn
						back a few miles he would put them upon a road by which they could go around Fort Wayne.
						They were deeply cast down and much alarmed, and fearful that he was trying to betray
						them into a trap. But they finally took his advice, and went back with him, walking very
						rapidly, bade their rescuer farewell and took the other road.
					Seven years afterward, when B. W. Hawkins had a family, was living in Portland, and was
						Sheriff of Jay County, an uncle of his, named  Bird
						Hawkins, from Eaton, Ohio, visited him, and Joseph C. Hawkins was also at his house.
						This Bird Hawkins was a very wealthy, aristocratic pro-slavery man, and, finding that J.
						C. Hawkins was a free-soiler, he undertook to show his erring nephew the foolishness of
						such a belief. Joseph was always ready for an argument, and so they went into a debate.
						Finding that he was not convincing his young relative of the divinity or christianizing
						influence of slavery, Mr. Hawkins said he would give an instance which would show beyond
						question the wickedness of "abolitionism." He then related as follows: "Last summer I spent the watering season at Dr. Campbell's
								Springs, in Kentucky, and he told me of a great loss he had sustained. You know he
								is our cousin and a very nice man. He had four well-trained musicians whom he kept
								in the highest style of luxury and ease. They played for company during the watering
								season, and had all the rest of the year to travel over the state and make large
								sums of money for themselves. They were better clothed than their master, and
								enjoyed all the pleasures the country afforded. But while they were giving concerts
								in Louisville, they crossed the Ohio river and escaped into Canada. He expended much
								money in hunting for them, and finally got a letter from them saying they had landed
								safely, had joined the king's army, and  that they
								would never have left him except that at his death they would have been sold. The
								Doctor immediately set out for Canada, and tried by every means in his power to
								induce them to return. He offered to make out their free papers in advance, and then
								pay them a high price if they would return to the Springs. He was immediately
								arrested and thrown into jail, charged with trying to induce the king's soldiers to
								desert, the punishment for which was death. He sent to Kentucky for a lawyer, and
								after much trouble and an expense of $1,000, he was released from prison and allowed
								to return home. Now you see how kind Dr. Campbell was to his slaves, and how
								outrageously they treated him."
					Joseph replied that the case was an unanswerable argument for his side of the question;
						that it showed how strong was the love of freedom in the human soul, if these slaves
						would prefer to leave all their luxurious living and endure the hardships of a soldier's
						life, for its sake.
					During the relation of the story, B. W. Hawkins was sitting by, smothering a hearty
						laugh, for it was the first he had heard of the slaves since he had left them in the
						woods, while neither Bird nor Joseph knew of the part he had borne in the
						transaction.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER V.
						WILLIAM SIMMONS—LOST—FOUND.
					LATE in January, 1832, William Simmons, from Henry County, Indiana,
						came to visit his brother-in-law, Thomas Shaylor, who lived on the Salimonie, three
						miles above Portland. The weather had been very stormy for several days, and the snow
						lay upon the ground ten or twelve inches deep. The bushes and limbs of the trees were
						bowed by the weight of snow that hung upon them. But a fierce west wind came up,
						scattered the snow, and the weather became extremely cold. Mr. Simmons called at the
						cabin of John J. Hawkins, who was then an invalid, and inquired the way to Mr.
						Shaylor's, saying that he would return that way the next day. But the next day  passed, and he did not come; and the Hawkins family were
						uneasy lest their stranger friend had got lost and perhaps frozen. On the morning of the
						third day, Mr. Shaylor called at Mr. Hawkins', inquiring for the lost man. He stated
						that Simmons had gone hunting, but had now been absent two days and nights. All were
						much alarmed, for in all probability he had become bewildered and lost. In the deep snow
						and terrible cold he would perish. Shaylor, who had been drinking for several days with
						some boon companions from the Mississinewa, inquired of Mr. Hawkins what should be done.
						The "Recollections" by J. C. Hawkins on this point says: "Father told him that what they
						decided to do must be done at once, for if the man was lost he was exposed to peril in
						various ways;—he might have lost his flint or wet his powder, or become
						bewildered, like 'Limber Jim,' or it was possible that the wolves might have attacked
						him. 'Sam,' said he, addressing the eldest son, 'you see how it is. Shaylor and those
						other men are not able to stand much so soon after their spree; it therefore remains for
						you and Edward Simmons to do what is to be done. What do you say to it?' His answer was,
						'I'll make the trial.' 'Well, then' father added, 'get ready; you have no time to lose.
						You need no gun; take my tomahawk;—your knife is good; carry several flints and
						the  best punk; set fire occasionally to dry trees, so that
						if you find him you can carry him to the nearest, thereby you will save time. If he is
						benumbed and drowsy, don't bring him too close to the fire, but rub him and make him
						take exercise. If his feet are much frozen, cut a hole in the ice and put them in, or
						rub them with snow. Don't let him eat too much at once. And now remember your mother
						will not expect to see you until you can bring tidings of the lost man!'"
					Thus explicitly directed and equipped, the two young men hastily entered the snowy
						woods. Shaylor and his companions followed a short distance, but soon turned back. After
						traveling three or four miles the young men came to his track; following this a short
						distance, they found he had been crossing his own path, and must be completely
						bewildered. About 11 o'clock they found him. He was in a terrible condition. He was
						slowly dragging himself along, both his feet being badly frozen and burned. He would put
						his stick forward and then draw himself up to it. In this way the poor man was
						endeavoring to save his life. He was so exhausted by hunger, exposure and suffering
						that, had not help reached him, he would soon have lain down and perished. The sight of
						the young men greatly rejoiced him, for he hoped to be restored to his family. He was
						found on the knoll where Liber College now  stands, between
						the college building and the delightful Spring on the bank of the Little Salimonie. He
						immediately asked for something to eat, and the rescuers happening to have an ear of
						corn with them, parched it for him.
					After hunting until it was time to return, he had gone down Butternut to the Salimonie,
						intending to take up stream to the mouth of the Little Salimonie, and then up that to
						Shaylor's. The mouth of the Little Salimonie is very narrow—like a small
						run—and coming to this, he thought it could not be the place, and passed on up the
						Big Salimonie, one or two miles above Portland. Finding that he had missed the way, he
						returned, and when he reached the little prairie opposite where Thomas Jones now lives,
						he was too much exhausted to proceed further. He then tried to strike fire, but his
						flint entirely failed. He soon found his feet were freezing. He cleared away the snow,
						and by dancing around managed to keep awake all night. Early the next morning he again
						tried his flint, and the first stroke made fire. In thawing his shoes he burned his
						frozen feet terribly, and could not again put on his shoes. He then made a pair of
						mocassins from the skin of a wolf he had killed the day before. He left his gun, and,
						with the help of a staff, dragged himself along; found the mouth of the Little
						Salimonie, and was going up the stream when found  by the
						young men. He was immediately taken to his home, where one leg and the toes and heel of
						the other were amputated. He lived for many years, and afterward revisited the
						county.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VI.
						NANCY HAWKINS—THE OLDEST CABIN—INCIDENTS.
					NANCY HAWKINS is still living, and is now
						seventy-five years of age. She is in good health, active and lively. Unusual energy,
						unfaltering devotion to right principles, and full-hearted hospitality are, as they
						always have been, her distinguishing characteristics. She is a passionate lover of home,
						and has impressed this trait of character upon all her children. She still lives upon
						the "Old Home Farm," where she and her husband first settled, and until within the last
						year in the log cabin built by him in 1829. She is never so contented as when enjoying
						the genial warmth of that great fire-place. Of this institution, so cherished in Jay
						County—the crowning charm of all log cabins—we heartily adopt the language
						of Mrs. Stowe, in her "House and Home Papers:" 
						"Best of all, there was in our parlor that household altar, the
								blazing wood-fire, whose wholesome, hearty crackle is the truest household
								inspiration. I quite agree with one celebrated American author, who holds that an
								open fire-place is an altar of patriotism. Would our Revolutionary fathers have gone
								bare-footed and bleeding over snows to defend air-tight stoves and cooking-ranges? I
								trow not. It was the memory of the great, open kitchen fire, with its back-log and
								fore-stick of cord-wood—its roaring, hilarious voice of invitation—its
								dancing tongue of flame, that called to them through the snows of that dreadful
								winter to keep up their courage, that made their hearts warm and bright with a
								thousand reflected memories."
					
						THE HAWKINS CABIN—SEE MAP.
					
					That cabin is the oldest one now standing, and the fourth one built in Jay County, and
						will never be torn down while the farm remains in the 
						Hawkins family. Ambrotypes of it, with Nancy's several children and grandchildren, and
						the old rocking chair in front; have been taken, and are in possession of the family.
						The cut above represents the old lady standing at the door, though the likeness is not
						truthful except as to her size. The boy near her is a grandchild. Just beyond the cabin,
						at the foot of the hill, a spring, overhung with beautiful shade trees, issues from the
						banks, and the cool water finds its way to the Salimonie through that family favorite, a
						spring-house. She lately told the writer that if they would only fix the old house so it
						would not let in the rain, she would much prefer living in it than in the new one. A
						beautiful farm house, erected by B. W. Hawkins, now stands beside it.
					
						Oh, the old house at home, where my forefathers dwelt,
						Where a child at the feet of my mother I knelt;
						Where she taught me the prayer, where she read me the page
						Which if infancy lisps is the solace of age:
						My heart 'mid all changes, wherever I roam,
						Ne'er loses its love for the old house at home.
					
					
						CHORUS.
						The old house at home, the old house at home;
						My heart never changes for the old house at home.
					
					
						'Twas not for its splendor that dwelling was dear—
						'Twas not that the gay and the noble were near;—
						O'er the porch the wild rose and the woodbine entwined,
						And the sweet-scented jessamine waved in the wind;
						
						But dearer to me than proud turret or dome,
						Were the halls of my fathers—the old house at home.
					
					CHORUS.
					
						Though now the old house is no dwelling for me,
						The home of the stranger it never shall be;
						And ne'er shall he view it, or rove as a guest
						O'er the evergreen fields which my fathers possessed;
						For still in my slumbers sweet visions will come
						Of the days that I passed at the old house at home.
					
					CHORUS.
					When he was elected County Clerk, in 1859, he persuaded his mother to live with him one
						winter; but when the willows put forth their earliest leaves, the bright green grass was
						peeping from door-yards and fence-corners, and the first gleeful chirping of the
						spring-birds was heard, she went back to the farm, and the fairest temptations of town
						life cannot induce her to leave it again. The farm is a rich and beautiful one, lying
						just at the forks of the Little Salimonie, half a mile from the village of Antioch.
					One time the dogs caught a deer near the house, when Mrs. Hawkins and Mrs. Shaylor were
						the only occupants. They took the axe and went to assist the dogs, which held the animal
						down, but with his fore-feet and horns he would fight very briskly. Whenever there was
						an opportunity the ladies would give the deer a blow with the poll of the axe. But this
						style of warfare served only  to exasperate. Changing the
						plan of attack, they took the edge and gave "hard blows and fast," to which the deer
						soon yielded, and after skinning and quartering, the lady hunters carried it home.
					The Indians were the only neighbors of the Hawkins family for several years. The tribes
						who were in the habit of visiting this region were the Miamies, Wyandottes,
						Pottawatamies, Senacas and Shawnees. The two latter were very friendly. They came in the
						fall to hunt, and in the spring to trap. While passing through one time an Indian boy
						stole an axe. About three months afterwards they returned, and the boy's father brought
						the axe back, saying, "My boy stole him. No good boy!"
					If they found Mr. Hawkins' ducks far from the house, they would drive them home, and
						sometimes they would find his cow mired in some swamp several miles distant, when they
						would come and inform him, pilot some one to the spot, and assist in releasing the
						animal. By such little acts of kindness they showed their friendly feeling toward the
						white family.
					Once an Indian called on Peter Studabaker, at Fort Recovery, and told him that a very
						rich man had moved into the county, meaning John J. Hawkins. Studakaker inquired whether
						he had many horses and cattle. "No," said the Indian, "he got heap of children and
						thirteen dog!" It  was the source of much laughter among
						the neighbors.
					All early settlers are familiar with the name of the old Indian, Doctor Duck, who
						remained in the country a long time after his tribe had emigrated to Kansas. He showed
						much skill in the treatment of diseases, but could not cure Mr. Hawkins, with whom he
						lived for six months. He was very religious, and often appeared to be praying to the
						Great Spirit. One time he attended preaching near Deerfield, after which there was a
						church trial of an offending member. The old Indian listened attentively until there was
						some conflicting testimony, when he went to the door, turned round and said to the
						meeting, "Me go; no much good here—too much lie."
					About two weeks after Mr. Hawkins died this Indian went alone to the grave, and there
						spent nearly half a day, apparently preaching and performing wild ceremonies. During the
						year 1835 B. W. Hawkins was employed by a Greenville firm to buy furs, at forty dollars
						per month and expenses paid. He visited ten counties, and purchased of the Indians, in
						one lot, fifteen hundred dollars' worth. His employers had offered to their agents that
						the one buying the best lot of furs should be presented with a new suit of clothes. Mr.
						Hawkins got the suit, from boots to hat.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VII.
						THE PIONEERS OF 1830.
					SKETCHES have now been given of the first four families who became
						residents of Jay County. On this account they are given in detail, and, also, because
						Pioneer Life can be most truthfully sketched by a correct history of several individual
						families. In the lives of these families, all pioneers can see likenesses of their own.
						Yet the experience of no two are exactly similar. What golden threads of history might
						be unraveled at every family hearth-stone! What family's history would not be full of
						thrilling interest, were the silver chords of love, and hidden currents of smiles and
						tears, joys and sorrows, revealed? But these are too sacred for the public eye. The
						limits of this volume admit only of specimens of Pioneer Life. Henceforward families
						will be mentioned only in more general terms, and the 
						events of public history more closely grouped.
					At the opening of the year 1830, from the low chimneys of but three humble cabins the
						blue smoke curled gracefully above the tall, vast forests surrounding them, to mark the
						beginning of civilized life in Jay County. As a few bright stars appear first at
						evening, and, as the night draws on, multitudes glitter in the sky, so these
						families—"stars of empire"—were the front lights of that thronging
						civilization that is following. They were Orman Perring, John Brooks and the Hawkins
						family. At that time, although Brooks had been a settler there for eight years, the
						others knew nothing of him, nor did he of them. Thus dimly did the light of civilization
						shine in that region at the opening of this decade.
					In the spring of 1830, James Stone and William Cummings visited Ft. Recovery. They knew
						Peter Studabaker, for, three years prior, while on a visit to the St. Joseph country,
						they had enjoyed his hospitality. They selected land in Noble Township and went to work,
						planted corn, killed large numbers of deer and found many bee-trees. Greatly pleased
						with the country, when autumn began to tinge the forest with yellow, Mr. Stone brought
						his family from Gallia County, Ohio. This time he was accompanied by Henderson Graves,
						who had married his daughter the evening before starting. William B. Lipps was living
							 near there at that time, but how long he had been there
						is not known. Stone bought him out and he moved to Greenville.
					The two families lived in a camp about six weeks, then built a cabin. In October, John
						J. Hawkins came there, hunting some cattle, and they learned, for the first time, that
						they had a neighbor within six miles.
					The country abounded in such luxuries as turkeys, venison and honey. The greatest
						difficulty was the want of a mill, there being none nearer than Greenville. But Peter
						Studabaker dressed a couple of "gray heads," and constructed a horse mill which served
						the neighborhood for some years as a corn-grinder. This mill was turned by a "tug"
						instead of cogs, which was made of raw cowhide. In dry or frozen weather the tug would
						contract and become too short, and in wet weather stretch and get too long. Corn was
						raised in abundance, with but little work. In 1831 James Stone sowed 1½ bushels of wheat
						on 1½ acres of ground. When harvest time was at hand, the blackbirds came by thousands,
						and destroyed much of it; yet he got 37½ bushels. He was the first settler in what
						afterward became Noble Township, and entered the first piece of land ever entered in Jay
						County, November 9th, 1832. He had this honor, however, by but one day, as Thomas Scott
						entered forty acres the next  day. He was an enterprising,
						industrious citizen, and died in the spring of 1848.
					Thomas Scott came soon after Stone, remained a few years and moved to Texas, where he
						died.
					Henderson Graves says that about this time, he and Conaway Stone cut a bee-tree, and,
						to their great surprise, found two swarms in it, from which they got ten gallons of
						strained honey. At another time when they were hunting, and at some distance apart, both
						shot at the same deer, at the same instant, neither one hearing the report of the
						other's rifle, and each fatally wounded the animal. These settlers saw that sublime
						phenomenon of the shooting stars, which occurred in 1833.
					In October, 1830, a boy fifteen years old, and small of his age, started from his
						father's house in Darke County, Ohio, on horseback, to select a piece of land for their
						future home. He stopped for the night three miles north of Fort Recovery, with David
						Beardslee, who desired that they should settle near him. But the boy's father instructed
						him not to select land near another family, for near neighbors were apt to quarrel.
						Taking a bridle path which Orman Perring had made from Fort Recovery to the Wabash, he
						followed it till he came to the land which was afterward the farm of the late Elder
						Ebenezer Drake. Dismounting, he hitched his horse, blazed a path to the Limberlost, and
						returned just before night.  Hoppling his horse and putting
						a bell on him, he let him loose. Then, lighting a fire, he lay down by it, on some bark,
						and, without even a blanket, slept soundly. The next day he built a half-faced camp,
						(which he called "a three-ended cabin,") just high enough for the boy to stand up in,
						and in that he ate and slept for two weeks, as happy as a lark, seeing no one except
						Indians, and an occasional traveler on the Quaker trace. The Indians were very
						good-natured and familiar. He traded a pint of whiskey to one of them for a ham of
						venison. Asking what would he take it in, the Indian took a deer's bladder, still warm,
						from his breast, and received the drink in that. The wolves would come around the camp
						every night and howl terribly. The youth would sometimes get up and stir the fire in
						order to see them, but could not. That boy was Hamilton Gibson. He was building a cabin
						for his father's (William Gibson's,) family. William W. Dole, Peter Studabaker and three
						others from Fort Recovery helped raise the cabin, which was the third one in Wabash
						Township. The next month William Gibson and his family came, his daughter Jane, now the
						wife of Samuel Arbaugh, being the housekeeper, her mother having died in Ohio. After
						Hamilton was married and had fifteen acres cleared, a man attempted to enter the land,
						and so cheat him out of his  improvements. This was a
						common and shameful method by which speculators defrauded the industrious early settlers
						out of their homes and the fruits of their labor. A friend loaned him $50, and without
						one cent to pay his expenses, he went on foot to Fort Wayne, and saved his home.
					One winter Hamilton went with a team and sled into Ohio after provisions, to procure
						which was a source of great labor and inconvenience to all the pioneers. When he was
						crossing Still Water the ice broke and let him into the stream. Unhitching the horses,
						he tied them to a tree, and went to a neighbor's and staid all night. In the morning the
						stream had risen so that he could not get in sight of his horses, and they had to stand
						there nearly two days and nights before the water subsided!
					In those early times Mr. Gibson was quite a hunter—has hunted four days without
						seeing a house. At night, in the winter, he would build two log heaps, set them on fire
						and sleep between them on bark. At one time, hunting a horse that had a bell on, he did
						not find it until it was too dark to go home. He mounted the animal and let her go, but,
						after traveling two hours, she came back to the place from which they started.
						Dismounting, he lay down at the roots of a tree, without a fire, sung awhile, and went
						to sleep, not waking until the morning sunlight was 
						streaming through the forest. Reaching home, he found his wife had been fighting fire
						from the fences nearly all night, and was very anxious for his safety. This was the year
						to take the census, and Judge Jer. Smith, of Winchester, then quite a young man, was
						appointed Assistant Marshal of Randolph County and the territory attached thereto,
						extending northward to the line between Congressional Townships 25 and 26. This was the
						dividing line of the territory attached to the counties of Randolph and Allen,
						respectively, they being the only counties then organized between the north line of
						Wayne County and the north line of the State. Near the close of the summer Mr. Smith
						came to the Salimonie, census-taking. Had he desired to enumerate the rich bee-trees,
						the droves of beautiful deer, the families of bears and wolves, with which the forests
						were then populous, the result would have ranked the county among the first in the
						State. But he found human beings and the products of labor scarce indeed. While
						following a trace, in search of some inhabitants, he met Samuel Hawkins, and took from
						him the census of that family, and learned that there were two other families in the
						region.
					Thus resulted the census of Jay County for 1830. Could we peer into the dark unknown
						beyond us, and compare with these the census  returns of
						1930, when we, who now make the life of the county, shall all be gone, and our beloved
						forests and their delightful haunts for game have faded before a busier—perhaps
						not better—civilization, and when other men and women, other enterprises and
						interests, occupy the places we now hold—with what strange, intense interest would
						we look upon the exhibit!
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VIII.
						SETTLERS AND INCIDENTS OF 1831 AND 1832.
					During these years new settlers came very slowly. So, at least, thought the small
						"advance guard" of pioneers who were waiting and hoping for neighbors to come in, and
						the germs of society to spring up around them. It was in the autumn of 1831 that the
						tinkling of the cow-bell and the sound of the white man's axe first broke the wild
						stillness of what, four years later, became Madison Township. John Eblin and William
						Denney, with their families, settled there at that time, and were the first settlers in
						the township. By coming together, they avoided much of that dreariness and many of the
						severer trials which met those families who lived their first years in the county alone
						amid the wild woods, wild men and ferocious beasts. However, they passed through those
						privations which necessarily follow  the pioneer in his
						aggressions upon the territory hitherto the home of the aborigines. William Denney lived
						upon the land he entered, having done his part toward the development of the country by
						opening a large farm, until a few years since, when he died. John Eblin also cleared a
						fine farm, then moved into the Osage country, in Missouri, where, being an unflinching
						lover of the Union, he became a victim of rebel hate, and lost his property, being
						obliged to flee to Iowa, where he died in 1863.
					Not long after these men moved in, Conaway Stone built a cabin near where Mr. Abraham
						Lotz now lives; but soon moved across into Noble Township. About this time, also, Henry
						Crowell and John Fox settled there, making quite a neighborhood.
					It was during this year (1831) that Thomas Shaylor moved into the county, occupying the
						vacated "shanties" of Mr. Hawkins until he could build a cabin. This he did upon a
						branch of the Salimonie, on what was afterward the Hardy Farm, now the property of
						Lieutenant C. H. Clark. In 1833 Mr. Shaylor moved down the Salimonie, and became the
						first settler in Green Township.
					In November, 1831, Mrs. Sarah Riddley—a woman who, during her lifetime, was the
						wife of seven different husbands—settled with her family  in the southeast corner of Pike Township. Beside the enterprising settlement
						in Madison Township and the coming of Mr. Shaylor and Mrs. Riddley, there were no other
						additions to the meagre population of the county during that year.
					Mr. Philip Brown was the first to arrive in the new country in 1832. He came March 8th,
						and built a cabin just across the road from the north side of Liber, on the southwest
						corner of the farm now owned by Dr. D. Milligan. It was the first house built in Wayne
						Township. Though the cabin has long since been gone, until lately a solitary peach tree
						had marked the spot; but now nothing remains to remind the passer-by of the place where
						it stood. The next year, when Brown had quite a comfortable improvement made, James Wier
						was passing through the country looking for land. Being much pleased with Brown's place,
						and learning that it was not entered, he told him that he (Wier) had entered the land.
						As it was then termed, Brown had "squatted upon Congress-land," and had not yet been
						able to purchase it. But now, by this unfair means, he must be driven from a spot he
						began to call home, to commence again in the woods. He was greatly enraged, and made
						some threats against Wier, who went to Randolph County and swore his life against Brown.
						A constable named Robert Parsons came into the settlement and  summoned B. W. Hawkins and Joseph Williamson to assist him in the arrest of
						Brown, who, meantime, had started to Fort Recovery. The settlers in the neighborhood
						sympathized with Brown, and would do every thing to aid him, for they were all mutually
						interested in seeing that the rights of all "squatter sovereigns" were maintained
						against the speculating land-sharks. The constable and his "aids" followed Brown's
						track, the deputies taking care that their progress should be very slow. They found John
						R. Mays and his boys grubbing near their house. Hawkins asked some rather indirect
						questions about Brown, at the same time giving Mays the "wink," who, knowing the
						circumstances, gave the constable the impression that if Brown was not already, he soon
						would be, in Ohio; at the same time privately informing Hawkins that Brown was then in
						the house eating dinner! Hawkins then put in the plea that, it being Saturday afternoon,
						they might not catch Brown before the Sabbath. The constable replied that it was
						"State's business," and he should pay no attention to the Sabbath. After other
						arguments, which did not change the purpose of the constable, the deputies declared they
						would go no further unless their expenses were borne. This led the constable to abandon
						the chase and return home, while the deputies went to the house to congratulate Brown.
						This  was the first attempt ever made in Jay County to
						enforce the law. Soon after this Brown and Wier compromised by the latter agreeing to
						pay the former for the improvements made on the land. Wier then went to work and built a
						cabin on the northeast of what is now College corner. B. W. Hawkins was carrying the
						mail, and the next trip he examined the records, and ascertained that Wier's story was
						entirely false. On his return he at once notified Brown of his discovery. But Brown had
						no money and no saleable property except one horse. The neighbors showed their
						generosity by making up $20 for him, and mounting his horse, he set out for Fort Wayne.
						He went to Colonel Samuel Hanna, told him the circumstances, and offered his horse for
						$30. Learning that it was the only horse the stranger had, Hanna told him to keep it,
						loaned him the money, took him home with him for the night, and next day Brown, having
						entered the land, went on his way rejoicing. On reaching home, he notified Wier to leave
						the premises, which order was soon obeyed. While Brown lived there his daughter, about
						fourteen years of age, and a dog, chased a bear up a tree in the cornfield, near the
						house. Obadiah Winters was notified, and on coming over, found two or three families
						gathered around the tree to see the sport. Some of them begged of him not to shoot the
						bear in the head,  as they had heard that a bear's skull
						would turn a bullet, and then the animal would come down and kill them all. But Winters
						aimed at the head, and the bear fell harmless at the roots of the tree. About the time
						Brown settled there, William and Jeremiah Brockus commenced a clearing where Obadiah
						Winters now lives; but in a few months sold to James Morrison, who soon after sold to
						Mr. Winters.
					On the 15th of November, 1832, Mr. Abraham Lotz and family joined the settlement made
						the year previous in Madison Township. There he has remained for thirty-two years,
						aiding in various ways the development of the county. On that farm he has raised a large
						family, most of whom have identified themselves with the interests of the county, and
						some hold honorable positions as officers. J. C. Lotz, Esq., was appointed Clerk in the
						Interior Department at Washington in 1861, which office he is now filling with credit.
						Abraham Lotz was a member of the first Board of County Commissioners, and for many years
						Justice of the Peace in his Township. In the summer of 1833 he opened a Sabbath School
						in his own house, which was very successful. The place of meeting was accommodated to
						the convenience of the neighborhood, and the school met at different houses from time to
						time. That Sabbath School, the immediate successor of the Indian  dance, was the first ever held in Jay County! Mr. Lotz deserves much praise
						for having been the first to plant, when everything was rough and wild, and the moral
						soil unbroken, that most fruitful nursery of the Church. It was a small beginning; but
						now a score or more of schools, scattered over the county, with their many teachers and
						hundreds of pupils, their libraries, celebrations, picnics, banners and speeches, are
						the ripened fruit of that first moral blossom in the wilderness.
					Within the next year or two, John McLaughlin, Edward B. Wotten, William Money, William
						Isenhart, Benjaimin Goldsmith and others settled in the Township. It was a very common
						thing then for the Indians to hunt through there. They were very peaceable, and would
						often dine with their white neighbors. At one time, a very large, muscular Indian came
						to help Mr. Lotz roll logs; but he was so exceedingly awkward as to be of no use
						whatever. A log is still lying on the bank of the creek there in which the Indians had
						cut notches to assist them in walking up the bank. Jesse Gray also hunted and camped
						through those woods at that time.
					In August, 1832, John R. Mays, George Bickel and Henry Glassford came to Mrs. Hawkins',
						and selected land in the vicinity. Mr. Mays chose the farm he now lives upon, because of
						the beautiful  spring in the bank, around which are a clump
						of trees, and near it a log spring-house, built twenty-seven years ago. In September
						these men raised their cabins, assisted by Benj. Goldsmith, and Mays' two sons. Bickel
						moved out the same fall, and Mays, fearing some one would take possession of his cabin
						and enter the land, staid through the winter. On the 4th of March of the following
						spring he and Goldsmith moved to their new homes—the latter settling where the
						town of Lancaster now stands; the former having no money, three old horses, a worn-out
						wagon, a wife and ten children. When Mr. Goodrich, of Winchester, sold the clearing of
						the Portland State road, Mays took five miles, and cut it out eighteen inches and under,
						for fifty-one dollars and twelve cents. He and his boys did the work, one hunting while
						the others chopped. With that money he entered his first land.
					Mr. John James, of Randolph County, was one of the Commissioners to lay out the State
						road from Richmond to Fort Wayne, and Jer. Smith was his Surveyor. In September, 1832,
						while making the survey, they camped on the north side of the Little Salimonie, where
						the road now crosses it, probably attracted by the beautiful grove, which is now owned
						by Mr. Jonas Votaw. Here they were visited by Philip Brown, of whom they obtained
						"roasting ears" and squashes. They  called him "Governor of
						the State of Salimonie," which cognomen he wore while he lived. They continued the
						survey across the Wabash. Previous to this they had surveyed the road on another route,
						which passed two miles west of Portland. When they reached the Loblolly, Mr. James
						declared it would swamp a black snake, went back and surveyed the road now passing
						through Portland.
					Daniel Farber and family were the first to move into the county, in 1834. Of course
						they staid the first night with Nancy Hawkins, whose house was the first resting place
						for most of the settlers. They lived with Philip Brown until Farber built himself a
						cabin, just opposite the present beautiful residence of Dr. Joseph Watson, at Collge
						Corner. They moved into it before there were either doors, windows, floor or chinking.
						Mr. Farber wanted to put in a floor, but his wife, Nancy, said she would live on the
						ground until he could plant some corn, and so the cabin remained floorless until
						September. The cabin is justly celebrated as the one in which the first election in the
						county was held, and in which the first Post-office was established. Enoch Bowden came
						that year, occupied the house the absconded Wier had built, and afterward moved into
						Bearcreek Township. Henry H. Cuppy also came and built the house known as the "Conner
						house," on the south  side of the Salimonie, at Portland,
						now owned by Col. J. P. C. Shanks.
					During this year new settlements were commenced at three different points in the
						county. The first of these was by John Pingry, who settled where he still lives, near
						West Liberty, April 10th, having been at Mr. Cuppy's for three weeks, previously. His
						was the first wagon ever driven on the State road, leading north of Portland. They had a
						camp already prepared, and retired quite late that night. The next morning, when Mr.
						Pingry awoke, his wife, Elizabeth, and two of the boys were clearing a garden patch.
						Similar energy has characterized Mrs. Pingry's life. John Pingry says that spot looked
						like a paradise then. The grass and leaves were appearing in their bright green, many
						flowers were out, and he could stand in one place and count 160 walnut trees, that would
						average three feet feet in diameter. He thought then it was the best land he ever saw,
						and thinks so still. He cleared ground and put in ten acres of corn, but the birds,
						squirrels and raccoons destroyed most of it. During that summer he killed twenty-six
						deer, two bears, and skinned sixty raccoons on the corn-field, which were only about
						two-thirds of the number he killed, and declares that he "killed squirrels enough to
						have fenced it." From the raccoon skins he got a hat made, costing $6, which  lasted twelve years. Like all the early settlers, they
						enjoyed a continual abundance of honey, taken from bee-trees. They had two barrels at
						one time. The woods then were covered with pea vines and wild rye, and grazing was fine.
						Mr. Pingry avers, and it is corroborated by the testimony of many others, that the
						seasons were very different then from what they are now. There was more rain and high
						water, and the woods furnished much better grazing for stock.
					About the first of May, the same year, Samuel Grissell and Moses Hamilton, from
						Columbiana County, were in Winchester, hunting land, but had not found any that pleased
						them. B. W. Hawkins saw them, and, by much hard persuasion, got them to come up into
						this region. They did so, and stopped with Thomas Shaylor, who lived in a cabin without
						floor or chinking. The ground had been swept so much that there was quite a hole in the
						middle of the house. It rained hard during the first night of their stay, the ground on
						which they were sleeping became very wet, and the hole full of water. They made
						selections of land, Mr. Grissell's being that upon which he still lives. They went home
						by way of Fort Wayne, where they bought a canoe and paddled down the Maumee. Mr.
						Hamilton soon moved out, and he became the first permanent settler of Penn Township. Mr.
						Grissell followed  in October following, accompanied by his
						family of wife and seven children, and Jonathan, Zachariah and Joseph Hiatt. His log
						house was twenty by twenty-five feet, fire-place eleven feet wide. They often drew
						backlogs into the house with a horse who had to go across the room and put his head out
						the window. That horse is still living, is thirty-three years old, and the oldest
						inhabitant of his kind in Jay County.
					In November, Mr. John McCoy moved into the cabin Shaylor had occupied. He says four ten
						cent pieces were all the money he had in the world. He had to depend upon his gun for a
						living. He was as contented as the young man from Jay, who, while traveling out from
						Dayton with four cents in his pocket, wrote to his friends that he felt just as well as
						if he had had "double that amount." In three years McCoy killed three
						hundred deer.
					The great distance to provisions, and there being no roads cut out, led the early
						settlers to make meal by pounding corn in a "hominy block." Mr. McCoy and all his
						neighbors had to go to Newport and Richmond to find a mill and store. In a year or two
						the settlers were greatly delighted that Job Carr was going to build a horse-mill, but
						they were as much disappointed when the first grist ruined the mill, and their hominy
						blocks had to be used again.
					
					The other settlement made during this year was in Jefferson Township. Mr. Aaron Dillie
						was the first settler there. But little is known of him now except that he was an
						earnest, consistent Christian. Mr. Joseph Flesher, who died a few years since, came
						next, and, very soon after, in the autumn of 1834, Joshua Hudson settled on the land now
						known as "Baker Johnson's farm," having lived for a year previous on Day's Creek,
						Randolph County. While living at the latter place, after they had retired for the night,
						there came quite a shower of rain. When Mr. Hudson rose in the morning he found the
						puncheon floor floating and the house surrounded with water for fifty yards! He carried
						his family to a place of safety and, by the next night, the water subsided.
					In 1837 Mr. Hudson died, and the family was scattered. Wm. C. Hudson, Esq., his son,
						and the surviving members of Mr. Flesher's family, are the oldest living inhabitants of
						that township.
					This year (1834) is known among the settlers then living in the county as the "hard
						year" and the "squirrel year." It was a time of great hardships, caused by the coming of
						squirrels in vast numbers, who destroyed the crops. It was called the "squirrel march or
						stampede," as those animals seemed to be emigrating, by hundreds and thousands, for some
						cause yet unexplained. The inhabitants would stand around their fields and  shoot them all day, but could neither frighten them nor
						perceivably lessen their numbers. The Hawkins family had fifteen acres of splendid corn,
						which, in order to save, they gathered as soon as it began to harden, and had but
						fifteen bushels, which they picked from the centre of the field. For the same cause the
						crops failed in Darke County, Ohio, and the settlers had to go to Eaton to buy meal.
						There was not a wagon then in the Hawkins settlement, and they went by turns on
						horseback, occupying five days in making a trip.
					The first marriage in Jay County took place in this year. Mr. JOSEPH
							WILLIAMSON married Miss MARY ELLEN HARTUP, May 21st, 1834. The wedding was at Henry H.
						Cuppy's, and the Justice was Oliver Walker, of Randolph County. The license was issued
						at Winchester. Mr. Williamson now lives in Wells County. The next marriage was that of
						Mr. JAMES SIMMONS to Miss CHRISTENA AVALINE HAWKINS, June 24th, 1834,
						by Joel Ward, Esq.
					Mr. David Baldwin selected land near John Pingry in the fall of 1834, and in April of
						the next year he and William Baldwin settled there. They thought it a very wild place,
						for they would sometimes stand in their cabin door and shoot the deer that were browsing
						on the trees which had been cut down to keep them from falling on the  house. David Baldwin opened a blacksmith and gunsmith shop
						that year (1835), which were the first shops of the kind in the county. The Indians were
						frequent travelers through there then. David Baldwin was a true pioneer—an active
						and very useful man. As a Christian, he was a Methodist local preacher; as a mechanic,
						he was a blacksmith and cabinet-maker, and as a pioneer, a farmer, good bee-tree and
						deer hunter. He afterward emigrated to Kansas, where he served under the famous John
						Brown. William Baldwin still lives upon the same place.
					During 1835 many persons visited the county and selected land. Every settler's cabin
						was crowded with travelers. Early in the spring, William and Uriah Chapman came out and
						camped near by the spring, where James Whiteman now lives, in Bear Creek Township. Two
						corners of a blanket fastened to the ground, the other two tied up with lind bark, in a
						slanting direction, served for their camp, in front of which they kindled a fire. On the
						22d of April, William, with his family and father-in-law, George Lipps, arrived on the
						spot where he lived until his death, February 15th, 1862. He first built a shed, under
						which they lived, cooking by a log-heap, for two months, until compelled to build a
						cabin for protection against the mosketoes. Like many others, Uriah Chapman had to
						travel by night in  great haste to Fort Wayne to save their
						land from speculators. For several seasons Mr. Chapman did little besides provide for
						travelers. About half of his time was occupied in hunting to get meat, and the other
						half going south for provisions.
					Mr. Joel Wilson was the first settler in Richland Township, arriving there in the fall
						of 1835. James Green had, however, visited the county previously, and built a cabin in
						what he then supposed was Delaware County, but which the survey afterward proved to be
						in Jay; but Mr. Wilson was the first to move with his family into the township. Most of
						the earliest pioneers of Richland Township have either moved away or gone to their final
						rest; but Mr. Wilson still remains, a respectable and influential citizen of the
						township. Mr. Green's cabin and an orchard he set out were situated on Isaac Ketterman's
						farm, and were the first improvements of the kind made in that township. The same fall
						John Booth, Benjamin Manor and William Richardson opened a settlement in the southwest
						corner of the county.
					About this time three new settlers came into the Camden neighborhood. They were Joshua
						Bond, William Swallow and Elihu Hamilton. William Coffin then lived in the same house
						with Shaylor. Mr. Bond was raised in North Carolina—a Friend—was a pioneer
						in Wayne County,  then moved to Winchester, and owned a
						farm on which part of that town is now situated. He built the log house in which he
						still lives, in the winter of 1835-'6. There were not men enough in that region to raise
						it, and help had to be brought from Winchester. He is still living, though in his
						eighty-fourth year.
					In November Peter Daily, accompanied by William Carpenter, settled near Joshua Hudson,
						in Jefferson Township. For four years his business was hunting, in which he was very
						successful. Raccoon skins were worth $1 a piece then, and he caught ten in one evening
						and one hundred and sixty-eight during the season. For an otter skin he got $8.50. He
						and Alexander Stein went hunting one day—shot but six times, and killed seven
						deer. He had hunted so much with a favorite horse that, though turned loose, it would
						stay near his camp until he was ready to go home. One time he went home without taking
						the horse, and on going back, six weeks afterward, he found the faithful animal still
						making the camp his headquarters.
					In March, 1835, Colonel Christopher Hanna, with a large family, of which H. P. Hanna
						was the eldest, settled in Noble Township, where George Bergman, senior, now lives. They
						shared the usual hardships of the pioneers. During a trip to Greenville for provisions
						his family  suffered severely for want of food. Great was
						their joy when the returning wagon was heard winding through the woods. The wet season
						and early frost ruined his corn, and while H. P. Hanna was plowing, a falling limb
						killed the horse instantly.
					In 1836 he moved to Portland, and became prominently connected with the organization of
						the county; was the first Sheriff of the county by appointment of the Governor, and
						first County Clerk, by election. In 1850 he moved from the county, and died, highly
						respected, in Tama County, Iowa, March 23d, 1859.
					This year also witnessed the coming of Daniel W. McNeal, who was closely identified
						with the early settlement of Jay County. He came in November, 1835. At the organization
						of the county he was appointed County Surveyor, which office he filled for many years.
						In this capacity he laid off the county seat, and suggested to the County Commissioners
						the name for it, which was adopted. He afterward held the offices of Justice of the
						Peace, School Examiner, Land Appraiser and Surveyor of Swamp Lands. He also taught
						school in the county several years. Although he had some eccentricities, he was
						possessed of extensive and varied knowledge; was especially well versed in mathematics
						and many of the physical sciences. He gloried in having been an  early, consistent anti-slavery man. He lived an honest and useful life, and
						died at Portland in April, 1864, aged 62 years.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IX.
						NEW SETTLERS AND THEIR EXPERIENCES.
					THE year 1833 added but few to the scanty number of pioneers. One
						was Mr. Obadiah Winters, from Miami County, who reached the Hawkins cabin with his
						family on the 1st of October, having visited the country the previous summer. He bought
						out James Morrison, and still lives on the same old farm. It was very common at that
						time for hunters from the older settlements to hunt in this county. Their camps were
						every where to be found. But the crack of no one's rifle was heard so frequently, or was
						so fatal to the game, as that of Jesse Gray. His favorite camping place was near the
						spring on the Salimonie, now owned by Samuel Reed. Once when Mr. Winters was hunting, he
						heard what he was sure was a turkey calling her mate. Soon he saw  her, and taking the most deliberate aim, was just touching the trigger when
						Jesse Gray sprang out into open view. It so alarmed Winters that he could scarcely hold
						his gun the rest of the day, but not a nerve trembled of the veteran hunter, who so
						narrowly escaped.
					When Mr. Winters' son John was about two and a half years old, he was one day at his
						grandfather's, Philip Ensminger's. In the morning the old man went hunting, and without
						his knowledge the little fellow followed and got lost. The waters were very high, and it
						rained hard during that night. Great excitement prevailed throughout the community, and
						a large number of persons went to hunt him, which they did the whole night in vain. A
						cat which was wont to play with the child followed them, and repeatedly during the night
						came to them, mewed, and then went away again. They paid no attention to this until
						morning, when J. C. Hawkins and Thomas Mays followed the cat, and she led them direct to
						the lost boy. He was insensible, very cold, and nearly dead. When he revived so as to be
						able to talk he saw the cat and said, "Tom, you and me has been lost." He also said that
						the cat came to him several times through the night, and that he saw a big dog, which
						was doubtless a wolf.
					Mr. Winters made the coffins in those days. There being no lumber for the purpose,
						puncheons  were split out of logs, hewed and planed until
						they looked as well as sawed lumber. In such a coffin a child of Philip Brown was buried
						on the north bank of the Little Salimonie, near the road. That was the first death in
						Wayne Township. In this year also the Highlander family came to the county, consisting
						of William Highlander, senior, then about eighty years old, and wife, and William,
						Tandy, James, and several others. They built a log house near Mr. Winters, and after
						having cleared several acres, a speculator entered the land, and they were again without
						a home. William and James now live in Portland.
					In the autumn of 1833 Edward Buford and family settled near where Samuel K. Williams
						now lives, and was the first settler in Jackson Township. He had been a valuable scout
						in the war of 1812, and now he and his sons were famous hunters. They had as many as one
						hundred and fifty traps set at one time. The "pole trap," which was so often used by
						them and other hunters, should be described. A long pole was cut, then two stakes driven
						into the ground, one on each side of it, near one end. These were withed together at the
						top; then another pole was placed on the first one, the end between the stakes raised
						up, and triggers set under it. To these was attached a string, which ran back between
						the poles. Upon the whole was placed a heavy  weight.
						Animals attempting to pass between the poles would touch the string, spring the
						triggers, and be caught in the "dead fall." B. W. Hawkins says Buford was the only man
						he ever knew who could catch a fox in a trap of this kind. In a few years Mr. Buford
						moved into Bear Creek Township, where he died in 1841.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER X.
						WILD ANIMALS—INDIANS FIRE-HUNTING—FIRST
							ELECTION—LAWSUIT—SCHOOLS.
					THE wild animals abounding in the forests of Jay, when civilization
						commenced its war upon them, were the bear, deer, wolf, wild cat, wild hog, otter, gray
						fox, raccoon, woodchuck or ground hog, porcupine, mink, muskrat, skunk, opossum, rabbit,
						weasel and squirrel. Early settlers claim to have killed catamounts. Some of these
						animals being now rarely seen, should be described. The wolf has the general appearance
						of a large dog. He hunts in the night, lives chiefly upon deer and rabbits, but kills
						sheep, hogs, and almost any other animal when he can. Wolves do not go in large gangs
						except in the winter; then twelve or fifteen are sometimes seen in one pack. At other
						seasons they go in pairs, except when attended by their 
						young. The she wolf generally makes her nest in a hollow log, each succeeding year
						occupying the same place until disturbed, after which she seeks a new spot near by. The
						male wolf sleeps a hundred yards or so distant from her nest, on rising ground. At
						evening, when she has young, she walks a few feet from the nest and howls. He answers
						with a terrible roar, goes to the nest, then away into the woods, and during the night
						brings home whatever game he chances to catch. At sunrise he gives apparently a warning
						howl and retires, while the king of day fills the forest with golden light. The wolf is
						a shy animal, and never attacks a man unless when very hungry or in defense. B. W.
						Hawkins tells the following story: Long before white men inhabited Jay County some
						Indians were trapping on the head waters of the Salimonie, in Madison Township. One
						Indian went several miles from the camp, alone, to set some traps. On the way be killed
						a deer, which he tied across his shoulders. Returning just after dark, he heard wolves
						near him. They first acted as if playing around him, then came nearer and encircled him,
						snapping their teeth and showing a determination to attack. He shot, and instantly they
						were upon him from every side. He seized his tomahawk and struck at them in all
						directions, but one caught him and tore the cords from his leg. At that moment he  cut loose the deer, which they seized, and ran away. The
						Indian crawled to a fallen tree, the roots of which had turned up. Upon these he climbed
						and remained until morning, when the Indians came in search of him. When Mr. Hawkins saw
						him he was a cripple, and had to hunt on horseback.
					Wild hogs are simply tame ones that have run in the woods until they have become wild,
						or their progeny. They sometimes live to the age of twelve years or more, become very
						large, and have a large tusk on each side of the snout. They are the wildest animals
						that ever traveled the woods. They do not root around irregularly like tame hogs, but
						always in a straight course, as if surveying, occasionally raising their heads and
						walking several rods. They never attack a man unless cornered. The early settlers killed
						them rapidly, and now none remain.
					Wild cats were very numerous in Jay. They are of a brindle color, have the shape of the
						house cat, but are four or five times larger. They are a ferocious animal; will fight
						desperately when attacked, and can catch and kill a nest of pigs in spite of the efforts
						of the mother.
					Two miles below Bortland there is what the hunters call the "big eddy" in the
						Salimonie. It is a place one mile long where the waters are unobstructed and calm. It is
						the best place for  "fire-hunting" on this stream. Before
						the deer had fled from the destructive axe and fatal rifle of the white man, it was the
						favorite spot with the Indians for this grand sport. For this reason it is supposed they
						made the "two-mile reservation," which embraced the eddy. Indians fire-hunt in this
						wise: They girdle a large pig-nut hickory near the ground and again twelve or fifteen
						feet above; then split the bark open on one side of the tree, which enables them to peel
						the tree all the way around the body, preserving the bark in one piece. The rough,
						outside bark is taken off the ends, which are then tied closely. A stick is put
						crosswise inside the bark, near each end, and the result is, a bark canoe—the
						lightest boat that floats. At night a very large, lighted wax candle is set at one end,
						behind which is placed a wide board, which throws the light forward and conceals the
						hunters in the rear of the canoe. Silent as the night, and slowly the "frail bark" moves
						down the stream. The distant deer, quietly drinking at the water's edge, sees the
						glaring light approaching. Beyond is utter darkness. As if charmed, he gazes intently at
						the strange phenomenon. Gradually nearer draws the canoe. Not a ripple, nor a breath,
						breaks the stillness, until the fatal ball strikes its innocent victim, and the shores
						reverberate with the report.
					
					As late as 1833 the Indians visited this eddy to enjoy, for the last time, their
						favorite hunt. Once, having just made such preparations, Jesse Gray, senior, came into
						the vicinity. They 
							INDIANS FIRE-HUNTING ON THE SALIMONIE.
						
						 immediately left, and he enjoyed their camp and canoe. At
						another time, when he was fire-hunting, he came so near the deer that, when shot, it
						jumped across the canoe the first bound.*
					In 1834, the families scattered over the south part of the county began to think their
						settlement of sufficient importance to be under the restraint of law. Prior to this they
						had enjoyed unlimited freedom. When Mr. Goodrich, Collector of Randolph County, came to
						collect taxes, every man positively refused to pay. The collector laughed, said that any
						one who dared come out there to open a forest, ought not to pay tax, and returned.
					The Commissioners of Randolph County were petitioned to organize Salimonie Township and
						appoint an election.
					On the 5th of January, 1835, the Board ordered that all the attached part of that
						county should be organized into Salimonie Township. They also appointed the first
						election at Daniel Farber's, on the last Saturday in January, 1835, Obadiah Winters,
						Inspector. The officer to be elected was a Justice; the candidates were H. H. Cuppy and
						Benjamin Goldsmith. Whiskey was free, a barrel having been obtained for the occasion,
						and the contest grew very exciting. The only * Many interesting stories might be related of Jesse Gray,
							senior; but the publication of his life is contemplated, in which they will more
							appropriately appear.
						 political question involved was the location of the
						candidates, and Cuppy triumphed. This was the first election held in the County.
					When a boy is possessed of a hatchet or a jack-knife, the temptation to use them
						becomes irresistable. So it seemed to be with these few social neighbors. By the
						election of a Justice of the Peace, they obtained the facilities for going to law, and
						litigation commenced. Before this, all difficulties had been adjusted by third parties,
						without officers or fees, which generally resulted in the belligerent parties "drinking
						friendship." Not so when they could boast a "Squire." A law-suit was waiting for Squire
						Cuppy when he returned from Winchester, where he had to go to get his commission. Mr.
						William Bunch and Philip Brown quarreled about a "cross" dog belonging to the latter,
						who had made some serious threats, and the former commenced a suit to compel Brown to
						"keep the peace." The case was docketed "John Doe versus Richard Roe, etc.," a writ
						issued, a constable deputized, Brown arrested and the witnesses summoned to meet at
						Cuppy's house. The defendant admitted the charge, and was "bound over" to appear at the
						higher court. The most difficult part of the trial, for the Justice, now came up viz:
						how to draw a "recognizance." After much profound deliberation and careful research, a
						form was found in the statutes, which,  though intended
						for general cases, was given under the vagrant act. Being a poor scribe himself, the
						Justice procured the services of Henry Welch, who, when he came to that part of the form
						given thus, "[John Doe and Richard Roe, &c.,]" suggested that the words in brackets
						did not suit the present case, and inquired what should be done? This was a puzzling
						question for the "Court," but, having duly deliberated, Cuppy announced with an oath
						that he wanted it distinctly understood by the people that he was going according to law, and the form must be copied as given in the Statute. So it was
						copied, brackets and all, after which the court instructed the securities to "attend the
						next term of Court in Winchester, and deliver Brown up, in open Court, to stand his
						trial for vagrancy." Accordingly, when Circuit Court opened in
						Winchester, the securities appeared with Brown, when the Judge, upon an examination of
						the papers, dismissed the case in such terms, as convinced Cuppy of his unfitness for
						Justice of the Peace, and he resigned—a sensible act, which rarely occurs in these
						latter days. So ended the first lawsuit.
					The records of the Randolph Board of Commissioners, dated May 5th, 1835, state that all
						the territory included in Jay County was constituted one road district, and William
						Bunch appointed supervisor. On the same day, Madison 
						Township was organized, an election appointed at Benjamin Goldsmith's, on the third
						Saturday in June, Abraham Lotz, Inspector. That was the second election. Another
						election was ordered to be held the second Saturday in October, 1835. At one of these
						elections James Graves was elected Justice, went to Winchester for his commission, and,
						on his way home, married William Cummings and Matilda Denney.
					The year 1835 witnessed the opening of the first schools in Jay County. The "red man of
						the forest" was followed by daring old hunters like Jesse Gray, who found these woods
						against which the axe had never been raised, delightful fields for the pursuit of game.
						Their camp-fires succeeded the wigwam, while soon the rude cabin came. Now, when the
						wild man was only an occasional visitor, and many hunters were tramping the forest,
						schools were opened, and the few children of the settlement taught to read and spell. In
						the summer of this year, two schools were taught. One in a cabin built by a Mr. Wringer,
						situated where Liber College now stands, and the other in a similar house, situated on
						what was afterward the farm of James Rhine, in Madison Township. The former was taught
						by Miss Sarah Tharp, later the wife of Mr. Thomas Ward, of Winchester; the latter by Mr.
						Edward Bell Wotten, who had recently settled there. These 
						pioneer teachers have long since gone to their final reward. The exact date cannot be
						given when either of the schools commenced, and it is unimportant—both these
						persons are equally deserving the profound respect which the people of Jay will not
						cease to cherish for the memories of their first teachers. Soon log school houses dotted
						the county. Of the teachers officiating in them, some were wise and some were
						"otherwise." Now the neatly painted frame school house is taking the place of the dear
						old cabin with its mud-and-stick chimney, its clapboard and weight-pole roof, its
						knotty, unpeeled, sapling benches, wide fire-place and bush of wild roses clambering
						upon the gable ends. An embryo college now stands upon the very spot made sacred by such
						a cabin.
					The first mail carried through this county was in 1829, by Mr. Ellis Kizer, from
						Winchester, by way of the Godfrey Trace, to Fort Wayne. The mail was not opened then in
						the county, but this pioneer herald picked his way on horseback along a barely
						discernible path, through three score and ten miles of wilderness. At the Godfrey
						village he could count several times as many Indian huts as there were white families
						along the entire route. He carried it until 1833, when Samuel Hawkins got the contract,
						and the route was changed so as to pass through the Hawkins settlement. On the  11th of June, 1835, the first Post Office was established
						in Jay (then called Randolph) County, at the house of Daniel Farber, who was Postmaster.
						The office was then called Salimonie. It was a great convenience—persons receiving
						their mail there from all parts of this, and some from Adams County. The postage on
						letters was then from ten to twenty-five cents. Mrs. Nancy Farber performed most of the
						few duties connected with the office. Mr. John Conner carried the first mail by this
						office, and with the exception of four years, continued carrying it until 1862, since
						which time Mr. Jacob Conkel has been the carrier. In May, 1837, the office was removed
						to H. H. Cuppy's, who became the Postmaster, and the name was changed to Jay Court
						House.
					The following shows by townships all the land entered in Jay County prior to 1836, in
						order of date, and name of the person making the entry, as taken from the record in the
						County Auditor's office: 
							
								RICHLAND.
							
							
								James Green
								July 21, 1834
								80 acres.
							
							
								Joel Wilson
								Sept. 23, 1834
								80 "
							
							
								Benjamin Manor
								Sept. 23, 1834
								80 "
							
							
								Baldwin Smith
								Nov. 7, 1835
								80 "
							
							
								Eli H. Chalk
								Nov. 7, 1835
								80 "
							
							
								James Green
								Dec. 21, 1835
								40 "
							
							
							
								KNOX.
							
							
								No entries were made in this township until May 10th, 1836, when
									Daniel Tucker entered 240 acres.
							
							
								PENN.
							
							
								Moses Hamilton
								June 10, 1834
								80 acres.
							
							
								Samuel Grissell
								June 10, 1834
								160 "
							
							
								" "
								July 7, 1835
								— "
							
							
								Jonathan Hiatt
								July 7, 1835
								— "
							
							
								Samuel Crawford
								July 7, 1835
								— "
							
							
								JEFFERSON.
							
							
								George Meek
								June 10, 1834
								80 acres.
							
							
								Joseph Flesher
								July 7, 1835
								80 "
							
							
								James Haworth
								Nov. 11, 1835
								220 "
							
							
								John Steed
								Dec. 13, 1835
								80 "
							
							
								Daniel Ertte
								Dec. 12, 1835
								160 "
							
							
								GREEN.
							
							
								No entries until April 19th, 1833, when William M. Ruth entered 40
									acres.
							
							
								JACKSON.
							
							
								Samuel W. Fouts
								June 28, 1831
								— acres.
							
							
								Michael Zimmerman
								Dec. 16, 1835
								80 "
							
							
								John Pingry
								Dec. 19, 1835
								40 "
							
							
								James Marquis
								Dec. 26, 1835
								80 "
							
							
								PIKE.
							
							
								Thomas J. Shaylor
								April 20, 1833
								40 acres.
							
							
								George Hardy
								Sept. 28, 1833
								40 "
							
							
								John R. Mays
								Nov. 9, 1833
								40 "
							
							
								Samuel Hawkins
								Nov. 16, 1833
								40 "
							
							
								Isaac Aker
								Dec. 12, 1833
								209 "
							
							
								William Clark
								Sept. 14, 1835
								— "
							
							
								Charles Wilkerson
								Sept. 14, 1835
								— "
							
							
								George Bickel
								Dec. 21, 1835
								80 "
							
							
								Nancy Hawkins
								Dec. 23, 1835
								40 "
							
							
								Curtis Hardy
								Dec. 29, 1835
								— "
							
							
								Henry Welch
								Dec. —, 1835
								— "
							
							
							
								WAYNE.
							
							
								James Morrison
								Feb. 9, 1833
								40 acres.
							
							
								Philip Brown
								Mar. 28, 1833
								40 "
							
							
								Leander Morrison
								April 13, 1833
								40 "
							
							
								Hawkins C. Fouts
								Sept. 28, 1833
								40 "
							
							
								Daniel Farber
								Sept. 30, 1834
								120 "
							
							
								Henry H. Cuppy
								July 3, 1835
								40 "
							
							
								Tandy Highlander
								Dec. 23, 1835
								40 "
							
							
								BEAR CREEK.
							
							
								Morton Jones
								June 10, 1834
								40 "
							
							
								Isaac Huey
								June 10, 1834
								77 "
							
							
								William Siberry
								Aug. 23, 1834
								80 "
							
							
								John McKissick
								Dec. 8, 1834
								80 "
							
							
								MADISON.
							
							
								Conaway Stone
								Feb. 22, 1833
								80 acres.
							
							
								Benjamin Goldsmith
								Aug. 24, 1833
								— "
							
							
								Ed. Bell Wotten
								Jan. 16, 1834
								160 "
							
							
								William Cummings
								Jan. 16, 1834
								40 "
							
							
								James Martindale
								June 12, 1834
								80 "
							
							
								John Eblin
								June 24, 1834
								40 "
							
							
								William Money
								June 24, 1834
								40 "
							
							
								Richard Clark
								Sept. 14,1835
								80 "
							
							
								William Cummings
								Sept. 21, 1835
								40 "
							
							
								William Isenhart
								Oct. 23, 1835
								40 "
							
							
								Charles Sackman
								Dec. 21, 1835
								40 "
							
							
								Benjamin Goldsmith
								Dec. 21, 1835
								— "
							
							
								NOBLE.
							
							
								James Stone
								Nov. 9, 1832, and Oct. 5, 1833
								173 acres.
							
							
								Thomas Scott
								Nov. 10, 1832
								40 "
							
							
								William E. Burris
								Mar. 27, 1835
								160 "
							
							
								Conaway Stone
								May 20, 1835
								106 "
							
							
								Charles Wilkerson
								Sept. 14, 1835
								80 "
							
							
							
								WABASH.
							
							
								Orman Perring
								July 24, 1833
								66 acres.
							
							
								F. Bowers and E. Putnam
								Oct. 4, 1833
								3 6-10
							
							
								William Gibson
								Aug. 19, 1835
								40 acres.
							
							
								John B. Gillespie
								Oct. 27, and Dec. 19, 1835
								82 "
							
							
								Hamilton Gibson
								Nov. 2, 1835
								40 "
							
						
					In April, 1836, Mr. Joseph Wilson, afterward County Auditor, selected land near Samuel
						Grissell, who accompanied him to Fort Wayne, to make the entry. They struck the Wabash
						at Adam Miller's, went down stream to Henry Miller's, where Bluffton now stands,
						arriving after dark. Here they met John Conner, carrying the mail—an occurrence
						familiar to all northward travelers for twenty-five years afterward. The next morning,
						crossing the river in a canoe, and swimming their horses, they proceeded on their
						journey. Every where the streams were overflowing, and several times the water ran over
						their horses' backs. At the St. Mary's river they left the horses, crossed in a canoe,
						and walked to the land office. Early in the July following Mr. Wilson brought his family
						from Champaign County, Ohio. From Joab Ward's they came via John
						Brooks', which place they endeavored to reach in one day. Failing in this they were
						compelled to camp out. They were greatly troubled by the myriads of blood-thirsty
						mosquitoes that swarmed around them. Having located wife and  children upon the load, protected by the wagon cover, he spent most of the
						night lying upon a log not far distant, with three or four smoke-fires around him, and
						bush in hand to fight off the biting, buzzing torments. The next evening they reached
						Moses Hamilton's, having been two days coming sixteen miles. Sometimes the road was too
						crooked for their long team, and had to be cut out. In about a week they moved into
						their own house, and began clearing away the woods around it, "to make it look a little
						like home,"—the first work of every pioneer family. For nearly two months during
						the following winter all the bread for the family of eight was made by pounding corn in
						a hominy mortar, sifting out the finest for bread, the next for "mush," while the
						coarsest was boiled for hominy—a convenient variety, which no mill of later
						invention can produce from one hopper.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XI.
						ORGANIZATION OF THE COUNTY.
					The land lying south of the boundary road, in Jay County, was ceded to the United
						States by the Indians in a Treaty made at Greenville, Ohio, August 3, 1795. The line
						began at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River, and, after various windings, reached Fort
						Recovery, and proceeded "southwesterly in a direct line to the Ohio River, so as to
						intercept it opposite the mouth of the Kentucky or Cuttawa River."
					This treaty was signed, on the part of the United States, by Major General Anthony
						Wayne, and by the Indians, by the chiefs of the following tribes: Wyandots, Shawnees,
						Ottawas, Chippewas, Pottawatomies, Miamis, Eel Rivers, Weas, Kickapoos, Piankeshaws and
						Kaskaskias.
					The land lying north of this boundary line was ceded to the United States by the
						Indians in  a Treaty made at St. Mary's, Ohio, October 6,
						1818. It was between Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass and Benjamin Parke, Commissioners of
						the United States, and the Chiefs of the Miami nation of Indians, viz: Peshawa or
						Richardville, Osas, Ketauga or Charley, and others. In this Treaty many reservations
						were made by the Indians, two of which were in Jay, as follows: "One reservation of two
						miles square on the Salimonie River, at the mouth of Atchepongqwawe Creek," (now called
						Butternut, from the butternut trees growing along its banks). The other reserves "to
						Francois Godfrey six sections of land on the Salimonie River, at a place called Lapetite
						Prairie." The two mile reservation on Butternut Creek was ceded to the United States by
						the Miami tribe of Indians, in a Treaty made October 23, 1834, at the forks of the
						Wabash, below Huntington.
					Colonel John Vawter, of Jennings County, was Chairman of a Committee in the House of
						Representatives, of the Legislature of 1835-6, that introduced a bill, which passed and
						was approved February 7th, 1835, entitled "an act laying out all the unorganized
						territory, to which the Indian title has been extinguished, in the State, into a
						suitable number of counties, and for other purposes," by which the counties of Jay,
						Adams, Wells, DeKalb, Steuben, Whitley, Kosciusko, 
						Fulton, Marshall, Stark, Pulaski, Jasper, Newton and Porter were all laid out.
					The following is section third of that act: That all the
								territory included within the following boundary lines shall constitute and form a
								county, to be known by the name of Jay; beginning at the southeast corner of Adams
								County, thence west to the eastern boundary of Grant County, thence south to the
								northern boundary of Delaware, thence east with the northern boundary of said
								county, to the north-east corner of the same, thence south to the north-west corner
								of Randolph County, thence east with the northern boundary of said county, to the
								State line, thence north to the place of beginning.
					This included the territory of Blackford County which was organized into an independent
						county in 1837.
					The chief labor of laying out the territory into counties devolved upon Colonel Vawter,
						who was better acquainted with the country than any other member of the committee, yet,
						when the counties were named, he was not allowed the privilege of giving a name to even
						one of the fourteen counties organized by his bill. He always regretted this
						exceedingly, as he was very anxious to name one county ARMSTRONG, in
						honor of a brave old soldier of that name who spent his best days in the northern part
						of Indiana, and who finally fell a victim to Indian barbarity.
					It cannot be ascertained who gave the name of JAY to this county.
						Some member of the  Legislature gave the name in an
						amendment to the bill. The Randolph County commissioner's record calls it by this name
						as early as May, 1835.
					JOHN JAY, in honor of whom the county was named,
						was the first Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. He was appointed
						Minister to England, in 1794, when he resigned the office of Chief Justice. In 1800,
						while he was Governor of New York, he was re-appointed Chief Justice, but declined the
						appointment.
					Another act was passed, approved January 30, 1836, by which the county was
						organized.
					SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the
								General Assembly, &c.: That, from and after the first day of March next,
							the county of Jay shall enjoy all the rights and jurisdiction which, to separate and
							independent counties, do or may properly belong.
					SECS. 2d and 3d, appointed the commissioners to locate the county
						seat, made it the duty of the Sheriff of Randolph County to notify them, and that they
						should be paid from the treasury of Jay County.
					SEC. 4th, provided that the first circuit and other courts should be
						held at the house of Henry H. Cuppy.
					SEC. 5, made it the duty of the county agent to reserve ten per
						cent. of the money received from the sale of donated lots for the use of the County
						Library.
					SEC. 6th, set forth the duties of the Board of County Commissioners,
						and the 8th placed the  county in the 8th Judicial Circuit
						and 5th Congressional District.
					The following persons were appointed by the Legislature to locate the county seat:
						Judge Jer. Smith, Judge Zachariah Pucket, still living in Randolph County, Jacob
						Thornburg, of Henry County, who has been dead many years, Mr. Nathan Coleman, of Allen
						County, and Mr. Philip Moore, of Delaware County, who died about that time. With the
						exception of Mr. Moore, they all met at H. H. Cuppy's the first Monday in June, 1836, as
						required by the law. Camden, they said, though a pretty site, was too far from the
						center, (for they then anticipated that Blackford County would be stricken off.) The
						geographical center of the county, one and a quarter miles north-west of Portland, was
						too low. They then viewed the "Sugar-tree" grove, about one and a half miles south-west
						of Portland, and decided that was the most appropriate spot. But they were falsely told
						by a man who desired to enter that land himself, that the owner of it lived in Union
						County, Indiana, and would not sell the land on any terms. They then took eighty acres
						on the north side of the Salimonie, offered by Daniel Ried, of Richmond, through the
						agency of H. H. Cuppy, and ten acres adjoining, offered by James Hathaway. Ried reserved
						half the lots around the court house square, and one-third of all others.
					
					Jay County is eighteen miles long (north and south), twenty-one miles wide across the
						north end, and twenty-two across the south end. The face of the country is generally
						level, although somewhat broken along the water courses. The surface soil is usually a
						dark loam, with a subsoil of clay, intermixed with limestone gravel. There is a section
						of country lying toward the northwest part of the county, embracing about six square
						miles, which is in some of its features unlike other portions. In this section, the
						surface soil is a sandy loam, lying upon a gravel subsoil. It is interspersed with many
						hillocks or knobs, which Benjamin Ninde called the Lost Mountains. This district is
						chiefly in Penn Township.
					There is not much rock in the county. Enough "grayheads" generally are found to supply
						the demand for walling cellars and wells. In the vicinity of Antioch and three miles
						north of Portland, this variety of rock prevails extensively. For two miles above and
						below New Corydon the Wabash river flows over a stratum of white limestone. A mile south
						of the river this quarry of stone crops out in the creeks and runs, but being in the
						beds of the streams, can only be quarried in dry seasons. A lime-kiln has been in
						operation for several seasons on the south bank of the river, by Washington Walter,
						which turns out lime unsurpassed anywhere. Limestone is also  found on the Salimonie some two miles below Portland.
					The country is very well watered by the numerous streams that take their rise within
						its limits. They have so little fall, however, they afford but very little water power.
						Springs abound along some of these streams. It was originally very heavily timbered with
						beech, hickory, oak, ash, walnut, sugar, maple, elm, linden, sycamore, &c. When the
						first settlers came, the woods were destitute of an undergrowth. As the settlements
						became general, and fires were not allowed to run through the timber lands, a dense
						undergrowth sprung up.
					The county abounds in wild fruits, consisting of plums, grapes, paw-paws, blackberries,
						gooseberries, and, in the neighborhood of the Loblolly, were huckleberries and
						cranberries.
					A belt extends across the north part of Jackson Township from west to east, varying in
						width from eighty rods to a mile, called the Loblolly. It consists of brushy ponds, wet
						prairies and small lakes. Along its border is some of the richest land within the
						county. It is thought that nearly the entire tract can be reclaimed and made very
						profitable for agricultural purposes. Considerable portions of it were conveyed by the
						United States to the State of Indiana several years since, and were by the State sold,
						the  proceeds of which, after paying expenses, were to be
						applied in draining the lands so sold. With this fund some draining has been done; the
						amount of the fund, however, was insufficient to complete the work. The county is
						bounded on the north by the counties of Adams and Wells, on the east by Mercer and Darke
						counties, Ohio, on the south by Randolph County, and on the west by Delaware and
						Blackford counties.
					The following table shows the number of acres and square miles in each Township.
					
						
							
							Acres.
							Square miles.
						
						
							Richland
							17,434 13 100
							27
						
						
							Knox
							15,336 71-100
							24
						
						
							Penn
							19,174 91-100
							30
						
						
							Jefferson
							22,753 66-100
							36
						
						
							Green
							22,705 45-100
							35
						
						
							Jackson
							22,986 83-100
							36
						
						
							Pike
							22,257 79-100
							35
						
						
							Wayne
							23,650 39-100
							37
						
						
							Bear Creek
							22,033 68-100
							34
						
						
							Madison
							18,692 92-100
							29
						
						
							Noble
							19,901 94-100
							31
						
						
							Wabash
							14,733 67-100
							23
						
						
							Total
							241,692 08-100
							377
						
					
					The county was now (1836) organized. This fact, added to the reputation the county had
						gained for richness of soil, heavy timber, abundance of game and cheap land, brought new
						settlers by hundreds during this and the several succeeding years. Entering land,
						building houses, clearing fields, and cutting out roads, occupied almost  exclusively the attention of the people. Prior to this time
						there had been, during four years, only sixty-four entries of land. The following shows
						the number of pieces of land entered in each township during this and the following
						year: 
							
								
								No entries in 1886.
								No entries in 1837.
							
							
								Richland
								45
								78
							
							
								Knox
								64
								51
							
							
								Penn
								111
								38
							
							
								Jefferson
								27
								157
							
							
								Green
								24
								76
							
							
								Jackson
								82
								57
							
							
								Pike
								32
								116
							
							
								Wayne
								64
								87
							
							
								Bear Creek
								35
								80
							
							
								Madison
								28
								74
							
							
								Noble
								25
								38
							
							
								Wabash
								26
								36
							
							
								Total
								563
								888
							
							
								Total for 1836-'7
								1451
							
						
					
					Large numbers also came in who did not enter land immediately. This sudden and numerous
						influx—all "early settlers "—precludes all possibility of our even
						mentioning their names in this work, much less recounting their experiences. And,
						indeed, it is unnecessary. Enough has been said of the earlier settlers to exhibit
						pioneer life in all its important aspects. To add more from the abundance that might be
						given, would be to tire the reader with the repeated narration of similar
						occurrences.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XII.
						COURTS—OFFICERS—ATTORNEYS.
					LET US now turn our attention to the necessary paraphernalia of
						organization—courts and officers. By appointment of Governor Noble, Christopher
						Hanna notified the people that there would be an election on the — day of August,
						1836, to elect county officers. That was the first county election. There were but three
						precincts: one at B. Goldsmith's, one at Daniel Farber's, and the third in Lick Creek
						Township, now Blackford County. The following persons were elected: Commissioners, John
						Pingry, Abraham Lotz and Benjamin Goldsmith; Associate Judges, James Graves and Enoch
						Bowden; Clerk, Christopher Hanna; Sheriff, Henderson Graves. B. W. Hawkins was a
						candidate for clerk, against Hanna, and had the  vote of
						Lick Creek Township been returned, would have been elected. James Graves did not accept
						the office of Judge, and Obadiah Winters was subsequently chosen.
					The first marriage license issued was to Casper Geyer and Rachael Clark, April 11th,
						1837, and they were married on the 18th of April, 1837, by Wade Posey.
					The first session of the Board of County Commisssioners convened at Mr. Cuppy's on the
						8th of November, 1836. H. H. Cuppy was appointed County Treasurer, Lewis S. Farber
						Assessor, and Jacob Bosworth agent to superintend the sale and conveyance of the lots
						donated to the county in Portland. Mr. Bosworth not having been in the State long enough
						to be eligible, B. W. Hawkins was appointed in his stead. David Baldwin was appointed
						superintendent of the three-per-cent. fund, being three per cent. of the money arising
						from the sale of public lands within the State, appropriated to making roads and
						bridges. That office and that of the county agent were very important offices at that
						time. Cuppy was granted a license to retail merchandise for one year for ten
						dollars.
					At a special meeting of the Board, December 5th, 1836, the county seat was named PORTLAND. Many persons desired it should be called Riedville, in honor
						of Daniel Ried, who donated the  site. Joshua Pennock was
						allowed ten dollars for aiding in clearing off the county seat. Afterward, John E. Ware,
						T. N. Jones, William Highlander, John Martin and others were paid for laying out and
						clearing the town site. Mr. Ware paid his board at Cuppys by grating corn in the evening
						for meal. D. W. McNeal was appointed County Surveyor. The next month he was appointed
						Trustee of the Seminary Fund. Here is a copy of the order by which the first Court House
						was erected: "WEDNESDAY, May 3d,
								1837.
							"Ordered, That there be a house erected on some suitable lot in
								the town of Portland, for the use of the county, and that Christopher Hanna
								superintend the letting of the same on the 13th day of June next. The terms and
								descriptions to be made known on the day of sale."
					No direction being given as to the size, price or materials, such an order, in these
						days of speculators, would be rather an unsafe specification.
					L. S. Farber was allowed $23.27 for assessing the county. James Marquis was appointed
						Collector of the taxes for the county. The first tax assessed was at this term, being
						$1.25 on every $100 valuation of property for county purposes, one cent on every $100
						for road purposes, and seventy-five cents on every poll.
					September 4, 1837, the Board adjourned from the house of Mr. Cuppy to the new log Court
							 House, and allowed Robert Huey $123.25 for building
						it.
					D. W. McNeal was allowed $7.75 for surveying and platting the town of Portland.
					J. B. Gillespie was granted a license to keep a ferry where the Quaker Trace crossed
						the Wabash. The profits probably never paid for the license.
					Mr. Cuppy resigned the office of Treasurer, and Hawkins C. Fouts was appointed.
					Christopher Hanna was appointed to superintend the building of a county jail.
					November Term, 1837. At the opening of this term Henderson Graves took his seat as
						Commissioner, as successor of John Pingry, and B. W. Hawkins as Sheriff.
					Thomas Wheat was appointed School Commissioner. In January, 1838, H. C. Fouts was
						allowed $11.75 for his services as County Treasurer for four months. At the March Term,
						1838, John Pingry was appointed Loaning Agent of the surplus revenue fund, and William
						Vail Collector of taxes for that year.
					January Term, 1839. Contracted with Moses Knapp to build a public Pound for $17.87½. It
						was a post and rail fence, a few rods north of the present jail.
					Robert Huey was granted a license to keep a grocery in Portland. This was the first
						store of the kind kept in the place.
					
					Joshua Pennock had built a jail, for which he had received $181; but it not being
						according to contract, the Commissioners sued him for damage. It was a log house, poorly
						built, and stood north of the present jail.
					A man from Blackford County was at one time convicted of stealing a log chain, and
						sentenced to three or four days' imprisonment. As the jail would not hold him, Sheriff
						Hawkins took him home with him, and kept him there rocking the cradle, until his time
						was out!
					November Term, 1839. H. C. Fouts was removed from the Treasurer's office, and William
						T. Shull, now of Blackford County, appointed.
					At this time Lewis N. Byram was contracted with to build the walls and roof of a brick
						Court House for $1,750, and he was to "warrant it to be a substantial building for
						twenty years." William Haines finished the house. The wall was very poor; the building
						was abandoned in 1859, and in March, 1860 was sold at auction for $153.
					In January, 1840, John Pingry got the contract for building another jail for $800. That
						was the old log jail sold for $32 in 1862, torn down and converted into the wagon shop
						of S. H. Williams.
					The first term of the Circuit Court, in Jay County, was held on the 17th day of April,
						1837, at the house of Henry H. Cuppy, which house is still standing on the farm of
						Colonel Shanks, south  of Portland. Hon. Charles W. Ewing,
						of Fort Wayne, president Judge of the Sixth Judicial Circuit, and Enoch Bowden,
						Associate Judge for Jay County, occupied the bench.
					Christopher Hanna, was clerk, Henderson Graves, sheriff, and Thomas Johnson, of Fort
						Wayne, prosecuting attorney.
					Jeremiah Smith, of Randolph County, was the only lawyer present, except the State's
						attorney.
					The grand jury, at that time, consisted of the following named persons: Henry H. Cuppy,
						Benjamin W. Hawkins, Obadiah Winters, Hawkins C. Fouts, James Marquis, David Baldwin,
						John Pingry, Samuel G. Hanna, Conaway Stone, William Vail, Joseph Wilson, John S. Mays,
						Daniel W. McNeal, William Clark, John Eblin and James Stone. Henry H. Cuppy was foreman,
						and Anderson Ware was bailiff.
					This jury found but one bill of indictment which was against two of its members, H. H.
						Cuppy and Daniel W. McNeal, for an affray. Cuppy was tried, defended by Jer. Smith, and
						found guilty. McNeal plead guilty. This constituted almost the entire business of the
						term. The court was in session two days.
					The two succeeding terms were held by the associate judges alone, without the aid of
						president judge, prosecuting attorney, or other lawyers.
					The fourth term was held on the 10th day of  December,
						1838, before the associate judges. The court, at this term, assumed more importance than
						hitherto. Jeremiah Smith acted as prosecuting attorney. Several cases were tried, both
						criminal and civil.
					Jacob Bosworth, Benjamin P. Wheat and Andrew Ried were appointed school commissioners
						for Jay County. There was quite an array of lawyers in attendance.
					In January, 1839, the Eleventh Judicial Circuit was formed, of which Jay County
						constituted a part. Morrison Rulon, then a young man, who had but recently been admitted
						to the bar, was, by the legislature, elected judge of this new Circuit. He resigned,
						without ever having held a court, and David Kilgore was, by the Governor, appointed to
						fill the vacancy.
					Judge Kilgore held the office under his appointment until December, 1839, when he was
						elected by the legislature, and held the office until the spring of 1846.
					Judge Kilgore has since then served in the convention for the revision of Constitution
						of Indiana, was speaker of the House in the Indiana legislature, and represented the
						fifth district of Indiana, in Congress, two terms. He still resides in Delaware County,
						Indiana.
					In December, 1845, Jeremiah Smith was elected Judge of the Eleventh Circuit, and served
							 until the spring of 1853. He was succeeded by Joseph
						Anthony, of Delaware County, who presided over the Circuit Court of Jay County two
						years. He is still a citizen of Delaware County.
					In January, 1855, the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit was formed, Jay County constituting a
						part of it. Judge Jeremiah Smith was appointed Judge of this Circuit, by the Governor,
						to serve until the next general election. Under this appointment he held two terms of
						the Jay Circuit Court.
					In October, 1855, Jehu T. Elliott was elected Judge of the Thirteenth Circuit, and was
						re-elected in 1861. He is at this time Judge of the Jay Circuit Court.
					The first associate judges of Jay County were Enoch Bowden and Obadiah Winters. Judge
						Winters served from 1837 until 1850; Judge Bowdon, from 1837 until 1843, and again from
						1850 to 1851, at which time the associate judges were abolished by the adoption of the
						present constitution of Indiana.
					Abraham C. Smith served as associate judge from 1843 to 1850, when he was succeeded by
						John Current, who held the position until the office was abolished.
					Jehu T. Elliott was the first prosecuting attorney for the Eleventh Judicial Circuit.
						He served, in that capacity, in Jay County, but one year, and  was succeeded by Jeremiah Smith, who served two years. John M. Wallace next
						filled that office for one term of two years. Mr. Wallace then resided in Madison
						County, but afterward removed to Grant County, where he still resides. He has been Judge
						of the Judicial Circuit in which he lives, and, since the rebellion broke out, he was
						for a time Adjutant General for the State of Indiana, and, more recently, was an
						assistant paymaster in the army of the United States.
					John Davis, of Madison County, succeeded Judge Wallace as Circuit presiding attorney.
						The office was next filled by Joseph S. Buckles, of Delaware County, who served until
						1848.
					Mr. Buckles has since been a member of the State Senate, and is now Judge of the
						Eleventh Judicial Circuit. He is still a resident of Delaware County.
					In 1849, the law having been changed so as to provide for the election of a prosecuting
						attorney for each county, John P. C. Shanks was first appointed and afterward elected by
						the people to fill that office, and served two years.
					Mr. Shanks was born near Harper's Ferry, Virginia, came to Jay County with his father,
						in 1840, studied law with Judge N. B. Hawkins, and was admitted to the bar in 1849. He
						represented Jay County in the Indiana Legislature, in 1855, was elected to Congress in
						1860, and served on  General Fremont's staff in his
						memorable Missouri Campaign. By his exertions the 7th Indiana cavalry regiment was
						raised, of which he was appointed Colonel, and is now serving in that capacity. He gave
						his earnest support to all the great measures adopted by the Thirty-Sixth Congress of
						which he was a member. In 1862 he was re-nominated, by acclamation, by his party, for
						re-election, but was defeated.
					In 1851, the law authorizing the election of a prosecuting attorney for each county,
						having been repealed, David Moss, of Hamilton County, was elected prosecuting attorney
						for the Eleventh Circuit. He was succeeded by William Garver, of the same county.
					Silas Colgrove, then and now a resident of Randolph County, held the office of
						prosecuting attorney from 1853 to 1856. He has several times represented that county in
						the Indiana Legislature. He is now Colonel of the 27th regiment of Indiana volunteers,
						in which capacity he has seen much service, and has been twice severely wounded. Colonel
						Colgrove was succeeded in the office of prosecuting attorney by Thomas M. Browne, of
						Randolph County, who filled that office six years. Mr. Browne has been a member of the
						State Senate, was on General Wood's staff at the battle of Shiloh, is now Lieutenant
						Colonel of the 7th Indiana cavalry and was lately wounded.
					
					James N. Templer, of Jay County, was elected to the office of prosecuting attorney in
						1861, and still holds that office. Mr. Templer came to Jay County, with his father, when
						a boy, was educated at Farmers' Academy and Liber College, studied Law with Judge
						Haynes, and was admitted to the bar in 1857.
					Christopher Hanna was the first clerk of the Jay Circuit Court. He served until the
						year 1843 when he was succeeded by B. W. Hawkins, who held the office until 1850. Ira
						Denney was his successor, and filled the office until 1859, when B. W. Hawkins was again
						elected, and still holds the office.
					Henderson Graves was the first Sheriff of Jay County by election. He served until the
						fall of 1849, when he was succeeded by B. W. Hawkins. Mr. Hawkins served four years, and
						was succeeded by Robert Huey, who filled the office until the fall of 1844, when Jason
						Whipple was elected.
					Two years later, Hugh P. Hanna succeeded Mr. Whipple, and, after serving four years,
						Alexander Johnson became his successor. Mr. Johnson filled the office until 1854, when
						Jacob E. Lotz was elected. In 1856 Alexander Johnson was again elected Sheriff, and,
						after serving two years, he was in turn succeeded by Mr. J. E. Lotz, who held the office
						until 1862, when Alexander Hanlin, the present incumbent, was elected.
					
					The first term of the Probate Court of Jay County was held at the Court-house in
						Portland, on the 14th day of May, 1838, before Enoch Bowdon and Obadiah Winters,
						assistant judges of the Circuit Court.
					The first letters of administration were granted to Ellis Davis on the estate of Aaron
						Rigby, deceased, the 20th day of September, 1837. The associate judges also held a term
						of the Probate Court in November, 1838.
					In August, 1839, George C. Whiteman was elected Probate Judge for Jay County, and
						continued in that office until the court was abolished, in 1852.
					The first term of the Court of Common Pleas for Jay County, was held by Nathan B.
						Hawkins, on the 17th day of January, 1853. The common pleas district then consisted of
						the counties of Randolph and Jay. Judge Hawkins was elected judge of this district in
						October, 1852, and died, in office, in October, 1853.
					There were but few men who occupied a more prominent position in Jay County, during the
						period of his manhood that he spent in the county, than Nathan B. Hawkins. He came to
						the county with his father in 1829, and remained here until he was about sixteen years
						of age, when he went to Wayne County, Indiana. He there went into mercantile business,
						first as a clerk, and  afterward on his own account,
						remaining in that county until 1839, when he returned to Jay and engaged in selling
						goods at Portland. Having a taste for study, he employed his leisure hours in reading
						Blackstone. At the May term of the Jay Circuit Court, 1841, he was admitted to the bar,
						and immediately commenced the practice of law. In 1842 he represented the counties of
						Jay and Adams in the Legislature of Indiana, and was a member of the convention for the
						revision of the Constitution of Indiana, in 1850,—representing the counties of
						Randolph, Jay and Blackford. Judge Hawkins was a man of decided ability, an excellent
						business man, a fluent, forcible speaker, and a successful lawyer. He was a good
						citizen, of generous impulses, public spirited and liberal. His early death was
						regretted by all who knew him.
					He died at his residence, in Portland, on the 20th of October, 1852, aged 41 years.
					James Brown, of Randolph County, where he still resides, was appointed by the Governor
						to fill the office of Common Pleas Judge, until the succeeding general election. He has
						represented that county in the Indiana Legislature.
					In 1854 William A. Peelle was elected Judge of the Common Pleas Court, and held the
						office two years. At the time of his election he was a citizen of Randolph County. At
						the expiration of  his term he resumed the practice of
						law. In 1860 he was elected Secretary of State, which office he held two years. He is
						now engaged in the law practice at Centreville, Indiana. In 1856 Jacob M. Haynes, of Jay
						County, was elected Judge of the Court of Common Pleas. In 1860 the district was
						enlarged so as to consist of the counties of Randolph, Delaware, Jay and Blackford, and
						Judge Haynes was the same year elected to preside over the courts of the enlarged
						district, which position he still holds.
					Judge Haynes came to Portland to commence his career as a lawyer, where he still
						remains. He has always identified himself with the best interests of Jay County. His
						integrity of character, honesty of purpose and thorough knowledge of his profession,
						have given him the confidence of the people in an eminent degree, and made him a
						successful, honest lawyer. He prepared for college at Monson Academy, Massachusetts, and
						took a literary course at Phillips' Academy, Andover, Massachusetts. He commenced the
						study of law with Hon. Linus Child, at Southbridge, in the same State. In September,
						1843, he came West, resumed the study of law with Hon. Walter March, of Muncie, Indiana,
						where he taught the Delaware County Seminary, and was admitted to the bar in March,
						1844. At the age of twenty-seven, in December, 1844, he came to Portland,  where, in 1846, he married Miss Hilinda T. Haines. He was
						appointed School Commissioner in 1846, to fill a vacancy, which occurred by the
						resignation of Wilson Milligan. In August of the same year he was elected to that
						office, and served for two years; he was appointed School Examiner in 1848, which office
						he filled for four years.
					The first prosecuting attorney of the common pleas court of Jay County was William
						Moorman, who was succeeded by John J. Cheney, and he by Enos L. Watson, all of Randolph
						County. Thomas J. Hosford, of Delaware County, held the office from 1860 to 1862, when
						Enos L. Watson was again elected, and still holds the office.
					The lawyers who have been residents of Jay County are Moses Jenkinson, Morrison Rulon,
						Nathan B. Hawkins, Jacob M. Haynes, John P. C. Shanks, James B. Jaqua, John R. Perdieu,
						John W. Headington, James N. Templer, William D. Frazee, John J. Hawkins, David V. Baker
						and Allen Jaqua.
					Moses Jenkinson now resides at Fort Wayne, Indiana; is a lawyer of considerable note,
						and has represented Allen County in the State Legislature. He removed from Jay County in
						1845. Morrison Rulon was twice elected to the legislature from Jay County; is now a
						resident of Union City, Indiana.
					
					W. D. Frazee remained in Jay County but a short time; is now engaged in the law
						practice at Decatur, Indiana.
					J. W. Headington resides at Portland, and is now Major of the 100th regiment Indiana
						Volunteers.
					Messrs. Jaqua, Perdieu, Templer, Hawkins, Baker and A. Jaqua are still residents of
						Portland.
					Among the attorneys not residents of Jay County, who have practiced in its courts, are
						Jeremiah Smith, Moorman Way, Zachariah Pucket, Beattie McClelland, Silas Colgrove,
						William A. Peelle, James Brown and Thomas M. Browne, of Randolph County; Joseph Anthony,
						Thomas Anthony, Andrew Kennady, Thomas J. Sample and Walter March, of Delaware
						County.
					John Brownlee, of Grant County, also attended the courts of Jay County. He acted as
						prosecuting attorney at the October term, 1839.
					The following shows the names of those who have been members of the Board of County
						Commissioners, when they assumed the office, and expiration of their terms: 
							John Pingry
								1836-'37
							Abraham Lotz
								1836-'38
							John Pingry
								1838-'40
							Benj. Goldsmith
								1836-'39
							Henderson Graves
								1837-'39
							Jacob Bosworth
								1838-'39
							Timothy Stratton
								1839-'45
							Josiah H. Topping
								1839-'41
							George White
								1840-'43
							Ammon Cook
								1841-'44
							
							Samuel Hall
								1843-'46
							Jacob Bosworth
								1843-'46
							John Reed
								1844-'46
							Joseph Roach
								1845-'46
							William Gemmell
								1846-'49
							Sumner Griffin
								1846-'50
							John Goff
								1849-'52
							David Money
								1849-'52
							Wm. H. Wade
								1850-'56
							Isaac Myres
								1852-'54
							William Gemmell
								1852-'58
							Alexander Jackson
								1854-'58
							Vynul Arnett
								1858-'64
							Wm. B. Miller
								1858-'61
							M. A. Smith
								1856-'62
							Alexander Jackson
								1861-'64
							Eli Bales
								1862-'—
						
					Jay County was first represented in the State Legislature by Lewis W. Purviance, of
						Huntington County, in 1839. The district was then composed of Jay, Adams, Wells, Whitley
						and Huntington counties. In 1840 it was represented by Morrison Rulon. In 1841 the
						district embraced only Adams and Jay counties, and Elder Robert Tisdale, of Adams, was
						the representative. He was succeeded by Nathan B. Hawkins in 1842, and he by Samuel S.
						Mickle, of Adams, who has since been in the State Senate. The representatives succeeding
						were as follows: 1844, Robert Huey, of Jay County; 1845, S. S. Mickle, of Adams. In 1846
						the district was composed of Jay and Blackford counties, and William F. Jones, of the
						latter county, was the representative; 1847, Morrison Rulon; 1848, George S. Howell, of
						Blackford; 1849, Robert Huey; 1850, William T. Shull, of Blackford; 1851, Joseph W.
						Holliday, of Blackford. Mr. Holliday was a lawyer of Blackford County; was elected
						representative to  the legislature for Jay and Blackford
						counties in the year 1847. Before the meeting of the legislature he resigned and went to
						the Mexican war as lieutenant of a company of volunteers. He died in 1851, about the
						close of the session of the legislature.
					In 1852 Jay County became entitled to a representative independent of other counties,
						and Robert Huey was elected; in 1854, J. P. C. Shanks; in 1856, Joseph J. McKinney; in
						1858, George C. Whiteman; in 1860, Isaac Underwood, and in 1862, Samuel A. Shoaff.
					The following persons have been State Senators from districts of which Jay County has
						been a part: In 1839, John Foster; in 1840, Michael Aker, of Randolph; in 1843, Isaac F.
						Wood; in 1846, Dixon Milfigan, of Jay; in 1849, Jacob Brugh, of Blackford; in 1851,
						Thomas D. M. Longshore, of Randolph; in 1853, Theophilus Wilson, of Jay; in 1857, Daniel
						Hill, of Randolph; in 1861, David Studabaker, of Adams, and in 1863, George S. Brown, of
						Wells.
					Henry H. Cuppy was the first County Treasurer and Hawkins C. Fouts the next. His
						successor was William T. Shull, who was succeeded in 1841 by Jonas Votaw, who held the
						office until 1853, at which time Alexander White took it, but died in 1855, before the
						expiration of his term. G. W. Templer filled the vacancy thus occurring, and in  1856 was elected and served two years. Joseph P. Winters
						served from 1858 until 1862, when Royal Denney was elected, and resigned in July, 1864,
						when Thomas Black was appointed to fill the vacancy.
					Prior to 1850 the County Auditors were Alexander White and Joseph Wilson. At this time
						John Coulson took the office and served until 1859, when William G. Sutton was elected,
						and is the present incumbent.
					Geo. W. Templer was the first County Recorder (1843), and was succeeded in 1850 by
						Thomas Black, who served until 1859. Harvey Humphries was then elected, and served until
						1863, when Cyrus Stanley was elected, and now holds the office.
					D. W. McNeal was the first Surveyor, was succeeded by Thomas Brown, in 1842, and he by
						William H. Montgomery, in 1845, who served until 1852, when John C. Bailey was elected;
						in 1856, Nimrod Headington; in 1858, Thomas Brown, who served two years, and in 1862, B.
						R. McCoy, the present incumbent.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIII.
						TOWNSHIP HISTORY.
					MUCH of the early history of the townships can never be obtained.
						The official reports of the first elections are not in existence. The records of the
						County Commissioners appointing the elections, and the recollections of the early
						inhabitants, are the only sources from which any information can now be drawn. From the
						former we can only learn the time at which these elections were held. The facts
						ascertained from the first settlers concerning them are vague, uncertain and often
						contradictory. An instance will illustrate: In one township the confident testimony of
						the earliest residents would show that the first election was held at three different
						places and at as many different times. Similarly conflicting statements are given in
						most of the townships. The  memory of the pioneers is
						confused by the fact that at most of the precincts several special elections were held
						during the first year or two after the township organization. This leads many to give
						the first election they attended as the first township election. The same uncertainty
						exists, also, with reference to the officers of the election and the persons elected. In
						these circumstances, that only is stated here which is known to be true.
					The first township organized was PENN, by order of the County
						Commissioners at their first sitting. It was named by Samuel Grissell, in honor of
						William Penn. The first house was built by John Gain, in 1823; the first settler was
						John Brooks; the next was Moses Hamilton, who remained long enough to acquire the
						honorable distinction of first permanent settler. Samuel Grissell came next, and was
						soon followed by John McCoy, both in 1834.
					The town of Camden was laid out August 27th, 1836, by Jeremiah Smith, Samuel Grissell
						being the proprietor. It was first called New Lisbon. Mr. Grissell made a sale of town
						lots, Job Carr being the auctioneer, and sold at prices varying from $15 to $30. John D.
						Jones built the first house in the summer of 1836, (William Samuels had partially raised
						a house before this,) and became the first settler. It took the few hands that could be
						collected three days to raise it. The  town site was then
						partly cleared of underbrush, but Mr. Jones has the honor of having taken out the first
						"grub." The elections for several years were generally held at his house. William
						Samuels was the second person to settle in the town.
					In 1836 H. Z. Jenkins brought his family from Ohio, and a stock of goods, consigned to
						him to sell on commission, with which he opened the first store in the town—first
						occupying Job Carr's house, just west of the town, and afterward one of his own, in the
						village. Mrs. Jenkins generally waited on the customers. Job Carr, junior, kept the
						second store; and in April, 1839, Anthony Pitnam, now of Richmond, Indiana, opened the
						third. The Friends built the first meeting house in the township, situated east of the
						town. This log house, though still standing, is now superceded by a neat frame
						structure. At the first meeting held in Camden, by the Methodists, H. Z. Jenkins joined
						the church. James Coulson and his wife H. Z. Jenkins, Mary Delong and Sarah Gove formed
						the first class. Mr. Joseph A. Lupton was the first blacksmith, opening a shop in the
						winter of 1839-'40. Stephen Kees and Joseph J. Paxson were among the earliest pioneers
						of the north part of the township. The prudent forethought of Joshua Bond led him to
						bring a pair of hand mill stones when he moved from Ohio. 
						These he made into a hand grist mill, in the spring of 1836, which was the first mill in
						Jay County. There was much rejoicing in the vicinity when this successor to the hominy
						block was put in operation. It was constantly thronged, each man grinding his own grist,
						no toll being charged. But it would by no means supply the demand, and Mr. Bond soon
						fixed it to run by horse-power. This contrivance also failed to supply the wants of the
						region, and in 1837 Mr. Bond built a good mill, which was run by four to eight horses.
						That was the most celebrated mill ever erected in Jay County. To it the settlers flocked
						from far and near, some coming twenty miles. No public improvement was ever more welcome
						to the needy settlers. Sometimes so many would be at the mill over night that there was
						not room on the floor of Mr. Bond's house for all of them to lie down. This mill was in
						the basement of the log barn, in which he afterward built a threshing machine. That was
						the first threshing machine in the county. The customers then brought their grain to the
						mill in sheaves and took it away in flour! What modern mill can excel this pioneer
						establishment?
					About 1838 Samuel Grissell started a saw mill on the Salimonie by Camden, and in 1844
						put in operation a water grist mill. In 1850 Mr. Grissell and Lukins Griffith built a
						steam saw mill,  and the same year built the steam grist
						mill now owned by Samuel A. Shoaff.
					The first election in Penn Township is involved in much obscurity. The County
						Commissioners' record shows that the first election appointed was to be held at New
						Lisbon (Camden) on the second Saturday in December, 1836, Samuel Grissell, Inspector. At
						the January term, 1837, another election was ordered, to be held at Jonathan Hiatt's,
						John M. Carr, Inspector, on the last Saturday of that month. And again, at the May term,
						1837, still another election was appointee for the first Saturday in June—place
						not given. All these elections were to elect a Justice. Elihu Hamilton says he was
						elected the first Justice at the election held at Jonathan Hiatt's; that he would not
						accept the office, and that at a subsequent election, Ellis Davis was elected. The first
						township officers were appointed by the Commissioners in May, 1837, and were as follows:
						Inspector, Elihu Hamilton; Supervisor, Jonathan Hiatt; Overseers of the Poor, Joshua
						Bond and William Swallow; Fence Viewers, Moses Hamilton and David Canady.
					Levi Johnson, 'Esq., for twelve years Justice of the Peace in Jackson Township, taught
						the first school in Penn Township in the winter of 1837-'38, in a log house which stood
						near the present residence of Jesse Gray, jun.
					
					The Post Office was established in Camden on the 19th of January, 1839, and John D.
						Jones appointed Postmaster. He held the office just six days, during which time he
						opened one mail and found one letter for that office. John M. Carr succeeded Mr. Jones
						as Postmaster. It was first called Penn, then changed to Pennville.
					BEAR CREEK TOWNSHIP was
						organized in November, 1836, the first election held on the second Saturday in December,
						1836, at the house of John Pingry, Biram A. Pearson being Inspector. The first township
						officers were as follows: Inspector, James Marquis; Supervisors, William Vail and James
						Marquis; Overseers of the Poor, William Baldwin and Edward Buford; Fence Viewers,
						Frederick Wible and William Gray.
					The first settler was John Pingry, sen. The first store was kept by Lewis N. Byram, at
						Bloomfield. The first Post Office (Bear Creek) in the township was also at Bloomfield,
						established on the 7th of February, 1840, L. N. Byram, Postmaster. On the 14th of July,
						1851, the, office was removed to West Liberty, in Jackson Township, and W. R. Coldren
						appointed Postmaster; but in July the following year it was returned to Bloomfield, and
						J. L. Grigsby became Postmaster. John H. Smith holds the office at present, and is the
						only merchant in the place. In 1854 George W. Porter started the first store at West
						Chester,  and in April of that year the Post Office was
						established there, and he was appointed the Postmaster. Soon after, A. R. McGriff and I.
						N. Green purchased the store, and they sold it to William H. Montgomery, who still
						remains there and is the present Postmaster. Monroe Post Office was established on the
						24th of November, 1854, and John A. Smith appointed Postmaster, who held the office
						until July, 1864; when it was discontinued on account of a change in the mail route. It
						was on the Wabash river, near the farm of William Siberry, sen.
					The first marriage in the township was that of Addison D. May and Miss Lucinda Pingry,
						Nov. 6, 1834, by William Odle, Esq., of Deerfield. In the fall of 1835, Tandy Dempsey
						came to John Pingry's, and on the 8th of August, 1836, he died, being the first death in
						the township. In 1836 a large hickory tree caught fire near Mr. Pingry's. The fire ran
						up the tree about forty feet, there burned it off, and then slowly and constantly burned
						downward for nearly one year. It was known as the "burning tree."
					James Marquis and family settled on the farm now owned by Rev. Aaron Worth, April 14th,
						1836, purchasing the claim of Michael Zimmerman, who lived in a split log house. The
						chickens roosted on the joists at one corner of the house, while at one end on the
						outside was a shed,  under which the horses were kept,
						and, at the other, against the chimney, there was a pig pen. In May, of this year, a
						Methodist Episcopal class was formed at Mr. Marquis' house, being the first religious
						organization in Jay County. The members were: James Marquis, William Vail, Jesse Gray,
						senior, David and William Baldwin, and their wives.
					In June, 1837, Mr. Marquis commenced building a water grist mill on that place, and, in
						January, 1838, put it in operation—the second mill of the kind in the county. Like
						all other pioneer mills it was a great blessing to a large section of country. Many
						persons were waiting at the mill to get some grinding done when it started. Persons came
						to that mill from Adams, Wells and Blackford counties. Most persons came on horseback,
						some on ponies, and some brought their grists on their shoulders.
					In March, 1839, he started a saw-mill, the first one in Jay County.
					The first temperance meeting ever held in the county was also held at Mr. Marquis'
						house, in 1837. In 1839 the first temperance society was organized in the same
						neighborhood, and Dr. Jacob Bosworth delivered an address full of sound sense and
						convincing arguments. The following scraps are specimens of its bold, manly utterances:
							
						"Intemperance is incompatible with genuine patriotism. This
								virtue is not to be conceded to the drunkard. This noble and generous plant cannot
								live in a soul so uncultivated so overrun with foul and noxious weeds. Can a man be
								a patriot who violates every obligation of domestic and social life? whose example
								is a moral pestilence in the community, and who, for the sake of a beastly
								gratification, inflicts misery and wrong upon all who have the unhappiness to be
								connected with him. The good man loves his country because it contains much that is
								excellent and much that is dear to him. He knows it to be the home of the wise and
								good, of his kindred and friends, whom he venerates; he reveres the liberal and holy
								institutions it contains; in their prosperity and perpetuity he takes the deepest
								interest, and his most strenuous efforts are ever ready to remove what is evil and
								to advance that which is excellent and useful. Nothing of this kind can be
								attributed to the drunkard. His conduct and example, instead of advancing the
								welfare of his country, are eminently calculated to destroy its best interests. Do
								patriots discourage habits of industry and encourage habits of idleness, pauperism
								and crime? Intemperance destroys the intelligence and virtue of the
								people—those pillars of our republican system! it endangers our civil and
								religious institutions, with all that is held dear by the true patriot."
					Signed to the pledge of that society are nearly one hundred names, embracing persons
						living in all parts of the county.
					The first settler on the Limberlost, between William Gibson and Williain Chapman, was
						Ira Towle, who came in the spring of 1837. In three weeks Samuel Towle settled beside
						him. Within the next year or two a whole settlement of Eastern people joined them. John
						C. Montgomery,  Harry Reed, Reuben Montgomery, David
						Antles, George Axe, M. P. Montgomery, and Aaron and Thomas Brown. Ira Towle burned the
						top of a large stump in concave shape, which answered for a hominy block, and above it
						built a frame, in which was a contrivance to pound the corn in the stump. In this way
						the neighbors made their meal. Samuel Towle kept many travelers the first year.
						Twenty-five strangers staid in his fourteen-by-twenty-feet cabin one night. They lay
						upon the floor, commencing under the bed, the last one lying by the door, who had to get
						up in the morning before it could be opened! For three years John C. Montgomery's house,
						which stood just north of Westchester, was most of the time full of westward travelers
						on the Huntington road. Sometimes they went in caravans; at one time forty, at another
						seventy persons were in one company. Once, when Mr. Montgomery was sick, he put his gun
						out of the window and shot a wild turkey, which with a flock had come into the
						door-yard. The wolves killed several calves for Samuel Towle, and once caught a deer and
						tore it in pieces within fifteen rods of his door.
					A whirlwind more terrific than any storm that has since visited Jay County occurred on
						the 28th of March, 1840. It commenced half a mile west of Adam Stolz', near Westchester,
						taking nearly an eastern direction. A very small cloud first  appeared, which soon began to whirl, and in a few moments the sky presented
						a vast mass of confused whirling clouds. It would strike the earth, and follow the
						ground for perhaps half a mile, then rise above the trees, and soon again descend and
						renew its devastations. Its disastrous track was not more than forty rods wide. It took
						half the roof from Mr. Stolz' house, and tore down all the trees in his fields. It
						appeared to be in the height of its fury when it reached the old farm of William H.
						Montgomery. Darkness came as suddenly as the tornado;—the terrible roaring and
						crashing swallowed up all other sounds. The windows were blown in, and while the family
						endeavored to hold blankets against them, one side of the floor rose up several inches,
						the roof was taken off and carried several rods, and a limb fell into the chamber which
						took two men to lift. A straw bonnet belonging to Miss Jane A. Montgomery was torn to
						pieces, wrapped around a large tree, and the tree lying upon the ground. A dress
						belonging to Mrs. Harriet Walter was taken four and a half miles, and left in a tree
						top. All the fences were scattered; trees were torn down, and nothing fairly in its
						course withstood its fury. Trees three and four feet in diameter were twisted into
						splinters or snapped off, as if by the power of Him who holds the winds in the hollow of
						His hand. When it reached the farm of  Ebenezer Drake,
						Mrs. Drake was at home, alone with the children. With commendable forethought she took
						up a puncheon, put the children into a hole under the floor, and was just going down
						herself when a piece of flying timber struck her, inflicting severe injury. In a few
						moments the storm had passed, and she found only a few rounds of logs left of their
						house. Its noise was heard distinctly a distance of nine miles. A similar whirlwind
						passed through Madison Township before any families had settled in Jay.
					The first settler in Wabash Township was Peter Studabaker (1821); the second was Orman
						Perring, and the third was William Gibson. The first election was held at William
						Gibson's, on the 23d of September, 1837. John B. Gillespie settled on what is now the
						town site of New Corydon in 1837, and in 1839 built the old grist mill, having only a
						brush dam. In 1841 Samuel Hall built a saw mill on the south side of the river. James
						Gillespie erected a saw mill adjoining the grist mill, in 1842. In August, 1843,
						Theophilus Wilson purchased the town site and the Gillespie Mills, brought a stock of
						goods, and opened the first store. Gillespie had laid off a few town lots in 1840, but
						none had been sold. In March, 1844, Mr. Wilson employed Thomas Brown to survey the town
						of New Corydon. Jesse Snyder put up the first blacksmith's shop in 1844. Theophilus  Wilson put a tan yard in operation in 1845, which he
						afterward sold to Timothy H. Parker, who disposed of it to David Walter, the present
						owner. In 1845 Almon Sparling opened a cooper's shop. Wilson's store was the only one in
						the town until 1847, when Joshua Gifford commenced selling goods, and continued until
						his death, in September, 1853. Wilson sold his store to Sherburne A. Lewis in 1848, who
						subsequently took C. J. Plumb as a partner, and the store was kept in Plumb's house, at
						the lower end of Main street, which has since been a hotel. Samuel Hall and Harper Tyson
						sold goods a few months in Wilson's old stand, were succeeded by C. W. Scott, he by J.
						B. Cecil, and he by David Beardslee, whom George Steckel bought out, continuing the
						business, though at present in the hundred-days' service of his country.
					The first school kept in the township was by Miss Elizabeth Montgomery, now Mrs. Thomas
						Towle, in the summer of 1840. The first school in New Corydon was taught in the summer
						of 1844, by Miss Sophronia Lewis,—a hewed log "smoke house" being converted into a
						school-room. A Post Office was established at New Corydon in September, 1844, and T.
						Wilson appointed Postmaster, who held the office until January 1st, 1852, when he
						resigned in favor of C. W. Scott, who resigned in a year, and George  Stolz was appointed. He is the present incumbent, and also
						has a store.
					In 1844 the Rev. I. N. Taylor was stopping at Mr. Wilson's, who had just been repairing
						his old log house by ceiling up the rafters. Mr. Taylor proposed that a Presbyterian
						Church should be built there, and when Mr. Wilson made some objection he read to him
						these words from Hosea: "Is it time for you to dwell in your ceiled house, and this
						house lie waste? Go up to the mountains, and bring wood and build the house, and I will
						dwell in it, and I will be glorified, saith the Lord." Mr. Wilson replied, "You have got
						the Bible on your side; we will build the house!" and immediately gave Mr. Taylor the
						choice of his lots, and started a subscription paper by putting his name down for fifty
						dollars. The paper was circulated, and persons signed work, lumber, hauling, grain,
						etc., no money being promised. Rev. I. N. Taylor and the Limberlost settlement aided
						very much. Mr. Reuben Montgomery took the subscription and built the house for $250,
						without money. This pioneer church has been occupied by all denominations with good
						feeling. In 1855 a Methodist Church was built.
					The first Sabbath School in New Corydon was established on the 26th of June, 1842. The
						preliminary steps of organization were taken at the house of Asahel W. Lewis, in
						February previous.
					
					The old mills have now good successors. About 1858 John Hall and Vynul Arnett started a
						steam saw mill on the south bank of the river at the bridge, and in August, 1859, set in
						operation a steam grist mill. In 1862 William and Henry McMakin erected a large water
						grist mill at the old mill site. All these mills are now in successful operation. In
						1859 Henry Reed opened a drug store in New Corydon, which he still owns.
					The earliest minister in Wabash Township was Elder Robert Tisdale, a Baptist. He
						continued to travel and preach until his death, at a good old age, at Montpelier, in the
						autumn of 1856. In early times he carried a hatchet with him, in the winter, with which,
						fastened to a pole by withes or linden bark, he would sit on his horse and cut the ice
						before him, sometimes making but three or four miles a day, camping out at night or
						climbing a tree to avoid the wolves. He traveled extensively over Indiana and sections
						of Ohio; was a strong advocate of temperance and Sabbath Schools; noted for long
						sermons, and in late years for his liberal Christian sentiments.
					Rev. F. Baldwin, Rev. J. W. Allen, Rev. Mr. Drury and Elder Chaffee were, at different
						periods, the preachers for the Baptist church at New Corydon, until 1854, when Rev. J.
						C. Skinner became its pastor, and still holds that relation.
					In 1847, Rev. J. H. Babcock preached for the 
						Congregational church of New Corydon, but died the following year.
					He was succeeded by Rev. Andrew Loose, who remained some over one year, when Rev. James
						Boggs became the pastor of that church and the Presbyterian church on the Limberlost,
						and continued until 1854, when he moved to Clinton, Indiana, and afterward to Fairton,
						New Jersey, where he still resides. Rev. Joseph H. Jones then became pastor of the two
						churches, and still retains that position. He settled first in Adams County, but, in
						1863, moved to Westchester, where he now resides.
					The many Methodist circuit preachers in New Corydon and other circuits in the county,
						deserve honorable mention for their self-denying labors in the dissemination of
						christian principles, but their large number prevents us from obtaining a complete
						sketch.
					Among the most valuable of the Jay County pioneers was Theophilus Wilson. He settled in
						Liberty Township, Mercer County, Ohio, in 1841, where he bartered goods for the furs,
						skins, deer hams and everything the surrounding forest produced. He settled on the
						Wabash in 1843, from which time his identity with the physical, moral and political
						interests of Jay was conspicuous. He was the proprietor of New Corydon, its first
						merchant, post-master, and leading spirit in all 
						religious, temperance, educational and other enterprises, while he remained. He was
						loved and respected by all who knew him, always relied on as a citizen who was
						constantly looking to the best interests of the community. He represented this county
						and Randolph in the State Senate one term. His ceaseless activity, superior intelligence
						and large generosity made his loss deeply felt by the people, especially those at New
						Coryden, who knew him best, when he moved to Avondale, near Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1855,
						where he now resides, as deeply interested in Jay as though he were yet a citizen.
					Noble Township was organized in September, 1837. It was named in honor of Noah Noble,
						Governor of Indiana from 1831 to 1837.
					The first settlers were James Stone and Henderson Graves. The first election was held
						at James Graves', who was elected the first Justice of the Peace. Here the name
						Limberlost finds its source. This singular name was given this stream from the following
						circumstance: A man named James Miller, while hunting along its banks, became lost.
						After various fruitless efforts to find his way home, in which he would always come
						around to the place of starting, he determined he would go on a straight course, and so,
						every few rods would blaze a tree. While doing this he was found by his friends who were
						hunting him.  Being an agile man, he was known as "limber
						Jim," and, after this, the stream was called "Limberlost." A curious phenomenon can be
						seen in its waters. Bubbles are constantly rising, which, on reaching the surface, burst
						and leave an oily substance upon the water. Perhaps they are ebullitions from a coal oil
						fountain. Among the many hunters who have lived in this township, perhaps David Money is
						chief. He first settled about half a mile from the Jay County line, in Ohio, October,
						1830, moving into Noble Township in May, 1839, his brother Alexander having preceded him
						several years. Hunting has been his chief business during life, and in this respect he
						has acquired considerable celebrity and much skill. The first winter after settling in
						this county, he hunted steadily for three weeks, killing from three to nine deer each
						day, except two days, on each of which he killed two. During that fall and winter he
						killed one hundred and twenty deer! He received, at one time, one hundred dollars in
						Fort Wayne, for furs and skins. At one time he was hunting with a companion who lost his
						gun-lock. Mr. Money sent him back to hunt the lock, and take care of the deer they had
						already shot, telling him that he (Money) would meet him at a certain place the next
						day, at noon. At the appointed time they met, and, since their separation, the old
						hunter had killed eleven deer  and one fox! The next
						winter he hunted three weeks, and killed sixty-seven deer. He took to market at one time
						thirty-two deer, all having their skins on. There were two sleigh loads of them. The
						first sleigh had a fine old buck with high horns and many "points," standing erect at
						the front, presenting a most novel and amusing spectacle. During his life he has killed
						eighteen deer at nine shots, two at each time. Only a few years ago he shot thirty-two
						consecutive times at deer, foxes, pheasants and other game, without missing. His chief
						hunting ground, in later years, has been Paulding County, Ohio, whither he goes once or
						twice a year, camps in the woods, after the good old hunting style, and hunts for weeks
						at a time. In the fall of 1861 he killed eleven deer and one wolf in that county.
					A Post-office was established in Noble Township, May 28th, 1851, called Hector, and J.
						C. Brewington appointed Postmaster. For several years Wilbur Morehous has held the
						office.
					Near the "ninety mile tree,"—a tree on the state line, between Indiana and Ohio,
						just ninety miles from the Ohio river,—Ebenezer Woodbridge now of Lee County,
						Illinois, settled in 1838, bringing his family two years after. Their cooking stove was
						the first in that part of the county, and created much curiosity among the neighbors.
							 He was an earnest temperance man. When he wanted to
						raise his barn, out of many persons invited, but few came the first day, and it was
						hinted to him that it was because he would not furnish liquor. He indignantly mounted a
						stump and made a regular "stump" speech to his neighbors, saying that if his barn could
						not go up without whiskey, the logs might rot upon the ground. The next day his barn was
						raised.
					In 1861, Daniel Forner and Charles Joseph commenced the manufacture of crockery ware at
						Mr. Forner's residence, in Noble Township. They are still engaged in the business.
					Wayne Township was organized in September, 1837. Most of the early history of this
						township has already been given. The first election was held on the third Saturday in
						September, 1837, Daniel Farber, Inspector. The first settler was Philip Brown, who built
						the first house (1832). The next was William Brockus, and the third James Morrison. Then
						came Obadiah Winters, the Highlander family, and H. H. Cuppy. The latter built the
						"Conner house" on the south side of the Big Salimonie, now owned by Colonel Shanks, in
						the fall of 1833. That house is celebrated as the one in which the first Commissioners'
						and Circuit Courts were held.
					In 1836 Cuppy brought some goods from Richmond and opened a store in that house, which
							 was the second one in the county. He also built the
						first house in Portland, which was in 1837. It was a long, log structure, and stood on
						the corner, since the Jay Inn. He moved his store into that house. The next house in
						town was the court house, built by Robert Huey. The next year Lewis S. Farber built a
						house, where D. L. Grow's tan-yard is now situated; and James Simmons built one for D.
						W. McNeal on the corner where Miller's building now stands. The first farm house was
						built by Dr. D. Milligan, on the corner south of Miller's building. The first regular
						tavern was kept by William Haines, who built what is known as "Hickory Hall" for that
						purpose—still standing.
					In 1839 Nathan B. Hawkins and William T. Shull opened the second store in the place.
						The town was full of native trees then, and it is related that hickory-nuts would often
						fall upon the log court house while court was in session.
					Dr. Jacob Bosworth moved from Massachusetts to Ohio in 1817. While passing through
						Darke County he found Jesse Gray, who urged him to go to Jay to look for land, which he
						did. He and his family arrived March 1st, 1836. He was the first physician in the
						county, and for many years his practice was extensive. In the summer of 1837 he opened a
						Sabbath School in the Wringer cabin at Liber, which had then been used  for a sugar-making house. It was the second school of that
						kind in the county. Afterward it was moved to his house southeast of Liber, where it was
						continued for nine years.
					John Smith built the next house in Liber in 1836. It was on the farm so long the home
						of Deacon Jonathan Lowe, now owned and occupied by Jonathan R. Wells. Mr. Smith also
						built the "old log barn," still standing, and now owned by Mrs. Mary S. Montgomery,
						which was the subject of the following verses by R. S. Taylor, Esq.: 
								There's a charm for me yet in the old log barn,
								So tottering, old and gray;
								Where wildly I loved, long years ago,
								To romp on the new-made hay.
							
							CHORUS.
							
								For the merry old times that I sported there,
								The song that I sung in my play,
								Have an image and echo within my breast
								That never will fade away.
							
							
								There was gathered the fruit of the plenteous year,
								In garner and spacious mow;
								And the laborers' shout of "Harvest Home,"
								Is floating round me now.
							
							CHORUS.
							
								For the merry old times, &c.
							
							
								And here is the olden-time threshing floor,
								Where busily moved our feet;
								To handle the hay, or the bearded sheaf,
								Or winnow the golden wheat.
							
							CHORUS.
							
								For the merry old times, &c.
							
							
							
								But now the old barn is forsaken and lone,
								The best of its days it has seen;
								Still, when it has fallen and mouldered away,
								Its memory will be green.
							
							CHORUS.
							
								For the merry old times, &c.
							
						
					They were set to music also composed by Mr. Taylor, and after being sung at an
						exhibition at Liber College, were published in the Minnehaha Glee Book.
					In the summer of 1845 Rev. Joseph H. Babcock came to Jay County, residing first at
						Portland, where he organized a Presbyterian Church November 29th, of nine members,
						consisting of J. H. Babcock, Eliza Babcock, Jacob Bosworth, Nancy Bosworth, Josiah H.
						Topping, Hector Topping, Amaretta Topping, Joseph C. Hawkins and Amanda Frazee. The
						meeting was held in the Court House. In 1847 he moved to New Corydon, preaching in
						Portland and in the old Limberlost Church. He died at New Corydon, March 15th, 1848,
						universally lamented. He was a favorite with all classes, adapting himself with ease to
						the society around him: a fluent speaker, and possessing a complete education as a
						lawyer as well as a minister, he was well calculated to be a leader in all the moral
						movements of the time, and especially to lift the Banner of the Cross in the
						heterogeneous society of a new country.  The temperance
						reform, the Sabbath School and the common school received his active attention. He was a
						model preacher, a good citizen and a true-hearted Christian man. No death in Jay County
						has been so lamented by those who knew how to value such a man in the forming of new
						communities. "Though dead he yet speaketh" to those who knew him in his self-sacrificing
						labors in this county.
					When the Commissioners organized Pike Township, in 1837, they gave it that name at the
						suggestion of J. C. Hawkins. Most of its early history has been given. The first settler
						was John J. Hawkins; the next Thos. J. Shaylor, and the third Sarah Riddley.
					Jacob Sutton relates that one night, soon after he settled there, his dog became much
						alarmed. He saw in front of the house some animal, and shot at it while in the house. It
						proved to be a wolf, and the shot had broken its back. The excited dog caught it and
						would not let go until he had dragged it into the house, where it was killed.
					The oldest settler, now living, in the west part of the township is Henry Harford. The
						first election was held at Jacob Sutton's, and Henry Welch, who lived on the farm now
						owned by John J. Adair, was elected Justice. David Garringer has held that office the
						longest of any one in the township. The first school house built was  on John Kidder's farm, and Miss Lucetta Kidder, now Mrs.
						Waldo, taught the first school, commencing July 1st, 1840. The first tavern was kept by
						Abraham C. Sutton, on his farm near Bluff Point. This village was surveyed in 1854 by W.
						H. Montgomery, for L. J. Bell and I. N. Taylor. It was first called Iowa. December 17th,
						1840, the Post Office was established there, and David Garringer appointed Postmaster.
						It was then called Van, which name it retained un- 1853, when it was changed to Bluff
						Point.
					Boundary City Post Office was established May 11th, 1852, and Daniel Heaster appointed
						Postmaster. He still retains that position, and has a store.
					The village of Antioch was surveyed in 1853. Amos Hall, C. H. Clark and David Frazee
						were the proprietors. Mr. Clark named it after Antioch College. Peter Couldren kept the
						first store.
					The first sermon ever preached in Jay County was by Rev. Robert Burns, a Methodist, at
						the Hawkins cabin, in the fall of 1832. His text was, Come unto me all ye that labor and
						are heavy laden and I will give you rest."
					Jefferson Township was organized at the last meeting of the Commissioners in 1837. The
						first election was held at the house of Jacob H. Sanders, who was elected the first
						Justice, and John Nixon was chosen Constable. Peter Dailey was  Inspector of the election. J. H. Sanders laid out New Mount Pleasant, and
						named it in honor of a Quaker meeting-house in Ohio of a similar name. Willliam Hite was
						the first settler in the town, and kept the first tavern. The grand jury found forty-two
						indictments against him at one time for selling liquor, all of which were sustained. It
						brought out the true manhood that was in him. He abandoned the business, and became a
						sober, highly respected citizen. John Bell built the second house in the village, and
						kept the first store. The first school in the township was taught by an Irishman named
						Thomas Athy, near the farm of William Finch, sen.
					Jackson Township was organized in March, 1838. Prior to this it had been attached to
						Bear Creek Township. The first settler was Edward Buford. The first person who died in
						the township was Aaron Rigby, in September, 1837, near the farm of Isaac Russell. There
						being no lumber, the coffin was made of "puncheons,"* by Joshua Bond. Gillum Post Office was established January 8th,
						1856, and George Fish appointed the first Postmaster. In 1857 Abel Lester opened an
						establishment for the manufacture of crockery ware. It was in operation only about two
						years. * The word
							"puncheon" is used in this work in the pioneer sense, which means a plank which is
							split out of a log, and hewed instead of being sawed.
						 Silas S. Pingry was Justice in this township for
						seventeen years. He married two pairs of twin sisters out of the same family. The first
						name of each of the husbands was John.
					During a thaw in the winter of 1837-'8, Mr. James Snow, father of Dr. B. B. Snow, then
						about sixty years old, who lived six miles northwest of Portland, being out of tobacco,
						of which he was a passionate lover, started to Camden on foot to procure some. Soon
						after leaving home the weather began to turn colder; but though thinly clad, he was
						sufficiently comfortable until his return, when it began to snow very rapidly, making
						him quite wet and hiding the trace he was following, except the blazes upon the trees.
						Soon the snow covered most of these, and he discovered he had lost the track entirely,
						which he tried in vain to regain. Finding that he was suffering from the cold despite
						all his exercise, he endeavored to retrace his steps to Camden. This he found very
						tedious work, and soon impossible, on account of the darkness. He now became seriously
						alarmed for his safety; wandered about, and called loudly for aid, but received no
						answer. By this time he was discouraged and exhausted. He had waded across runs and
						through slashes until his feet and lower extremities were very wet; his clothing was
						freezing upon him, and he had eaten nothing since early in the morning.  He was forced to choose between an effort to save his life
						by exercising all night or submit to his fate! Being drowsy, he was strongly inclined to
						the latter course. Finally, he sought a clear, level place between two large trees, and
						there continued walking and running from one to the other until morning. His family,
						supposing he was lost, procured the assistance of some neighbors, and went in search of
						him, at daylight. About 9 o'clock in the forenoon they found him crawling on his back
						track and badly frozen. He was a long time recovering.
					Richland township was organized in May, 1838. It was named by Benjamin Manor. The first
						election was held at William Richardson's who lived where Laban Hickman now does, on the
						second Saturday in June, the same year, John Booth, Inspector. James Ewing was the first
						Justice. Matthew A. Smith held this office for fourteen years. Half Way Post-office was
						established September 19, 1853, and Samuel J. Current appointed Postmaster. Half Way
						Creek was so named from being half way between Portland and Muncie, and, from this
						stream, the Post-office received its name. The village of Mount Vernon was laid out by
						W. H. Wade, and surveyed by John C. Bailey. Michael Coons, who settled in the township
						in 1837, has killed several bears and over three hundred deer there.
					
					The first settlers in the vicinity of Dunkirk were Isaiah Sutton and William Shrack,
						who came in September, 1837. One day, while the men were absent, Mrs. Sutton saw a deer,
						and, though she had never fired a gun, she took careful aim and shot, killing the deer
						instantly.
					James S. Wilson was the first Postmaster at that office, which was established February
						28th, 1856.
					Green Township was organized in March, 1838. The first settler was T. J. Shaylor, the
						next William Coffin. Samuel Routh, William Bunch, Greenbury Coffin and Henry Delong were
						also early settlers. The Rev. G. C. Whiteman settled where he still lives, Oct. 22d,
						1837. Mr. Routh and Christopher I. Timberlake were from Green County, Ohio, and named
						the township after that county. The first election was at Delong's, the first Monday in
						August, 1839.
					Rev. Wade Posey, who was then on the Winchester Circuit of the Methodist Church,
						preached the first sermon in the township at Mr. Whiteman's. The first school was taught
						in the winter of 1845-6, in a school house situated near James Whaley's. The township
						had no post office until May 22d, 1862, when one was established called Green, and John
						Stricker appointed Postmaster.
					Knox was the last township organized, which was in March, 1839. A. C. Smith and Joseph
							 Gaunt went to Portland to get the township organized.
						After hunting some time they found the Commissioners in session out in the woods, near
						the court house. The old township name of Salimonie had not been given to any of the new
						townships, and Jacob Bosworth, who was then one of the Commissioners, insisted that at
						least the last township should have that name. But Mr. Gaunt wanted it named after Knox
						County, Ohio, and succeeded.
					John Brooks was the first settler. Brittan Beard, Joseph Gaunt, John Gaunt, Adam
						Zeigler, Abraham C. Smith and Joshua Bowers were among the early settlers.
					The first election was held at Gaunt's, on the first Monday in April, 1839, A. C.
						Smith, Inspector. There were just seven votes cast, and six officers elected, as
						follows: Trustees, A. C. Smith, Michael Roland and Joseph Gaunt; Justice, Michael
						Roland; Clerk, Cornelius Smith; Constable, Adam Zeigler.
					The first death in the township was that of Mrs. Jane Beard, wife of Brittan Beard. She
						died in the fall of 1839, and was the first person buried in the township cemetery.
						Cornelius Smith taught the first school in the winter of 1838-'39.
					The organization of Madison Township has been given. Henry Abel and Benjamin Goldsmith
						were the proprietors of Lancaster. It was  surveyed by D.
						W. McNeal. Salimonie Post Office was established in 1852, and G. W. Abel appointed
						Postmaster. He still retains that position. Jordan Post Office was established in
						18—, but it was then in Randolph County. For a few years it has been on the Jay
						side of the county line. The village of New Pittsburg, like Salem, is on both sides of
						the line separating the two counties.
					In the winter of 1835-'6 William Martin opened a store near Abraham Lotz', which was
						the first in the county.
					One hindering difficulty in the development of the resources of the county has been the
						rage for hunting which most of the early settlers possessed. Instead of clearing a farm,
						only a small spot was generally opened on which to raise a patch of corn, and the time
						principally spent in hunting. It would have been much more profitably employed in making
						wider aggressions upon the forests and thus adding new fields to the farm. During the
						first stages of the emigrant's life this hunting was an absolute necessity; but was
						often, from long habit and love of the excitement of the hunt, continued after the
						necessity had passed away. The liberal prices paid for skins by the fur traders also
						encouraged the hunting, and the money thus distributed was for many years the chief
						dependence of the pioneer families in  making purchases of
						merchandise and grain, and in paying taxes and doctor bills. Coffee, tobacco, muslin,
						and, we are sorry to say, in some neighborhoods whisky, were the staple articles of
						trade for the first few years. A boy once called at Theo. Wilson's store, in New
						Corydon, with one bushel of corn, half of which he left for tobacco, and the other half
						took to the mill, remarking that it was the last grain they had. As game became scarce
						in Jay and adjoining counties, hoop poles came to be the chief exporting product. Jay
						County hoop pole teams have been seen at Eaton and Camden in Preble County, Ohio, and
						that, too, before there was a turnpike on any part of the road.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIV.
						REV. I. N. TAYLOR—LIMBERLOST CHURCH.
					The first organized religious and educational effort, in Jay County, was made by Rev.
						Isaac N. Taylor. He was, emphatically, the leading pioneer in all systematic, effectual
						labor in these movements. Occupying, as he did, so prominent a position in the county's
						early history, so thoroughly identified with her best interests, any history of Jay
						County would be very incomplete without a considerable sketch of his life and labors in
						it.
					In October, 1838, he was sent by the American Home Missionary Society and Presbytery of
						Chilicothe, Ohio, to St. Mary's, Ohio, as a Missionary to the new settlements in that
						region. Early in the summer of 1840 he received a vague verbal message to the effect
						that somebody, thirty or forty miles west of St. Mary's, wanted to see  him. He wrote to this unknown person a sealed letter,
						directing it "To any Presbyterian west or south-west of St. Mary's, within forty miles,
						greeting," and confided it "to any hunter going to the Wabash." He took it himself ten
						miles, to the extremity of squatter sovereignity habitation. West of that, to the
						Wabash, was an untouched wilderness of the most dismal character, yet that letter, thus
						committed to the wild, reached its providential destination, and was speedily answered
						by Mr. Matthew P. Montgomery, who lived on the farm now owned by Peter Walter, of Wabash
						Township, urging him to come there, and telling him of a small community of Christian
						people in his neighborhood. Soon after, Mr. Taylor made his first visit to Indiana. From
						what is since Celina to New Corydon, there was then scarcely a sign of human existence,
						and the first farm south of the Wabash was that of Mr. David Adams, where he found the
						whole neighborhood assembled raising a double log barn. Of that event Mr. Taylor says:
						"The patriarch of the occasion, as he ever was till he died, was Father Reuben
						Montgomery. After a few salutations he led us on down the creek some three miles to the
						house of his son-in-law, Ira Towle, where, on Saturday night, our first religious
						meeting was held. The day following was a memorable Sabbath to those sheep in the
						wilderness—memorable for  reviving the sacred
						memories of the Sabbath, the sanctuaries of the past, and for kindling the hopes of a
						better future, when this wilderness might rejoice and blossom as the rose."
					Six weeks afterward, Mr. Taylor returned, preached for several days at Ira Towle's,
						sometimes in the barn, and organized a Presbyterian church, of thirteen members, of whom
						Jacob Bosworth, (though living twelve miles distant,) Harry Reed and M. P. Montgomery
						were elected elders.
					In the afternoon, on the Sabbath, there was a meeting for the relation of personal
						Christian experience. Most of the male members of that gathering have gone to their
						eternal home. No one can paint so true a picture of these men as Mr. Taylor, who writes
						thus: "Father Montgomery, brought into the Kingdom in advanced life, impressed me that
						common sense was his great excellence. His story of his conversion showed that the truth
						and spirit of Christ had seized upon this ruling power in his conversion, and had ever
						since made this trait the chief medium of keeping him from error and preserving his
						piety. A memorable morsel in his prayer on that occasion illustrated how child-like
						sympathy may rule in company with a masterly will. It was this: 'O, Lord, thou knowest
						there is a great work to be done here in Jay County, and we have none to look to but
						Thee.' He was a famous framer.  Many houses and barns in
						Jay will long be the remembrancers of his industry, though men, with noisier tool
						covered with board and nail his firmly jointed workmanship. And so, I think, his strong
						minded counsels, though covered by noisier advocates of moral and religious reform, will
						remain a part of the hidden frame-work of new society in Jay County.
					"Ira Towle's hesitating yet honest manner made me say of him, to myself: There is a man
						that minds his own affairs and keeps his own secrets, and wishes all others to do the
						same. I found him so. Never obtrusive, he was always in his place, doing, not proposing
						or discussing, his full share towards all the interests of society. In keeping with all
						else, he, dying without any immediate heirs, bequeathed most of his property to the
						cause of Home Missions, amounting to over two thousand dollars.
					"Harry Reed's account was unstudied and highly emotional. Some odd, blunt expression
						about God's handling him mighty rough, would make us smile, and the next minute we would
						find ourselves weeping with him that wept, while he was telling of the almighty love of
						Jesus. With him religion was an inwrought principle and law of life, that would always
						prevail over the transient errors of sudden impulse or hasty speech. I confided to him,
						more than any man in those days,  all my cares. His
						industry, integrity, zeal and tender sensibility made him a valuable exponent of those
						elementary lessons of piety and charity which it was my care to instill into the heart
						of society in those early days. He was, emphatically, a worker in the moral as in the
						natural wilderness, and in both his works do follow him.
					"M. P. Montgomery, a man of superior intellect and of views and aspirations wide and
						high, with both natural and acquired gifts of speech, gave us, in addition to his
						Christian evidences, the lively impression that he was, all over, from the sole of his
						foot up, for more than six feet, to the crown of his masterly head, a Presbyterian. It
						was to be expected that such a man would hail with joy the hopeful beginning of better
						times. He deprecated the prevailing type of religion in the country, as contemptuous of
						solid knowledge, dignified forms, and practical correctness. He was chiefly instrumental
						in getting, at so early a date, the first meeting-house, the block house, Limberlost
						Chapel. Soon after the organization of the church, he attended, as elder, a meeting of
						the Presbytery, at New Carlisle, Ohio. It was the era of the great Washingtonian
						Temperance Reform. One night there was a grand meeting. Several eminent speakers were
						present, among them the famous Dr. Hall, of overwhelming brass bugle eloquence. Mr.
						Montgomery having  learned that very many christian
						professors of that region were opposed to the Reform, delivered such a scathing
						philippic as entitled him to the lionship of the evening. He employed the bitter
						language of John the Baptist and of Christ respecting the Jews suffering vile characters
						to enter the Kingdom of God before them, neither entering themselves nor suffering those
						that would to enter. He explained, expanded and applied the terms hypocrites, generation
						of vipers, etc., with resistless force. Dr. Hall was so pleased that he invited him home
						with him to Dayton, and sent him back to Jay with forty dollars for the completion of
						the little chapel.
					"His stay in the county was only for a few years. Indeed his stay on earth was not
						long, for, having removed to the vicinity of Fort Wayne, he had scarcely fixed his
						family comfortably on a new farm, when he was called to another sphere."
					In 1841 Ira Towle gave the land for a church site and cemetery. Logs were hewed on four
						sides and a house erected that year—the first church building in the county.
					The first temperance meeting in that part of the county were held in it, and, at one of
						these, Judge J. M. Haynes made the first public speech. The people who so long worshiped
						within its walls, abandoned it in 1862, occupying their new house at Westchester.
					
					Though forsaken the rustic church is not forgotten.
					
						THE LIMBERLOST CHURCH.
					
					The memory of its dear old walls is linked with the cherished remembrance of the many
						loved ones who sleep near it. As the first altar consecrated to God in the new county,
						its appearance is rescued from oblivion for the eyes of futute generations. The church
						organization is now Congregational.
					Mr. Taylor accompanied Dr. Bosworth to Portland, where the doctor announced him, on
						account of his youth, as a "Presbyterian boy preacher."  A
						large audience assembled at Portland, in the old court-house, "a log building, long, low
						and dismal," and there he preached his first sermon in that part of the county, taking
						for his text that first divine call after apostate man—"Adam, where art thou?"
						Several sermons followed, engaging the unwonted attention of the people for several days
						and nights.
					The statements and reasonings of Dr. Bosworth's "boy preacher" was the same he had
						insisted on among his neighbors since they had pitched their tents together in the
						wilderness. But he had longed to have these truths fastened on men's minds and
						consciences in a professional way, and his delight on this occasion was great.
					For about two years after his first entrance, Mr. Taylor made frequent visits in Jay,
						and, gradually, a desire sprang up within him to labor for the mental and moral welfare
						of the county. This was more natural, because, by reason of certain predispositions, he
						had cherished from boyhood the desire to help lay the foundations of society in a new
						country. During these visits his acquaintance was enlarged at New Corydon, Camden and in
						the Hawkins neighborhood, and his desire grew into a fixed intention to spend the vigor
						and strength of his life in this destitute and difficult, but promising field for
						intellectual and religious labor.
					
					He moved into the county in February, 1843, and first occupied a cabin belonging to
						William H. Montgomery, two miles east of Westchester. In addition to preaching to the
						flock he had gathered there, he preached in the Hawkins cabin for Father Philip
						Ensminger, then, as he still is, (though now in his ninetieth year,) the meek and
						venerable white-haired patriarch of that neighborhood. Mr. Taylor's veneration for
						"first things" and interest in pioneer experience was greatly gratified at Mrs.
						Hawkins'. The vigorous blood and daring nerve of "Old Kentuck" animated her frame as she
						would recount the thrilling scenes of their first year among the savage beasts and
						savage men that then walked curiously and stealthily around her rude earnest of a coming
						civilization.
					Then, on the Wabash, Mr. Taylor would preach for the neighbors in the cabin of Robert
						Webster, where some of the most solemn and affecting scenes of his ministry were
						enacted. Here he was aided by the self-denying Missionary Pogue, who, then a student at
						Lane Seminary, Ohio, spent a three months' vacation in Jay County, and afterward went to
						the Sandwich Islands, without a wife, because Miss Elizabeth Webster, the intelligent
						and Christian housekeeper in that cabin, had gone to her grave and her home in
						heaven.
					
					In 1845 Mr. Taylor, desiring to attend theological lectures at Lane Seminary, moved to
						Cincinnati. That movement he always regretted; returned in two years and settled in
						Portland very early in the spring of 1847. For two years he was Agent of the American
						Sunday School Union, and he accomplished a great work in organizing schools and
						awakening in the minds of the people an interest in that most useful and effective
						branch of Christian labor. While living in Portland he engaged in an unprofitable
						mercantile enterprise with Calvin D. Searl. Late in 1850 he became Principal of the Jay
						County Seminary, which position he held for two years. During these years, looking
						forward to the founding of a school, he selected the knoll on the Salimonie by the
						spring as a suitable spot, and purchased the land of John Smith. The remainder of Mr.
						Taylor's life in Jay is inseparably connected with Liber College, and will appear in the
						following chapter.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XV.
						LIBER COLLEGE.
					To build an institution of learning in some new region "where no man had laid a
						foundation," had long been a darling enterprise in the mind of I. N. Taylor. In many
						respects he was well fitted for the work. He greatly loved life in a new country. He has
						spent but a mere fragment of his mature life elsewhere than in the beginnings of
						society. This region of tall forests and log-cabins, wide fire places and liberal
						chimney-corners, its germs of society planted with plain, genial, warm-hearted pioneers,
						was well suited to his tastes and talents. His early settlement here, extensive
						acquaintance and sympathy with the people, great influence, unflagging energy, and,
						under adverse circumstances, obstinate will, all aided in adapting him to the work he
						was  about to commence. In autumn, 1842, in company with
						Jacob Bosworth and Harry Reed, he first crossed, on foot, the present site of Liber.
					"While these three men were sitting by the spring to which many
							scores now daily resort, the covenant of his boyhood came vividly to the mind of the
							Missionary, then in his twenty-fifth year, and an impression sudden and overwhelming
							as from the whisper or impress of a ministering angel, was settled on his heart, that
							on this spot he should dwell and execute his covenant with God and a sainted
								brother."*
					Nothing, however, was done toward the enterprise, then so dimly painted in the visions
						of the future, for ten years, except that Mr. Taylor negotiated for the land. When he
						moved upon the ground he called the place Salem.
					The first public meeting ever held to consider the subject of building a school there,
						assembled in the "old peeled-log meeting house," near by what was then known as the
						Salem Cemetery, February 5th, 1853. The persons present were Rev. I. N. Taylor, Jonathan
						Lowe, Jacob Bosworth, J. H. Topping, Obadiah Winters, Wilson Milligan, David Hays,
						George W. Templer, William McCormick, Joseph C. Hawkins, John G. Spade, Augustus
						Bosworth and R. S. Taylor. Mr. Winters was chosen Chairman and Mr. Taylor Secretary.
					* Liber Lamp, September,
						1858.
					
					"The day was bitterly cold; the wind blew a heavy gale, and the
							snow drifted through the crevices of the cabin, so that not a spot could be found in
							the room where the Clerk could keep the paper dry. So unusually bitter was the cold
							storm that a large red-hot stove did not warm the 'peeled-log house.'"*
					I. N. Taylor proposed an institution to be called Salem Academy, and argued that "such
						an enterprise would be more in harmony with the undeveloped state of the country and the
						conceptions of the people, as well as within their means." Mr. Bosworth proposed a
						college, arguing that "no school of high grade could be made without foreign aid, and
						that such assistance could be more readily obtained for a college." This proposition
						prevailed, and the school was named "Liber College," by suggestion of Mr. Taylor. After
						this the village took the same name. April 20th, 1853, a notice appeared in the Portland
							Journal giving notice of the first election of officers, and on the
						3d of May the corporators met and organized themselves into the "Liber College Joint
						Stock Company." Shares were placed at $20 each, and the payment of $100 entitled the
						holder to a perpetual scholarship. At this meeting the following officers were elected,
						being the first officers of the corporation: Trustees, Jacob Bosworth, Wilson Milligan,
						Obadiah * Liber Lamp,
							October, 1858.
						 Winters, Wilbur Morehous, Ebenezer Woodbridge and Robert
						Huey; Treasurer, G. W. Templer. On the same day the Board of Trustees held their first
						meeting and elected I. N. Taylor President for four years. Afterward, A. Bosworth was
						elected Clerk. During that summer the Board put forth a manifesto, from which the
						following are extracts:
					"Liber is a latin word of four meanings, which the school-boy sometimes expresses in
						the rhyme: 
								'Liber is a child,
								And Liber is free;
								Liber is a book,
								And the bark of a tree.'
							
					"The significance of the title may be expressed in a sentence. We established, on
						liberal principles, in a new woodland, an institution for the education of our children,
						in books of practical Science, Religion and Liberty. * * * Rarely was a College, or even
						a first rate High School, founded, furnished and finished in the time of one mortal
						generation. This we know, and are not crazed or gloomed. The growth of a good
						Institution is usually like that of an oak. As men in middle life and old age do not
						plant acorns expecting themselves to sit under the expanded and towering boughs of the
						embryo oak, so we are not oppressed with swollen fancies of speedy  and easy maturity. We plant the acorn. It will germinate this very year.
						Henceforth our children will defend the sappling, root, bark and blossom. But the broad,
						deep shade of the great tree we willingly consecrate to those generations who will live
						and learn over our graves."
					A college campus of six acres was donated to the company by I. N. Taylor and Jonathan
						Lowe.
					Early in this year, (1853,) the Board contracted with I. N. Taylor to build a house,
						suitable for the preparatory classes, for one thousand two hundred dollars. The result
						was that in November of that year the house was ready to be occupied.
					
						LIBER COLLEGE.
					
					In August the site itself was cleared of its native beach trees and old logs.
					
					On the 5th of November, 1853 the school was opened; I. N. Taylor, President and Mrs.
						Julia A. Weber, Principal of the Primary Department.
					During the first term Deacon Jonathan Lowe proposed to place in school a negro boy,
						living with him, called George Lowe, but whose real name was George Hunter. This
						displeased a number of the stock-holders, and they became divided on the question of
						admitting colored persons to the privileges of the school. At once the previous harmony
						among the original founders was broken. The language of the Constitution of the College
						being that "the purpose of this Institution is to furnish to any person whomsoever the
						facilities of a common and collegiate education," those stockholders opposed to the
						admission of colored persons ceased to co-operate in the management of the College.
						Afterward (March 22, 1855,) the stockholders voted to reimburse those who had paid
						stock, not understanding that negroes could be admitted to the school. The result of the
						withdrawal of these persons was the founing of Farmers' Academy, of which more will be
						said hereafter.
					The first year the school opened with twenty scholars, forty-three being in attendance
						during the course of the year. The entire cost of teaching and agency during the first
						two years was only about one thousand one hundred and fifty  dollars, during which time, for teaching the Primary Department four months, Mrs.
						Weber received but twenty-seven dollars. Those were indeed times of "small things."
					At the opening of the third year of the school Miss Sarah Jane Miller was the Primary
						teacher, which position she held for three years. The number of trustees was increased
						to twelve. During the year I. N. Taylor resigned his office as President of the Board
						and J. C. Hawkins was appointed to the office. Two rows of rooms were built for
						self-boarding students, and several new residents came into the village and built
						houses. Nothing of especial interest occurred then until the fifth year, during which
						the teachers were as follows: President, I. N. Taylor, Principal Primary Department,
						Miss S. J. Miller, Assistants, R. S. Taylor, Pulaski Mills, Mattie Tyson, Edmund
						Lockett, W. G. Montgomery and Hattie A. Weber. The whole number of students during the
						year was one hundred and seventy-four.
					The commencement exercises at the close of that year were distinguished by the
						graduation of the first class, consisting of M. W. Diggs, Pulaski Mills and R. S.
						Taylor. Immediately after the latter received his diploma, he stepped forward with Miss
						Fanny W. Wright, and the newly-crowned Bachelor of Arts lost the first part of his
						degree.
					
					The following is an extract from the peculiarly appropriate Baccalaureate Address of
						President Taylor: "MISSION OF THE PIONEER
								COLLEGE.
							"In new countries there is as much native mind, of good order, in proportion to the
								number of inhabitants, as in old countries; and, considering the degenerating
								influences of sumptuous and fashionable life in many places, there is even more.
								Uncouth men and women may become new settlers, but weak and cowardly men and women
								are not likely to brave the toils and dangers of pioneer life. Moreover, these toils
								and dangers invigorate the brain, and effectuate a strength of character which ease
								and luxury only hinder and prevent. Hence, the children of pioneers are more likely
								to exhibit that amount of healthy brain and active nervous organization, which we
								call natural talent, than any other class whatever. It is my belief, after the
								observation of twenty years, that among the first and second purchasers of new
								territory, there is a higher order of vigorous mind than in any other condition of
								society. In old England there is a class—the real aristocracy of the
								kingdom—whose very aristocracy consists in superior physical and mental
								development. To this they are devoted. But in America there is no aristocracy but
								that of wealth and fashion, whose votaries, generation after generation, diminish in
								physical and mental power. It is left to the perils, privations and gigantic
								civilization conflicts of the wilderness, to preserve a type of muscle and brain,
								undiminished in compass and vitality. But in such new regions as ours, this natural
								talent is covered up under the rubbish of mere neglect. The trees, and brush, and
								grass, and mud, are but the emblems of a more concealing intellectual and moral
								wilderness, in which the very germs of genius are buried from the world.
							
							"Nothing but the broad and bright glare of High School and College light, will ever
								reveal these specimens of mental riches, even to the consciousness of the gifted
								sons and daughters of the forest. For, the drudgeries of pioneer life, the paucity
								of books, the inefficiency of common schools, the limitation of travel and
								conversation, the everlasting staying at home, the absence of all sight of great men
								and great things, the weakness of most professional efforts in the sick room, at the
								bar and in the sacred desk, the raillery of the political platform,—all these
								conspire to show us not only the want of adequate causes, but the existence of
								hindering causes, respecting the elicitation of true talent and genius. Nothing
								short of an actual experiment, of advancing scientific and literary learning, will
								draw from their retreats the best specimens of mind. But this will; it will do it in
								any new country, and do it effectually. Many a brain of fine compass and vigorous
								pulse, throbbing under the compressure of miserable common school facilities, aches
								for a larger surrounding, and turns to the young College, like steel to the magnet,
								the very day the opportunity is given to gratify the high impulsion.
							"Generally, the circumstances of new settlers, for many years, do not suffer them
								to send their sons and daughters abroad, to the good Institutions of other places.
								And besides, there is a natural, and not much unreasonable reluctance, on the part
								of our youth, to go suddenly from the rude paths of new-land life to the gorgeous
								highways of refinement.
							"In view of all this, it is simply certain that hundreds of the finest minds of the
								section, scattered about in all our new regions, must forever remain lost to the
								world and to themselves, without the revealing presence and vivifying power of the
								Home College.
							"But plant the College: open out to view the hitherto unknown beauties of
								Literature and grandeurs of Science; furnish the facilities to home-born intellect,
								to unfold itself to  kindred and to country; and while
								you thus quicken the general pulse of society, you set on fire the best types of
								youthful mind, and dissolving the bonds that would otherwise have forever bound them
								to mammon and stupid worldliness, you redeem them to the glorious freedom and power
								of knowledge. With joy they hasten to the founts of truth, and drinking a little at
								first, then more and more, they rise to higher views of life and duty, and doom; and
								vow, at the altar of truth, to spend their whole lives in helping through the earth
								the triumphs of wisdom. What a redemption! No tongue can tell what an amount of
								personal joys and public influence are thus secured to society by the Home
								College.
							"By the redemption of buried intellect, then, O heart of our country, cherish thy
								own Home College."
						
					Rev. M. W. Diggs is now pastor of the Congregational Church at Pisgah, Mercer County,
						Ohio. Pulaski Mills has given his time chiefly to teaching, since his graduation, and in
						June, 1864, was appointed by the County Commissioners, School Examiner of Jay County for
						three years.
					R. S. Taylor studied law with L. M. Ninde, at Fort Wayne, and is now partner in the law
						firm of Ninde & Taylor. He has always given much attention to music, and has
						acquired considerable well-deserved note as a musical composer. For several years before
						he graduated, the words and music for the College exhibitions were, most of them, of his
						composition. Many of his pieces have found their way into the later musical
						publications, while others have been issued in sheet 
						form. That touchingly patriotic piece, "Oh, Wrap the Flag around me, boys," which has a
						national reputation, is of his composing. His law-partner is also a Jay Countian. L. M.
						Ninde, Esq., was raised on his father's farm near Camden, graduated at Farmers' College,
						near Cincinnati, and has since been a successful lawyer at Fort Wayne.
					In 1855 the Liber Glee Club was formed, of which R. S. Taylor was chorister. In the
						summer of 1856 it gave concerts at different places, which were the first ever given in
						the county.
					During the summer session of 1857, Pulaski Mills was Principal of Liber College. For
						the year 1858-9, Miss Jane A. Montgomery was Principal of the Primary Department.
					In March, 1857 Vynul Arnett was chosen President of the Board, in the room of J. C.
						Hawkins, resigned, which position he held for two years.
					With the close of the sixth year of the Institution, President Taylor closed his
						official connection with it, and, in September, 1859, moved to Illinois. For a
						paragraph, that he may not be misunderstood, the author must speak plainly.
					Thus ended Mr. Taylor's fourteen years in Jay County. During all this time he devoted
						his great energies and talents to the intellectual and moral interests of her people.
						Unambitious of wealth or fame, he gave his time and means 
						unreservedly to push forward the enterprises in which he was engaged. Especially is this
						true of his labors in converting the wilderness, on the Little Salimonie, into the
						village of Liber, and building there a school, at which hundreds of Jay County youths,
						otherwise ignorant and uninfluential, have tasted the higher branches of knowledge.
					Many of these youths are now the teachers of the county, many others teach elsewhere,
						and still others are filling various important positions in society. With small means,
						great obstacles and many other discouragements, he, nevertheless, accomplished a great
						work. But his usefulness was but beginning, had his course not been such, before his
						departure and since, as to deeply grieve and mortify his many former friends, and
						cripple his usefulness.
					He was a graduate of Athens College, Ohio, possessed a clear, strong mind, and profound
						knowledge of human nature. This attracted to him many warm friends, and gave him, for
						many years, great influence. His sermons were characterized by profoundness of thought
						and beauty of expression, but were long, and rather quietly delivered. He now resides in
						Nebraska, and is a surveyor on the Pacific Railroad.
					Accompanying some statements of his early life in Jay, which have been substantially
						embodied in this work, President Taylor sent the following  note. Though intended to be private, no harm can result, or wrong be done, in giving
						it here, as a farewell glimpse of the workings of that mind which planned and hoped so
						much for the future welfare of Jay County. It cannot fail to awaken mingled emotions in
						the minds of his former numerous friends in this region.
					
							
								
									NASHVILLE, ILLINOIS,
											New Year's, 1862.
										MR. M. W. MONTGOMERY:
											Dear Sir:
									I have spent my New Year's in preparing the rough sketch contained on these
										leaves. With much difficulty I compose my shattered nerves to write anything
										that brings up the events that so interested me in Jay—that dear scene of
										all my effective existence, and where my heart yet lingers in imperishable
										longings, but from which I am sundered forever * * * *
									Wishing you much pleasure and success in your good work, I remain,
									Yours, very truly,
										I. N. TAYLOR.
								
							
						
					In 1859 the Board of Trustees invited Rev. Ebenezer Tucker, of Jo Daviess County,
						Illinois, to become President of the College. He accepted, and moved to Liber that year.
						He has since been constantly engaged in the college, preparing scores of young men and
						women to be teachers of common and graded schools. He was educated at Whitesboro, New
						York and Oberlin College. Prior to his residence in Illinois, he was, for eight years,
						Principal of the Union School, at Spartansburg, Indiana.
					
					During the first term of the college year of 1859-60, Elihu H. Votaw, now a student at
						Wheaton College, Illinois, was the Principal. Since that time the Principals of the
						Primary Department have been Miss Edith S. Bailiff, of Fulton, Ohio, Miss Bell A.
						Johnston, now Mrs. G. W. Loofbourrow, and Miss Helen M. Johnston, of Bell Centre,
						Ohio.
					The Presbyterian church in Portland divided in 1854, and the seceding members organized
						a Congregational church at Liber.
					The first Musical Institute held in the county was at Liber, in December, 1863, by W.
						S. Montgomery, and M. Z. Tinker, of Terre Haute, Indiana.
					Concerning the Liber Spring, now owned by D. C. Baker, Esq., the following letter
						embraces all that need be said. It was written without the faintest idea of its
						appearing here, and is, consequently, as fresh and lively as the limpid waters that
						still rise from that dearly loved fountain under the hill. It is inserted without the
						knowledge of the writer, for who is so well prepared to speak of that Spring as he who,
						for more than ten years, made it daily visits?
					
							
								
									FORT WAYNE, Indiana,
											July 18th, 1864.
										DEAR FRIEND M.:
									After as much reflection as I can readily give to any one subject, with the
										mercury at 95°, I can think of nothing that I would particularly wish to have
											 remembered in your history, that you would be
										at all likely to omit, except the old spring, at Liber. I would give the price
										of two copies of your history for one good swig of its clear, cold water, now. I
										speak of it, fearing that since the town has been built up, with a score of
										wells in its immediate neighborhood, and since some of the old settlers have
										passed away, some to other scenes of earthly toil, and some to fields where yet
										purer water flows, and since the war has opened its ghastly fountains, to the
										flowing of which all our hearts contribute in some degree, the old spring may
										have lost some of its ancient prestige. But it ought not to be forgotten; it was
										once famous in its way, and the very object of your book is to perpetuate the
										memory of those humble things that made up the life of the pioneers of Jay
										County. When I first knew it, that Spring was noted for miles around. The
										country was thinly settled, and good wells were rare, and good springs still
										more so.
									The numerous veins that oozed through the banks of the Salimonie, and painted
										their way to the water's edge with a slimy green and yellow glazing, seemed
										almost uniformly, judging from taste and odor, to have come from some locality
										where sulphur much abounded. A pure, clear, cold spring as this was, was rarely
										found, and was highly prized. There was no house very near it;—there had
										been one years before on the hill just above, but it was then a mere heap of
										rotten logs. It may have been a dwelling house, or only a hunter's lodge. I
										remember picking up some pieces of broken china near it. The painted flowers on
										them were as bright and fresh as new. The cheeks of the girl who washed them
										must have long since lost their roses. The old spring was then a mere hole in
										the ground; it had not even the usual protection of a sycamore gum. There was a
										well-worn path leading to it, into which several others converged, and which was
										much traveled by those who lived up the Salimonie, on their way to and from the
										county seat. There was at one time a gourd supplied to it by some
										public-spirited person, and kept  hanging on a
										bush that overhung the spring, for the accommodation of thirsty passers-by; but
										usually there were no such luxurious superfluities to be had: those who sought
										refreshment there had to get upon their hands and knees, like the cattle and
										deer, which were also equally welcome to its water.
									But the circumstance most interesting to my mind of any connected with the old
										spring, and one which shows what little things determine the course of human
										affairs, is that its existence there determined the location of "Liber College"
										where it is. I well remember the day when my father and mother first went out to
										examine the land on which the College now stands, and with what glowing
										enthusiasm they spoke, when they came back, of the "pure, cold spring" that was
										there. There were a good many difficulties in the way of getting the land: the
										price asked was considered high, and the title was in the hands of several
										persons, so that it took many conveyances and considerable trouble and outlay to
										secure it; and in the long and persevering efforts that resulted in its
										purchase, I know that the spring was a leading motive. If you will examine the
										original "manifesto" of the College you will find the spring
										prominently and honorably referred to.
									I do request that if you have not already done so, and your book is not now in
										type, you will make some mention of the "old spring."
									Yours truly,
										R. S. TAYLOR.
								
							
						
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVI.
						FARMERS' ACADEMY—GENERAL ITEMS.
					THE first meeting to consider the subject of founding this school
						was held at the house of G. W. Templer, then living at College Corner, in the spring of
						1854. Another meeting was afterward held at David O. Whipple's. The members of the first
						Board of Trustees were Jacob Bosworth, President; Obadiah Winters, G. W. Templer, James
						Templer, J. G. Spade, John J. Adair, Geo. Blazer, John Reed, Lewis J. Bell, Augustus
						Bosworth.
					James Templer, now a resident of Indianapolis, donated the site for the building, and
						Jacob Bosworth built the house—a frame, twenty-five by fifty-six feet, and two
						stories high—for $900.
					Mr. C. C. Chamberlain, a graduate of Antioch College, taught for the first six months,
						commencing December 10th, 1854, Miss Katurah Winters 
						being Principal of the Primary Department. The first term of the second year was taught
						by Mr. John Phipps; the rest of that year Mr. Robert Milliken was the Principal, Miss
						Lydia Sheller being the lady Assistant. The third year Rev. J. D. Parker and Miss M. C.
						Hall were the teachers. In 1857 N. G. Buff, Esq., was the Principal, and at different
						times during that year Misses Katurah Winters, Rachel Jackson and Mary Bosworth were
						Assistants.
					
						FARMERS' ACADEMY.
					
					On the 5th of July, 1858, the school was sold to the Northern Indiana Conference of the
						Methodist Episcopal Church, and Rev. W. F.  Hemenway
						became Principal, and Mrs. Hemenway, Assistant, which position they held for two years.
						There was then no school until in the spring of 1864, when Rev. J. E. Erwin became the
						Principal, and is the present incumbent. The Academy is located in one of the most
						beautiful groves that can be seen any where.
					The last Post Office (College Corner) established in the county, was near this place,
						on May 30th, 1862. Jonas Votaw was the first Postmaster;—Jacob Bosworth is the
						present one.
					In June, 1847, the County Commissioners contracted with Jacob Bosworth to build the
						"Jay County Seminary." It was not finished until 1848. The first term of school in it
						was taught by Mr. Thomas T. Loomis. For the year 1850 Mr. Calvin J. Parker was the
						Principal, and for the two following years Rev. I. N. Taylor occupied that position,
						which was the last school taught in it. In 1853 the county sold the building to Elias
						Bromagem, who occupied it for several years, when it was forfeited to the county, who in
						1860 resold it to B. W. Hawkins, who has since made it his residence.
					The cold winter of 1842 and '43 will long be remembered by the early settlers of Jay
						and the adjoining counties. On the 12th of November, 1842, the ground was covered by a
						fall of snow, which did not entirely leave until April, 1843.  After the 8th of January the whole country was one vast field of ice, caused
						by rain which fell heavily and froze, forming a thick sleety ice. On this snow fell
						nearly a foot in depth, and though it was partly thawed by rain, yet frost and snow
						again followed. The sleet prevented the hogs getting nuts and roots, or the wild turkeys
						from stirring the leaves; and long before spring the scanty provision made by the
						settlers for horses and cattle was gone, and great numbers of cattle perished. Some
						farmers were able to keep most of their stock by cutting down elm, linden, and other
						soft-wood trees, and letting the stock take the brush. This, with a supply of salt and a
						small piece of salt fat pork to a cow per day, took them through! The hogs fared still
						worse: thousands perished from actual starvation. Some men saved some of their hogs by
						killing the weaker ones and feeding them to the stronger. Deer became so poor they were
						easily taken, and men and wolves slew them in great numbers.
					Another trying time for the settlers of Jay County was the rainy summer of 1844. All
						the streams overflowed the low lands many times during the season. The farmers found it
						impossible to plow or plant, and no crop was raised. Large numbers of families left
						their cabins and clearings, and moved back to the older settlements, most of whom never
						returned. Had it been  possible to have sold property, the
						county would have been almost depopulated.
					Among the pioneers of Jay was an oddity called Johnny Appleseed. His proper name was
						John Chapman. Many years ago he brought from Central Ohio, two bushels of apple-seed, on
						the back of an ox, and cleared small patches of ground on the headwaters of the Loramie,
						Anglaise, St. Mary's and Wabash rivers, besides various other places, and planted
						apple-seeds. In the early settlement of this county, he was wandering about, from one
						nursery to another, camping wherever night overtook him, selling trees. He had a nursery
						on the Wabash one mile east of New Corydon. He never carried a gun or wore a sound piece
						of clothing, though he possessed considerable property; never slept in a bed, or ate at
						a table; had no place he called home; was a devoted Swedenborgian in religion, and died
						near Fort Wayne in 1845. He had once been a fine business man, but an accident had
						caused a partial derangement of his mind. The trees from his nurseries are bearing fruit
						in a dozen different counties in Indiana, and thousands are enjoying the fruit who never
						saw or heard of Johnny Appleseed.
					The first newspaper ever published in Jay County was The Portland
							Journal, issued in the summer of 1852, by Mr. James M. Bromagen,  editor and proprietor. In politics it was neutral. The very
						first sheet struck from the press was carried away in triumph by D. W. McNeal. The
						printing office was in the second story of what is now the Franklin House. In about two
						years it was purchased by John Y. Hoover, who continued its publication, under many
						difficulties, until some time in the winter of 1856-'7, when it was discontinued. Its
						circulation was about three hundred copies. No complete file of it is in existence.
					On the 20th of February, 1856, Rev. I. N. Taylor issued, at Liber, The
							Liber Lamp, a small, four-column weekly paper, devoted to the general interests
						of the College. It was first printed in the basement of the College, and had about four
						hundred subscribers. Its emblematical head was "Science, Religion, Liberty," and its
						motto, "Semper Liber, Neuter Nunquam." In this form it passed through
						the first volume. The second volume, which closed its career, was published by R. S. and
						W. J. Taylor, and the size reduced to a sheet two columns wide and just seven inches
						long, issued monthly.
					In November, 1856, Mr. William McCormick started The Jay County
							Democrat. In May, 1858, Mr. George H. Moore became a partner in the ownership of
						the paper. It had about three hundred subscribers, and was discontinued October 26th,
						1859.
					
					The Jay County Republican was first issued in March, 1858, by Hon. J.
						P. C. Shanks and L. M. Morrison. In a short time Mr. Morrison sold to William S. Jones,
						and on the 13th of April, 1859, the last number was issued.
					The Jay Torch-Light was first issued September 8th, 1859, by M. W.
						Montgomery. The printing office was first in one room of the then abandoned old brick
						Court House; but fearing the crazy old building would tumble down and extinguish the light, the office was moved to Miller's building. The first few weeks it
						had three hundred subscribers, but before the close of the volume the number had
						increased to five hundred and seventy-five. On the 18th of July, 1861, R. C. Harper
						became one of the proprietors, but re-sold to Mr. Montgomery April 17th, 1862. At the
						close of the third volume Mr. Montgomery sold the paper to Mr. P. S. Loofbourrow, who is
						the present proprietor.
					The Jay County Times was issued August 1st, 1860, by George H. Moore,
						and discontinued in the following spring.
					It is not certainly known whether The Jay County Clipper ever reached
						an actual existence or not. However, one number made its appearance in December, 1862,
						issued by Jacob Simmons, and three or four more numbers followed semi-occasionally
						during the winter, in one of  which it was hinted that the
						establishment would freeze out if some one did not bring some wood—and the paper
						has not been seen since.
					On the 8th of October, 1863, Mr. C. C. Morical commenced the publication of The Democratic Review, but in a few weeks abandoned it, since which time
						it has been conducted by Dr. T. J. Lafollet. It has about six hundred subscribers.
					In May, 1862, the County Commissioners opened sealed bids for building a new jail. The
						bids were as follows: 
							Augustus Bosworth,
								$4,200
							M. A. Reeder, Winchester,
								4,000
							Crowell, Conkel and Denney,
								3,960
							W. H. and M. W. Montgomery,
								2,237
						
					The latter firm having bidden $1,663 lower than the others, was awarded the contract.
						They completed the building by the following December. The iron cells were made and put
						up by Macey, Rankin & Co., of Cincinnati. The total cost of the jail was $6,600.
					In 1861, Jonas Votaw, Esq., was appointed a member of the Board of Directors for the
						Northern Indiana State's Prison, which position he held for two years.
					Jay County has, as yet, no completed railroad. Four tracks, passing through the county,
						are projected; on three of them much grading has been done. The map shows their names
						and routes.  In 1864 the County Commissioners purchased
						John Williams' farm for four thousand dollars for the use of the paupers of the
						county.
					Jay County still has its hunters. Quite a company of old hunters are in the habit of
						making yearly visits to Paulding County, Ohio, for the purpose of hunting. John
						Williams, probably, goes more frequently than others. He is a hunter of considerable
						note, though he did not settle in the county in those early days when the hunters had
						undisputed possession of the territory. In the winter of 1863-4, he and O. McKinstry
						killed twenty-one deer.
					The census of Jay County was taken, for 1840, by Morrison Rulon, for 1850 by J. M.
						Haynes and N. B. Hawkins, for 1860, by J. N. Templer and Ira Denney.
					The population, in 1840, was not taken by townships, and is reported in total at 3,863.
						During that year 16,018 pounds of maple sugar were made in the county.
					
						POLULATION IN 1850.
						Richland,
							349
						Knox,
							271
						Penn,
							710
						Jefferson,
							717
						Green,
							362
						Jackson,
							575
						Pike,
							786
						
						Wayne,
							705
						Bear Creek,
							737
						Madison,
							645
						Noble,
							745
						Wabash,
							345
						Total,
							7,047
					
					
						POPULATION IN 1860.
						
							TOWNSHIPS.
							MALE
							FEMALE
							TOTAL
						
						
							Richland,
							368
							318
							686
						
						
							Knox,
							282
							246
							528
						
						
							Penn,
							674
							640
							1,314
						
						
							Jefferson,
							631
							585
							1,216
						
						
							Green,
							371
							363
							734
						
						
							Jackson,
							386
							344
							730
						
						
							Pike,
							629
							635
							1,264
						
						
							Wayne,
							583
							507
							1,089
						
						
							Bear Creek,
							567
							518
							1,085
						
						
							Madison,
							548
							517
							1,065
						
						
							Noble,
							506
							448
							954
						
						
							Wabash,
							383
							351
							734
						
						
							Total,
							5,917
							5,461
							11,339
						
						
							NATIVITY OF POPULATION.
							
							
							
						
						
							Born in the United States,
							5,709
							5,292
							11,001
						
						
							Born in Foreign Countries,
							219
							174
							393
						
					
					On the night of the 4th of February, 1862, the Treasury of Jay County was robbed of
						four thousand six hundred dollars, of which one hundred belonged to Doctor E. R.
						Sheffield, and about two hundred dollars to B. W. Hawkins. County  Treasurer, Joseph P. Winters, Sheriff, J. E. Lotz, and Auditor, W. G.
						Sutton, immediately set to work to ferret out the perpetrators. They managed, with great
						ingenuity and skill, spending most of their time and employing some professional
						detectives. On the 6th of March, 1862, William Brandon, of Union City, who was for many
						years a merchant in Portland, and John Barker, Samuel P. Johns and William Blackburn, of
						Dayton, were arrested, brought before Judge J. M. Haynes, and held to bail in the sum of
						$12,000 each. The county having no efficient jail at the time, Barker was taken to
						Muncie, Johns and Blackburn to Winchester, and Brandon was kept in Portland at the Jay
						Inn, and guarded by the citizens. In a few days Blackburn escaped. The prisoners desired
						a change of venue, and were sent to Muncie, Indiana, where, on the 30th of April, 1862,
						the trial opened. The attorneys for the State were Hon. J. M. Haynes, J. N. Templer, and
						J. R. Perdieu, of Portland, Hon. Walter March, of Muncie, Judge Jer. Smith, of
						Winchester, and J. F. Bowden, of Bloomfield. Attorneys for the defendants were Hon. F.
						E. Cuppy, Dayton, Hon. David Kilgore and William Brotherton, Muncie, Judge James Brown
						and John J. Cheney, of Winchester.
					Barker was tried first. William Brandon turned State's evidence, was released from
						trial,  and became the chief witness for the prosecution.
						The testimony which was phonographically reported for The Jay
							Torch-Light, by M. W. Montgomery, developed the following facts:
					Johns planned the robbery, Barker and Blackburn did the robbing, and Brandon piloted
						them. They got the keys of the treasurer's office and safe from Mr. Winter's house.
						Barker's trial lasted five days and resulted in his conviction, and a sentence of three
						year's imprisonment. Johns' trial also lasted five days, and he was sentenced to four
						years in the penitentiary.
					Barker and Johns were immediately taken to the Michigan City penitentiary. John's case
						was taken to the Supreme Court, on the point that, though one of the accomplices in the
						larceny, he was not, at any time, in the State of Indiana, and, therefore, could not be
						tried in this State. The Supreme Court sustained this view—a decision which,
						though perhaps constitutional, is certainly a very dangerous one—and in a few
						months he was released.
					In May, 1862, Blackburn was again caught and confined in the Muncie Jail, from which he
						soon escaped. He was, however, retaken in a few months and placed in the new jail at
						Portland. From this he also escaped by sawing off the iron bars in the windows. He was
						now retaken the third time and tried at Winchester in September,  1863, and sent to the penitentiary for seven years—just half long
						enough. Thus, by the most skillfully-planned and well-executed strategy, and
						praiseworthy perseverance on the part of the county officers and the attorneys of
						Portland, the perpetrators of the greatest robbery ever committed in the county were
						brought to trial and convicted. The county never recovered any of the lost money, and
						expended nearly $2,000 more in the catching and prosecution of the thieves.
					For several years a lawsuit, resulting from a horse-trade, had been in progress between
						Mr. Elias Bromagem and Samuel Emery, a man of bad character. During this time some one
						shot at and slightly wounded Mr. Bromagem, who then lived near Hill Grove, Ohio, and
						Emery was accused of the crime. In May, 1862, William Bromagen being at home from the
						army, on furlough, met Emery on the street in Portland, and after some words, Bromagem
						drew a revolver and fired three shots at Emery, all of which took effect—one in
						the left arm, and two entering his back, passed through his body. He ran through R.
						Kirschbaum's store and up stairs in Miller's building, and while endeavoring to shoot
						Bromagem from the window, fell and rolled down stairs out into the street. He died May
						31st, 1862. Bromagem immediately returned to the army.
					
					A distinguished historian has said, "Blessed is the nation whose annals are tiresome."
						Those pages of a nation's history are most interesting which record events that caused
						the nation to weep and bleed—when the ship of State has been convulsed by mutinies
						or endangered by raging storms, or the attacks of enemies. But when she sails quietly,
						upon smooth seas, her crew loyal, her flag honored in every port, the pages of her
						history grow tedious. The historian delineates not the peaceful, prosperous life of the
						nation, but lingers about those great crises in her history, from which she rises to a
						more glorious renown, or falls into the pit of ruin. The history of Jay County,
						likewise, decreases in interest as we recede from those trials and incidents which
						cluster around her early settlement, and enter upon the prosperous quarter of a century
						which followed her organization in 1836. During these years her progress, though not
						rapid, has been steady and healthful. The long delay in the completion of the railroads
						contemplated through her borders, has greatly hindered the accumulation of wealth and
						development of her resources. There are few events in these years prominent above the
						monotonous routine of civilized life. How gladly would we drop our record here: "But there's a divinity that shapes our ends,"
						 and the next chapter must recite the arousing of the
						people of Jay County from their peaceful pursuits, to participate in the great struggle
						for national life.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVII.
						JAY COUNTY AND THE WAR.
					The attack of the rebels upon Fort Sumter—inaugurating the most gigantic contest
						the world has ever seen—and President Lincoln's proclamation of April 14th, 1861,
						calling for seventy-five thousand volunteers to put down the rebellion, was received by
						the people of Jay County with one mind. Traitors had appealed from the peaceful court of
						the ballot-box, to the bloody arbitrament of the sword and bullet, and were ruthlessly
						waging war upon the nation. The people saw no way to preserve the honor and
						institututions of the country but to crush the rebellion by force of arms. The contest
						soon assumed proportions so vast as to astonish the world. Yet  they did not swerve from their loyalty, and gave to the authorities a hearty
						support. This unanimity of sentiment was illustrated at the fall election in 1861.
						Political parties hushed their bickerings on former disputed questions, and
						patriotically divided candidates and all voted one ticket. Since the first year of the
						war this bright example has not been followed. Parties, and their accompanying strifes,
						mar the unity of the people in support of the holy struggle which has called forth to
						the battle-field nearly one thousand of her patriotic sons.
					Being distant from railroads and daily papers, the people of the county did not so
						early awaken to the realities of the war as those centres which more quickly felt the
						heart-throbbings of the wounded and bleeding country. For this reason no full company
						was raised for the three months' service; but many went and entered companies forming in
						other counties.
					The first citizen of Jay County to volunteer was CHARLES E. BENNETT. He was a young man, and student at Liber College. When he read
						the call for troops he told President Tucker that he was going. He went to Winchester,
						joined a company there, but was rejected. But, determined to serve his country, he went
						to Indianapolis, joined company C, 8th Indiana regiment, and by hiding his glasses for
						his near-sightedness,  was accepted. He served his time
						out, and was discharged. In 1862, when the rallying cry was, 
								"We are coming, Father Abraham,
								Six hundred thousand more,"
							 he again enlisted in company F, 75th regiment Indiana volunteers, and this
						time gave his life for his country. He died of disease while the company was at
						Castillian Springs, Tennessee, about the 1st of December, 1862. He was a kind-hearted,
						honest young man, and had been raised a Quaker.
					The first effort made to raise a whole company in Jay County, for the war was in July,
						1861. Quite a number from different parts of the county had already
						gone—hastening, at the first clash of arms, to the scene of conflict. Meetings
						were held at several places in the county, at which Judge J. M. Haynes, J. N. Templer
						and others addressed the people. But at first volunteers were slowly obtained, because
						the people had not yet become warriors, and, beside, it was then considered by many as
						preposterous to think of raising a whole company in the county. But after the first
						thirty men were obtained no more difficulty was experienced.
					Those most actively engaged in enlisting the company were Messrs. C. H. Clark, S. L.
						Wilson and Nimrod Headington. On the 6th of August they were ordered to report at
						Indianapolis at  once. Messengers were dispatched to all
						parts of the county to notify the members of the company. It was a very busy season; but
						the members of this company held their country's call paramount to every other interest.
						The unmeasured calico was left upon the counter; the plow remained in the furrow, and
						the scythe was left to rust in the unmown meadow. The blessed implements of peaceful
						industry were thrown aside for the musket and sword. All hearts were more than ever
						turned toward the war, and especially the brave boys who were hurrying into the
						conflict. On the morning of August 9th a great crowd of citizens assembled in Portland
						to bid farewell to the first company Jay County sent to the war for the Union. It was a
						trying hour to the unwarlike people of Jay. They had been reared to love the arts of
						Peace; but they loved their country more, and now began to lay their sons by hundreds
						upon her altar.
					The parting scenes were thus sketched at the time by The Jay
							Torch-Light, more vividly than they can be at this distant date: "Early on Friday morning the 'reveille' summoned the soldiers
								together at Camp Ross, and a march around town was the order. This the boys
								performed with the greatest enthusiasm. They marched in front of each house where
								any of them had been boarding, and gave them hearty cheers. By this time the people
								from all parts of the county began to assemble, to witness the departure of the
								volunteers and bid them farewell.
							
							"The town was soon crowded. Everything and everybody was in motion; and as the
								afternoon approached, many countenances were serious and sorrowful. But the
								volunteers seemed in the highest spirits and full of enthusiasm at the prospect of
								an early chance to fight for their country and slay rebels. The farmers of the
								county had tendered their services with their teams, to take the boys to Winchester,
								so freely that more teams were on the ground than could be used. About one o'clock,
								P. M., the soldiers were drawn up in line, the wagons and carriages brought out, and
								preparations were being made to start. This was the last opportunity to say
								'Farewell' to the brave fellows who were now going to the war, perhaps never to
								return; and it was well improved. It is useless for us to attempt a description of
								the scenes and incidents of that parting. The streets were filled with men and women
								crowding around the volunteers, shaking hands, speaking words of encouragement,
								giving the parting charge, and bidding farewell.
							"It was an affecting scene. Few indeed were the eyes not wet with tears at that
								hour. The volunteers met the occasion like soldiers: they wept, as good soldiers
								always can, but they swerved not a moment in their purpose to go forth and fight for
								the maintenance of our glorious Government."
					Amid loud cheers and the waving of hats and handkerchiefs, the long train of wagons and
						carriages started, carrying two hundred persons, over one hundred of whom were a
						citizens' escort. At Winchester the citizens gladly entertained the soldiers, and the
						next day they reached Indianapolis; were sent to Camp Morton, and on the 11th were sworn
						into the United States service for three years. Here they remained nearly one month,
						when they were assigned to the 39th  regiment Indiana
						volunteers, company C, and were then transferred to Camp Harrison, named in honor of
						their gallant Colonel, Thos. J. Harrison, who has been with them in all their
						meanderings upon the theatre of war. Here and at Camp Morton they were visited by many
						of the citizens of Jay. They were constantly drilled until Septemper 21st, when they
						marched Dixieward, arriving at Louisville the next morning. Here they were cordially
						welcomed by a sumptuous dinner, and addressed by a member of the Kentucky Legislature,
						who complimented them as being the first regiment from Indiana to cross the Ohio River
						in response to Kentucky's call for help against traitors, many of whom were those of her
						own bosom. On platform cars they were at once taken to Muldraugh's Hill, nearly fifty
						miles south of Louisville, which was then considered "the front." At Rolling Fork, on
						Salt River, they pitched tents, put out guards and pickets, passed their first night in
						the south. The next morning, gleeful at having marching orders, they were early equipped
						and on the march. They soon reached a stream, which they were ordered to wade, after
						taking off their "pants." This was fine sport, several things occurring which created
						great merriment.
					That was the first hard march experienced by company C. Only those who have performed
							 similar marches can fully appreciate the hardships of
						the soldiers during the remainder of the march that day. The sun beamed down its most
						scorching rays, the dust was several inches deep, and the least stir in the air whirled
						it in suffocating clouds around them. They were heavily burdened with knapsacks,
						haversacks and accoutrements; but by constant rallying they reached their destination
						about sunset. They were filed off into an open field, where they were complacently
						enjoying their rest, when a strange sound started them to their feet with an inquiry of
						alarm upon their countenances. It was the "long roll," beat upon a false alarm. Their
						ears have long since become familiar with that sound, yet it never fails to start their
						blood and bodies in quicker motion. Upon outspread blankets they passed the night in
						such a sleep as only wearied soldiers know how to appreciate.
					On the 10th of October they "struck tents" and marched to Camp Nevin, twelve miles
						farther South. The force collected at this camp was the nucleus of what afterward became
						the grand "Army of the Cumberland." It was near this camp that the first blood of the
						Rebellion which fell upon Kentucky soil, was shed. Forty picked scouts (Jefferson Sewell
						and W. H. Blowers, from company C,) were sent out under Lieutenant Colonel Jones against
						a marauding body of two  hundred rebels, near Bacon Creek.
						Taking a position in a log house—the residence of the widow of the notorious
						villain, John A. Murrell—this squad, without receiving any injury, repulsed the
						rebels, wounding several. Sewell, by a timely stepping out of the cabin door, was saved
						from a rebel bullet.
					It was here, also, that company C was first called upon to lay some of its members in a
						soldier's grave. In a quiet, country grave-yard, on the banks of Nolin River, this
						sorrowing company consigned to the tomb the remains of Sergeant ROBERT G. JACKSON, who died, December 6th, 1861, of typhoid
						fever. He was sick for a long time in a church near the camp, used for a hospital, where
						the best care possible under the circumstances was bestowed upon him. He was a brave
						soldier, a true and generous friend, and well beloved by his fellow soldiers and friends
						at home.
					On the tenth of the same month another brave young man from that company—John
						McCroskey—was consigned to a resting place beside his comrade Jackson.
					On the tenth of December the army marched to Munfordsville or Green River, Camp
						Wood.
					Here the army remained until February 15th, 1862, when, a sufficient force having
						collected, it moved against Bowling Green, occupied by General Buckner. A flank movement
						by General  Mitchell compelled the enemy to fall back to
						Nashville, and our forces moved forward to that point. The capture of Fort Donelson by
						our forces, led to the evacuation of Nashville by the rebels, and our army took quiet
						possession. While encamped south of that city, the 39th regiment picketed that part of
						the country lying between Nolensville and the Franklin pike, and, on the 15th of March,
						company C had the honor of welcoming within the Federal lines that bold and sterling
						Tennessee patriot, W. G. BROWNLOW. Upon alighting from his vehicle,
						he waved his hat, raised his eyes towards heaven and shouted "Glory to God! once more
						inside the Union pickets!"
					On arriving at Nashville, some were entirely bare-footed, having traveled in that
						condition many weary miles over the rough stone pike, their feet blistered and bleeding.
						But their hardships were borne with heroic fortitude, and that wise philosophy which
						quietly submits to ills that cannot be remedied. They consoled themselves with allusions
						to the privations of the Revolutionary fathers, and seemed proud to be called upon to
						emulate their courage and fortitude. But supplies soon arrived.
					On the 16th of March, 1862, the army at Nashville, (General Buell's,) set out on the
						march for the south-west. On Saturday, April 5th, Major 
						General McCook's Division, in which was the 39th regiment, encamped twenty-seven miles
						from Savannah, Tennessee, to prepare rations. Beeves were slaughtered, and the soldiers
						were congratulating themselves on the prospect of fresh beef and a day's rest, but the
						morning's sun brought to their ears the booming of cannon, and the word that General
						Grant's army had been attacked and a terrible battle was in progress. A forced march was
						now ordered to reinforce Grant. Taking three day's rations, the soldiers threw away
						blankets and knapsacks, and moved forward rapidly. As they drew nearer, the cannonading
						grew more distinct and furious. At midnight, worn out and exhausted, they reached
						Savannah, seven miles from Pittsburg Landing—the scene of the terrific contest. No
						boats being ready, the soldiers threw themselves down in the streets. A pelting
						hail-storm made sleep impossible.
					In the morning the roaring of cannon told them that the contest on the battle-field was
						renewed, even more fiercely than on the day previous. A boat transferred their brigade,
						consisting of the 32d and 39th Indiana, and 15th and 49th Ohio to the scene of conflict,
						arriving about 11 o'clock a.m. The fighting was then nearly two miles from the
						landing.
					Standing upon the boat's deck they listened to the noise of the battle, which was one
						continual  roar of cannon and rattle of musketry. They saw
						behind the hill a large force of cowardly stragglers, who had fled, unharmed, from the
						front, and hundreds of the wounded and dying borne back from the field. They marched
						immediately to the battle-ground, where they were ordered to lie down as reserves, which
						they did for half an hour, while the shock of the raging battle seemed to shake the very
						earth upon which they lay. They then marched to the front and opened their part of the
						fight amid one incessant peal of musketry. Company C fought bravely for two hours and a
						half, when the sight of the retreating enemy brought enthusiastic cheers from our
						army.
					The Jay Torch-Light of April 24th, speaking of this company
						said: "By letter from Lieutenant Clark, we learn the part borne
								by the Jay County boys in the great battle of Shiloh. They were in the thickest of
								the fight for two and one-half hours, and, during that time, the rebels commenced
								their retreat. They fought bravely and well, though it was the first battle they had ever engaged in. It was a trying time to their nerve
								and courage. For nearly two days the battle had raged most furiously, and, more than
								half that time the rebels had driven our men. The boys heard the cannonading from
								the opening roar and had seen hundreds of the wounded and dying borne from the
								field. In these circumstances they were called into the field and placed in the
								centre. It was like marching into the jaws of death. But they went forward boldly
								and fought well. All honor to them. Jay County is proud of her
						soldiers."
					
					Captain Wilson being at home on the recruiting service, the company was commanded by
						Lieutenants J. G. Cowell and C. H. Clark. The casualties in company C were as follows:
						Stephen J. Bailey, mortally wounded in the thigh, James Q. Odle, mortally wounded in,
						the arm, Edwin Hoover, wounded in left arm, Penbroke S. Bodle, slightly in the neck, J.
						N. Stratton, slightly in the neck.
					When Bailey was being carried from the field, he said to Lieutenant Clark, "Tell my
						mother I died like a man, fighting for my country." At that moment the cheers of our
						troops were heard, and he inquired what it meant. Upon being told that the rebels were
						running, he said, "Then I die in peace." He was carried from the field, placed upon a
						boat, and taken to Mound City Hospital, Illinois, where he died, April 17th, 1863. He
						was a very intelligent young man, interesting in conversation, quiet and industrious. He
						was the son of Mrs. Mary Bailey, of Camden, and was raised a Quaker. He was the first soldier from Jay County to yield up his life to rebel
						bullets, and was worthy of this honorable niche in the history of the War.
					James Q. Odle died at the residence of his brother, at Windsor, Randolph County,
						Indiana, June 18th, 1862. His remains were interred at Deerfield, Indiana.
					
					Many soldiers contracted diseases from exposure by encamping on the field after the
						heat and excitement of that battle. Among them was Mr. James Hathaway, who died May
						16th, 1862, at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri. He was forty-eight years of age when he
						volunteered in his country's service, leaving a large family. He was a Christian, in
						every sense of the term. While he served God faithfully, he was true to his country. He
						was the patriarch and moral monitor of the company. Vice, in many of its members, he
						would reprove in a manner that always elicited from the reproved warm love and respect,
						and they all sincerely mourned his death. From his position as musician, he was not
						required to go into battle, but, laying aside the fife at Pittsburg Landing, he went
						with the comany into the battle, unarmed, but seizing the first deserted musket, bravely
						fought until the battle was over. His memory will be cherished as one of Jay County's
						noblest soldiers.
					The army encamped on the battle-field for several days, then marched against Corinth.
						At Bridge Creek, company C participated in a severe fight, but received no injury.
					They remained near Corinth until about the middle of June, when they marched southward
						to Huntsville, Alabama, arriving there July 4th. Here the 39th were ordered to
						Bridgeport,  Alabama, to guard the crossing of the
						Tennessee River, which they did until August 20th, when they joined the forces
						collecting at Battle Creek for an advance upon Chattanooga. But, when within a few miles
						of the place, an order, surprising every soldier, was given for them to return. Then
						commenced the famous "Buell's retreat," or race with General Bragg, across Tennessee and
						Kentucky, which though honorable to the soldiers, was very disgraceful to their
						commander.
					In this fatiguing march the soldiers were most of the time destitute of rations, and
						had to exist upon fruit, green corn and meat supplied by foraging parties. As the corn
						became hard they parted their canteens and, punching them full of holes, made graters,
						from which, with commendable perseverance, they manufactured sufficient corn meal to
						keep off actual want, yet many nights they had to lie down, not only tired, but very
						hungry.
					The appearance of the army on reaching Louisville clearly indicated the hard marching
						and privations to which it had been subjected. Tarrying long enough to replenish their
						exhausted wardrobe, on the 1st day of October, 1862, they again started on the long,
						forward march to redeem the territory which incompetency, or half-hearted loyalty had
						given to the rebellion.
					
					The marching was as severe in this advance as it had been in the retreat. The weather
						was very hot, the earth parched, and water scarce. The men often marched until midnight,
						and would then have to walk one or two miles for water. Swine were driven from the
						wallow and the water used to make coffee and quench thirst, and, on one occasion, even
						drinking water from a hole in which lay dead horses, mules and dogs! and, at other
						times, pushing back a green scum, an inch in thickness, to fill their canteens. Amid
						these trying circumstances, an indomitable spirit of patriotism prevailed and few
						complaints were uttered.
					At Nashville, General Rosecrans succeeded to the command, in the place of Buell,
						removed, who was hailed with enthusiastic delight by the Army of the Cumberland.
					General Bragg had halted in his precipitate retreat, and fortified Murfreesboro, and
						the 39th being encamped some distance in front of Nashville, were much of the time
						skirmishing with scouting parties of the enemy.
					On the 25th of December General Rosecrans ordered an attack upon the rebels, which was
						the preliminary of the great battle of Stone River. On the night of the 29th, the army
						encamped upon the open field before the enemy. On the 30th an engagement with part of
						the line took place, and General McCook's Division, in which was the  39th, was moved up as a reserve, and, in the evening, was
						placed upon the right, on picket.
					Just at daylight, next morning, the enemy, several lines deep, attacked the 39th,
						driving them back in confusion, killing and capturing many. The loss of company C was as
						follows: John Hilton, mortally wounded, Eugene Plumb, mortally wounded, Cyrus Stanley,
						severely wounded, Gr. H. Bassett, severely wounded in groin, John McClelland, wounded in
						neck, and forty prisoners, as indicated in the list of members.
					On New Year's, 1864, these prisoners were put on board the cars at Murfreesboro and
						started toward Richmond, where they arrived in two weeks, having suffered severely on
						the route, for want of food. They were first confined in a tobacco warehouse, and
						afterward in Libby Prison. Their stomachs rebelled against the meagre, unsavory prison
						rations. A small loaf of bread, some soup and bad beef, was, at first, an allowance for
						each man, daily, but, before they left, this supply was divided between six men.
					On the 28th of January, 1863, the unwounded privates of company C, with many others,
						marched through the city to the canal. While crossing this the bridge gave way and
						precipitated them twenty feet, into water fifteen feet deep. The canal was walled with
						stone, and the men could not get out without assistance, but the guard  and citizens viewed the spectacle with folded arms. By the
						aid of comrades in the rear they escaped. In this half drowned condition they were
						placed upon filthy stock cars and sent to City Point, Virginia, and thence to Annapolis.
						Their joy at being once more under the "Stars and Stripes" found vent in hearty cheers.
						Their warm welcome home made them forget for a season their recent hardships.
					During the battle, Cyrus Stanley was struck near the back-bone, by a musket ball, which
						entered his right kidney. While Daniel Walter was helping him off the field, Stanley's
						hat was shot off, and two balls passed through Walter's clothes. But they were both
						captured. With his wound undressed and bleeding, on platform cars, without covering,
						Stanley was taken to Chattanooga, having been three days and nights without one morsel
						of food! Six rebel surgeons examined his wound and pronounced it fatal. But his quiet
						spirit and courageous determination saved him from a southern grave.
					On the 5th of March, 1863, he and thirteen others were taken to Knoxville, and thence
						(March 8th) to Libby Prison—that dungeon whose mention brings to mind all that is
						horrible and revolting in human suffering. All this time Stanley had not recovered
						sufficiently to walk, even upon crutches. He was confined in a room with  nearly three hundred others. Their scanty daily allowance
						was of the most repulsive kind, and some died in the room of actual starvation. On the
						18th of March he was taken to Washington City, where he wrote to his friends in Jay. The
						letter was like a voice from the dead, for they had supposed his wound had long since
						proved fatal. He was taken to Davis' Island, New York, on the 5th of May, and in one
						month was able to start home. He is now County Recorder. Capt. J. G. Crowell and Lieut.
						G. T. Winters were not exchanged for some time after this. A mere fragment of the
						company could be rallied on the battle-field on that New Year's day. Early in May, the
						paroled members of company C having been exchanged, rejoined the regiment at Nashville,
						where they found their comrades had been mounted and armed with the Spencer rifle. They
						have since been designated as the 8th Indiana Mounted Infantry. At Tullahoma the
						regiment had the post of danger, and distinguished itself whenever engaged. At Dechard
						Ford, two miles south of Winchester, company C made a gallant charge and was highly
						complimented. Lieut. Winters was wounded in the foot, Luther J. Baker in the leg, L. W.
						Lemasters severely in the breast, and eleven horses killed. In the sanguinary struggle
						at Chickamauga, the 39th took an honorable part and came out unscathed. Soon  after this, many of these veterans re-enlisted, receiving
						three hundred and four dollars additional bounty. On the 20th of February, 1864, the
						regiment distinguished itself by a noted reconnoissance at Tunnell Hill, Buzzard Roost
						and Dalton, and remained in the immediate front until March 25th, when the whole
						regiment was furloughed and came home. The war-worn veterans were warmly welcomed by the
						citizens of Indianapolis, and hastened home to enjoy the company of friends and
						relatives, from whom they had so long been absent. In a few days company B, 34th Indiana
						regiment, came home, also on veteran furlough, and the two companies were publicly
						welcomed by large parties and fine suppers at Portland, Camden and College Corner. At
						the expiration of their furlough, the regiment re-assembled at Indianapolis, and, May
						11th, left for Nashville to renew their conflicts with traitors. Early in July they were
						ordered to Marietta, where they have lately distinguished themselves in a daring and
						effectual raid. This regiment has participated in the following battles : 
							SHILOH, TENNESSEE.
							BRIDGE CREEK, MISSISSIPPI.
							DRY RIDGE, KENTUCKY.
							STONE RIVER, TENNESSEE, SEVEN DAYS
							MIDDLETON, TENNESSEE, (TWICE.)
							LIBERTY GAP, TENNESSEE.
							
							DECHARDS' FORD, TENNESSEE.
							DAVIS' CROSS ROADS, GEORGIA.
							CHICKAMAUGA, GEORGIA, TWO DAYS.
							TUNNELL HILL, GEORGIA.
							NICK O'JACK GAP, GEORGIA.
							STONY FACE POINT, GEORGIA.
						
					In all of these company C have borne an honorable part, reflecting credit upon
						themselves and the county they represent, and with heroic deeds inscribing an
						imperishable record upon the annals of their country.
					
						COMPANY C, THIRTY-NINTH REGIMENT INDIANA VOLUNTEERS. [Those
							marked * re-enlisted, and those marked † are discharged. The ‡ denotes those captured
							at Stone River.]
						Captain Stephen L. Wilson, resigned July 18th, 1862.
						First Lieutenant John Q. Lewis, resigned March 10th, 1862.
						Second Lieutenant Curtis H. Clark, promoted first lieutenant. Resigned October
							16th, 1863.
						
								SERGEANTS. [Promotions among
									non-commissioned officers and privates were not reported to the author.]
								Orderly, J. G. Crowell, promoted 1st lieutenant, then captain.‡
								R. G. Jackson, died December 6th, 1861.
								J. G. Wagner, died June 10th, 1862.
								I. N. Stratton, promoted second lieutenant.
								Andrew Jackson,* promoted to orderly.
							
						
								CORPORALS.
								John McClellan,
								Thomas Bosworth,
								J. M. Bromagem,*‡
								Calvin Burdg,*
								
								Solomon Lupton,*‡
								G. T. Winters, promoted to first lieutenant,‡
								Calvin Rynearson,†
								George Clark,* promoted to orderly sergeant.‡
							
						
								MUSICIANS.
								John Hanna, died December 15th, 1862.
								James Hathaway, died May 16th, 1862.
							
						
								TEAMSTER.
								Francis Twiggs.
							
						
								PRIVATES.
								Calvin S. Adams,
								Edwin Adams,†
								W. G. Adams,†
								H. H. Antles,†
								George R. Ashley,
								S. J. Bailey, died at Mound City, Ill., April 1st, 1862.
								William Baird,‡
								L. J. Baker,*‡
								G. H. Bassett,* wounded at Stone River,
								Joseph Bisel, died September 14th, 1862,
								W. H. Blowers,* (Adams Co.)
								J. L. Bockoven,*‡
								P. S. Bodle,* wounded at Shiloh,‡
								Anthony Brown,*‡
								Jason Bryan,*
								Aaron Brighton,†
								John Burdg,*
								William Clawson,*‡
								Michael Cookerly,†
								H. D.Clevenger, died June 12th, 1862,
								Christian Long,‡
								L. A. Long,‡
								A. A. Mason,*
								J. S. Maxwell,*‡
								John McCroskey, died Dec. 10th, 1861.
								William Metty,*
								J. W. Miller,
								Isaiah Mills,‡
								W. H. Moore,‡
								John Nidey,
								Lafayette Nidey,*
								John Nixon,‡
								A. J. Nuckles,
								J. Q. Odle, mortally wounded at Shiloh, died June 18th, 1862,
								Reuben Orner,†
								Christian Parks,*
								Edward Pingry,*
								W. J. Ralph,*
								F. M. Reed,
								Hezekiah Reed,‡
								Frederick Rhodes,*
								William Richmond,‡
								
								M. L. Collett,*‡
								G. W. Cookerly,
								J. A. Cummins,‡
								J. H. Darby, died June 14th, 1862,
								J. A. Eicher,*
								E. R. Fetters,
								B. F. Freeman,*‡
								William Green,*
								Samuel Hammitt,*‡
								G. W. Hardy,*‡
								John Hilton, wounded mortally at Stone River, and died Jan. 25th, 1863,
								Samuel Hilton,*‡
								J. W. Hoke,*
								Edward Hoover,
								G. H. Jackson,*
								B. B. Jenkins,
								L. W. Lemasters,†
								A. G. Lewis,*
								Sylvester Lewis,‡
								Jefferson Sewell,* (Adams Co.)
								S. W. Shannon,*‡
								J. A. Shewalter,*‡
								J. W. Shewalter,‡
								D. T. Skinner, promoted to captain 7th Ind. Cavalry,
								Samuel Sloan,‡
								Cyrus Stanley,†‡
								William Sturges,†
								William Stranahan,†
								J. W. Swallow, died January 5th, 1862,
								D. T. Taylor,*
								J. N. Vance, died Jan. 13,1862.
								W. C. Votaw,*
								Daniel Walter,*‡
								M. W. Wagner,*
								D. O. Whipple,†
								J. B. Worden,
								C. E. Yost,
								Franklin Stanley,*‡
							
						
								VOLUNTEER RECRUITS.
								D. S. Arnold,
								C. Ashley,
								W. Broughman,
								W. S. Baldwin,
								A. Bodle,
								H. Barber,
								A. Clear,
								James Collins,
								A. Cook,
								W. R. Dutcher, died April 3d, 1863,
								A. Fetters, died Aug. 3, 1863,
								Henry Jones,
								William Jones,
								Solomon Keck,
								J. McLaughlin,
								I. Murray,
								J. B. Marquis,
								G. W. Miller,
								Thomas Paxson,
								Peter Stultz,
								Dixon Towle,
								H. Trehearn,
								B. Valentine,
								
								D. Fetters,
								W. H. Force,
								I. Garringer,
								S. Hoke,
								E. Wilkerson,
								Ellis Wilder, died May 12, 1864.
								William Wilkerson,
								Nathan B. Winters.
							
					
					The following were nine-months' drafted or substitute recruits, who joined this
						company-all now discharged except one. They were drafted October 6th, 1862: 
							James Bales,
							W. Bridgford,‡
							J. W. Bartmes,‡ volunteered,
							James Cunningham,‡
							William Ernest,‡
							Benjamin Heston,
							P. C. Jones,‡
							A. J. Landis,
							Levi Mason,‡
							James Pitt,
							James Patterson,
							Eugene Plumb, wounded mortally at Stone River, died Jan. 19th, 1863,
							G. W. Swhier,
							D. Theurer.
							
									RECAPITULATION.
									Volunteers
										130
									Drafted Recruits
										14
									Died
										17
									Resigned and Discharged
										27
								
						
					The history of company C has been given at length for several reasons. It was the first
						company to go from the county, and has been longest in the service. Many things, also,
						connected with its history can be related of all other Jay County companies; but having
						been given, need not be repeated.
					During the latter part of August, 1861, James W. Campbell and Nimrod Headington
						recruited a company for the three years service. An 
						election resulted in the choice of Mr. Campbell as Captain; Mr. Headington, First
						Lieutenant, and Benjamin G. Shinn, Second Lieutenant. On the 1st of September the ladies
						of Portland gave a farewell supper to the company, and on the following morning they
						departed for camp at Anderson, Indiana, where they became company B in the 34th
						regiment. They were mustered into the United States service September 21st. Asberry
						Steele, of Grant County, was their first Colonel.
					
						COMPANY B, THIRTY-FOURTH REGIMENT OF INDIANA VOLUNTEERS.
						Captain, James W. Campbell.
						" Nimrod Headington—first lieutenant and captain, now major.
						First Lieutenant, David A. Harter.
						Second Lieutenant, Benjamin G. Shinn—resigned Nov., 1861.
						" " David D. Hastie—promoted Nov., 1861; resigned Dec. 25th, 1862.
						" " Abraham M. Templer—promoted captain.
						" " Thomas Helm.
						
								SERGEANTS.
								John Bromagem,
								William Cruthers,
								Benjamin F. Harter.
							
						
								CORPORALS.
								Stephen Straley, wounded at Champion Hill,
								George W. Stowell,
								Enoch H. Harker,
								John Hammitt,
								Joseph P. Bishop,
								Warner Cox, died at Memphis, Tenn., August 6, 1862.
								James P. Gibson,
								Anthony W. Shey,
								James A. Crisler.
							
						
						
								MUSICIANS.
								Abner Hyde,
								George O. Carle.
							
						
								PRIVATES,
								Samuel Adair,
								Perry L. Burk,
								Hamilton Cash,
								David Crisler, wounded at Champion Hill,
								George W. Denney, wounded at Champion Hill,
								Henry W. Duckett,
								Jonathan Elliott,
								Benjamin Foush,
								Joseph J. Glover,
								Edward B. Hawley,
								John Hawley,
								William M. Hutzler,
								Wesley S. Iliff,
								Mark Kinnison,
								Aaron Letts,
								John W. Lethe,
								Charles O. Lindsay,
								William K. Louk, wounded at Champion Hill,
								James Logan,
								Christopher Loper,
								John R. May,
								John Morily, wounded at Fort Gibson,
								Simon P. Marrow,
								Elias K. Maddox,
								Ozias McKinstry,
								Ichabod Nichols,
								Michael T. Paxson,
								John Parsons,
								William Pugh,
								John H. F. Pugh, wounded at Champion Hill,
								Albert Pugh,
								John L. Reeves,
								William S. Reeves,
								Joshua Siders,
								Edward Siders,
								George W. Stoner,
								William W. Swallow,
								Isaac I. Swallow,
								John F. Stowe,
								John M. Thomas,
								William Votaw,
								William Williams,
								Jefferson J. Williams.
							
						
								DIED.
								Gabriel F. Barnes—Jan. 24th, 1862.
								Sergeant Sylvester Hiatt—March 28th, 1862.
								Corporal John F. Connett—Feb. 9th, 1862.
								Dallas D. Chapmar—killed at Champion Hill.
								Matthew Dodds—Feb. 21st, 1862.
								John J. Swaney—killed at Champion Hill.
								George L. Adair.
								
								Bailiff W. Stowell—mortally wounded at Port Gibson; died May 28th,
									1863.
								Finley Blair—Feb. 13th, 186 2.
								William H. H. Bailey—mortally wounded at Champion Hill.
								John Cline—Feb. 26th, 1862.
								Levi Clean—May 6th, 1862.
								Warner Cox—Aug. 6th, 1862.
								Oliver P. Karnes.
								Jeremiah Franklin.
								John J. Haivland—Feb. 24th, 1862.
								Levi P. Morrow—May 3d, 1862.
								Joseph Mihals.
								Joseph Perry—killed at Champion Hill.
								Jacob B. Spade—March 8th, 1862.
								Ira Somers—Feb. 10th, 1862.
								John S. Stoner—Jan. 24th, 1862.
								Jacob Valentine.
							
						
								DISCHARGED.
								Henry Crabtree and Clinton Deardoff, on account of ill health.
								Jno. Geiger, on account of wound received at Champion Hill.
								James P. Gibson,
								James M. Hoover,
								James J. Hite,
								Edward B. Keagel,
								William A. Latham,
								Joshua Nichols,
								Isaac Vanhorn,
								John L. Walker,
								Lewis Crisler,
								Sergeant Isaac Hanna,
								Bennett Goodson,
								Sergeant Jacob T. Wells.
							
						
								TRANSFERRED.
								Thos. Airly, to Invalid Corps, for wounds at Champion Hill.
								Patrick Doyle, " " " " "
								Morris G. Ward, to Non-commissioned Staff.
								Allen Jaqua was a member of regimental band, 34th Regt.
							
						
								RECAPITULATION.
								Whole number
									126
								Transferred, Resigned and Discharged
									19
								Died
									23
							
					
					
					On the 21st of October they went to Camp Jo. Holt, at Indianapolis; thence, November
						16th, to New Haven, Kentucky; remained there until the 28th of December, when they moved
						to Camp Wickliffe. In February, 1862, they marched to the mouth of Salt River, in the
						same State. The company had been very healthy until near the close of the year 1861,
						when, in about one month, eight of its members died, most of them of pneumonia. Their
						health began to improve with their removal from Camp Wickliffe. At the mouth of Salt
						River the regiment embarked on board a steamboat for Point Commerce, on the Mississippi
						River, in the State of Missouri. They marched across the country from this place by the
						way of Benton to New Madrid. The company took part in the siege of that town, and while
						so engaged they assisted in hauling a heavy cannon by hand to Biddle Point, a distance
						of fifteen miles, through swamps, and in the night. With this gun four of the rebel
						gunboats were driven off, one of which was disabled. After the capture of New Madrid,
						the company remained at that place until the 15th of June, 1862, when the 34th regiment
						was ordered on board transports and proceeded to Memphis, Tenn. Remaining there but a
						short time, they accompanied Col. Graham N. Fitch in his expedition up the White River.
						This company participated in the fight at Grand  Prairie;
						thence returning to Helena, Arkansas, where the regiment remained from August 1st, 1862,
						until April 12th, 1863, moving out occasionally on the roads leading from that place to
						Little Rock, Clarendon and Duvall's Bluff, to watch the movements of the enemy. The
						regiment also made two other excursions up White River, under Gen. Willis A. Gorman. On
						the 12th of April, 1863, the regiment was placed on board transports, with orders to
						report to Gen. Grant at Young's Point, Louisiana. Arriving there on 16th of April, the
						troops marched to Grand Gulf, or Perkins' Plantation, a distance of fifty miles, across
						a country interspersed with broad and deep bayous and swamps, which were bridged by the
						soldiers before they could be crossed.
					Before narrating the stirring events that come next in chronological order, it is
						proper to state that Col. Steele having resigned, Lieut. Col. (now General) Cameron
						became Colonel. Prior to this Lieut. Headington had been detailed to command company K,
						of the same regiment; but Captain Campbell having been appointed Lieutenant Colonel of
						the 1st Arkansas colored regiment, he became Captain of company B. The regiment was
						assigned to the 13th Army Corps, 12th Division, commanded by Gen. A. P. Hovey.
					The 30th day of April was spent in transporting the troops across the river, preparing
						rations, and  making other arrangements for a march. Just
						at dark the army commenced their line of march, in the direction of Port Gibson. After
						marching all night the advance guard fell in with the enemy's pickets about five o'clock
						in the morning, some four miles from Port Gibson. At daybreak a halt was ordered, and
						the men were allowed fifteen minutes to take some refreshments. While the men were yet
						eating, the enemy opened fire upon them with artillery. The troops were immediately
						ordered to march to the summit of a steep hill, where they were formed in line of battle
						and moved steadily forward.
					The engagement now became general along the whole line. Our army, however, marched
						steadily through a dense cane-brake, some four hundred yards, and, on emerging from this
						thicket, one of the enemy's batteries was discovered only about two hundred yards
						distant, which was belching forth grape and canister at a furious rate.
					A charge was ordered, and, in a short time, the battery was captured, together with two
						wagons loaded with ammunition, and about three hundred prisoners.
					The 34th regiment was in the advance in this charge, and six men in company B were
						wounded, one of whom, Bailiff. W. Stowell, died of his wounds.
					The battle continued through the whole day  the enemy
						slowly but steadily falling back. At night our troops slept upon their arms, on the
						battle-field. The morning of the 2d of May revealed the fact that the enemy had fled
						during the night, and the Federal army occupied Port Gibson, early in the day.
					On the 3d of May the army moved toward Jackson, Mississippi, and, after taking that
						place, started in the direction of Vicksburg.
					On the 16th of May the battle of Champion Hills was fought. General Hovey's Division
						bore the brunt of the fight. Company B, of the 34th regiment, lost in killed and
						wounded, seventeen men.
					Captain Headington, two days after the battle writes: "We fought another hard battle on
						the 16th, in which many of our brave boys fell. In my company first fell, by my side,
						William H. H. Bailey, mortally wounded, next Staley, then Chapman on my right fell,
						mortally wounded, while defending the colors. Then, on my left, Perry was killed, then
						fell Swaney, mortally wounded, then Geiger, wounded in the leg, then Doyle, wounded in
						the shoulder, Airley, wounded in the thigh, Pugh, wounded in the back, Daniel Crisler,
						in the arm, George Denney, in the hand, William Louk, in the hand, D. Shinn, in the
						wrist, James Crislee, in the shoulder, Houk, in the hand, Hammitt in the
						leg—seventeen in all. Never did  boys fight braver
						than did company B. Lieutenant Colonel Swain is wounded in the lungs, I fear mortally.
						Our regiment killed and captured one entire Alabama regiment. We made it so hot for them
						that the colonel rode up, threw up his hat and cried for mercy, saying that he
						surrendered his whole command."
					The enemy was completely routed and driven from the field, leaving their dead and
						wounded. The 16th and part of the 18th were spent in burying the dead.
					On the morning of the 19th, the army moved in the direction of Vicksburg, and, on the
						20th, at early dawn, came in sight of the doomed city. Then commenced the memorable
						seige of that town, which resulted in its surrender, with the entire army, under General
						Pemberton, on the 4th of July, 1863.
					This company was engaged in this siege from the commencement to its close, shooting
						during the day, and digging in the trenches during the night, yet not one of them was
						injured by the shots of the enemy during the whole time.
					On the 5th of July the regiment started for Jackson, Mississippi, under General
						Sherman, when the rebel General Johnston was driven from that place, and many miles of
						railroad destroyed.
					Early in August the regiment went to Natches, and thence to New Orleans, where they  arrived on the 15th of that month. Remaining about a month,
						they were ordered to Brashier City. From there they accompanied Banks' expedition to
						Teche Bayou, and were engaged for two months, without tents, in scouting through the
						country, occasionally encountering small bodies of rebels, which were uniformly captured
						or put to flight. They came, by a forced march, to the assistance of General Burbridge,
						at the battle of Carrion Crow, in time to save him from defeat. The regiment arrived at
						New Iberia, Louisiana, on the 10th of December, and, on the 14th of that month, most of
						the men re-enlisted, including forty-four of company B.
					The regiment returned to New Orleans on the 23d day of December. On the 29th, they
						embarked on board a steam-ship for Matagorda Peninsula, Texas. After remaining there two
						months the regiment returned to New Orleans on the 23d of February, 1864, where they
						remained until the 20th of March, when the re-enlisted men were furloughed for thirty
						days. They started for their homes immediately, arriving at Indianapolis on the 29th,
						and, on the 1st of April, were given a grand reception by the Governor and other
						dignitaries of the State and city of Indianapolis.
					On the morning of the 3d of April the veterans belonging to Jay County received the
						greetings  of their friends at home, after an absence of
						two years and seven months.
					After spending a month among their friends they again returned to their field of
						service. Arriving at Indianapolis on the 2d of May, 1864, they remained one week at Camp
						Carrington and the 19th of May found them again at New Orleans, where they still
						remain.
					Before the regiment left Indianapolis, Captain Headington was promoted to Major of the
						34th regiment.
					This company, throughout the varied and arduous services in which they have been
						engaged, have, on all occasions, acquitted themselves with distinguished honor, and, in
						the future, they will not be found wanting in bravery, patient endurance and devotion to
						their country's cause in every trial to which the fortunes of war may subject them.
					
						LIST OF MEMBERS, COMPANY E, EIGHTY-NINTH INDIANA REGIMENT.
						Captain, Joseph P. Winters.
						First Lieutenant, Royal Denney, resigned Dec. 6th, 1862.
						Second Lieutenant, Levi James, resigned Jan. 15th, 1863.
						
								SERGEANTS.
								Frederick W. White, promoted first lieutenant Jan. 16, 1863.
								Joseph L. Hall, promoted to first sergeant.
								Joseph Eblin.
								Aaron W. Wright, promoted second lieutenant Jan. 16, 1863
								John H. Jackson.
							
						
						
								CORPORALS.
								William S. Peterson, promoted to fourth sergeant.
								Adam Loy, promoted to fifth sergeant.
								Stephen A. Stratton, died in Fort Pickering Aug. 9th, 1863.
								Charles T. O'Harra,
								Perry Arbaugh,
								David W. Adams,
								Elijah Broughman.
								Jonathan Cloud, musician, wounded at Munfordsville, Ky., Sept. 14th,
									1862.
								John Ogden, musician.
								Philo P. Way, wagoner.
							
						
								PRIVATES. [The † denotes those
									discharged.]
								David S. Arnold,†
								Daniel Armantrout,†
								John Armantrout,
								John C. Athy, killed at Yellow Bayou, Louisiana, May 18th, 1864,
								George W. Arbaugh, promoted corporal,
								William T. Adams,
								David Boyles, died in hospital at St. Louis,
								Daniel Broughman, died Dec. 8th, 1862, at camp near Memphis,
								George M. Brewington,
								John C. Beard,
								Hallot Bryan, died at hospital, Memphis,
								Abraham Bartmes,
								George W. Beason, killed at Pleasant Hill, Louisiana, April 9th, 1864,
								John Bonecutter,
								William Henry,
								Silas Isenhart, died July 5th, 1863,
								John D. Jetter,
								Joseph Jackson,
								Samuel W. Jones, died Oct., 1863,
								Jesse James, died May, 1863, at Fort Pickering,
								Francis M. Kelley,
								Jasper N. Loofbourrow,
								Henry Landers,†
								Chester Lewis,
								Christopher Loper,†
								Robert W. McFarland, died at Fort Pickering, July 20th, 1863,
								William H. Mason,†
								Charles A. Morehous,
								Mahlon Morrical,
								George W. Meek, killed May 7th, 1864, at Lamore, La.
								Ebenezer Miller.
								
								Joseph Blackburn,†
								Stephen Barr,
								Elias Buckingham,
								Absalom Bergman,
								Josiah Clawson,
								Garrett Clawson,
								Cornelius Corwin, promoted corporal,
								Peter M. Cook,†
								John A. Conkle,
								Fountain Delph,
								Minor Evelsizor,
								Lafayette Evelsizor, died in Fort Pickering,
								Jesse Elliott,†
								Benjamin Fifer,
								George W. Glassford,†
								Willia Gilbert,
								Joseph Gray, killed at Yellow Bayou, Louisiana, May 18th, 1864,
								Lewis H. Houser,
								William R. Haffner,
								Benjamin J. Hudson, died in hospital, Memphis, Aug. 3d, 1864,
								George Henry, wounded and left in hands of rebels at Pleasant Hill, April 9th,
									1864,
								John Hanlin, promoted to corporal,
								Timothy Nidey,
								Henry C. Powers,
								Samuel Premer,
								Frederick Premer, died in hospital at Memphis, March 10th, 1864,
								John G. Ross,
								Isaac Rantzt
								Daniel Rosnong,
								William K. Sanders, transferred to marine fleet,
								William Shane,
								Lonton Scott,†
								George W. Swihart,
								William H. Stratton, died at Fort Pickering, March 1st, 1863,
								Timothy L. Stratton,
								Franklin Snyder, promoted to corporal,
								Levi Sfager,
								William Sigler, killed at Yellow Bayou, May 18, 164,
								Jacob Teters,
								Jeremiah Tinkle, died at home,
								Washington Walter
								Francis Warnock,
								Robert Wible,
								Jacob Wible,
								Joseph Williams,
								Robert Young, died at Fort Pickering, March 5, 1863.
							
						
								RECRUITS.
								Elias Loofbourrow,
								William F. Metzner,
								John Y. Miller,
								William S. Kelley,
								Pliny Bickle.
							
						
						
								RECAPITULATION.
								Whole number
									100
								Resigned, Transferred and Discharged
									14
								Died
									15
								Reported as Deserters, not included above
									4
							
					
					Company E was recruited in August, 1862, and, on the 18th of that month, left Jay for
						camp, having first accepted a bountiful farewell supper from the ladies. The next day
						they reached camp at Wabash, Indiana, Colonel John U. Pettit, commandant, where the
						following officers were unanimously elected: Captain, Joseph P. Winters, First
						Lieutenant, Royal Denney, Second Lieutenant, Levi James.
					On the 26th they went to Indianapolis, where they received arms, uniforms, one month's
						wages, and twenty-five dollars of their bounty. They arrived in Louisville August 31st.
						Thus, in about twenty days, this full company had been recruited, armed, equipped and
						had arrived in Dixie, ready for active service which they were soon called upon to
						perform.
					They reached Munfordsville, Kentucky, September 3d, where they were stationed to guard
						the railroad bridge across Green river.
					There were two small forts here, one above, the other below the bridge, between which a
						line of breastworks had been commenced, and negroes were now at work upon them. The
						number of  troops at this point now was twenty-five
						hundred. On the night of the 13th of September the troops were called out and stationed
						around the works. About daylight they were attacked by eight thousand rebels, under
						Chalmers, when they were driven within their fortifications. The rebels then charged
						that part of the fort where the 89th regiment was stationed, but were driven back with
						heavy loss. After making another similarly unsuccessful attempt upon another part of the
						fortifications, the enemy withdrew, and, having obtained permission, spent the remainder
						of the day burying their dead and caring for the wounded. Our loss in killed and wounded
						was about forty, while that of the enemy was seven hundred.
					Company E lost one man, Jonathan Cloud, seriously wounded. The next day our men
						received a reinforcement of two regiments and six pieces of artillery.
					Chalmer's force proved to be only the advance of Bragg's great army, a part of which
						completely surrounded our small force, planting artillery on every hill lying around the
						fortifications. It was a useless waste of life to contend longer, and, on the morning of
						the 17th of September, the entire Federal force surrendered. It is notorious that
						General Buell, being near by with his immense army, might easily have turned this
						disaster into a victory, but he failed to do it. These prisoners  were immediately paroled and sent toward Buell's army. They went first to
						Bowling Green and thence to the Ohio river, at Brandenburg, from which place they came
						to Jeffersonville. During their march to the river they suffered much; hard marching and
						exposure had made many sick, and they had to live upon the country through which they
						were passing. At Indianapolis they were fourloughed for twenty days, and all returned
						home, having been in the service less than six weeks. While at home, Lieutenant Denney
						was elected County Treasurer, to succeed J. P. Winters, who held that office when he
						entered the army.
					On the 27th of October they returned to parole camp, at Indianapolis, where, on the
						17th of November, just two months after their surrender, Governor Morton, in a speech,
						informed them that they had been exchanged.
					On the 4th of December they took the cars for Cairo, Illinois, where they proceeded
						aboard the Ohio Belle, bound for Memphis, where they arrived December 8th, and camped
						one mile southeast of the city. They performed picket duty around the city until near
						the close of the month, when they were stationed in Fort Pickering, on the river just
						below the city, where they remained nearly one year—until October 18th, 1863. This
						long period of the history of this company, though 
						checkered with many interesting incidents, such as visits from friends, journeys up and
						down the river as guards, etc., may, nevertheless, be characterized as very dull and
						monotonous.
					On the 7th of April, 1863, Capt. J. P. Winters was honored with the appointment from
						Gen. Veatch of Provost Marshal of Fort Pickering, which position he filled with much
						credit during his stay at the fort. During this absence of the Captain the company was
						commanded by Lieut. White.
					There was great joy in company E when, October 18th, they were removed from the Fort to
						a beautiful camping ground on Poplar street, east of Memphis, and again assigned to
						picket duty around the city. Here the boys declare the pleasantest part of their
						soldier-life was spent. The duty was light; but above all the pure air and exercise they
						now enjoyed, so in contrast with their long confinement in the Fort, brought back health
						and buoyancy of spirits to the men. But a soldier's comfort and ease is always of short
						duration. While here they participated in a victorious engagement against Gen. Forrest,
						at Lafayette, and pursued him to Cold Water, Miss., returning to Memphis New Year's,
						1864. January 28th they left their beautiful camping ground, and boarded a steamer, in
						company with a small fleet starting to Vicksburg, where they arrived on the 30th  instant. In February they accompanied the famous "Sherman
						raid" through Mississippi, in which the railroads centering at Jackson and Canton were
						effectually destroyed. They reached Vicksburg again March 4th, having been absent about
						one month, during which they had traveled three hundred miles. In this expedition, so
						severely damaging to the rebel cause as to give lasting honor to the men who
						participated in it, the soldiers saw some very hard times. The boys of company E were
						unused to marching; their knapsacks were heavy; they seldom drew more than half rations,
						often not so much, and for two or three days, in the eastern part of the State, lived
						mostly upon parched corn. Nevertheless, they had pleasant weather and good roads, plenty
						of water and the privilege of confiscating whatever they found in the country fit to
						eat, and company E knew as well how to use this privilege as any company in the
						expedition.
					Six days after their return they set out—under command of Gen. A. J.
						Smith—upon an expedition up Red River. On their way they halted at Semmesport,
						marched across the country, and after a hard fight captured Fort De Russey and three
						hundred prisoners, March 14th. On the 21st of the same month they were sent to Pine
						Hill, La., twenty miles from Alexandria, where they captured three hundred prisoners,
						four pieces  of artillery, etc. They then returned to Red
						River, went on up to Pleasant Hill, where they participated in a severe battle on the
						8th and 9th of April, 1864, under Gen. Banks. On the first day our forces were repulsed,
						but on the second day Gen. Smith checked the rebels and drove them back. The 89th made a
						charge, capturing one hundred prisoners. The loss of the regiment was six killed and
						forty-nine wounded—company E one killed and five wounded. From this place, very
						strangely, a retreat was ordered by Gen. Banks. Of this movement Capt. Winters wrote in
						his diary as follows: "Why General Banks ordered a retreat is a
								mystery to all. Here was the battle-field covered with the dead and wounded rebels,
								neither of them taken care of. Here were thousands of small arms left on the field,
								sufficient to arm several thousand men, eleven pieces of artillery dismounted or
								disabled. This had been done by our men, but we must leave all for the rebels to
								gather up again. Our own dead were not even buried. A thousand groans and ten
								thousand curses were hurled against Banks."
					The army fell back to Grand Ecore and then to Alexandria, skirmishing almost
						constantly—reaching Alexandria April 26th, just one month after they left it for
						Shreveport. They continued their course down Red River till May 7th, when a severe
						engagement took place, in which the rebels were defeated, company E losing one mortally
						wounded. May 17th they reached Semmesport  again, and the
						next day another battle was fought, in which the 89th lost seven killed and forty-four
						wounded—company E two killed and two wounded. May 24th the regiment arrived at
						Vicksburg, where they camped till June 4th, when they started up the Mississippi. They
						reached Memphis June 9th, 1864, since which time they have been engaged in the important
						raids of General Smith. The fortunes of war have rested heavily upon company E, but in
						every battle and through all hardships they have exhibited true courage and fortitude.
						Their record is a highly honorable one, and will remain a monument to their
						memories.
					
						COMPANY H, ONE HUNDREDTH REGIMENT INDIANA VOLUNTEERS.
						Captain, John W. Headington, promoted to major June 1, '64.
						Lieutenant, Gideon Rathbun, wounded at Missionary Ridge, November 25, 1863.
						Second Lieutenant, Stephen B. H. Shanks, wounded at Missionary Ridge, November 25,
							1863.
						
								SERGEANTS.
								Isaac N. Frazee,
								Eli Vore,
								Edwin Rowlett.
								William F. Ware, died at Colliersville, Tenn., April 4, 1864.
								David J. Moore, wounded at Missionary Ridge Nov. 25, 1863.
							
						
								CORPORALS.
								Thomas Koons, died at Grand Junction, Tenn., Feb. 2, 1863.
								Jacob Haviland, wounded at Missionary Ridge Nov. 25, 1863.
								Solomon M. Barnes, promoted to sergeant May, 1863, for good conduct; received
									a slight wound at Dallas May 28.
								
								Sanford B. Couldren.
								Liberty Patterson.
								Andrew J. Thomas, discharged Nov. 7, '63, at Mound City.
								Jacob Bosworth, discharged at Memphis, March 22, 1863.
								Wm. Fifer, slight wound at Mission Ridge Nov. 25.
								Henry Hammons, drummer.
								Aquilla K. Mills, fifer, died —.
								Wm. Wiley, fifer.
							
						
								PRIVATES.
								Samuel Allman, slight wound November 25.
								Joseph S. Antles,
								Jonathan Armantrout.
								John F. Bowden, promoted to first lieutenant company B, 11th Indiana cavalry,
									October, 1863.
								Ephraim Byrd, died at home August 24, 1863.
								George D. Borden, regimental harness maker.
								Daniel Bickel, died at Memphis October 23, 1863.
								Samuel A. Blake, died at Memphis June 10, 1863.
								James Baker,
								William Brunner,
								Nathan Bubmire,
								George H. Bunnell,
								Lewis B. Bunnell,
								James M. Bair.
								Jonathan Cain, discharged May 26,'63;at Colliersville, Tenn.
								Charles W. Caster, promoted corporal Jan. 1, '64, for gallant conduct; died at
									Bellefonte Station, Ala., Feb. 19, '64.
								John M. Collett, wounded at Mission Ridge Nov. 25, '63.
								Mulford C. Carl, wounded at Chattahoochie River July 4,'64.
								James Cartright, died at Memphis Nov. 29, 1862.
								Jesse Collins,
								Joseph L. Carl,
								William Cherry.
								Joseph Dehoff, died at St. Louis Dec. 20, 1862.
								Amos Ducket,
								George Fritzinger,
								Richard Fitzgerald,
								Henry Flooding,
								Joshua W. Flood,
								Abner J. Frazee.
								John Flooding, killed at Mission Ridge Nov. 25, 1863.
								Obed Gibson, died at La Grange, Tenn., Jan. 15, 1863.
								Henderson Graves, wounded at Dallas, Ga., May 28.
								Abram Geiger, wounded at Mission Ridge Nov. 25.
								Daniel D. Ginger,
								Stephen M. Hughes,
								Wm. W. Horner,
								George B. Haffner,
								Wm. H. Hester,
								James Hoad.
								Levi P. Hilton, died at Vicksburg Sept. 28, 1863.
								
								Henry C. Holtsapple, died at Bellefonte Station, Feb. 28, '64.
								James D. Hardy, died at La Grange, Tenn., March 9, 1863.
								Caleb Haviland, discharged November 26, 1862.
								Joseph C. Hawkins, hospital steward.
								Thomas H. Iliff, died at St. Louis August 5, 1863.
								James Jones.
								Noah Kunce, died at Memphis Nov. 26, 1862.
								Joseph W. Lafollett, died at LaGrange, Tenn., Feb. 27, '63.
								Jon C. Morris, died at Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 18, '63.
								Jacob W. McCrskey, wagon master.
								James A. Mason, wounded at Mission Ridge Nov. 25.
								J. W. Merchant, died at Colliersville, Tenn., May 7, '63.
								Lafayette Morgan, died at Scottsboro, Ala., Dec. 27, '63.
								John M. Mills, died at LaGrange, Tenn., Feb. 7, '63.
								David Mills, hospital steward at Indianapolis.
								Cassius B. Mills, discharged at Colliersville May 26, '63.
								Edward Nicholas,
								Elias A. Porter,
								Joshua Poling,
								Charles Plummer,
								Isaiah Parkison,
								John J. Rathbun,
								Alexander W. Ruhl,
								Charles W. Rarrick,
								Ezekiel Rowlett, discharged at Indianapolis Aug. 25, '63.
								Noah Ruhl, promoted corporal Dec. 25, '63.
								Eli Rines,
								Adam Shultz,
								Jacob Sutton, discharged at Memphis March 16, '63.
								Henry Spahr, died at Camp Sherman August 18, '63.
								Solon C. Stratton, died on Tallahatchie River Dec. 2, '62.
								Henry C. Staley,
								Taylor Towle,
								Granville C. Tucker,
								Robie M. Towle,
								Alvah J. Tucker, wounded at Dallas, Ga., May 28, '64.
								Jesse Thompson,
								Samuel Wilkison,
								John Westfall,
								David Wolf,
								Joseph B. Whitenack,
								James G. Walker, promoted corporal May, 1863; killed at Mission Ridge Nov. 25,
									'53.
								Cyrus J. Wilson, died at Snider's Bluff June 26, '63.
								Jacob West, wounded at Mission Ridge Nov. 20, '63.
							
						
						
								RECAPITULATION.
								Total
									103
								Discharged
									7
								Died
									25
							
					
					Company H was recruited in August, 1862; left Portland September 9th; reported at
						Wabash, when it organized by electing the following officers: Captain, John W.
						Headington; First Lieutenant, Gideon Rathbun; Second Lieutenant Stephen B. H. Shanks.
						They were mustered into the three years' service at Indianapolis on the 23d of
						September. Early in October they were furloughed home for a few days. On the 11th of
						November they went by rail to Cairo; thence by steamboat to Memphis, where they joined
						Grant's army and acompanied him on his grand expedition through Mississippi in the fall
						of 1862. They were as far South as Yocknapatafa. On their return they reached Grand
						Junction January 10th, 1863, in the vicinity of which they remained during the
						winter.
					On the return march to Holly Springs the company began to feel the hardships of war.
						Their rations failed, and they lived as they could, some of the time on raw or parched
						corn, and but little of that. A member of the company (a lad of sixteen years) writes
						thus: "Many murmur and say they have nothing to eat and must starve. For my part I find
						it easy enough to get along—  if one only takes a
						little care. I had an ear of corn for my breakfast and put another ear in my pocket for
						my supper."
					In March, 1863, they moved to Colliersville, Tennessee, where they remained, doing
						guard duty and scouting until June 5th, when they proceeded to Vicksburg and joined the
						grand siege of that city. After its surrender they went with the force which drove the
						rebel Johnston from Jackson, Mississippi.
					They spent nearly three months in camp on Big Black River, and late in September
						proceeded up the river to Memphis, thence by land through Northern Mississippi and
						Alabama to Chattanooga, Tennessee. The march from Memphis to Chattanooga was long and
						severe, occupying forty days, the distance being about three hundred miles. The men
						endured the trip pretty well, however; many of them even gaining in health and strength
						during the long and tiresome journey. On Lookout Mountain, and in the region overlooking
						and threatening Chattanooga and Grant's gallant army, lay Bragg's rebel hosts. Hardly
						had Sherman's brave troops taken a little rest until the combined forces made a fierce
						and persistent attack on the enemy. Up the heights of Missionary Ridge and Lookout
						Mountain the resistless heroes charged, killed and captured great numbers and drove the
						rest in confusion for  many miles into Georgia. In this
						fierce battle of three days Company H took an active and honorable part, in which they
						lost two killed and eleven wounded, mostly severely, including both Lieutenants. The
						number engaged was thirty-two, including officers. The standard bearer was shot down.
						Private J. C. Hawkins seized the falling banner, waved it defiantly to the foe, rallied
						the wavering columns, and bore it triumphantly to the end of the fight. For this and
						other gallant conduct he was publicly complimented, and the officers of the regiment,
						through Chaplain Brouse, presented to him an officer's uniform.
					On the 26th of November they started in pursuit of the retreating rebels, and continued
						as far as Graysville, Georgia, where they burned a large mill, and tore up and destroyed
						the railroad track and bridges. They were then selected as part of the force to march to
						the relief of Knoxville. In that expedition of more than three weeks the men marched day
						after day, sometimes till midnight, half naked, bare-footed, without rations or cooking
						utensils, yet almost without a murmur. Arrived at Maysville, they learned that the
						rebels had run, and they returned by way of Chattanooga and Bridgeport, to Scottsboro,
						Alabama, where they arrived December 27th, 1863.
					The march to the relief of Knoxville was one of peculiar and excessive hardships. In
						the  battle of Missionary Ridge, and the subsequent
						pursuit, occupying five days, the company had left or thrown away clothes, equipage,
						etc., and they had almost no blankets, tents, overcoats, or cooking utensils. Some
						melted their canteens apart, and used them to bake bread upon. They subsisted on what
						they could obtain by the way, which was insufficient to satisfy their hunger, and though
						it was December, many were bare-footed and without blankets; yet the brave and noble men
						bore these hardships even with cheerfulness. The following letter, written to the church
						of which the writer was a member, shows the spirit of some of these soldiers: 
							
								
									BATTLE FIELD NEAR JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI,
											July 12th, 1864—Sabbath morning.
										DEAR BRETHREN:—
									I cannot but contrast the difference between our situations at this moment. You
										are preparing to worship God in your little church, and to listen to the words
										of "Peace on earth and good will to men," while I, your brother, am lying close
										to a trembling earth, made so by the whizzing of balls and shells aimed for our
										destruction! You no doubt will be interested in the character of my reflections
										and feelings in the circumstances.
									After singing "The Lord my Shepherd is," "From every stormy wind that blows,"
										and "On the mountain top appearing," I committed myself, my family, my brethren
										and my country to God's keeping. The result is a calmness and resignation that
										is almost surprising to myself. How far I shall be able to maintain this state
										of feeling of course I cannot tell, but I trust that I shall be enabled to find
										strength in  the promise, "The Lord is a present
										help in every time of need," and "As thy day is, so shall thy strength be," and
										if not a sparrow falls to the ground without our Heavenly Father, why need I be
										afraid?
									Now, brethren, as it regards the principles we have contended for: In the face of death I believe they are right! I have lived by them and
										stood up for them in life; and if it please God that I should now die, I shall
										die with the full confidence that piety to God and humanity to man are the sum
										and substance of Christ's holy religion. I exhort you, therefore, to stand fast
										by them—"Stand up for Jesus!" and though we may always be unpopular among
										men, yet "it pays" to have the consciousness that all is well when there is
										danger in every step, and one looks death square in the face. (We are looking
										every moment for an order to charge.)
									Farewell. May the peace of God, that passeth all understanding, be with you to
										the end.
									Your brother,
										* * *
								
							
						
					
					Early in January, 1864, the regiment was again set to guarding railroads, and continued
						until May 1st, when it joined the grand army now before Atlanta. In this campaign it has
						participated in engagements at Resaca, Dallas, New Hope Church and Kenesaw Mountain, and
						several have been wounded. Their losses have been heavy throughout the war. In sixteen
						different places and seven different States, their "dead ones brave" are lying. The
						battle-scarred veterans of company H have made a record which while they live will be
						their honor, and when they die will be their glorious epitaph.
					
					
						COMPANY F, SEVENTY-FIFTH REGIMENT INDIANA VOLUNTEERS.
						Captain, Dr. Christopher S. Arthur, promoted to surgeon.
						First Lieutenant, J ohn S. Stanton, promoted to captain Aug 20, 1862—wounded
							at Chickamauga.
						Second Lieutenant, Abraham C. Rush, promoted to first lieutenant Aug. 20, 1862,
							resigned Dec. 22, 1862.
						
								SERGEANTS.
								Orderly, Jesse T. Underwood, promoted to second lieutenant Aug. 20, 1862,
									resigned Feb., 1863.
								Guy W. McGriff, promoted to first lieutenant Dec. 23, 1862, resigned April 16,
									1864.
								Joseph Lewis, promoted to orderly Dec. 23, 1862; to second lieutenant Feb.,
									1863.
								Justice Green, died at home Nov. 1863.
								John Hardy, jun., wounded at Kenesaw Mountain,
								Oliver H. P. Hammitt, transferred to gunboat.
							
						
								CORPORALS.
								Henry V. Walling, wounded at Kenesaw Mountain,
								Henry Getz,
								John P. Boyd, died Nov. 1862
								David Henry,
								Charles E. Bennett, died at Castillian Springs Nov. '62
								William Arbaugh,
								Jas. Stewart, killed at Chickamauga,
								Solomon Dehoff,
								Charles A. Black,
								Charles W. Robbins,
								Edward J. Haynes.
								Alexander Hyde, fifer, wounded at Kenesaw Mountain.
								William R. Miller, drummer, discharged.
							
						
								PRIVATES.
								Charles S. Butterworth,
								Albert Bunris,
								James W. Binegar, wounded at Missionary Ridge,
								Lyman Brown, discharged,
								John McKinstry, discharged—died before reaching home.
								George W. McCartney,
								William W. McLellan,
								Perry Odell.
								
								Elias F. Baird, died at Chattanooga,
								Aaron Baker,
								Thomas J. Cartwright,
								Joseph A. Craig,
								Harvey Collins,
								Francis A. Collett,
								Samuel W. Dixon,
								Eli Dehoff, discharged—died atter reaching home,
								Samuel M. Elliott,
								Samuel Force,
								Timothy F. Fait, killed at Chickamauga Sept. 1863
								Charles L. Fullmer, wounded at Chickamauga,
								David Farris, discharged,
								Lewis Ginger, detailed at brigade h'dq'rs as mt'd orderly
								Lilburn Gray, discharged,
								Enos T.Hoskins, died Nov.'62
								Nathan B. Hickman, disch'd
								Geo. W. Hammitt, promoted ord. ser't Feb. 12, 1864,
								Joseph Heminger, detailed in Engineer Corps Dec. '62
								David Heminger, detailed in Engineer Corps Dec. '62
								William Heminger, wounded at Chickamauga Sept. '63
								John Hardy, sen., discharged
								Moses Hardy, died,
								Charles Hughes,
								Ephraim Jellison,
								Thomas C. Keen, discharged April, 1864,
								James Porter, killed at Kenesaw Mountain June 18, '64
								Mailon I. Paxson,
								Jesse J. Russell, died Jan. '63.
								Seth Regester, died at Chattanooga,
								David E. Reiley, wounded at Chickamauga,
								Enos T. Reed, discharged,
								Robt. Rensenberg, discharged,
								Stephen Shelton, discharged,
								Alexander Strain,
								James A. Smith,
								George Shirk, died Jan. 1863,
								John Shirk, wounded at Chickamauga,
								Charles A. Stephens, promoted corporal, and detailed as ordnance serg't Jan.
									1864,
								Jacob Schmidt, died Jan. 1863
								Everett W. Sullivan, wounded at Chickamauga—disch'd,
								Charles E. Stanton, died at Ringgold, Georgia,
								William F. Smith, captured Dec. 1863,
								Spencer Smith,
								John W. Sage, wounded at Chickamauga,
								T. L. Stratton, transferred to Co. E, 89th Indiana,
								Cornelius Thompson, detached to Engineer Corps,
								William W. Thorp,
								William T. Underwood, disch.
								William Vance, died Nov. '62
								
								George H. Kinsey, killed at Chickamauga,
								Henry Kuntz, discharged,
								Richard Loyd, killed at Missionary Ridge,
								Isaiah M. Larick, wounded at Kenesaw Mountain,
								Francis M. Larick,
								Robert Michaels,
								Francis R. Moon,
								John Meredith, died Jan. 1863 Aaron J. Mendenhall, died Jan. 1863,
								William C. Vail,
								John Walters, wounded at Chickamauga,
								Jacob H. Wolford,
								Jas. M. Wolford, died Jan. '63
								Henry F. West,
								Edward J. West, died Jan. '63
								Uriah Williams, died,
								Jasper N. Whitaker,
								Samuel Wibel.
								William H. Wilson, deserted to 13th Ohio, to which he formerly
									belonged.
							
						
								RECAPITULATION.
								Whole number
									99
								Died
									24
								Transferred, Resigned and Discharged
									19
							
					
					Company F was recruited in July, 1862, by A. C. Rush; left Portland on the 31st of the
						same month; the next day went into camp at Wabash; was assigned to the 75th regiment,
						and was mustered into the three years' service August 20th, and in two days were at
						Louisville. They were then, under orders of Gen. Dumont, sent to several points in
						Kentucky in search of the rebel Morgan. They visited Lebanon, Shepardsville and Lebanon
						Junction, etc., and then returned to Louisville on the 22d of September; thence went to
						Elizabethtown, and again returned to Louisville. On the 6th of October they left this
						city the third time and went to Frankfort, Versailles  and
						Bowling Green; thence to Castillian Springs, Tennessee, where they arrived November
						28th, 1862. Here they lost, by disease, four of their members. Remaining here nearly one
						month, they set out for Murfreesboro, which point they reached January 6th, 1863. They
						remained at this place nearly six months, during which they lost by death eight and by
						being discharged nine. On the 23d of June they were once more ordered to march. At
						Hoover's Gap they found the enemy, but after considerable skirmishing he fled. Their
						next visits were to Tullahoma, Winfred, Dechard and University Heights on the Cumberland
						Mountains; crossed Lookout Mountain and Pond Springs on the 14th of September, and on
						the 19th engaged in that terrible struggle at Chickamauga, in which the 75th regiment
						lost nearly one-third of its members and company E three killed and seven wounded. In
						this fight they were in the 2d brigade, 4th division, commanded by Maj. Gen. Joseph J.
						Reynolds; 14th Army Corps, Maj. Gen. Geo. H. Thomas. The brigade commander, Col. King,
						was killed, and the command then devolved upon Col. Milton S. Robinson, of the 75th
						regiment. On the 20th they again encountered the enemy, a severe engagement followed, in
						which Capt. J. S. Stanton was wounded, and Lieut. Underwood commanded the company. Two
						days later they retired with  the army to Chattanoga. The
						rebels having cut off their communications by railroad, they were on short rations for
						three months. At this place three of company F died of disease. On the 25th of November
						they participated in the fierce contest at Mission Ridge, in which they lost one killed
						and two wounded. Lieut. Lewis commanded the company. From that time forward they were
						engaged in the great campaign in that department. On the 18th of June, 1864, at Kenesaw
						Mountain, they were in the front, and company F lost three in killed and four wounded.
						In November, 1863, Capt. Stanton was detailed on the recruiting service; Lieut. McGriff
						detailed as ordnance officer on Gen. Baird's staff, and the company was commanded by
						Lieut. Jos. Lewis.
					Since the opening of Gen. Sherman's campaign company F has been most of the time in
						front, gallantly performing all duties required of it. It has met the enemy in some of
						the severest contests of the war. Its large list of noble men who have been killed and
						wounded on all these occasions, attests its uniform bravery and deeds of imperishable
						glory. We leave it looking from the front into the besieged city of Atlanta.
					Company B, 11th Indiana Cavalry, was recruited by R. C. Harper, Elias Shewalter and J.
						F. Bowden, in October, 1863.
					On the 10th of November they were  mustered into the
						three-years' service at Indianapolis. Mr. Bowden was appointed First Lieutenant. They
						were then sent to Kokomo, Indiana, to fill up the company, and on the 21st of December
						Mr. Shewalter was elected Captain, and Mr. Harper Second Lieutenant. On the 23d of
						January, 1864, they went to Indianapolis, where they waited until May for horses. They
						were then sent to Nashville, Tennessee, unmounted, where they voluntarily chose infantry
						duty to idleness, and have since served in that capacity. On the 1st of June they were
						sent to guard the railroad running from Stevenson to Huntsville, Alabama. Captain
						Shewalter, with one hundred and sixty-four men, was placed to guard Mud Creek Bridge,
						eight miles from Stevenson. Lieutenant Bowden was detailed to command Company A of the
						same regiment. They have been in the service only a short time, but are ready whenever
						called upon to imitate the bravery of the veteran soldiers from Jay. The following is a
						list of the company: 
							COMPANY B, ELEVENTH INDIANA CAVALRY.
							Captain, Elias Shewalter.
							First Lieutenant, John F. Bowden, was in battles of Vicksburg and Jackson,
								Mississippi, in Company H, 100th Indiana, commissioned first lieutenant in the 11th
								Cavalry, Nov. 11th, 1863.
							Second Lieutenant, R. C. Harper.
							
									SERGEANTS.
									Orderly, Samuel F. Hiatt,
									
									Quartermaster, Aaron L. Somers,
									Commissary, Thomas W. Burk,
									1st, James A. Hutchinson,
									2d John W. Hall,
									3d. John Hindman,
									4th, Isaac M. McLellan,
									5th, John W. Cubbison.
								
							
									CORPORALS.
									1st, John Vickrey,
									2d, Caleb M. Ducket,
									3d, Elias H. West,
									4th, Henry Elbert,
									5th, Raleigh Bowden,
									6th, Ambrose Somers, was in Co. H, 12th Indiana Regiment, at
										Antietam,
									7th, David J. Kelley,
									8th, William R. Frederick.
									William Hyde, Bugler,
									Joseph G. Harter, "
									John N. Sullivan, Farrier.
									John Cookerly, Blacksmith.
									Henry Carpenter, Teamster.
									Joseph S. Tucker, Saddler.
								
							
									PRIVATES.
									William Andrew,
									George N. Adams,
									John Armitage,
									Sanford P. Burk, was in the battle of Willson' s Creek and Belmont, Mo.,
										Fort Donelson, Shiloh, Chaplin Hills, Stone River, in Co. L, 4th Iowa
										Cavalry.
									James Bowden,
									Theodore Baily,
									Marcus Bosworth,
									George W. Bishop,
									Francis Bickle,
									George W. Bush, was in the battle of Richmond, Ky. wounded in hips. Served
										eleven months in Co. F, 69th Indiana.
									Albert P. Loomis,
									Robert Lanning,
									Peter W. B. Loy,
									James M. Moore,
									Benry E. McCartney,
									John Manson,
									Daniel Martin,
									John Myron, died March 26th 1864, at City Hospital, Indianapolis.
									Wiley S. McLaughlin,
									Dennis Matkins,
									William Moccabee,
									John Mays,
									William McLelland,
									James W. Nicholson,
									William Nelson,
									Asahel Oler,
									Thomas Pingry
									
									Isaac Barns,
									William W. Bair,
									William H. Cheneworth,
									James J. Eagy,
									John A. Garringer,
									Elisha Gray,
									Abraham Gray,
									Richard Green,
									James M. Hammitt,
									Monroe Hindman,
									William Harter,
									Eli Houck,
									Benjamin Herrald,
									William S. Hyde,
									Jacob Hutzler,
									Johnson Houck,
									Joseph Jenkins,
									Albert N. Jack,
									George Kimball,
									Thomas D. Kerns,
									Joseph Knapp,
									Byron W. King,
									William Kesler,
									George W. Loy,
									Zachariah Plumer,
									David Rowlett,
									William Richardson,
									Silas Siders,
									Daniel Sanders,
									William Schlosser,
									Thomas W. Sullivan,
									Tilson Smith,
									John Sims,
									Aaron Sanders,
									John Shearer,
									Samuel Shaler,
									John Stults,
									Stephen Skinner,
									F. J. Stover,
									William Stout,
									John N. Tucker,
									James F. Thompson,
									Francis Vining, died in City Hospital at Indianapolis, April 2, 1864,
									Michael Wagner,
									Samuel Walker,
									Jacob Walker.
								
							Died-2
								Total- 98
						
					Regimental officers from Jay County in the Seventh Indiana Cavalry Regiment: 
							Colonel, John P. C. Shanks, was on Gen. Fremont's staff in Missouri.
							Surgeon, William Freeman.
							Chaplain, James Marquis.
						
					Members of Company E, Seventh Indiana Cavalry from Jay County:
						
							Captain, David T. Skinner.
							Second Lieutenant, James Sloan, promoted to first lieutenant.
							
									SERGEANTS.
									Orderly William M. Skinner,
									3d, Barton B. Jenkins,
									4th, James S. Stansberry.
								
							
									CORPORALS.
									Morgan L. Gray,
									Judson Skinner, died —
									John K. Tetters,
									William Underwood.
								
							
									PRIVATES.
									John Adair,
									William Adair,
									Sanford P. Ames,
									John W. Babb,
									Joseph Blackburn,
									John G. W. Clevenger,
									James G. Cloud,
									Daniel B. Crow, died —
									Abijah Crow,
									Humphrey Davis,
									John H. Elliott,
									David Farris,
									Obadiah Gardner, died —
									Isaac Griffith,
									Samuel I. Gray,
									George Haley,
									Richard D. Hoover,
									George W. Hambleton,
									Jerome Hiatt,
									Jas. C. Jay, Hospital Steward,
									Emanuel Knepper,
									Joseph Knepper,
									Eli Lehr,
									Benjamin F. Paxson,
									John Q. Paxson,
									Coston Porter,
									John Roberts,
									John Schneider,
									William H. Smith,
									Daniel H. Van Camp, killed in battle of Brice's Cross Roads, Miss., June 10,
										1864
									William Van Skyhawk,
									John Ware,
									Enos Walker,
									Morris P. Wood.
								
							
									RECAPITULATION.
									Regimental Officers
										3
									Company E
										43
									Died
										4
								
						
					
					When the call was made in April, 1864, for volunteers to serve for one hundred days,
							 recruiting was immediately commenced in Jay. On the
						20th of May the following company left Portland for Indianapolis. Remaining at Camp
						Carrington a few days, they were then sent to Fort Sands, Kentucky, thirty-five miles
						south of Louisville, where they are now located. Rev. N. T. Pettycord, a Methodist
						minister on the New Corydon circuit, and P. S. Loofbourrow, editor of the Jay Torch Light, went as privates in this company. The editor's
						wife, Mrs. Ann E. Loofbourrow, and Miss Rebecca Adams, took entire charge of the paper,
						editing it, setting the type, and doing all other work required to issue the paper. They
						did this work with a promptness, too, which many of their more pretending brothers of
						the press would do well to imitate.
					
						COMPANY E, ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY-NINTH REGIMENT INDIANA
							VOLUNTEERS.
						Captain, A. C. Rush.
						First Lieutenant, F. R. Stratton.
						Second Lieutenant, G. W. Loofbourrow.
						
								SERGEANTS.
								Orderly, Jacob Bosworth, jr.
								1st, A. W. Allen,
								2d, Isaac Simmons,
								3d, Andrew Sunday,
								4th, Samuel Eagy.
							
						
								CORPORALS.
								1st, S. R. Bell,
								2d, G. W. Christman,
								3d, Henry Cristler,
								4th, Abraham Byrd,
								5th, John Pipe,
								6th, Joseph Jeleff,
								7th, J. J. M. Lafollett,
								8th, Alfred Shepherd.
							
						
						
								PRIVATES.
								J. H. Adams,
								G. B. Anderson,
								T. J. Ashdill,
								Christian Burris,
								William Beamer,
								J. Binegar,
								Lewis Bockoven,
								Wesley Cristler,
								E. F. Calderwood,
								Hiram Carson,
								W. R. Curtis,
								J. H. Deffenbaugh,
								B. L. Dewees,
								Frank Fetters,
								Silas Glover,
								J. W. Grigsby,
								David Galloway,
								William Green,
								Lewis D. Hall,
								William Harness,
								B. M. Howell,
								Theodore Johnston,
								Charles Lewis,
								P. S. Loofbourrow,
								F. R. Lewis,
								G. W. Metzner,
								E. E. Moon,
								Geo. G. Montgomery Company Clerk,
								E. J. Mendenhall,
								James Marsh,
								H. McLaughlin,
								Joseph McLellan,
								Abraham Morrical,
								C. A. May,
								M. C. MlcDugal,
								John Miller,
								H Milligan,
								Jesse Milliken,
								H. Owen,
								William Parmenter,
								Jeremiah Phillips,
								W. B. Pingry,
								N. T. Pettycord,
								Daniel Rising,
								Alexander Rayn,
								A. Rook,
								William Robbins,
								Jacob Sunday,
								J. Snider,
								George Steckle,
								J. H. Stratton,
								J. Smith,
								Stephen Shelton,
								Thomas West,
								William Walter,
								A. B. Woodward,
								J. Watkins,
								J. Watts,
								J. L. Whaley.
							
						Total-75
					
					The following one hundred days' men were enlisted at Camden by Capt. Geo. W.
						Fairchilds, who, uniting with a squad from Bluffton, went to  Indianapolis, and while the officers were at home getting recruits to fill
						the company, by order of the Adjutant General they were disbanded, and, with one
						exception, were distributed through the companies forming the 138th regiment, Colonel
						Shannon: 
							Thomas W. Bennett,
							John Brandenburg,
							— Brown,
							Finley Farris,
							Hiram G. Fulmer,
							Theodore Grissell,
							Hiram L. Grissell,
							Ensley L. Gray,
							Alonzo P. Hughes,
							Nicholas Henizer,
							— Henizer,
							Gabriel C. Johnson,
							Levi M. Johnson,
							Thomas Jones,
							William Keagle,
							George W. Keagle,
							William Mendenhall,
							Mordicai Morris,
							Abraham Morical, 139th Regt.
							Stephen Ollum,
							James A. Pugh,
							Allen T. Place,
							Benjamin F. Paxson,
							Joseph E. Paxson,
							Israel A. Place,
							Frank Russell,
							Samuel Shaffer,
							John Thompson,
							Theodore Underwood,
							Joseph White,
							John W. Williams.
							Total: 31
						
					The following one hundred days' soldier are in the 134th Indiana regiment: 
							Matthew Atkinson,
							John Brewster,
							J. W. Daugherty,
							William C. Dye,
							John J. Hawkins, member of non-commissioned staff,
							— Smith.
							Total: 6
						
					Total one-hundred-days' men: 112
					
					
						JAY COUNTY SOLDIERS IN COMPANY F, FORTIETH REGIMENT OHIO
							VOLUNTEERS. [The * designates those re-enlisted.]
						Capt. John L. Reeves, promoted major May 22, '64.
						
								SERGEANTS.
								Joseph H. Brewster, killed by railroad accident at Union City June,
									1862.
								Abram J. Brake, wounded at Chickamauga.
								John W. McKay, transferred to Invalid Corps.
								Nelson White,*
								W. H. McLaughlin.
							
						
								CORPORALS.
								W. H. Frasher, died at home March, 1862.
								Wm. B. Simmons, discharged January, 1864.
								Geo. W. Blake, discharged September, 1863.
								Wm. P. Beard, wounded at Chickamauga.
								Wm. N. Strader, discharged July, 1863.
								Edwin H. Snellbaker, killed at Chickamauga.
								J. Q. A. Andrews,
								G. W. Butcher,
								J. W. Butcher,
								Jason O. Brewster, wagoner.
							
						
								PRIVATES.
								Lewis Beard,* right arm amputated, wounded at Altoona.
								Samuel Eagy, discharged September, 1863.
								George Ehrhart, wounded five times at Chickamauga.
								Hemen Emberson,* wounded at Chickamauga.
								John G. McLaughlin, wounded at Chickamauga.
								Francis M. McLaughlin, discharged.
								Henry McLaughlin, died at Ashland, Ky., March 2d, 1863.
								Lorenzo Stults, detailed Pioneer Corps, April, 1863.
								John Eagy,
								Hiram McLoughlin.
							
						
								RECAPITULATION.
								Whole number
									26
								Discharged and transferred
									7
								Died
									4
							
					
					
					
						JAY COUNTY SOLDIERS IN COMPANY C, NINETEENTH REGIMENT INDIANA
							VOLUNTEERS.
						Sergeant Henry Ammerman, promoted and resigned in 1861.
						Corporal George Allman, mortally wounded at Antietam.
						Corporal Isaac N. Frazee, discharged; re-enlisted in company H, 100th
							Indiana.
						James W. Crowell, discharged.
						David Gariinger, commissary sergeant, died.
						David V. Garringer, re-enlisted; wounded at S. Mountain.
						Jonathan Gray, discharged.
						James Ham, killed at South Mountain Sept. 14, '62.
						George L. Moore, re-enlisted; promoted at Antietam.
						John Nixon, discharged.
						Isaac R. Rathbun, wounded at Antietam; discharged.
						G. R. Rathbun, discharged.
						Wm. Williamson, wounded at Antietam; discharged.
						John Hester, wounded at South Mountain; arm amputated.
						Thomas Bonfill, killed in 1864.
						E. G. Moore, at home sick.
						Amos Whiteneck, killed in 1864.
						Nathan B. Maxwell, enlisted April 18, 1861, in co. E, 8th Ind.; re-enlisted in
							19th; died at Washington City Dec. 12, '62.
						George M. Rathbun, discharged.
						Alexander Burk, killed at Gettysburg.
						Jackson Reeves,
						C. C. Rider, wounded,
						Albert Collett, wounded,
						Valentine Thompson,
						Isaac Cherry, wounded,
						Thomas Barr.
						
								RECAPITULATION.
								Whole number
									26
								Died
									7
							
					
					
						MEMBERS OF COMPANY I, ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTIETH INDIANA.
						Lieutenant Robert W. Nickum.
						Lieutenant William Van Camp.
						
						John Isenhart, died at Nashville July 2, 1864.
						John S. McLaughlin,
						Simon Burris,
						John H. Smith,
						Rev. Wm. Smith,
						Wm. P. Wehrly,
						James Williams,
						John J. Campbell,
						William White,
						Thomas B. Hill,
						Benjamin Emberson,
						David H. Dutro.
						Total: 14
					
					The following persons, from Richland Township, are also in the One Hundred and
						Thirtieth Indiana: 
							William Current,
							Abraham Coons,
							John Cuness,
							Jacob Daugherty,
							Thomas Daugherty,
							Thomas Dragoo,
							Alva Evans,
							James W. Evans,
							Amos Hall,
							James Hayes,
							Jacob Hesser,
							James Hoppis,
							Alva Johnson,
							Abraham Keesear,
							William Maitle,
							James Metlen,
							William Powell,
							Allen W. Roberts,
							James Smith,
							James Stawford,
							Samuel Taylor,
							— Mikle,
							Samuel Wilson,
							Total: 23
						
					
						MEMBERS OF THE SIXTY-NINTH INDIANA.
						R. B. Castle,
						H. P. Castle,
						William Clough, killed near Ezekiel Clough, Vicksburg,
						Calvin Diggs, taken prisoner at Chickamauga,
						Enoch Fields,
						William Matchet,
						Lewis O'Neil,
						Levi Matchet,
						Peter Matchet,
						W. S. Pinney,
						David Reed.
						Total: 12
					
					
					
						MEMBERS OF THE EIGHTY-FOURTH INDIANA.
						M. D. Lockhart, Co. B, killed at Chickamauga,
						Samuel B. Smith, Co. B,
						W. M. Shrach, Co. B, wounded at Resaca,
						J. W. Coulson, Co. B,
						Charles Emerson, Co. E,
						Benjamin Kemp, Co. E.
						George Swank, "
						Alexander Hutchinson, Co. E, wounded at Chickamauga,
						Henry Hutchinson, Co. E.
						John J. Brown,
						Harris Black, Co. H.
						Total: 11
					
					
						MEMBERS OF THE THIRTY-SIXTH INDIANA.
						George W. Crandall,
						James W. Evans, shot three times at Shiloh,
						Thomas Guston, Co. E,
						W. H. Hubbard,
						Charles W. Lambert,
						Charles F. Losh,
						James E. Phillips,
						George W. McKinney, wounded twice at Shiloh,
						W. G. Sutton,
						Benj. Shields, died Oct. 3d, 1861;—first death among the soldiers from Jay
							Co.
						John W. Thomas.
						Total: 11
					
					
						COMPANY K, FORTIETH OHIO.
						John Butcher,
						Martin Butcher,
						— Crabtree,
						Harvey Denney, died —
						Jasper Denney,
						Franklin Denney,
						Elisha H. Hunter,
						Reuben Jones,
						— Metzner,
						James Smith,
						Oliver Wells.
						Total: 11
						Deserted not given above: 4
					
					
						MISCELLANEOUS LIST.
						Joseph Darst, 2d Ohio Art.
						C. Hatmaker, Co. D, 85th Ohio
						Robt. M. Mann, 2d Ohio Art.
						Firmen Andrews, 81st Ohio
						Ner Gaunt, 8th Ind.
						Cyrus Grice, 87th Ohio
						John Grice, "
						Nathan Higgins, 47th Ind.
						
						David Stahl, 6th Ind. Cav.
						Geo. Chame, " "
						John Buffington, 48th Ind.
						G.A.Sommers, Co.E, 88th Ind.
						Charles W. Cline, — Ohio
						J.W. Denney, 87th Ohio, died.
						Asa Tharp, 17th Ohio
						T. Theurer, 8th Ohio Bat. died
						Samuel Buther, 2d Ohio Art.
						J. T. Snellbaker, " "
						Jas. M. Anderson, 47th Ohio.
						Jas. Allman, Co. A, 82d Ohio, taken prisoner at Chickamauga, still held.
						David M. Bell, 47th Ind.
						Alpheus Bailey, 13th Ind.
						W. J. Bickel, 47th Ind.
						M. P. Boggs, Co. D, 66th Ohio, wounded at Port Republic and discharged.
						William T. Boggs, Co. D, 66th Ohio, wounded at
							Gettysburg—re-enlisted.
						Hiram Bromagem, 8th Ind.
						John Cring, 90th Ind.
						Henry Crabtree, 57th Ohio
						Johiel Crabtree, "
						Joseph P. Carder, 19th Ind.
						Malin V. Coons, 47th Ohio.
						Job T. Devoss, 47th Ind. died
						John W. Devoss, " "
						Michael Downey, "
						Daniel Dearworth, 87th Ohio
						James Evans, 69th Ohio.
						David W. Freeman, 12th Ind.
						C. C. Higgins, 2d Mich Cay.
						Jackson Hatterman, 47th Ind.
						W. N. Higgins, "
						John S. Hawkins, 22 Ohio
						Isaac E. Haines, 47th Ind.
						James A. Hanlin, 17th Ohio
						David Jordan, Co. G, 40th Ohio
						Charles R. Loomis, 12th Ind.
						John Losh, 1st Ill. Cavalry
						F. G. McConnell, 47th Ind.
						R. L. McConnell, 80th "
						Leander Moon, 85th Ohio
						John Mongar, — Ind. Cav.
						Samuel Morris, 87th Ind.
						H. M. McLaughlin, 134th Ind.
						Hiram McLaughlin, 87th Ohio
						John G. McLaughlin, "
						John Pfeifer, 1st Ohio Cav.
						Theodore Parker, 17th Ohio
						Webster Richmond, 12th Ind.
						Geo. M. Randall, — Battery
						Felix Ryan, 124th Ind.
						Daniel W. Smith, 19th Ind.— Died at Washington.
						Joseph A. Starbuck, 41st Ind.
						Amos Shey, — Ohio
						Penley Shey, "
						Francis Snyder, 19th Ind.
						O. B. Snyder, 40th Ohio
						James Smith, "
						James Spillman, "
						John Stone, 87th Ohio
						Francis M. Wright, 17th Ind.
						Elisha B. West, 29th Ind.
						A. J. Williamson, 19th Ind.
						
						John Gaunt, 8th Ind.
						William Guston, Co. E, 36th Ind. died Dec. 30, 1861.
						Henry J. Warner, 8th Ind.
						W. H. West, — Ohio
					
					The following names are on the Provost Marshal's record, as volunteers for Jay, without
						the regiment being given: 
							H. H. Abbott,
							John D. J. German,
							George Goucher,
							Joseph Glover,
							Isaac Gray,
							Jonathan Gibbons,
							Benjamin Hutchins,
							Henry Kizer,
							Allen Loveall,
							John C. Morris,
							John H. McConnell,
							Henry Mussey,
							Adam Murray,
							Eli Mock,
							Willliam Mann,
							Honry C. Mongar,
							Jacob Money,
							Thomas Paxson,
							Martin Pinney,
							Charles Pegg,
							Eli Rives,
							C. N. Rarrick,
							Edwin Rynearson,
							John N. Sullivan,
							Jeremiah Vance,
							John Vore,
							Joseph Wood,
							Cyrus J. Wilson,
							John Warner,
							Robert Young.
							Total Miscellaneous: 108
						
					In 1862 James B. Jaqua was appointed Draft Commissioner for Jay County. He took the
						first enrollment, and on the 6th of October, 1862, the following persons were drafted
						for nine months. They were taken to Indianapolis by Provost Marshal Isaac Underwood,
						where they had the privilege of choosing what volunteer regiment they desired to enter,
						and were scattered:
					
					[Those marked with an asterisk (*) furnished a substitute.]
					
						RICHLAND.
						Washington Bridgford,
						James J. Bridgford,
						G. W. Current,
						David Current,
						W. N. Current,
						D. M. Crumley,*
						John Clippard,
						John L. Fires,
						Calvin Hickman,
						Thomas Hall,*
						James Kenton,
						J. A. Keesaer,
						J. W. Levally,
						O. A. Lord,
						A. P. Mallow,*
						M. E. McDaniel,
						D. F. Norris,
						J. C. Norris,
						T. G. Osburn,
						J. M. Resler,
						C. B. St. Johns,*
						Benjamin Stover,
						George Stover,
						Daniel Sutton,
						James J. Taylor—25.
					
					
						KNOX.
						George S. Barber,
						John Barnes,*
						John J. L. Craig,
						Manasseh Johnson,
						Griffin Johnson,
						J. F. McFarland,*
						Mordecai Phillips,
						Allen Parker,
						W. G. Smith,*
						John Whitacre,
						J, F. Woods,
						William Wright—12.
					
					
						JEFFERSON.
						F. M. Bell,
						Cyrus Blackaby,*
						William Ernest,
						George Fires,*
						Abraham Hahn, Jun.,
						W. C. Hudson,*
						W. H. Hammond,*
						Samuel Hite,*
						Benjamin Heston,
						J. R. Judy,*
						A. J. Landis,
						Ephraim Morgan,
						Joseph Mendenhall,
						William Miller,
						Milton McVey,
						Chene Pyle,
						James Patterson,
						Henry Ritenour,*
						G. W. Shepherd,*
						Watson Swhier,
						S. S. Taylor,
						David Warren—22.
					
					
					
						GREEN.
						John Gilbert,
						Henry Hizer,
						J. N. Hiatt,*
						D. M. V. B. Lanning,
						John Murphy,
						A. K. Pyle,
						John Peterson,
						Isaac Phillips,*
						Jonas Phillips—9.
					
					
						NOBLE.
						Alexander Anderson,*
						J. A. Cunningham,
						John Coffman,
						Ira Gilbert,
						John Hale,
						S. D. Holsopple,*
						L. T. Harter,
						Emanuel Hartzell,
						William Livengood,
						J. A. Morehous,*
						George Parsons,*
						Daniel Theurer—12.
					
					
						BEAR CREEK.
						J. W. Bartmes,
						William Bishop,
						A. J. Gillum,*
						Joseph Huey,*
						James Pitt,
						Moses Ross,
						Zedekiah Wheeler—7.
					
					Total number drafted: 87.
					The casualties in the miscellaneous list and most of the fractional companies are not
						known.
					
						Total number of soldiers from Jay: 1,131
						Deduct drafted men: 87
						Leaving the total number of volunteers: 1,044
					
					A few, after being discharged, have re-enlisted, and their names appear twice, and a
						very few more are from other counties, leaving over ONE THOUSAND VOLUNTEERS from JAY COUNTY in the ARMY OF THE UNION! God bless them! Farewell.
				
			
		
	
