
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Howe, E. W. (Edgar Watson), 1853-1937. Country town sayings. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1101
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				
					Country Town Sayings
					
					A Collection of Paragraphs from The Atchison Globe
				
				By
					E. W. HOWE Author of "Daily Notes of a Trip Around the World,"
					"The Story of a Country Town," "The Trip to the West Indies," etc.
				Crane & Company
					Topeka, Kan.
					1911
			
			
			
				Verso
				Copyright 1911, by E. W. Howe Atchison, Kansas
			
		
		
			
			
				Country Town Sayings
				
				
				Country Town Sayings
				Be better than the average; the average wages received by men are pretty low.
				We frequently hear this said of highly respectable men: "He's a great old
					grandmother."
				When you are in trouble, people who call to sympathize are really looking for the
					particulars.
				A woman never returns from a visit to the cemetery without abusing some man for the way
					his wife's grave is neglected.
				An Atchison man's kin in New York is so rich that he'd rather not have presents than go
					to the trouble of saying thank you.
				A real Boston girl is visiting in Atchison, and says it is just lovely here. We can
					plainly see that that girl is going to make a hit.
				
				There is an unwritten law among women that no woman should go farther than two blocks
					from home with a shawl over her head.
				You often hear of bull-headed luck. There is no such thing: it is bull-headed industry,
					bull-headed perseverance, bull-headed economy.
				You may have noticed that the man who says mean things without mentioning names, usually
					makes his meaning so clear he doesn't need to.
				When in doubt in society, shake hands.
				Are you disposed to give men credit or hell?
				Any man will claim a good stray umbrella.
				A woman is as old as she looks before breakfast.
				Old people say to the young: "You've had no trouble yet."
				Men are never as crazy about the women as the women think they are.
				
				If there is any one thing that a man should do in private, it is his loving.
				Everyone hates a martyr; it's no wonder martyrs were burned at the stake.
				Some people walk all the time as though they were doing a cake-walk.
				If your average isn't the best you can do, it is at least the best you will do.
				The man who can tell you all about the problem of life, can't work it himself.
				Every man imagines that fortunes may be easily made in some other part of the world.
					Every field looks green in the distance; it is not until he reaches it that a man sees
					that stumps and bad places are as numerous as in the field he left.
				Some men never ride in a hack except at a funeral or an election.
				If you have an ambition to get rich, don't let it kill every other ambition you have.
				
				People are always neglecting something they can do in trying to do something they can't
					do.
				Whenever a woman gets into politics, she makes the men think that much less of women.
				You can reasonably expect just so much from men; when you expect more, you will be
					disappointed.
				What has become of the old-fashioned children who were sent over to the neighbors about
					once a year, and came back to find a new baby at their house?
				We are national president of the Don't Worry Club, but when we are particularly busy,
					with our small affairs, and honestly trying to make a living, it makes us mad for an agent
					to come in, with his cat-like tread and W. J. Bryan smile, and take up our time trying to
					work us on a fool scheme we have rejected a hundred times. Under such circumstances, being
					national president of the Don't Worry Club does us no good. We wonder if Christian Science
					would do any good?
				
				A woman who will tell the truth about the number of men who have asked her to marry them
					is as rare as the man who doesn't exaggerate the number of fish he catches.
				Don't argue; it is tiresome, and does no good. When you disagree with a man, say: "I have
					a long and tiresome argument on the other side, but I cannot convince you, and shall not
					attempt it."
				The average man cannot tell where his folks live in the East without asking his wife.
				You hear every day of women who are "crazy to get married." You rarely hear it of
					men.
				The man who can keep a secret may be wise, but he is not half as wise as the man with no
					secrets to keep.
				"No woman loves you very much," said a man to a friend to-day, "or she would squeeze that
					blackhead out of your face."
				When a man does his best, he will find that he does very well.
				
				Men usually play poker because they are conceited; every player thinks he is a little
					smarter than other players, and can outwit them. But every man who plays poker loses in
					the end.
				A person with a naturally mean disposition has a great many opportunities for showing
					it.
				For every quarrel a man and wife have before others, they have a hundred when alone.
				They say there are all kinds of men in the world. Did you ever know of a kind that did
					not talk enough?
				A mortgage will do more to induce a man to pay a debt promptly than friendship, or
					honor.
				How often worry is useless! In the early days every freighter across the plains expected
					to be attacked by Indians; every day he worried over Indians. During the last thirty years
					we have interviewed a good many plainsmen, and have yet to find one who actually had
					trouble with Indians. But they all admitted that they constantly worried over the fear of
					them.
				
				An old student of human nature says that a man who carries a knife is more dangerous than
					a man who carries a pistol. There is said to be more of the wolf in a man who carries a
					knife.
				The man who deserves success will be successful. This is the long and short of it.
					Thousands of men who do not deserve patronage complain because they are not
					patronized.
				It is always impolite to say that a woman or butter is old.
				About the ugliest creature on earth is a tall, slim boy wearing spectacles.
				Nothing suits a man better than to see a worthless boy "come out," and "make a man" of
					himself.
				An Atchison girl calls her steady, "Hun;" it is her abbreviation of "Honey."
				An Atchison mother, in praising her baby boy, says that in weaning him, she only found it
					necessary to shame him once, and he quit.
				
				We have noticed that when it is generally said of a man that he doesn't work very hard,
					it may also be said that he doesn't get along very well.
				Every little while we hear it said of some one: "Well, he got a lesson he'll not soon
					forget. It was disagreeable, but it will do him good." People seem to like to see others
					get these "lessons." We don't: we like to see people get along without them.
				There is only one thing people like that is good for them; a good night's sleep.
				A widower with five children stands a better show matrimonially than a Spin with money,
					beauty, family, character, and money.
				A thunderbolt never yet fell from a clear sky.
				We don't believe we ever knew anyone who was not properly punished.
				The feeling of sleepiness when you are not in bed, and can't get there, is the meanest
					feeling in the world.
				
				A good many of your tragedies probably look like comedies to others.
				When we look at some men who say they were sent to save the world, we can't help
					laughing.
				Nothing pleases a woman quite so well as to look so sweet that a man wants to kiss her,
					and then abuse him for his impudence.
				Thousands of men are complaining because of lack of work; thousands of other men are
					complaining because they can't get good men to work for them.
				Don't be ashamed if you can't play the piano: be proud of it.
				Have you ever noticed that a wise man keeps his mouth shut a good deal?
				Considering how men are abused, there are some surprisingly good fellows among them.
				It is impossible to make your conduct perfect, but it is easy to make it better than it
					has been.
				
				A woman always insists upon deciding whether she does her duty as a wife; she will not
					permit her husband to decide.
				"If it were not for just one little thing," we heard an inventor say once, "I would have
					the greatest invention in the world." That one little thing is the trouble in every man's
					life.
				There is a certain young man who is engaged, and who is very much in love. We were
					shocked to-day, therefore, to see him laughing with a dining-room girl, and apparently
					enjoying himself.
				A business man says that in one day recently he made seven donations that he could not
					get out of. In addition, he turned down several applications for help. Some of the
					donations he made he regarded as pure blackmail.
				We have a longing to hear about something that is right; we hear so much about things
					that are wrong.
				Every little fool has a "doctrine," and he believes the world will finally accept it.
				
				Doesn't it seem some days as though other people were put in the world for no other
					reason than to aggravate you?
				There are sane people we can't stand; we don't know what we should do were we compelled
					to be much with crazy people.
				To be an ideal guest, stay at home.
				Some men are polite when you bother them, even though they are very busy, but they hate
					you just the same. Transact your business and get out.
				Most of your friends admire other people so much that their admiration becomes
					uncomfortable.
				A big fat wife is always a joke on a little man.
				When some men get a little money, they spend it in "looking around."
				If a man is treated well in a little town, he imagines he can do better in a larger
					one.
				
				A woman does not spend all her time in buying things; she spends part of it in taking
					them back.
				Every time a woman disappears into the kitchen, she comes back eating something, but she
					eats very little at the table.
				There never lived a woman who did not wish she were a man. There never lived a man who
					wished he were a woman.
				Some men have very little idea of propriety, but nearly every man knows enough to feel
					uncomfortable when chewing tobacco in a dry-goods store.
				You hear many strange things told of life. Many of them are exaggerated, many of them are
					untrue. There isn't a great deal in life that is really strange. It's the same old story,
					and only wonderful to the young.
				When a man is curious to know a thing, and his curiosity is finally rewarded, how
					insignificant the secret is when revealed! It's a wonder a few experiences of this kind do
					not cure people of curiosity.
				
				If you knew how cowardly your enemy is, you would slap him. Bravery is knowledge of the
					cowardice in the enemy.
				It is as dangerous to say that the family piano is bad as to say that the family son has
					no sense. People who are all right in other respects, think their old piano is a
					daisy.
				Children are apt to look forward to the time when they are grown up, in the belief that
					they can make all the noise they want, but they always find that there is some other
					fellow who is making greater noise than they can make, and they spend their maturer years,
					as they did their childhood, in listening.
				Horses do not seem to appreciate good treatment any better than men. The horse that is
					well taken care of, and has a groom of his own, seldom trots as well as a livery horse
					that is pounded over the roads by whoever sees fit to hire him. We can take a fairly good
					livery horse from any of the stables, and pass any horse in town that has pads on its
					legs. And what is more, a livery buggy never rattles as a family buggy does.
				
				"I wouldn't mind opposition," we heard a man say to-day, "if my opponent were a decent
					man." Your opposition is NEVER satisfactory.
				A woman looks prettier putting a baby to sleep than she does on a public platform.
				Every man believes that if he could get capital interested, he could set the world on
					fire with his ideas.
				In a little town, a man can always get up excitement by going out on the street and
					predicting a business failure before night.
				A girl visitor never has better clothes at home than those she has with her.
				Nearly every man whistles for the same reason that he swears and chews tobacco: he
					learned the habits as a boy, and can't quit.
				Every time we hear a funeral sermon mentioned, it is referred to as the worst ever
					preached. That funeral sermons are unpopular may be accepted as a fact.
				
				There are few men elocutionists, because when a man is a nuisance, he is told the
					truth.
				After a woman has been married a few months, she goes around with a look on her face
					indicating she smells a dead rat.
				We never knew a book hero that was not too good.
				It is harder to hate people than it is to like them.
				You may easily play a joke on a man who likes to argue: agree with him.
				Most men make the mistake of underestimating the strength of the enemy.
				Do something for the town in which you live, and you will do something for yourself.
				It is hard for a town to lose an old bum, but it is frightfully easy to lose a good
					citizen.
				After a man has occupied a big position, he usually continues big-feeling as long as he
					lives.
				
				Having fun is a dismal business after you pass fifty.
				It is a rare person who appreciates anything a great while.
				When there is a strong but lazy young man in the neighborhood, people always ask, "Why
					doesn't he join the navy?"
				About the wisest-looking thing in the world is a country boy who has been boarding in
					town three or four months, studying law.
				What people say behind your back is your standing in the community in which you live.
				Make a woman mad, and she is no more polite than a man.
				Chewing tobacco is not the worst of it: spitting is the worst of it.
				It always makes a furniture man furious for loafers to occupy the chairs in front of his
					store.
				
				What has become of the old-fashioned mother who, in weaning the baby, put alum on it?
				When married people do not look squarely at each other when they speak, and refer to each
					other as "he" or "she," there is trouble in the air.
				Shiftless people leave things out in the rain, and then complain that nothing is made as
					strong and durable in these degenerate times as in the good old times.
				The man whose pants-legs are much too short, always wears his coat-sleeves much too
					long.
				An Atchison man recently lost a lot of money in business; then his horse died, and his
					best employe quit. One evening he sat at home gazing into the fire, and did not say a
					word. He was trying to figure a way out of his troubles. Then his wife said to him, "What
					woman are you sighing for now?" Whenever a man sits still and looks depressed, his wife
					thinks of some woman.
				After every picnic, whether there was a chaperon or not, a new hugging story comes
					out.
				
				You can throw most men off their feet by crowding them.
				The "fight" in a man is usually the poorest thing about him.
				Women are always looking for husbands with money. Does it ever occur to the women that
					men are also looking for rich wives?
				Without wishing to seem inhospitable, we sometimes think the women's magazines devote too
					much space to telling how to treat a guest; how to furnish a guest-room, etc.
				Every woman hates the word "female."
				Put cream and sugar on a fly, and it tastes very much like a black raspberry.
				When a man begins to tell you a long story, a good way is to say, "I've heard it."
				The boy not invited to the wedding, is pretty apt to be invited to the "shivaree," that
					follows.
				
				It may not be possible for you to be agreeable to some people, but you can keep away from
					them.
				One difference between a good woman and a bad one is that a bad woman raises hell with a
					good many men, while a good woman only raises hell with one.
				Some girls have the married-woman whine.
				When an old girl needs spectacles, how she fights the idea!
				Families with babies, and families without babies, are so sorry for each other.
				People who say they are not jealous are trying a bluff they cannot successfully work.
				There are said to be certain mean men in Atchison it would be desirable to get rid of.
					Someone thinks that of every one in town. If the meanest man in town, or the most
					worthless man, should be voted on, we should all receive votes.
				The average farmer dearly loves an oyster stew.
				
				Farmers complain about dry weather, and town people complain about hard times.
				Few men progress, except as they are pushed along by events.
				A man who will not get scared on some occasions, lacks good sense.
				Almost any woman knows how many dishes of ice-cream there are to a gallon.
				Castor oil is said to be the best medicine there is. Curiously enough, it is the worst to
					take.
				Where the guests at a gathering are well acquainted, they eat twenty per cent. more than
					they otherwise would.
				Even the wife of a candidate does what she can, and smiles a little more agreeably during
					the campaign.
				A woman complains that every time she is with the men, one of the number wants to explain
					how a steam engine works.
				
				Your working hours have been reduced to eight. In return for the favor, WORK eight hours.
					Many fiddle around in such a shiftless way that it amounts to loafing.
				When a man tries himself, the verdict is usually in his favor.
				People hate the man who is a constant drain on their sympathy.
				We believe we never knew a blackguard who was not very critical.
				Ever know a man so fair that he wouldn't twist his side of the story a little to his
					side?
				If you don't impose on a woman, she'll impose on you.
				Somehow when we see a woman who has been married and divorced a number of times, we are
					reminded of the man who is always failing in business.
				Anyone could be elected to office if "encouragement" meant votes.
				
				So many good things have been said that it is hard for a man to say a good thing that has
					not been said before.
				When your business rival says mean things about you, you may take it as a compliment; you
					are doing better than he is. If you were not, he would not abuse you.
				The less you think about the poetic sort of things, the better off you are.
				Every woman has a cat or a dog which she says knows as much as a human being.
				Just because a man sometimes wants to do as he pleases, there are those who think he
					wants to do something terrible.
				When a man praises a woman by saying she makes her own hats, the women who are present
					will say: "Yes, and they look it."
				Men are a good deal better collectively than they are individually. Many a man will do
					that privately which he will denounce in a crowd.
				
				If a man takes one day off, it takes him about three days to get the harness fitted
					again.
				It is said of so many boys: "They will come out all right," indicating they are not all
					right now.
				If a man looked like the pictures in a tailor's fashion-plate, people would set the dogs
					on him.
				You cannot make your friends popular by praising them to your acquaintances, although you
					may succeed in making your acquaintances hate them.
				Almost every farmer has a piano in his house, and a girl who practices on it. But that is
					all right; the houses are so far apart that weary souls in the country can find places
					where the practicing is not heard.
				The way to please a man is for a lot of women to get up a picnic, and let him be the only
					man invited.
				Women dress their little girls all right, but sometimes they put dresses on their little
					boys that look funny.
				
				A 20-year-old boy from the country was in town to-day in his bare feet, and one of them
					would fill a wash-tub.
				So many of the optimists in the world don't own a hundred dollars, and because of their
					optimism, never will.
				If you see something that no one else sees, or hear sounds that no others hear, that is
					what it means to go crazy.
				Every time a drunken man is arrested, he declares that the policeman who arrested him was
					drunker than he was.
				Several years ago a rich man lived in Atchison, and a good many friends borrowed money of
					him; and it is still told as a matter of wonder that one friend actually paid him
					back.
				Ever notice that some mighty funny men ask for office?
				People don't care for explanations, and don't believe in them.
				
				The laziest animal we know anything about is a pug dog. And the pug dog is always puffing
					around as if it were about worked to death.
				Every man who keeps "bachelor's hall" has a fiddle or a shotgun under his bed.
				No really sensible person ever remembers enough poetry to recite it.
				Unless they are good-looking, young people are apt to be hopelessly uninteresting.
				Haven't you noticed that all popular men are homely? Men won't admire a good looker.
				No man who doesn't do more work than his wife can hope to make a big success in life.
					Ever know a really successful man whose wife worked as hard as he did?
				Some husbands and wives make it a point never to speak decently to each other.
				A boy thinks that if he owned a hundred-dollar shotgun, he could kill ducks a mile
					high.
				
				Every man who gets whipped for a sin claims that other men have done more, and been
					whipped less.
				An old man admires youth, and its pleasures and enthusiasm; but he doesn't like to have
					his nose rubbed in it.
				When a man passes a barber shop on Saturday, and sees a big crowd of men waiting, he
					can't help feeling thrifty if he doesn't need a shave.
				A certain man has told us every day for thirty-three years that business is very dull.
					Yet he has made a fortune while complaining of hard times.
				When a man once gets a start holding office, it is nearly always necessary to finally
					choke him off.
				About the only excitement in Atchison to-day is this: A man who was lately operated on,
					appeared on the streets, and people fear he is out too soon.
				Your friends may not help you much, but they can do you a lot of harm if you offend
					them.
				
				There was another case of repartee in Atchison this week: A man took home some ball
					sausage, but his wife didn't like it, and threw it at his head.
				You are conceited, of course, but for heaven's sake don't show it. People are easily
					disgusted, but nothing disgusts them so quickly as conceit.
				Every time things go wrong with us, we think of the luck of the wolf. Although every
					man's hand is against him, a wolf gets along pretty well. Think of the luck a wolf must
					have to merely live!
				There is usually enough of everything on the table except cream.
				When a man tells his friends that he has "accepted" a new position that was offered him,
					he doesn't fool them any. They know from experience that the position was not offered him,
					but that he hounded it for months. Not one man in twenty ever had a position offered
					him.
				If it wasn't for telling their husbands not to smoke too much, and not to eat so fast,
					what would wives do for conversation with their husbands?
				
				Most people think they should pay a good deal of attention to love as a sort of sacred
					thing. Lord Bacon dismisses it with half a page, and says it is a weak passion no man of
					sense can afford to acknowledge; and one of the most successful family magazines in the
					world will not allow the subject to be mentioned in its pages.
				Some men are just prominent enough to attract men who want to impose on them.
				A music teacher is surprised to find that anyone who has not taken lessons, is fond of
					music.
				When a man speaks to a man, there is a certain saw-like quality in his voice. But when he
					speaks to a young girl, notice the oil and velvet appear in his voice!
				We all get fooled in time.
				A man is always expected to speak well of a woman's religion.
				To want your own way is a very bad habit, for you will never get it.
				
				You cannot afford to have things given to you.
				Every man you "hear something" about, has probably "heard something" about you.
				In spite of the frightful manner in which they are imposed upon, women live longer than
					men.
				When a newspaper makes a notice that a man is singing in a choir, half the people who
					read it say: "Huh! He can't sing."
				If there were no schools to take the children away from home part of the time, the insane
					asylums would be filled with mothers.
				It is surprising how many people die at poor-farms. And every one of them fooled his
					money away, as you do, and imagined he would be rich some day.
				When a man talks sense, at least half the people think he is a fool.
				When a man get any one thing very strong in his mind, he isn't good for very much
					else.
				
				Whenever a widower's name is mentioned, it recalls the names of many women said to be
					chasing him.
				As long as fish bite on Sunday, people will go after them.
				When a boy hears that another boy is dead, he asks, "Drowned?"
				A woman never gets so old she is not interested in how many dresses a bride gets.
				Every country town man who goes East has his picture taken with Niagara Falls for a
					background.
				The position a man gets away from home is never as good as his folks at home say it
					is.
				When a man is trying to sell you something, don't imagine he is that polite all the
					time.
				A man is compelled to behave better in a country town than in heaven, if he hopes to
					avoid being talked about.
				
				If a young man is still pious after he reaches twenty-one, he is going to become a
					preacher.
				When we hear a man say, "I am entitled to a whole lot of credit," we know he is not
					getting it.
				A woman is satisfied if her children are happy, but a man wants some of the happiness
					himself.
				It doesn't make any difference how much a man charges; he always says his terms are
					reasonable.
				We cannot imagine why a man who has been down-town all day wants to go down-town at
					night.
				One great trouble is that when a man becomes good, he is apt to make a hog of himself,
					and become too good.
				When anything is stolen the police try to keep the item out of the papers, so the men who
					did the stealing won't hear about it.
				When the rioting begins over the property of the Standard Oil Co., we speak for the big
					black team driven to the Atchison delivery wagon.
				
				No man can smile in the face of adversity and mean it.
				Most of your friends want you to work for them for nothing.
				Many a man who tells you how to do a thing can't do it himself.
				There is mighty little fighting done in the world, considering the big talk about it.
				The only reason some men don't have a second wife is because they don't have a
					chance.
				"What has become of your manners?" old-fashioned women used to ask their children, when
					they failed to behave properly. Do YOU realize the importance of politeness? Are you
					polite with your associates? What is said of you by the man who works with you? Does he
					say you have annoying habits? Look yourself over.
				Next to the man with a clammy hand, we despise the man who shakes hands sideways; the
					usual custom being to shake hands up and down.
				
				Whenever a boy comes anywhere near his mother, she says to him: "Look at your hands!"
				When we read in an old book that a man was killed with a sword, we wonder how it was
					done.
				If you are sick after you have accumulated years, and recover, every one wonders why you
					didn't die while you were at it, and have it over with.
				You can't do up a rival by talking about him, and telling what a mean man he is. The only
					way to "do him up" is to be more industrious than he is, and more polite, more agreeable
					and more honorable in your dealings with the public.
				Shoddy people are not always rich people. The fellow who talks a great deal about being
					poor because he is honest, is the worst sort of shoddy. Honesty does not make people poor,
					although honest people are often poor, as honest people are often rich.
				When sitting around with your friends, it is easy to abuse your enemies; and you are very
					apt to be unfair, if not brutal.
				
				There is an old-fashioned word that ought to come into use again: thrift. There is a
					distressing number of shiftless people in the world, and while we shall call no names, we
					hope every reader will pause at this paragraph, and think seriously of thrift and
					shiftlessness.
				I have noticed that when things come my way, I have previously started them with a good
					deal of care.
				Never say to a man, "You are getting old." It is better to say, "We are getting old;" and
					even then he won't like it.
				Faith may have removed mountains way off somewhere, a long time ago, but it won't remove
					a wart at home this week.
				Speaking of critics: have you ever heard the home girls talk about a visiting girl whose
					hostess has heralded her coming by saying she is beautiful?
				Somehow, everyone hates to see an unusually pretty girl get married. It is like taking a
					bite out of a very fine-looking peach.
				
				When an outrage is committed, many of those who disapprove of it do it in a manner
					indicating that the outrage pleased them.
				People are always laughing at the rabbit for being timid. Considering the number of boys
					and shotguns, and the number of dogs with long legs, it is a rabbit's business to be
					timid.
				An Atchison girl has 400 pressed four-leafed clovers, but she hasn't a cent in the world.
					Her sister, who spends no time in looking for luck signs, has saved over $60.
				Too many men honor women, and neglect their wives.
				The religion of a good many people who have low foreheads is not far removed from
					spiritualism.
				Every man thinks that it is his strong will alone that prevents his troubles from driving
					him mad.
				A white dress should not be worn more than one day. We are not a woman, but you bet we
					can tell when a white dress needs washing.
				
				When we see a man going into a dentist's office, we can't help wondering whether he is
					going to have his tooth pulled or fixed.
				It sometimes happens that when a man is particularly worthless, his friends will look
					rather important, and say: "He belongs to a fine family."
				A great deal of the unhappiness in the world is due to the habit people have of expecting
					something that cannot happen.
				People should be polite, of course, but when they are being bored, they have a right to
					respectfully represent the fact to the person who is boring them. If the people did not
					express their disgust, where would the bores stop?
				Ben Davis told us a story to-day, prefacing it by saying: "It's the funniest story I ever
					heard." How widely people disagree! We thought it the dullest story we ever heard.
				We never rode in a sleigh in our lives that our ears and feet were not cold, and we were
					not willing to quit.
				
				No one can avoid giving at least one-third of his time to bores.
				When a doctor assists at an operation, he is as particular to have it mentioned as a
					woman who assists at a reception.
				Because a man has been to college, it does not follow that he is educated; many an
					educated man has never been to college.
				One of the great troubles with every man who works is Monday. This day distresses us a
					little more every year, as winter does.
				Every business place has its particular bores. If certain men could know how they are
					regarded at certain places, they would die of shame.
				Every time a real smart woman looks at a man, she thinks to herself, "How easily you men
					are fooled!"
				If we were a bridegroom, we should hate to come back from a bridal tour; we should like
					to keep on going forever and ever.
				
				You hard-working people have lots of idle time you forget about.
				After a woman has powdered a long time, her face has a purple look like a boy's chin when
					he stays in swimming too long.
				Occasionally you hear a man boasting how good his credit is, but, as a matter of fact, no
					man's credit is as good as his money.
				Everyone expects to "strike it" some day.
				You can't tell what a man's manners are until you have eaten with him.
				There is a little that is true, and a great deal that is not true, in both sides to a
					story.
				The young man who is not going to school learns a great many things that the young man in
					school misses.
				A girl usually manages in such a way that after she is married, the neighbors say that
					she did not marry the man of her choice.
				
				Every man you deal with is looking for the best of it, and that means the worst of it for
					you.
				In getting acquainted with a married woman, she is pretty apt to say, early in the
					acquaintance, "I didn't know a thing when I was married."
				The man who does little talking does a great deal of watching.
				In the days of long ago, the Indian walked ahead and his squaw followed him, dragging a
					tent-pole. When they approached a settlement he didn't take the pole from her; she
					continued to drag it 'til their destination was reached. Nowadays, when a woman carries a
					heavy burden, her husband is apt to step back and relieve her when they reach a place
					where people may see them. This is Civilization.
				An Atchison man and his wife belong to different churches. When they have a fuss, he goes
					to his church and prays for his wife, and she goes to her church and prays for her
					husband.
				People don't fear the devil like they used to.
				
				When a man neglects a duty, he says: "I was too busy," but usually he was too lazy.
				There is so little money earned in attending to other people's affairs that we wonder
					people don't quit it.
				When you call, look at the person you are calling on. Don't let your eyes rove around the
					room. That is the one thing above all others that will make a hostess mad.
				People often say to a boy when he eats between meals: "It will spoil your dinner." But,
					piecing between meals never spoils your meals until after you pass forty.
				If the women had money, how well they could get along without the men!
				Some people take more interest in a neighborhood fuss than they do in religion.
				It makes no difference how pretty a girl, or how sweet her voice, if she wears "glasses"
					the boys are afraid of her.
				
				If a loafer is not a nuisance to you, it is an indication that you are somewhat of a
					loafer yourself.
				How people love an old saying! They are always quoting, "There is nothing new under the
					sun," yet there is something new every day.
				We poor people have quite a show, after all. Round steak, particularly if it is pounded
					with a hatchet, and rolled in flour before frying, is about as good as tenderloin.
				I never drove a horse in my life that it didn't make me feel that I was driving it too
					hard.
				Whenever we meet a polite man, we always resolve to be more like him. A polite, modest
					man is a great missionary.
				If you become impudent to those who are kind to you, you are guilty of the meanest trick
					possible.
				No wonder people hate Polk Tansil: he is so mean. He said to-day: "When I see a Salvation
					Army drum, instead of feeling like throwing a dollar on it, I feel like kicking it
					in."
				
				The only way you can succeed in life is to rise above your handicaps. Everyone has a lot
					of handicaps; therefore, to let them discourage you is fatal.
				How early do mothers begin spanking their children? So far as we have been able to learn,
					by inquiring among mothers, it is necessary to begin spanking girl babies when about a
					year old, and boy babies when about sixteen months old.
				To criticise women in the presence of a woman, always makes her mad; but when women
					criticise men, the men are always amused. The men look as though they would say: "You
					haven't told half the truth, and the half you have told, isn't right."
				Here is something that has amused us thirty years: Every spring, farmers worry about
					apricot buds. We have diligently inquired, and cannot find a man who ever raised an
					apricot in this section.
				The habit of whisky-drinking is the queerest habit we know anything about. We cannot
					understand it. Although every drinking man knows he is on the road to ruin, he doesn't
					seem to care; he seems to take delight in worrying his friends.
				
				Have you ever noticed how suddenly a useful man can die, and how long a worthless man
					holds out?
				When you hear a smart saying by a child, it is a sign that the child has a smart mother,
					and that she made it up.
				When men get along in years, they begin to wonder what mysterious ailment is attacking
					them when they have new aches and pains. Instead of being a mysterious ailment, it is the
					footsteps of the advance guard of old age, but no one is willing to admit it in his own
					case.
				About aprons: The average woman wears out six aprons a year. As soon as the aprons are
					worn out, they are used for rags, and new ones made. A woman has two or three aprons in
					the wash every week. It is a saying among women that a woman who does not wear aprons is a
					slouch. When a woman's six aprons are about worn out, and she is preparing to make new
					ones, she says she "is all in rags." There are dozens of different kinds of aprons; some
					of them require six yards of gingham in the making, and some only two. Gingham for an
					apron costs from twenty to forty cents.
				
				Men do not like to be bothered by women selling tickets. However politely they may
					receive the women, they will fuss in private. A woman has no right to work her friends in
					the ticket way.
				Some men are naturally meddlesome, and do not know it. Look yourself over: do you butt
					in, and make yourself unnecessary enemies?
				If you are in an uncomfortable place, get out. This sounds like simple advice, but the
					wisest man in the world could not give any better. It is the only thing to do; your
					friends can't help you.
				The Globe lately printed this paragraph: "There is only one thing worse than having a
					tooth pulled, and only a woman can know what it is." A woman sends the item to this
					office, with this comment: "Yes, it is worse, but I don't dread it as much as I dread
					having a tooth pulled."
				A thief believes everybody steals.
				It is hard to convince a high-school student he will later encounter a lot of problems
					more difficult than those of algebra or geometry.
				
				Card-playing is more foolish than wicked.
				As a rule, you'll not have much trouble having your way, if you are right.
				Thousands of dollars are spent every year on music in Atchison, but it is spent with so
					little judgment that the people seldom hear music. All we hear is practicing; by the time
					a pupil becomes able to play a little, she quits, and a younger sister takes her place at
					the instrument, so that we hear nothing but horrible sounds. It is a pity that we cannot
					get some adequate returns for the money we spend on music.
				We are somewhat fussy, but we do not object to a man yelling when he has a tooth
					pulled.
				A lot of men fail to accept the standing invitation to attend church. And very few even
					send regrets.
				Of course a little boy loves his mother, but offer him a nickel, and see him let go her
					hand, and lope off after the money! Then he will lope back again, nearly always without
					saying thank you.
				
				Wherever you go, there is the same clamor over the dollar.
				When I get hold of a book I particularly admire, I am so enthusiastic that I loan it to
					some one who never brings it back.
				There is only one thing for a man to do who is married to a woman who enjoys spending
					money, and that is to enjoy earning it.
				It isn't necessary for any woman to die for her honor.
				Self-denial is easier, in the long run, than self-indulgence.
				The stuff used to kill a smell is usually worse than the smell.
				There are all sorts of people: a man has turned up who says sermons are not long
					enough.
				So far as is known, no widow ever eloped.
				A stingy man is usually simply a careful man.
				
				A farmer always knows a farm in his neighborhood that has starved one or two owners.
				When a poor young woman marries a rich old man, love is laughed at more than usual.
				Good manners do more for a man than good looks.
				The man who insists he is as good as anybody, believes he is better.
				People often feel like saying things to other people that they never do say.
				We have always had a morbid curiosity to taste a cake baked by a school teacher.
				Sometimes a man who has been to hell and looked all around, doesn't like it, and breaks
					out. But a woman can't do it.
				People never have confidence in a Big Talker. They know his statements must be cut down,
					but they can never tell how much.
				
				When a girl's pocketbook looks fat and bulky, you can bet she has her handkerchief in
					it.
				Whenever a man begins to say that the people want a change, it means that he is a
					candidate for something.
				How sweet the short girls look when they are seventeen or eighteen! But after they begin
					to get the middle-age spread, they don't look so sweet.
				If a man has money, it is usually a sign, too, that he knows how to take care of it;
					don't imagine his money is easy to get simply because he has plenty of it.
				When a town reaches that point where business is good only on Saturday, its people might
					as well quit quarreling over the value of the street-railway franchise.
				I have tried for forty years to be a fair man, and failed. I want my enemies punished by
					some other man: I want high prices for my services, and I want others to sell at low
					prices. You are always hearing of fair men. There are no fair men.
				
				Half of the little education people have, is usually wrong.
				The kind of luck they have is sufficient to keep most hunters from becoming Game
					Hogs.
				Patent-medicine advertisements are attractive reading for women, because they have a
					great deal to say about women who suffer in silence.
				Occasionally we see an article advertised as self-cleaning. Nothing is self-cleaning.
					Dirt is the enemy of the human race, and constant scouring, and rubbing, and cleaning by
					hand, is necessary.
				It is as important to keep out of court as it is to keep out of debt.
				Even if a farmer intends to loaf, he gets up in time to get an early start.
				Music uplifts me, but I drop back again as soon as the music is over.
				I don't know how it is with others, but when I begin telling my wrongs, I lie like a
					thief.
				
				After all, a man-hater has more sense than a woman who is man-crazy.
				We suppose it is said of all of us by some one: "He reminds me of Uriah Heep."
				This Prosperity you hear so much about: no one will hand you your share of it in
					cash.
				The only way to amuse some peope is to slip and fall on an icy pavement, or on a banana
					peel.
				It occurs to every man occasionally that he would like to be a pugilist for about thirty
					minutes.
				A man is never free from temptation; in summer it is ice-water, and in winter it is a
					warm room and lack of fresh air.
				Every man has a lot of rules he wants other men to obey.
				If it weren't for fireworks, Christmas presents, watermelons, ice-cream, picnics,
					circuses, plug tobacco, lemonade, beer, household expenses, and soda-water, nearly every
					man would be rich.
				
				No man knows where his business ends and his neighbor's begins.
				When people hear good music, it makes them homesick for something they never had, and
					never will have.
				Very few competent men lack "backing." Demonstrate that you understand your business, and
					capital will not be at all timid.
				An open piano is always an invitation.
				If you make a mistake, admit it. When you have occasion, frankly say, "I'm sorry."
				When a rabbit becomes angry, and there are no boys or dogs around, how fiercely he raves
					and snorts!
				It is easier to rest too much than it is to work too much.
				A wrong is sometimes nothing more serious than a man clamoring for a right to which he is
					not entitled.
				
				People tolerate those they fear further than those they love.
				Half the time, when men think they are talking business, they are wasting time.
				Women who marry either get very much the best of it, or very much the worst of it.
				The greatest quarrels in the world's history have been between people who were once
					friends.
				Not one person in ten can write a really good letter. There ought to be a movement for
					better letter-writing. Many people try to learn foolish and useless things who cannot talk
					well. We know a woman who gave up music and painting to study conversation. She has
					succeeded so well that she is one of the most charming women we ever knew.
				Did you ever have a thoroughly unselfish friend? Were you ever the unselfish friend of
					anyone?
				There is nothing so well known as that we should not expect something for nothing, but we
					all do, and call it hope.
				
				The most natural man in a play is the villain.
				A well-known confidence operator confesses that he can rob three wise men while he is
					becoming acquainted with a fool.
				When your ship comes in, if you are like most people, instead of being thankful, you will
					find fault with the captain for the delay.
				You seldom meet a man that you do not find out, after talking to him awhile, that he is
					taking "treatments" for something.
				In one respect men are wiser than women. A girl, however poor she may be, expects to
					marry a prince, at least. A poor man never expects to marry a princess.
				Nothing is wonderful when you get used to it.
				What a villain a man is willing to become in making "a good trade"!
				If you want to know how old a woman is, ask her sister-in-law.
				
				Much as a man would like to be great, he knows he would feel like a fool if made a king,
					and the people had to bow to him and back out of his presence.
				If a man should go up to a boy of ten or eleven, and say to him, "You are a good boy, and
					you are good-looking," the boy would probably have a fit, from pure surprise. No one ever
					compliments a boy.
				"I once had an idea," said an Atchison woman to-day, "that the men did very little
					down-town, but since I have been working down-town I have concluded that the men do a good
					deal. The manner in which they work and grind is almost pitiful. This making a plain
					living is a more serious matter than is generally imagined."
				The smartest thing you can do is to go to bed at 9 o'clock, and get up early the next
					morning, and spend the day modestly doing your duty. Don't try to attract attention; those
					people who try to attract attention, never do.
				The little things get together, and cause big troubles.
				
				About the only thing on a farm that has an easy time, is the dog.
				If you have ever noticed, it is always the poor who say they would like to be rich for
					the greater good they could do.
				Every girl in love thinks she has found the only man of his kind in the world; but the
					married women know that the men are all fearfully alike.
				Nearly every woman who buys a hat, tries to get the milliner to promise not to make
					another like it, and is back in a few days to roar because she has seen another like
					it.
				"There are plenty of idle men," said a farmer to-day, "but most of them are not worth
					their board." It seems to us that this is a mighty free way of talking of us energetic
					Americans.
				An Atchison man is engaged to a girl named Lucy. He lately called her on the telephone.
					"Hello, Lucy," he said; "this is your husband."
				Nearly every man has his list of outrages.
				
				Two men were talking religion on the streets to-day. "This argument will stop right
					here," one of the men said, "unless you stop using that word 'vicarious.' I don't know
					what it means."
				Every time a boy carries a package, the one receiving it asks: "Why didn't you bring it
					sooner?"
				A woman might as well propose: her husband will claim she did.
				Every man defines cowardice in his own case as discretion.
				Some day, the town people and country people will have another difference. It will be
					over calves. Town people can't eat all the calves farmers have for sale, any more than
					they can eat all the radishes. Calves are being offered more liberally than ever before,
					and, as prices are lower, farmers don't like it, and are grumbling.
				When a woman gets into a dry-goods store, and is pleased with everything shown her, it is
					a sign she has no intention of buying. But if she finds fault with everything, she intends
					to buy that day.
				
				It is not good for a man to be alone. But it is often better for a woman.
				There are not so many wicked things for married men to do as people imagine.
				The more worthless a man, the more fish he can catch.
				Although the women pretend that they do not understand the male nature, they have some
					ideas on the subject that are very near the truth. A mother will say that her son should
					not steal preserves, and that she cannot understand how a boy could do such a thing; but
					she locks up her preserves just the same.
				We sometimes think people hate us on mighty little provocation.
				When we are driving to a strange place in the country, and ask directions, the man who
					directs us says: "Go south a ways, and then turn to the right. You can't miss it." And
					then we find the road a particularly crooked and difficult one. A road you are familiar
					with seems easy.
				
				Many of the new ideas do not amount to anything: mutton tallow is better for sore lips
					than vaseline.
				Who ever saw a man and wife who were both red-headed?
				The younger your daughter, the more apt she is to love you.
				No man has all the wisdom in the world; everyone has some.
				If you expect to get rich, you must make money when times are dull.
				A man who has six or seven friends in a town of this size, is doing well.
				We are all compelled to do a great deal of hard marching, but the victorious soldier has
					an easier time of it than the soldier smarting from defeat.
				Every man who has strong, worthy qualities comes to the front, but many of the best women
					are buried in homes, and are never heard of.
				
				Because you don't hear of it, don't imagine you are not being talked about.
				We should as soon pass a funeral procession on the street as a woman in mourning.
				I never knew a man so mean that I was not willing he should admire me.
				One of the first things a man notices in a strange town is what funny names the people
					have.
				Every man flatters himself that he will finally whip his enemy, and that he will give him
					a good one when he gets at him.
				When a woman is ugly, she can be uglier than a man.
				A girl doesn't seem to mind working for a living, if she gets married to do it.
				As a general rule, the man who behaves himself doesn't do much howling because he doesn't
					get justice.
				
				We have more fear of a little drunken man than of two big sober men.
				We can detect hypocrisy as quickly as we can tell when a woman paints her cheeks.
				Speaking of radiantly happy brides, we do not see them as often as we see radiantly happy
					widows.
				People who boast that they will say what they have to say right to your face, also talk
					about you behind your back.
				If you should die and find yourself a ghost, is there anyone you would haunt?
				"When a man gets drunk," asked a man to-day, "why doesn't he talk with other drunken men,
					who would be glad to argue with him? Why does he insist on talking to men who are sober,
					and who feel disgust for him?" "Don't ask me that question," said another man; "I have
					been asking it thirty years, and received no answer."
				Nearly every baby kills a cat, by loving it to death.
				
				Storekeepers think they "do" a great deal for your trade, but what they "do" never seems
					very important to you.
				When people say they are opposed to college education, they usually mean they are opposed
					to the fool tricks of college boys.
				Every time a scandal is whispered around, a public investigation should be started, to
					see if it is true. We don't believe one-fifth of the scandal is true.
				Be sympathetic with a man, and he will usually follow you for more.
				About all some men accomplish in life is to send a son to Harvard.
				More people like to be asked to Thanksgiving dinners than give them.
				The most worthless man I ever knew is in town, and I believe he has the best collection
					of letters of recommendation I ever saw. I would be willing to give him a letter of
					recommendation myself, in order to be rid of him.
				
				A really busy person never knows how much he weighs.
				A few men are ruined by great offenses, but most men are sufferers from the effects of
					petty folly.
				If it wasn't for the fact that men have trouble with their kidneys, all the complaints
					would belong to the women.
				Nearly every Northern girl, between the ages of sixteen and twenty, tries to talk like a
					Southern girl. Here is a rule by which you can always tell a Southern girl: she refers to
					black people as "niggahs," not as "colored people," or "negroes."
				The smaller the town, the more its leading citizen struts.
				Every woman thinks she has a natural taste for arranging a bouquet of flowers.
				We shall always admire the women because so few of them are known as "professor."
				No man ever sells out at his own estimate.
				
				All women claim proposals on bended knee; all men say they never proposed at
					allthat the women proposed.
				When a man springs a scheme on you, spring one back. It is your only defense. The only
					way to subdue the man who is selling chances on a music-box, is to offer tickets in a
					raffle for a shotgun.
				A boy is a natural-born outlaw when it comes to bathing. Unless his mother stands over
					him with a switch, he won't take one; and after he is grown, and married, he neglects
					bathing when his wife leaves home.
				The older the man, the less he tries to show off.
				Some men are only fit to eat and wear out clothes.
				Meanness in a boy often develops into worthlessness.
				There is enough happiness in sight, if you could get it.
				
				Every man expects too much of his friends.
				The way out of trouble is never as simple as the way in.
				As you grow older, there are fewer stories that make you laugh.
				In theory, one man is as good as another, but in practice it is a lie.
				No one wants you to come and see him as much as he pretends he does.
				Personally, we should as soon go to school again as to belong to a literary club.
				A man has his clothes made to fit him; a woman makes herself fit her clothes.
				When a man is compelled to say, "Oh, that's all right," nine times out of ten it
					isn't.
				The popular idea of a poor dinner, in the summer, is where there are flies and no
					ice.
				
				Don't induce anyone to tell you his secrets. You will be very much better off without
					them.
				The man who never attempts to sing at any other time, will break out when in a picnic
					wagon.
				There is a difference between self-confidence and conceit which is hard for some men to
					understand.
				Because there is plenty of business in a big town, it does not follow that a man from a
					little town can get it.
				Of course we are all wonderfully smart, but not a day passes that someone does not suffer
					because of our blunders.
				Every time we throw a cigar away, we resolve to quit smoking.
				Any woman closely associated with a man can make or break him.
				There are so many kinds of meanness that people now talk about the meanest kind of
					meanness.
				
				Every shiftless man is a liar; he acquired the habit in giving excuses.
				We despise a man who doesn't appreciate a friend; friends are so rare.
				It is so easy to say to a man, "Be sensible." But half the time a man does not know what
					is sensible.
				Much of the clamoring now going on has a tendency to make industry and honest
					achievements almost disreputable.
				What has become of the old-fashioned man who had a grab-hook the neighbors borrowed when
					their buckets were lost in the well?
				We have never asked anything of the Government, but we wish the next United States census
					would show whether more men are named Bill than are named Charley. We have always longed
					to know. And is George a more common name than Tom?
				Don't let a fool annoy you; laugh at him.
				
				People meddle in the affairs of others as promptly and naturally as town dogs meddle with
					a country dog who is behaving himself and guarding his master's wagon.
				If a man really loves a woman (which some people doubt), it is a woman who never abuses
					him.
				If to-morrow is a dull day, it will be the seventh in succession, and we will be
					compelled to print more stories of what Joe Schott saw when he was in Europe last
					summer.
				We were walking up-street this afternoon behind two men, and heard this conversation:
					"They've separated," said one of the men. "Why?" asked the other. "Well, it's the same old
					thing," was the reply; "she wanted to boss him all the time."
				An ugly person is not to blame for his looks, but people notice it just the same.
				After a man has been employed in the postoffice two or three years, he thinks he is the
					Government.
				
				Nobody seems to be true to anybody.
				A man has a right to think lots of things he has no right to say.
				An old man lately left Atchison expecting assistance from kin. Our guess is that when he
					reaches the place where he is going, he will be disappointed.
				We often wonder that the really clever agents do not start factories, and make big money.
					The really smart agents waste their talents in selling books and lightning-rods; they
					could do better in legitimate business, and employ men and help towns.
				There is a bachelor in Atchison who has a peculiar fad: when he hears of a woman who jaws
					her husband, he goes and "talks" to her, and makes her so mad that she spits fire. The
					bachelor's theory is that whenever a woman can impose on a man, she does it.
				It is dishonest to repeat the unsupported lies of a gossip.
				
				Nearly every bride wears a wedding dress that is beyond her father's means.
				When a woman is on her last legs, she starts a boarding-house; a man starts a
					fire-insurance agency.
				If a man is accused of a dreadful thing, and has never been caught at it, he is probably
					not guilty. Soon after a man is guilty, he is caught. This is a rule that never fails.
				A farmer is never satisfied; don't expect it.
				The people are all going to behave better; but not now.
				Which would you rather be: bald-headed or red-headed?
				A man who owns a sleigh is willing to freeze to show it off.
				Any doctrine that contemplates hard-working people sending contributions to idle leaders,
					is wrong.
				
				We have noticed that even when times are hard, capable, industrious people do pretty
					well.
				The real necessities of life are inexpensive: it is love affairs, wine, late suppers, and
					that sort of thing, that are expensive.
				Within a year after the average woman gets her life insurance, you hear that some man has
					borrowed her money, and is slow in paying it back.
				If you expect to make a success of life, you must finally learn to turn down agents, and
					not invest in every fool scheme that comes along.
				We suppose we are a queer fish: we never greatly admired an actress. It is said men are
					constantly falling in love with actresses, and following them about the country, but we
					never had any tendency that way. Indeed, we never knew a man who did run after actresses,
					although they are accused of doing a great deal of it.
				A man who is always looking for work might as well wear a placard reading: "I am not
					worth a d," since everyone knows he is not.
				
				The average Argument is about the most ridiculous thing we know anything about. Two men
					will make misstatements to each other for hours, and cultivate the habits of lying,
					idleness and stubbornness without ever realizing that there is anything wrong in their
					conduct.
				As a rule, when a man talks well, he talks too much.
				A man always thinks he can do better than he does do.
				A man is usually as far from being a devil as a woman is from being an angel.
				Probably you have noted the resemblance of the critic to the crank.
				You often hear people say of a sick man: "His will-power is keeping him alive." Nothing
					in it; when you can't get your breath, your will-power won't keep you alive.
				There is no get-rich-quick scheme equal to a poor girl marrying a rich man.
				
				When you invite anyone to your house, they always say, "Don't go to any trouble," but
					they always expect you to go to trouble, and will talk about you if you don't.
				We saw a woman crying on the streets to-day. Probably we men have been doing something
					again.
				If a man is not himself a candidate for postmaster, how much will he actually do for a
					man who is?
				A woman is like an egg: when she is bad, she is very bad.
				In looking for a better job, a man often loses a good one.
				We are much interested in the case of an old gentleman who is ill. Once or twice a week
					he comes down-town, and, on being asked how he is, replies: "I am very well, thank you;
					but my wife is poorly. I am compelled to spend a great deal of time with her." As a matter
					of fact, his wife is well. The old gentleman is passing through the Dark Woods, and he
					whistles to keep up his courage.
				
				A man's idea of a dull time is to play cards with women, and nothing up.
				Did you ever repeat a compliment for yourself that you didn't exaggerate it?
				People are never old, according to their own talk; they are only "getting old."
				We never knew a particularly good workman who didn't have a particularly good job.
				Any man who will tell his wrongs, will exaggerate them.
				Look at any man's clothes, and you will find from seven to seventy-five spots that should
					be removed.
				We have noticed that the sort of man known as an Iconoclast, is pretty apt to finally get
					into serious trouble.
				There is a woman in Atchison who complains of illness so much she makes her neighbors
					think of a ward in a hospital.
				
				The past is referred to as being dead; but it is terribly alive.
				Some people have nothing to sell except promises they can't make good.
				A man frequently says: "I can't do it all." Meaning that those with whom he is associated
					put more on his shoulders than he is able to bear.
				For years the people have been trying to prove that (as they express it) I don't amount
					to a whoop in hell. And they have finally succeeded.
				Before we die we hope to see a house with an oak finish upstairs. All the better-class
					houses have an oak finish downstairs, but we have never seen one with an oak finish
					upstairs.
				Investigation will reveal that most men are poor, not because they are lazy, but because
					they are careless. Carelessness is the great sin of Americans. Most men make enough money,
					but do not take care of it.
				Nations go armed; but citizens must not.
				
				People don't go crazy; cranks drive them crazy.
				You may imagine that the people give you the worst of it, but, if your stomach could
					talk, you would be abused a good deal more than you are.
				If you want to see a man who is really money-mad, hunt up one who has been unsuccessful a
					good many years, and then begins to make money late in life.
				When a man dies suddenly, you hear dozens of men say that when their time comes, they
					hope to die that way. Men dread a lingering illness, pain, and grumbling kin.
				Tell a woman a truth so palpable that she can't deny it, and she will say: "Now you are
					trying to be sarcastic!"
				Every man is a reformer until reform tramps on his toes.
				All the praise a man gets for hard work and prudence is that his friends say he is "a
					lucky dog."
				
				We know a certain man who is bright, and we hang around him a good deal because of the
					original things he says. But we have noticed lately that he is beginning to repeat his
					sayings.
				We are becoming very tired of the never-ending clash between men and women. There was a
					time when women were modest in their charges against the men; when they insinuated that
					they could tell dreadful things, if they cared to, but here lately they are telling them
					in the mazagines and newspapers.
				It is always amusing to see a man wheel a baby carriage, particularly if he is a college
					professor.
				Old people do not suit young people very well. And as a matter of fact, young people do
					not suit old people.
				The editor of "The Globe" is being laughed at because the paper lately referred to Bishop
					Potter as a Methodist. As a matter of fact, the editor didn't do it. You possibly know
					that in every newspaper office there is a Wise Person who frequently calls in us
					reporters, and points out errors in fact, grammar, spelling, etc. HE DID IT.
				
				When a man is enjoying himself eating buckwheat cakes, we say it is indelicate for his
					wife to ask, "How many does that make?"
				Every time we meet an intricately dressed woman, we have a longing to grab her, take her
					apart, and see how she is put up.
				We all pay an impudent collector more quickly than we pay the man who treats us with
					great consideration, and gives us our own time in which to pay.
				What a servile creature a rich man is when he meets a man who has more money than he
					has!
				History is to the effect that man's sins always find him out; but men continue to bet
					that they won't.
				Equal suffrage will never amount to anything until it gives a woman the privilege of
					asking a man to marry her.
				A man needs a friend not to flatter him, but to strengthen him at his weak points.
				
				We have often noticed that men who are good story-tellers don't care much about hearing
					them.
				Going to a lawyer with every trouble, in a man, is as bad as going to a doctor with every
					trouble, in a woman.
				The rule was established several years ago that a man cannot be successful in business
					and in fishing at the same time; there is no use trying to change it now.
				Tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.
				It is better to be a poor woman than a poor man, for a poor woman can always lay the
					blame on a man.
				The first time a man eats a meal at a restaurant after his marriage, he causes as great a
					sensation as his wife causes when the neighbors see her crying.
				There never was a man or woman who did not occasionally manufacture a groan, to excite
					the sympathy of friends.
				
				You might as well take your medicine bravely; if you don't, someone will hold your nose,
					and make you take it.
				Every day thousands of people exclaim: "I can't stand it!" But they do.
				If you want to know what a man's weakness is, let him do the talking, and he will mention
					it.
				When a man gets up in the world, people want to down him; when he gets down in the world,
					people want to help him.
				Every little while this fact is forced to a man's attention: that a great deal goes on he
					never hears of until the explosion.
				Some women just naturally know how to use dry goods, and we imagine they do not work any
					harder than those who think, and think, and look slouchy. In the same way, some men can do
					a thing easily, while others can't. That's about all there is in luck: a man born with
					poor taste, and little sense, is "unlucky," while a man born with ability, and a little
					common-sense, is "lucky."
				
				A whipping never hurts so much as the thought that you are being whipped.
				Our experience with Western society is that it is very pleasant until the singing
					begins.
				It is not as easy to make a living as it is to make love.
				When a bachelor is among women, he always claims to be lonelier than he really is.
				When a man fails in business, some people are sure to say, "I'll bet he feathered his
					nest."
				Sometimes I think I have nothing to be thankful for, but when I reflect that I am not a
					woman, I am content. Anyone who is compelled to kiss a man, and pretend to like it, is
					entitled to sympathy.
				Repartee often amounts to impudence.
				Some women marry for love, some for money, and some for a home. It is not known why men
					marry.
				
				It is always a temptation to mock anyone you dislike.
				A lucky man is one who saves.
				People rather enjoy it when a pretty girl begins to fade.
				A man hates his enemies longer than he loves his friends.
				Some men need a big humiliation about so often to keep them reasonably modest.
				When I say, "Everybody says so," it means that I say so.
				After a young man goes with a girl about so long, they act like old married people in
					public.
				Men like to be coaxed, but there is not one woman in ten who knows where coaxing ends and
					nagging begins.
				The more wealth a man has, the louder his children talk.
				
				When a woman is determined to make her hat "do" another season, she says: "I don't find
					the hats very tempting."
				You cannot be too careful of your conduct when people are around. They have sharper eyes
					than hawks, and use them. And how they talk after you are gone!
				A woman can go to hell quicker than a man.
				Every thief admits at the end of his life that he would have prospered better as an
					honest man.
				When a farmer comes into possession of a traction engine, he delights to fire it up, and
					go snorting through the town where he lives.
				A woman should either elect to be a satisfactory wife and mother or a Suffragette; she
					can't be both.
				An Atchison girl is so modest that when she goes to the store to try on shoes, she takes
					her mother along. She doesn't propose to have a man handle her feet without a protector
					within hailing distance.
				
				You are at a disadvantage if you are crazy over your friends; they are probably not crazy
					over you.
				Don't tell a good story, even though you know one; its narration will simply remind your
					hearers of a bad one.
				If you have lately had a "trip," probably you talk too much about it; you may not realize
					it, but your friends do.
				I don't know much, as has been frequently remarked in Atchison, where I live, but I have
					finally acquired enough sense not to go on a steamboat excursion.
				A man who owns a $450 automobile is apt to think that if he should go to New York, the
					members of the Four Hundred would admit him without further questioning.
				When a customer finds fault with a grocery clerk because of the goods sent up, the
					grocery-man speaks sharply to the clerk, and says he hopes it will not happen again; but
					his sympathies are with the clerk.
				
				In draping things, and in arranging flowers, every woman thinks she has particularly good
					taste.
				It is always amusing to see a man attempt to say nice things about his opposition. It is
					nearly as funny as to see a stingy man act liberal.
				It is always a hard job to jar a man loose from his money.
				Was there ever a lecturer who did not come well recommended?
				Nearly every boy determines to whip his school teacher when he grows up.
				Marriage is a good deal like a circus: There is not as much in it as is represented in
					the advertising.
				After a woman has been married three weeks, she doesn't like to have her husband around
					the house in the daytime.
				No scheme pays as well as legitimate business.
				
				What a useless loafer and thief a rat is! How we all fight him! And how well he prospers
					in spite of the tremendous opposition!
				People are always appreciative when they have reason to be. The trouble is, a conceited
					man so often says the people should appreciate something he has done for which no
					appreciation is due.
				A woman demands that her husband strive to be perfect, but runs along about as usual
					herself.
				Nearly every unsuccessful man we ever met was a good billiard-player.
				A man makes excuses as naturally as he dodges when you strike at him.
				When half of the men become fond of doing a thing, the other half prohibit it by law.
				If you patiently do your work the best you can, and worry and fret as little as possible,
					a great many good things will come your way when you least expect them.
				
				A man who is ashamed when he does wrong, will finally do better.
				Almost every man is a better man than he is a husband.
				We all imagine that our work is important, and that no one can do it as well as we do,
					but the world has been constantly improving in spite of the fact that every man dies at
					the end of a short life.
				The only way for some people to get into society is to break in.
				How fearless and plain-spoken a man is in talking to his women-folks!
				It is more trouble for a woman to wash her head than to do the family washing.
				We men are accused of so much that sometimes we fear some of us may be guilty.
				If the past has taken fairly good care of itself, the future will probably do equally
					well.
				
				How you wonder at the popularity of the man you hate! How you wonder that people speak to
					him at all!
				When a man kisses his wife, he doesn't hang on long in doing it, but it is a long, long
					time compared with the peck he gives his sister.
				The "stories" on people are never more than half true, if there is any truth in them at
					all.
				You will hear the same old complaints as long as you live.
				A man who talks a great deal cannot avoid talking a lot of nonsense.
				As a rule, we prefer a man not to wear a heavy, bristly moustache.
				The man who has been defeated should be as careful in his weeping as the victor in his
					celebrating.
				Horses seem slower than ever since automobiles came in.
				
				No one thinks he looks as old as he is.
				Some people are careless as naturally as others take pains.
				Only one person in a hundred is fair enough to accept his share of the blame in
					anything.
				Women who have to earn all the money they get, are seldom as generous as they expect men
					to be.
				There are not many men who will steal openly, but nearly every man will take advantage of
					another man's carelessness.
				A woman wants men to have good times in a woman's way.
				You often hear the expression, "He's got no room to talk." Well, none of us have, for
					that matter, but we all do it.
				The late Mrs. John B. Kurth was very fond of her son-in-law, George Shifflet. "Lena," she
					used to say to her daughter, "George is too good for you."
				
				If a woman should call on every wife in town, and offer to poison husbands for ten
					dollars, without publicity, how many orders would she receive? A woman in Russia managed
					to get 300 orders of this kind.
				Those husbands and wives who get along, do it without "trying."
				"When I get any money," a careless Atchison man said to-day, "it only gets up a bad
					feeling among the thieves as to which shall get it."
				When a farmer is convinced that a big drink of whisky will do him good, he goes to bed
					before taking it, so that he can claim to be sick if he acts funny.
				Are you able to work by the day without being watched?
				About the surest and quickest way to unpopularity is to squelch people.
				Everybody has something: a man has dandruff, and a woman has cold feet.
				
				Ever notice that when there is something to "talk" about, few are above "talking"?
				We sometimes tell others, by our actions, the very things we do not wish them to
					know.
				A broken heart is rare; many people say there never was such a thing.
				If a man is naturally enthusiastic, he is punished so much for it that he soon becomes
					intensely practical.
				The fellow who is always demanding another chance, is a great bother. Let him take
					another chance, and say nothing about it.
				The man who ought to listen and learn, usually does most of the talking.
				How easy to "wish" for a million dollars to give to your friends! Why not give them the
					five dollars you have?
				People are not as busy as they imagine they are.
				
				There are so many things you can do without, and want.
				The smaller the woman, the more she loves to impose on a big man.
				We all try to help a modest person; we all try to injure a conceited one.
				If we had step-children, we shouldn't wear ourselves out by pretending to like them, as
					so many do.
				After you have said you are sorry, get out of a sick-room. The doctors and the nurses
					will do the rest.
				Nearly every town man believes some farmer should think enough of him to give him a
					Thanksgiving turkey.
				Treat every one as though you expected him to become your enemy in time. This course will
					save you many a humiliation.
				A conquered foe should be watched.
				
				A lost dog is easily found: anyone who finds a dog is glad enough to return it to its
					owner.
				You may think you are modest as a flower, but probably your neighbors say you have nerve
					to burn.
				If all the people in the world should agree to sympathize with a certain man at a certain
					hour, they could not cure his headache.
				There is a good deal of talk of forgiving and forgetting, but people never forgive and
					they never forget. Sometimes they pretend to, but we doubt their sincerity.
				A man who harbors malice is liable to commit murder. A man who hates another a long time
					is liable to get into a fight with him sooner or later, and, when the fight finally comes,
					there is likely to be mischief done. Men wait for years for the first blow, and the first
					blow is liable to be with a deadly weapon. Don't waste your energy in hating people; such
					a course will make you wretched and may finally get you into trouble. Your enemy will
					usually let you alone if you set the example.
				
				Every woman has an idea it should be a pleasure for a man to work for money for her to
					spend.
				A certain Atchison married man is not acting right, and will be punished. His wife has
					not yet caught him, but she is watching, and will catch him. Some of these nights you will
					hear what you will believe to be the curfew whistle; his wife having caught him. And what
					you take to be the rumble of the fire engine will really be the sound of the man as he
					flees across the bridge.
				You cannot help making enemies. No one is so meek, so good, so humble, that there is not
					some one to dislike him with more or less activity.
				They say there is nothing new under the sun. How is this? Mose Morris went into a grocery
					store to-day, and bought a sack of apples, and the grocer helped him to eat them. Not only
					that: the grocer invited every one who came in to have an apple out of Mr. Morris's sack.
					The grocer has been the victim of "tasters" for years, and was getting even. We contend
					that there are new things happening every day. For example, there is that New York woman
					who led a double life; who had two husbands, and two homes.
				
				Every man who didn't run at the first battle of Bull Run, is there yet.
				How we all admire a sensible, well-balanced man! And how few such men there are!
				A man's town is his world.
				You hear a great deal about cheerful givers: did you ever see one?
				Quoting poetry gets you nothing but the reputation of being a bore.
				The more a woman insists that she is a "perfect lady," the more liable people are to
					doubt it.
				When women attend a funeral, they carry two handkerchiefs, and go into the house, while
					the men stay out in the yard, and smoke. There is no use fussing; men won't behave
					properly.
				Though people are too modest to admit it, every man is his own hero, and every woman her
					own heroine.
				
				I may have crank notions, but so far I have never attempted to adopt a child from an
					orphan asylum.
				You will be compelled, finally, to learn that your opinions do not amount to much. The
					sooner you learn this important fact, the better.
				A man thinks lots of things he doesn't know.
				Was there ever a man "big" enough to honestly admire his competitor? And we don't know
					why any man should admire his competitor.
				Do a hundred things right, and you can spoil them all by doing one thing wrong.
				When a woman returns to Atchison after a long absence, the other women look at her
					clothes very critically, to see how she has prospered.
				A young doctor thinks a doctor is about the only thing in the world, and talks a great
					deal about the dignity of his profession; but an old doctor has very little to say about
					the dignity of his profession, and takes no medicine himself.
				
				Every time a new barber comes to town, the bald-headed man half-way hopes that he knows
					something that will make hair grow.
				Why are women's stockings so long, and men's stockings so short?
				About the only excitement out in the country is to say at the breakfast-table: "The dog
					barked last night as though someone was prowling around the house."
				When a man dies, and his kin are glad of it, they say, "He is better off."
				We are all outwardly more cheerful about giving than we feel inside.
				When a woman starts out to reform, she only thinks of the faults of the men.
				The older a man grows, the longer he looks at a contract before signing it.
				When a man is sick as long as five hours, he has his wife look over his body for
					bed-sores.
				
				If you hear two women talk long you are apt to hear one of them say she has a sick
					headache.
				A man can't hit anything with a revolver except himself, or a friend.
				A man does not have occasion for a hearty, spontaneous laugh once a month.
				When the men meet a bride, they look at her face; the women look at her clothes.
				It has probably occurred to every man that ten cents is too much for a barber-shop
					shine.
				About one-third of a man's time is spent in asking questions that never should have been
					asked.
				Only a boy who has killed a rabbit, and induced his mother to cook it, knows what tastes
					good.
				When a man begins by saying, "Of course it is none of my business, but," it is a
					sign he is going to make it his business, and advise you what to do.
				
				A woman's hand may be pale and delicate, but she can pick up a hotter plate than a
					man.
				People finally put a tag on a man who is always volunteering to oblige his friends, but
					never does it.
				The average man, when he goes away and has "a good time," takes it out of his family's
					hide on his return, by reducing the family's supply of sugar and coffee.
				"He is the kind of man," we heard a man say to-day, "that yellow journals are printed
					for."
				A woman never eats when she has anything else to do.
				Advocate the right, but don't overdo it; don't become so disagreeable advocating the
					right that you accomplish more harm than good.
				Every man has a scheme that won't work.
				The better the doctor, the less he thinks of his ability.
				
				Some widowers may be giddy, but not all of them. Goat Edwards has been a widower three
					years, and is not taking notice any more now than he did the third month after the
					funeral. "I am not saying anything against anybody," he said to-day, "but I am satisfied
					as I am."
				There is no vagrant notion in your nature that poetry does not encourage.
				You will blush to have it thrown up to you, but all of you have kin you do not like.
				Nearly every man has a story of a bully getting whipped. And how people enjoy hearing of
					a bully being whipped!
				When a number of men "chip in" to raise a fund, a mighty mean man is sure to develop; a
					man who will not pay his share.
				When they have absolutely nothing else to do, farmers fuss about section corners.
				The average woman has a superior way of saying: "I never gossip with my servants."
				
				If you are determined to ruin your stomach, why not do it with gravy instead of
					whisky?
				How happy the newly married people are; and how soon they get into trouble!
				If the men who are going to the devil would go more promptly, and make less trouble on
					the way, people would be better satisfied.
				Soup is too hot, and ice-water is too cold.
				Our idea of a prominent citizen is one who does not want to be postmaster.
				Never work one friend in the interest of another.
				Deserve the good opinion of those who think well of you.
				You hear a lot of talk about poor lectures. Ever hear a really good one?
				We all know how much trouble we have, but fail to realize how much trouble others
					have.
				
				What has become of the old-fashioned big-feeling man who had a strut like a turkey
					gobbler?
				When a horse is tied out in cold weather, and paws a great deal, that is a horse's way of
					swearing.
				Everyone who diets, often says, wearily: "Dieting does no good," but as a matter of fact,
					it does.
				A farmer believes it is always commendable to make a wolf trouble. Women have the same
					idea about the men.
				According to a real-estate agent, the average renter expects that all the money he pays
					for rent should be used in improvements to the building he occupies.
				As a rule, a bride returns to earth in about three weeks. A bride is paid so much
					attention that she is badly spoilt, unless she is a very unusual woman. But in about three
					weeks after she is married, she begins to recognize her own mother. A few days later, she
					begins to recognize other former acquaintances, and remember what happened when she was a
					Spin.
				
				I once wondered how the banks made their money, but when I procured a loan, I found
					out.
				Get your friend out of trouble before you lecture him.
				You think you have nerve: why not demonstrate it by quitting some of your bad habits? Why
					not show that you have nerve by quitting tobacco? You eat too fast and too much; quit that
					bad habit. No doubt you swear; quit swearing. Don't demonstrate your nerve by running the
					risk of losing your life; show your nerve by quitting dangerous habitshabits that
					will shorten your life.
				How we all praise the man who lives out of town! And how we all abuse our neighbors! It
					has been said of a man formerly of Atchison, who lives in New York, that he has
					accumulated a large fortune. And every time the story is repeated, people say: "You can't
					do anything in Atchison. No man should remain in this town." It has lately been learned
					that the formerly of Atchison man in New York has not made a fortune; instead, he has made
					a bad failure.
				
				It is so easy for society to shock the people who are not in it.
				We always dislike a man who is proud, and has nothing to back it.
				If you have good luck to-day, watch to-morrow carefully; there is a Big Slap coming to
					you.
				When we remember how bravely a woman has her teeth pulled, and how a man yells, we
					sometimes think that pain hurts a man worse than a woman.
				Probably there never was a man who would not get the big-head on twenty thousand dollars.
					A man with a million is more apt to be sensible and modest than a man with twenty
					thousand.
				We have a great admiration for the woman who can repel inquisitiveness or impertinence
					with a single look.
				A young Atchison girl who will become a teacher, said to-day: "I am not becoming a
					teacher to do good, but for the pleasure of whipping the boys."
				
				If there is a single good thing about rheumatism, it is that it gives you notice when it
					attacks you. But you may have kidney trouble many years without knowing it.
				You can always fool people by making big promises.
				Partnerships nearly always result in a quarrel. We wouldn't own a doughnut in partnership
					with anyone else.
				The automobile has its uses, no doubt, but there is no disputing that a lot of loafing is
					done in automobiles.
				There is a lot of nonsense in this live-wire talk. Don't become more enthusiastic or
					enterprising than common-sense warrants.
				Do you like to hear your friends praised as much as you enjoy hearing yourself praised?
					You wretch, you don't, and you know it.
				A woman with any sort of figure is prouder of it than a man is of a million dollars.
				
				You often hear young men say: "I have no money, but I can get all sorts of backing."
					Business men of experience and means know that this backing proposition is usually a
					joke.
				A candidate's promises to the people are not worth any more than the people's promises to
					the candidate.
				When most people offer to do you a favor, they do it in a way which announces that you
					had better not accept.
				Americans have a way of worrying a man into his grave by abusing him unjustly, and then
					telling, after his death, what a Good Man he was.
				No man would listen to you talk if he didn't know it was his turn next.
				When a man exhausts every other way of getting rid of a thing, he raffles it off.
				About the time a man reaches fifty, he begins seeing insults in the papers to the effect
					that he is an old man.
				
				Women who want to marry should keep the fact quiet; men hate a husband-hunter.
				The smaller the woman, the larger the hat she looks at when she goes into a millinery
					store.
				You must have noticed that army officers are very thrifty in their love affairs; they
					never marry poor girls who belong to big families.
				A man regards his newspaper the way he does his wife: something to be found fault with
					when he is cross, and something he never entirely approves of.
				There is a Big Stick of which every man is afraid.
				What great wrong should be righted next? We should have at least two grinding at
					once.
				We sometimes think the poor need to be taught gratitude more than the rich need to be
					taught generosity.
				The notion that it is only possible to sin or act foolish in a saloon, is a mistake.
				
				There never was a man so patient that it didn't make him mad to get a line under his
					horse's tail when out driving.
				At a dinner party it is always expected that the guests talk about Literature.
				I am big-hearted, and have sympathy and charity for everybody expect my opposition.
				We have always had a notion that a favorite stunt of the impudent man is to apply at the
					Cash Stores for credit.
				When trouble is plainly labeled in daytime, and has a red lantern attached to it at
					night, there is very little excuse for running into it.
				People never get so old that it does not hurt them to be scolded.
				In Kansas we always live well in the present, and howl about the future.
				One of the most difficult things in the world is to learn to take a hint easily.
				
				A man who passes through a strange town in an automobile looks as important as railroad
					officials used to look in private cars, in the old days before railroad officials were
					disciplined.
				Atchison people who remain up as late as 11 o'clock at night do a great deal of yawning
					and stretching the next day. Our people are not sports, and we are proud of the fact.
				Everyone has to think to be polite; the first impulse is to be impolite.
				Men have their faults, but they seem to be more popular than women as roomers and
					boarders.
				When a woman has no diamonds, she says it is vulgar for other women to wear them.
				The less some men work, the more they complain about the way other men make their
					money.
				"We've all got to die," you often hear people say. But young people say it oftener than
					old people. The old don't care to talk about such things.
				
				The average Spin is in this position: If she makes herself agreeable to an unmarried man,
					it is said she is chasing him, and if she treats a married man pleasantly, she is charged
					with being a home-wrecker.
				There is no good fishing, and there are no good times.
				The men have as an exaggerated idea of their rights as the women have of their
					wrongs.
				Women talk too much about marriage, to suit the men.
				If a man is out late at night, it is good protection to have a woman along. A woman has a
					way of screaming that curdles a highwayman's blood.
				We never knew an old man who did not tell of some friend swindling him. Talk with any
					young man, and he knows the story of his father being swindled by a friend. Such matters
					seem to be talked around the fireside.
				Who ever found good gravy at a hotel?
				
				A reasonable probability is the only certainty.
				Most stories of heroes were invented to punish cowards.
				Men seem to be too much one way, and women not enough another.
				Every person especially interested in a scandal has been the subject of one.
				A woman has the same natural impulse to go into society that a man has to go into
					politics.
				Watch the flies on cold mornings: that is the way you will feel and act when you are
					old.
				If you hope to succeed in life, you must obey certain rules. If you do not get down to
					work before 9 o'clock; if you get sick easily, and remain away from your work a full day,
					you are not obeying the rules necessary to success, and you know it. And if you refuse to
					obey the rules, don't be a cheat, and say "luck" is against you. You know what the truth
					is; admit it. If you don't, the neighbors will.
				
				Ever occur to you that an introduction is a queer thing? Two men will pass each other on
					the streets for days without speaking. "Mr. Smith, shake hands with Mr. Jones," a mutual
					friend will say, and Mr. Smith and Mr. Jones will thereafter be old acquaintances.
				When you shake hands with a man, don't hang on to his hand as though you wanted to cut if
					off, and take it with you. We have investigated a good deal lately, and find that people
					universally prefer the short shake.
				A Jim Jeffries is whipped somewhere every hour in the day. A man will get the notion that
					the universe can't exist without him. He gets his head terribly swollen with the idea,
					quits his job, and makes a failure in a new town with a new employer. So much of this goes
					on everywhere that it is a wonder men are not more modest.
				We desire to be as agreeable as possible, but Harry Reisner's summer hat is about the
					toughest-looking lid we have ever seen. And we're quite a traveler; we've been to Omaha
					three times, and once to St. Louis.
				
				Why do some men like filthy stories? They dislike walking in filth; why are they so
					anxious to put their heads into it?
				An Atchison man has been away on a drunk four days. He returned this morning, and is now
					standing around trying to look as though he had been to St. Louis to consider a
					proposition to manage a big concern at a salary of nine thousand dollars a year.
				An Atchison woman, a great churchgoer, says: "My idea of perfect happiness would be to
					live near my church, and have nothing else to do but attend divine service. Then I would
					have two extra pastors hired, and have services three times a day. Oh, wouldn't it be
					sweet!"
				If you have sense enough to realize why flies gather around a restaurant, you should be
					able to appreciate why men run for office.
				When a man comes to Atchison from Chicago, and opens a store smaller than those we have,
					people at once have a suspicion that he is no Marshall Field.
				
				A man with a toothache never suffers as much as he claims, and corn never suffers as much
					in hot weather as is generally said by the farmers.
				"I got my family off to a summer resort yesterday," said a busy man this morning, "and as
					soon as I get my pastor off, I can attend to my work in peace."
				About all you find at the average celebration is a big crowd.
				Every man who meets with unusual success is vain, and he can't help showing it a
					little.
				The right way to punish Western railroads is not with troublesome legislation, but with
					washouts during very dry weather.
				The women believe it is a sin for a man not to be busy.
				An Atchison man went to Topeka yesterday, and says the most wonderful thing he saw was at
					a house where he was invited to dinner: green jelly. And Topeka is the State capital!
				
				Every man who departs from nature is courting trouble.
				Your best friends "talk" about you at times; don't expect anything else.
				A man forgets his good luck next day, but remembers his bad luck until next year.
				People are always expecting circus men and politicians to do what they promise, and being
					disappointed.
				Probably this expression is used oftener by people than any other: "Everything is blamed
					on me."
				The only way to get along with a railroad company is to pound hell out of it. Don't be
					fair with it; that's fatal.
				When a man gets into difficulty it is pitiful to see him flounder around; not one man in
					a hundred can really do anything when he gets into trouble.
				One horse to a buggy doesn't seem enough, while two seem too many.
				
				It is generally known, of course, that men do everything better than women; the finest
					cooks, dressmakers, and milliners are men, but an actor by the name of Eltinge is
					demonstrating that a man makes a better-looking woman. He is playing the woman's part in
					"A Fascinating Widow," and his womanly beauty and grace are making him famous.
				You can usually tell a suspicious character by the way he hates the police.
				There is an old story told of a Good Man who found a snake by the roadside. The snake was
					frozen, and the Good Man put the snake in his bosom, to warm it back to life. As soon as
					the snake recovered, it bit the Good Man, and caused his death. This is another case of
					Literature, and very poor literature at that. No such thing ever happened. If a man should
					find a snake beside the road, and endeavor to bring it back to life by placing it in his
					bosom, he would deserve to be bitten. Swat the snake; swat the fly; swat the mosquito;
					swat a good many people.
				How slow a family horse is when it has its own way!
				
				There is one thing a defeated candidate will ALWAYS say about the man who defeated him.
					It is this: "He will stoop to anything."
				School children laugh as quickly at the teacher's jokes as church people laugh at the
					jokes of the bishop.
				Talk long enough to any woman about her wedding, and you will find something about it
					that didn't suit her.
				When a man does anything for sick people, he always exaggerates it. It's the women who
					will act like angels around the sick, and say nothing about it.
				There is one thing worse than poor relations, although it will be difficult to persuade
					people to our way of thinking. We refer to rich relations. Their patronizing ways are
					positively much worse than the fawning of the poor relations.
				Down at the bottom of his rotten heart, every man has an ambition to see some woman take
					poison because of love of him.
				
				How a woman does admire a man who bows low when he meets her!
				Deny it if you please, but the facts are that everybody is looking for a shade the best
					of it.
				Let an unmarried man tell a widow that his life would have been different had he met a
					woman like her earlier in life, and she will do the rest, if she wants him.
				Is there anyone in the world you would like to hear talk? Wouldn't you rather talk
					yourself than listen to the best of them?
				Mothers often say, "I believe in young people enjoying themselves," but fathers usually
					believe in young people working.
				The first time a man is elected to office, his friends begin telling around that he is a
					new factor in politics to reckon with.
				A girl who has spent three or four years in studying music, and can't play decently,
					should begin studying something else.
				
				We have noticed that the most successful men have no side issues.
				The men who work the hardest, and accomplish the most, rarely complain about being
					slaves.
				When a man knows his duty, he puts off doing it by asking advice.
				It's a good thing for a man when he gets caught the first time he does wrong.
				When a man marries, it is believed he never again longs for social amusement.
				The longer we live the more we admire a plain, honest gentleman, and the less we care for
					a genius.
				Only a few men seem to be honest all the way through. So many men, honest in the main,
					are a little tricky.
				A man would make a great fuss if asked to eat crackers and cheese at home, but he will
					steal crackers and cheese at a grocery store, and enjoy them, in addition to making the
					proprietor mad.
				
				An engaged young man has no more right to call on young girls than a married man.
				Did you ever notice how well behaved an engaged girl is?
				Unless a man is careful when he wears a plug hat, he will look funny.
				You can sometimes sell prospects, but you always have to discount them a good deal.
				A woman harnessing a horse acts as awkwardly as a man putting on a baby's clothes.
				After a man is fifty you can fool him by saying he is smart, but you can't fool him by
					saying he is pretty.
				When you pay out a dollar, do you growl in a way indicating that you are in love with it?
					That's a poor way.
				A cold wind from the north, when you have left your overcoat at home, is about as mean a
					thing as there is.
				
				When a man comes to ask you for an opinion, he really asks you for a confirmation of his
					own.
				An old maid doesn't have a good time until she has become reconciled.
				We don't believe a nervy man was ever called down; it is the modest people who get the
					insults.
				Squirm as you will, the neighbors have a good deal to say about your conduct, and you
					should pay a good deal of attention to what they say.
				A million people ask themselves this question every day: "What is the best thing to do?"
					And the pitiful truth is, no one knows, half the time.
				When my stomach is behaving, and I am feeling particularly well, I spend that day
					arranging for a dinner that will knock me out the next day.
				When a man discovers that he doesn't amount to much, and never will, we have a notion he
					is as disgusted as the woman who discovers she is getting whiskers.
				
				Business is usually good in a good store.
				A woman says of every hired girl she ever had, "My, but she can make the butter fly!"
				Advice to women: A man doesn't amount to much, at best. In getting one, get the best one
					possible.
				To find fault with a man once hurts his feelings more than a dozen compliments will cheer
					him. Compliments are often insincere, but fault-finding is always genuine.
				An old editor once said: "I always hated the task of rejecting copy offered. The writers
					thought what they offered was good, and possibly it was; possibly my judgment was at
					fault. But I hated the task of being constantly at war with the writers."
				As soon as a man believes that he has a good many friends, and has a persuasive way, and
					is a good mixer, he begins to think of running for office. But a man who really has these
					qualities can do better in business than he can in politics.
				
				There is some advice that is too good. That advice to love your enemies, for example.
				If you are going to the devil, turn and try the other way for awhile, and see how
					agreeable it will be. The experience may cause you to entirely give up the notion of going
					to the devil.
				If we were a burglar we could get into any house in town; we know so many places where
					members of a family hide a key.
				If a book agent didn't butt in, he'd never get in.
				The trouble with tact is, you are apt to catch people using it.
				The man who doesn't amount to much usually has his sign out.
				An Atchison man's wife is ten years older than he is, and she calls him FATHER!
				If you are knocked out, don't give up too easily. Look yourself over; there is another
					fight in you, if you will cut out your fool ways.
				
				Dressmakers have a mighty poor opinion of the average woman's "figure."
				Busy men become very tired of loafers, particularly if the loafers act important.
				In many newspaper offices the long way of telling an incident is regarded as
					editorial.
				How a tough woman enjoys hearing a nice woman "talked" about!
				We wonder every winter that women do not freeze their legs off at the ankles.
				Most people put off until to-morrow that which they should have done yesterday.
				If you love the political game, have some consideration for those who hate it.
				When a married woman congratulates a bride at a wedding, she ALWAYS says: "I hope you
					will be as happy as I am." But a Spin has to make up something new every time.
				
				You see life on the streets; not on the stage.
				You are familiar with the manner in which a mother makes a fishhook out of her finger,
					and dives down into the mouth of her baby when it has been eating anything behind her
					back.
				The Mildred Majors Dramatic Co. is touring the small towns of Kansas. One "press notice"
					in a weekly paper says that this is the last opportunity the people will have to see Miss
					Mildred Majors in her great roles, as next season she will go abroad, and play before
					nobody but kings, and royalty.
				"Bohemians" are not very popular in Atchison: Doc Robinson, town drunkard and horse
					doctor, is about the only one we have.
				An Atchison man is sick, and, being very stubborn and cross, would not take his medicine.
					So one morning, when the doctor called, his wife grabbed her husband, held his nose, and
					made him take the medicine. This she does twice a day now. The man says that as soon as he
					is well enough, he proposes to leave his wife, and whip the doctor.
				
				An Atchison woman who is fifty years old was never whipped as a child, and has never seen
					a child whipped. When we were a boy we were whipped at school, at home, by other boys, and
					by the neighbors.
				If you have killed a bear, you are very apt to talk too much about it.
				You will never know what a real crank is until you become acquainted with an Art crank.
					The prohibition crank is pretty bad, but lacks the enthusiasm for idiocy that
					distinguishes the Art crank.
				A Doniphan woman who recently whipped a man was fined fourteen dollars and eighty cents.
					Possibly fourteen dollars and eighty cents is too much, but we doubt that the amusement of
					a woman whipping a man should be entirely free.
				When there is nothing else offering, people roast society.
				We are all bold enough in calling people down behind their backs.
				
				If no one else will do it, a man will pet himself.
				There is one fault we all have: we repeat scandalous rumors too readily.
				When a woman has nerve, she has more of it than three or four nervy men.
				What has become of the old-fashioned country horse that had its tail eaten off by
					calves?
				The newspapers often say the people demand a certain thing long before the people think
					of it.
				Every time we hear of an operation for appendicitis, we feel shooting pains down where we
					believe our appendix to be.
				Be careful about "going to pieces" on slight provocation. Some day you are liable to "go
					to pieces," and not be able to get together again.
				A souvenir spoon is the ugly kind that is of no use, and which you give the person you
					love or greatly admire.
				
				Men don't like hard work; they don't like loafing. Unfortunately, there is no happy
					medium.
				I don't know much, but when my liver wears out from long use, and old age, I'll know a
					doctor can't fix it.
				There are two things that even you should know for certain: that a fortune-teller can't
					tell your fortune, and that a medium can't bring your dead kin back to talk with you by
					means of raps.
				If you have something you don't want, don't spend a lifetime getting rid of it.
				If a thing sells for ten cents, we won't buy unless we can get three for a quarter.
				For every man fooled by a woman, possibly fifty women are fooled by men. And for a woman
					to be fooled by a man is sometimes a serious business.
				Every man thinks it is a shame he is compelled to live the humdrum life others live, and
					then finally die, as others die, and be buried in the common graveyard.
				
				The whitest thing we know anything about is a white dress worn by a neat woman.
				When a mother is indulgent with her little son, and very good to him, he kicks her on the
					shins, when she mildly corrects him. Aren't you a little that way with friends who are
					very good to you?
				An old-fashioned Atchison woman thinks her daughter is disgracing the family by living an
					old maid.
				Long before George King married Christine Donald, we knew what was in the air: the Donald
					dog followed George everywhere.
				An Atchison girl's steady went back on her, but she has Come Back; she was at the nickel
					theatres last evening with another young man.
				Six months ago a handsome young woman, physically perfect, married a man. Now she is so
					thin and pale-looking that people are asking: "For heaven's sake, what has happened to
					that woman?" There is talk of asking the county attorney to investigate.
				
				Mrs. Charley Page, of Missouri, is chilling every day. This seems to us to be unfair;
					when we lived in Missouri, the rule was every other day.
				An Atchison storekeeper says that when a woman comes in with a boy and a girl, the boy
					soon has everything within reach on the floor, while the girl stands around as though
					paralyzed.
				A woman who wants to be an invalid, is very apt to be.
				Nine times out of ten when you inquire, "What's the trouble?" you know.
				A man who goes around with a chip on his shoulder will finally encounter as big a fool as
					he is, and there will be a fight.
				Any man who believes that in a few years people will travel everywhere in airships, is
					generally regarded as Progressive.
				If you find fault with people they will hate you for it. People hate those who "pick" at
					them, and they ought to.
				
				Can you look into the future, and see a whole lot of things that are not so?
				Most people occasionally say: "No one knows what I've had to go through with."
				Women often say: "I can't see why a man wouldn't just as soon marry a widow."
				We hate to have a man slap us on the back. We imagine we feel about it as a woman does
					when a strange man tries to hold her hand.
				A pretty girl is like a congressman: she tries not to show that she knows she is pretty,
					but she can't do it; and a congressman always knows he is a congressman.
				A boy will go to his mother and complain that he has lost his knife, or some other
					article. And his mother will say: "Well, I didn't lose it; I can't help it," but all the
					same, she will look for it and find it.
				Every man mistakes merited punishment for persecution.
				
				The severest critic who ever lived in Atchison, is now in the poorhouse. He could find
					fault with the way others made a living, but couldn't make a living himself, and the Slow
					Pokes he criticised were forced to take care of him.
				Women spend money on some things as worthless as whisky.
				There are some people that nothing improves except a slap in the face.
				People have no sympathy with a man who has been out of a job too long.
				Many a man is compelled to stand punishment who never fought a prize-fight.
				A man writes to this office: "I am in love with a girl. Yesterday I saw another girl I
					admire. Can I be in love with two girls at the same time?" You can, but you had better
					not.
				When a man owns a building in a town which won't rent, he never blames the building: he
					says the old town is dead.
				
				When you do a bad thing, you might as well tell it; it will be found out, anyway.
				Thousands of men have talked of shooting automobilists, but so far no one has done
					it.
				A stingy man may not be popular, but we have noticed that he always has money.
				When a man is accused, he begins by saying: "These attacks of my enemies will not injure
					me. I have lived here too long to need a defense," and then he proceeds to give one.
				No one ever has good luck any length of time.
				A girl who has been engaged a number of years always looks like a woman who has been
					married.
				Did anyone in the world ever meet anyone who talked the dialect found in some poetry and
					some books?
				A man should use the telephone just as he uses his revolveronly in cases of
					absolute necessity.
				
				We never go to a party that we do not wonder where all the men are coming from to marry
					the girls present.
				The worst thing that can happen a poor man is to get in the way of associating with men
					who have a good deal of money.
				Women are always saying to the men: "You don't know how much work there is around a
					house."
				There are plenty of people who will not believe sworn testimony who will believe
					unsupported gossip.
				You hear of such things, but we don't believe there ever was a woman who married a man
					she disliked, to please her parents.
				Every man is liberal in saying what should be done, but most of us are very conservative
					in saying what we will do.
				Always remember that if a man knows where he can make a dollar, he will not tell you
					about it; he will go after it himself.
				
				When a school teacher goes out of the room for a few minutes, she puts a big girl in
					charge, to "tell on" the children who misbehave.
				A good many of the Atchison hunters have resolved to quit buying wild ducks of the Smith
					boys, at Mud Lake: the Smith boys talk too much.
				Success is the only thing that saves a political career from being disreputable.
				A good many people don't want to know the truth, if it is opposed to their
					prejudices.
				Those who are actually in society, are not as ridiculous as those who are trying to get
					in.
				It is hard to establish a rule by which to judge a show, but here is one that may be
					relied upon: Always avoid a show that displays a lithograph of its manager.
				When we look at the poorest grocery store in town, we wonder that it gets any trade at
					all, considering how good the best one is. But the poorest grocery store always gets along
					pretty well.
				
				A fried egg ages more rapidly in looks than anything else we know of. An egg fried in the
					morning looks a thousand years old by night.
				An Atchison woman lately discharged her servant girl, and, in paying her off, said:
					"Charlotte, you are the best disposed girl, and break more dishes, than any girl I ever
					knew."
				A certain Atchison girl has spent fifteen years in the hardest sort of practice, and is
					really an unusual piano-player; she can do wonderful things with her fingers, but people
					don't care if she can.
				A story on a married man isn't really interesting unless his wife caught him at it.
				Atchison hasn't a real thoroughbred at this time, but it has a citizen who used to be
					one. When Fred Giddings lived in London, as a young man, he never went to bed until 7 or 8
					o'clock in the morning.
				In some towns, the men are always telling what others should do for the town, but do
					nothing themselves.
				
				When a man works hard, and establishes a good business, a couple of men settle down
					beside him, and imitate whatever he does. And sometimes the imitation is better than the
					original.
				People are always ready to be amused, and always ready to complain when an attempt is
					made to instruct them.
				Don't imagine a fool is trying to improve himself; he doesn't realize the value of sense.
					Indeed, he is usually trying to convert sensible men to his foolish notions.
				When a man is fifty, the raffle is over, and he knows he hasn't drawn anything; but a
					young man of nineteen or twenty is just shaking the box for the first show.
				When a business man has had a good many partners, it is a bad sign.
				What is the exact age when it is no longer proper for a girl to straddle a bob-sled, and
					put her arms around the boy in front of her in coasting? A number of big girls in town are
					still clinging to the practice.
				
				An Atchison man who dislikes preachers says that when he dies, he intends to be buried by
					a justice of the peace.
				A very popular Atchison girl recently dreamed that she was being married, and that the
					church was crowded with former suitors who were all crying so loud that the wedding march
					could not be heard.
				An Atchison family horse, a great pet and loafer, ran away the other day, with very
					little excuse. And this is what happened to him: Yesterday he was loaded in a car with a
					lot of mules, and shipped to Louisiana, where he will plow cotton.
				Lots of women "go" with women they talk about.
				There is something to make fun of about everyone.
				A good scare is worth more to a man than good advice.
				Country people are mighty smart in making fun of town people.
				
				A successful man cannot realize how hard an unsuccessful man finds life.
				You can make a mystery out of anything that happens after 12 o'clock at night.
				When a man succeeds, he does it in spite of everybody, and not with the assistance of
					everybody.
				It takes all kinds of queer people to make a world, and you are one of the queer
					kind.
				When some men attend a banquet, they care only for eating, drinking and smoking; they
					care nothing whatever for what is known as a feast of reason and a flow of soul.
				When a human hog meets with a financial reverse, how the people rejoice!
				The only gambling tip which amounts to anything is to keep out of the game.
				Every boy has an unconquerable longing to kill a wild goose.
				
				Mart Horley will probably be heard from next year in State politics. Heretofore he has
					been hampered in his Reform work, as he was compelled to clean the lamps in his wife's
					boarding-house, but natural gas having reached town he will now be able to give his entire
					time to Uplift work.
				A man suddenly becomes awfully polite and considerate for the public when an opposition
					business is started in his town.
				There is no excuse for a woman who cannot cook. Among the women, a poor cook should be
					ranked with the men who have worked at a trade all their lives, and still know almost
					nothing about it.
				Every man thinks his friends are more devoted to him than they really are.
				Occasionally we can look at a man's ears, and it seems to us we have never before seen
					anything so funny or ridiculous. In the same way we occasionally encounter a word in
					common use that looks so odd that we are almost willing to believe that we have never
					before seen anything like it.
				
				We are all struggling forcibly for fame and money, and will not stop for anything except
					to abuse those who have already succeeded in acquiring that which we are seeking.
				In this fat country, a man who can eat more than he can earn ought to starve.
				It shows as much conceit to think that people are saying bad things about you as to
					imagine that they are saying good things. They are probably not thinking of you at
					all.
				The average man will quit the society of a pretty woman any time to see a $10 election
					bet put up.
				If you attend to your work, and let your enemy alone, some one else will come along some
					day, and do him up for you.
				The cold, chilly facts are that the people are not very loyal to anyone. If you hear the
					people criticise others, that is what they do to you. There is such a thing as friendship,
					but people seldom die for the sentiment. And it is probable that your friends are as
					faithful to you as you are to them.
				
				Children are often scolded because they do not know how to behave, but this is not
					surprising in the children when it is remembered that very many grown people do not know
					how to behave themselves. Were you ever in a crowd that you were not disgusted with the
					actions of a lot of grown people who were trying to act smart? People who use extra
					efforts to attract attention to themselves are condemned as rude, and are not praised as
					smart.
				Every family has Prize Kin.
				If you do a good piece of work, don't stand around two or three days and admire it.
				Some elderly women can look at a man with a mean, knowing look that will make him
					shiver.
				In a country town, when a delicacy is sent in for a sick person, enough is sent for the
					sick person's family.
				In the old days of barbarism, the people fought with hatchets. Civilized men buried the
					hatchet, and now fight with gossip.
				
				At first a woman doesn't want anything but a husband, but just as soon as she gets one,
					she wants everything else in the world.
				Every man says occasionally: "I love my children as much as their mother loves them, for
					all the fuss she makes about it."
				"You will never make a doctor," a man said to his son who wanted to study medicine. "You
					are too sleepy-headed. The idea of YOU making night calls!"
				The people object to natural laws; they want special laws.
				How people love money, and how they abuse other people for loving it!
				If you make money, you must make it in spite of hard times and unfavorable weather. For
					times are always hard, and weather is always too wet, too dry, too cold, or too warm.
				A wife always has the consciousness that her husband is willing to flirt a little with
					other women.
				
				Nothing makes me so mad as for a man to ask me for an opinion, and then do exactly the
					contrary of what I recommend.
				It is possible to prove a good many things which are not true.
				Men have no sense of "propriety;" the women have all there is.
				The young men say poor girls are more affectionate than rich ones.
				There are all sorts of people: we have known invalids who were proud of their
					ailments.
				To avoid argument, when I know I am expected to say No, I say No, and when I know I am
					expected to say Yes, I say Yes, and hurry on. I haven't time to argue with every man who
					has a different opinion.
				Two men were talking on the street to-day, when one became violently excited. "Tut, tut,"
					said the calm man; "I don't want to fightI want to argue."
				
				There is really no reason why I shouldn't occasionally have my way, and the fact that I
					never do is what makes me mad.
				You know how your friend usually treats you: whenever a controversy comes up in which you
					are interested, he gives you the worst of it, to show the world he is a Square Man.
				A man buys an automobile, and spends most of his time thereafter advertising it. Why not
					let the newspapers advertise it?
				Nearly every lazy person has enough industry to carry on a very large correspondence;
					fool letters about nothing except, "I wrote you last," or "You owe me a letter."
				When the men of a town fight for nothing except the postoffice and the county offices,
					it's too bad.
				Never permit yourself to reach that stage where your entire happiness depends upon one
					person.
				Success does not mean happiness: it means an unusual number of industrious enemies.
				
				An Atchison young man was being twitted upon a broken engagement. "Oh," he said, "there's
					plenty of affection in me yet."
				No doubt you have heard a woman tell of the horrible things she would do if a man should
					strike her. We have often wondered what terrible things a woman would do under such
					circumstances, and to-day insisted upon an angry woman telling. After thinking awhile she
					said: "I'd HATE him all the rest of my life!"
				It's no credit to anyone to work too hard.
				We are afraid of any woman, but of a Suffragette most of all.
				A man who is telling a lie shows it as plainly in his face as a man who is bluffing in a
					poker game.
				People seem to disagree on every statement except that the cost of living is too
					high.
				Women inherit their religious creeds from their mothers, the same as men inherit the
					tobacco habit from their fathers.
				
				Altogether the funniest thing we know anything about is the woman who tells of a man who
					has been begging her to marry him for several years.
				Some people talk to you like this: "Ever see Olga Nethersole in 'Sapho'?" "No." "Well,
					that is the greatest performance in the world's history. You haven't seen real acting or a
					real play if you haven't seen Olga Nethersole in 'Sapho.' Ever see Macbeth?" "Yes." "Bum,
					wasn't it?"
				The amount of your fortune is always exaggerated, so that stories that you are stingy
					will go better.
				There is a certain type of quiet, worthy man that any woman can catch and marry if she
					takes after him.
				When you go into the country, you are just as sure to hear the fried-chicken joke as you
					are to hear the jug joke in town.
				An industrious, decent man must often wish he were an Indian, a heathen, or an outlaw, so
					that people would take an interest in him.
				
				So far as we have been able to find out, the women read the worthless stories in the
					magazines for the sole purpose of saying, on concluding them: "I could have written a
					better story myself."
				You can't know too much, but it is easy to say too much.
				We never have much interest in the dream a man had last night.
				We'd rather go out and get an armful of wood than drive a boy to do it.
				It is our notion that blooded dogs and old violins cost more than they are worth.
				Joke from a show at the opera-house: Never run after a street car or a woman; there will
					be another along in a minute.
				We wish we could go to New York, St. Louis or Chicago on business. When we go to these
					towns, it is pure loafing. We greatly envy those men who go East two or three times a year
					on business. Our business is always at home.
				
				Seven out of ten people who visit a country town, visit it with the hope of making a
					profit; seven out of ten people who visit a city, visit it to spend money.
				When a man throws a thing away, he usually throws it where it will annoy others as much
					as possible.
				I have noticed that when a man does a poor job of work for me, he can make a perfect
					explanation. Nothing I can say can convince him, in any way that he is to blame.
				For a quarter of a century we have heard a certain Atchison bachelor talked about in
					connection with matrimony. He has toyed with it, and always managed to escape. Our
					ambition is that a grass widow with at least four children will at last land him.
				Don't be crazy to do a lot of things you can't do.
				If a man can lay off at any time, the temptation to lay off too much is more than most
					men can resist.
				
				How good a yawn tastes at about 10 o'clock in the evening, just before going to bed!
				The approach of Christmas excites a storekeeper as much as the approach of an election
					excites a politician.
				There is no need for a lot of men going around preaching temperance; whisky preaches its
					own temperance lecture.
				If the present idea of "American reform" continues to prosper, the thieves will file
					charges against the sheriffs, and cause their arrest.
				As soon as a man becomes so depraved that he is willing to live by politics, he should be
					arrested, and put in some kind of a reformatory.
				Automobiles are becoming so common that they do not attract as much attention on the
					streets of Atchison as a good 18-hand mule.
				Every man who tells a stingy story on a man is trying to create the impression that he
					(the teller of the story) is a large-hearted, liberal man.
				
				Being imposed on is not the worst of it: we all take time to tell our friends about
					it.
				Whether he is right or wrong, a row with a woman will ruin a man. Rather than submit to
					it, run away.
				When the prettiest girl in Atchison was a baby, she was so ugly that her mother
					frequently talked of giving her away.
				When people sit around their firesides, in the sacred precincts of the family, they say a
					whole lot of things about you they never say to your face.
				Men probably gossip as much as women, but forget a "story" sooner than women. Women will
					talk about a "story" twenty years, whereas men will forget it in a week, and look for
					something new.
				What is the oldest joke in the world? Probably the statement of an old bachelor that he
					doesn't get married because no one will have him.
				Every man believes his business is the most monotonous.
				
				We always think you women devote too much time to shopping.
				Your stomach is in much more danger of being overworked than you are.
				The most terrible thing that can happen to a man is for a woman to break into a scream,
					and charge that he has insulted her.
				If you are imposing on a man, don't imagine he isn't noticing it. He not only notices it,
					but talks about it, and exaggerates it.
				A woman was scolding her boy because he wanted a shotgun. "Why," said the woman, with a
					great show of virtue, "I never wanted a shotgun in my life."
				Whenever a man has a little pain, he goes around saying he feels as though some one were
					sticking a knife into his vitals.
				It makes no difference how little a boy is, when his mother scolds him, she says: "You
					ought to be ashamed of yourself; a big boy like you."
				
				You can't afford to lose your temper every time you have reason.
				One great trouble with this world is the marked lack of agreeable people.
				Everyone suffers wrongs for which there is no remedy.
				A man who is a social success is seldom a business success.
				The longer a marriage is put off, the less probability that it will occur at all.
				The doctors are good fellows, but none of them can make an old man young.
				Every married woman looks as though she needed a little more love, but what she really
					needs is a little more money.
				Most people will submit to a nuisance for years without doing anything, except whining to
					those who are not to blame, and who care nothing about it.
				
				Nothing makes a man feel sillier than to shake hands with a woman who pulls her hand away
					as though she had struck a snake.
				Two Atchison friends known as Bill and Sam have quarreled, and are not speaking now.
					To-day we asked Sam: "What's the trouble?" Sam replied: "He overloaded me." Don't your
					friends overload you?
				They tell of a man who ate dinner with a chew of tobacco in his mouth.
				So many things go wrong that we are tired of becoming indignant.
				It is more impolite than unlucky to cross in front of a funeral procession.
				A man looked at the sun to-day and sneezed. He said he could look at the sun at any time
					and sneeze, which caused a man standing by to say there was nothing in it. One word led to
					another, and finally there was a fight.
				A poem is no place for an idea.
				
				The world is full of men who have things they want to sell for less than they paid for
					them.
				Nearly every man is a coward, if confronted by the proper terror.
				It runs in some families for the girls to make unfortunate marriages.
				You can't be so smart that people will be impressed if you tell about it yourself.
				When a woman is very suspicious of men, it is usually a sign she has been fooled
					before.
				The neighbors are mad at a woman about half the time because she does not beat her
					children more.
				People always say they are not themselves when tempted by anger into betraying what they
					really are.
				When people hear of a violent kin quarrel, they look as though they never did anything of
					the kind themselves.
				
				It is said of an Atchison man, he is as cross all the time as a decent man is when he has
					a cold.
				Perfection is not expected in anything else, but somehow farmers always expect perfect
					corn.
				A young mother in Atchison has a baby boy a year and a half old. "I hate this baby's
					wife, already," she says.
				Many worthy people have poor taste.
				Don't be fanatical; it's a form of insanity.
				Before Americans reform China, they should get over the Town Row habit themselves.
				"He is not particularly well liked," we heard a citizen say to-day. None of us are.
				"She looks," we heard a woman say to-day, "as though she had been buried, and dug
					up."
				We often say, "They can't fool me." But they often do.
				
				It is almost worth becoming the under dog, to get the sympathy.
				Within a couple of months after you start a law suit, it doesn't look so favorable.
				Occasionally we meet a woman with such a funny "figure" that we burst out laughing.
				If a man will reduce the number of his faults, he will find he is also reducing his
					expenses.
				You are always hearing of the attractiveness of widows. Know why widows are so
					attractive? Life insurance.
				There is a certain girl singer in Atchison who is pretty good, and it hurts her feelings
					if you praise Melba in her presence.
				Hundreds of people are ignorant because they are so prejudiced they will not acquire
					information. Are you that way? Look yourself over.
				Every time we see a man on the street carrying a guitar, we want to kick a hole through
					it.
				
				We are becoming old, but we still give three cheers every morning because we are not
					compelled to go to school. We are not so old that we have forgotten how we hated it.
				The greatest talking machine in Atchison is not a Victor or Edison: his name is
					Henry.
				Talk about some men being poor at relating an anecdote: did you ever hear a woman
					try?
				Man is very ungrateful: he will forget the good time he had a month ago, and say he never
					had one in his life.
				When a man starts out by saying, "If I do say it myself," you can depend on it that he is
					going to praise himself.
				When you pick up a certain type of newspaper, it makes you think of an old woman who is
					scolding about something every time you go into the house.
				I was very ambitious when I was young; but all I try to do now is to get through the
					day.
				
				When you shake hands with a little man, he nearly always gives you a very hard grip, to
					show you that while he is small, he has great physical strength.
				You often hear men say, "I'll guarantee it," but the guarantee of only one man in a
					hundred is good.
				Wives frequently talk of the gilded cages in which they live, but we notice that they
					look frequently at the cuttle-bone and bird-seed with which their cages are provided,
					before leaving them.
				Bill Barkley is in St. Louis. He had saved up fifty dollars, and it burned his pocket
					until he was compelled to go off and spend it.
				Nothing makes Atchison people quite so mad as for New York or Chicago people to visit the
					town, and feel sorry for them.
				Doc Robinson, horse doctor, Bohemian and town drunkard, has two qualifications for
					president of the United States: he is American-born, and old enough.
				
				Farmers worry only during the growing season, but town people worry all the year
					'round.
				Another Atchison girl is trying to make a man marry her by crying to the neighbors. That
					has been tried here before, and it won't work.
				An Atchison young man who lost three positions by getting down to work late, made the
					record when at school of never being absent or tardy for six years.
				"It's easy to make a living," said a woman who had never earned a cent in her life. "Why,
					the newspapers are full of advertisements offering agents $100 a month!"
				Country husbands are better trained than town husbands. Ever see a town husband carry a
					baby on the street?
				"I have a good deal of sympathy for him," said a farmer to-day, speaking of a neighbor;
					"I believe his folks break kindling over his head." (Note: Old-fashioned way of saying a
					man's folks impose on him.)
				
				If you are on confidential terms with almost any family, you discover they are terribly
					hard up.
				Make the statement in the presence of women that a woman ever chased a man, and you have
					a row on your hands at once.
				Let the heathen go to hell: help your neighbor.
				As a rule, four or five weeks after a bride comes to town, her kin begin to drop in.
				The trouble a fool can make is surprising. He will decide that a certain fool thing
					should be done, and bore half the people in town to "do their share."
				After a man has said "grace" at a meal, some time is required for those around the table
					to become comfortable again.
				There is such a thing as showing injustice in clamoring for justice.
				If the fools do not control the world, it isn't because they are not in the majority.
				
				Doc Robinson, the horse doctor, puts up as big a line of talk as the other doctors.
				As soon as it is apparent that a young man is in society for the ice-cream there is in
					it, he should be turned out. The object of society is to marry young people off, and they
					should pay attention to it, or stay out.
				We become so tired of the controversies that go on.
				There is always plenty of business, if you are smart enough to get it.
				We wish we were a woman: a woman can improve her looks so much.
				The school teachers hate the children, and the children hate the school teachers.
				We have always imagined that we would as soon keep a cow in the house as a parrot.
				The admirers of a new Atchison doctor say that he can raise the dead.
				
				There is more evil thinking than evil doing; everybody watches everybody else, and not
					much is found out.
				Maybe one girl in fifty has two men to choose between, but we don't believe the girl ever
					lived who had her pick of three.
				In every country neighborhood there is always a man who is always after the school
					teacher, and trying to have him removed.
				We dread to approach a certain Atchison business man, he is so cross. It is time for that
					man to retire. Every cross man is a sick man.
				We suppose we are queer, but we never cared much for oysters. It seems to us that before
					being fit to eat, an oyster should be "drawn," as they say of a dressed chicken.
				A man will do more for his stubbornness than for his religion or his country.
				There are so many patent medicines now that unless a man breaks his leg, he doctors
					himself.
				
				After nearly every marriage, it is said: "There is already talk of a breach of promise
					suit."
				On circus day, a boy likes to hear that one of the eight-horse wagons became stalled, and
					that an elephant pushed it out with his head.
				The dishonest man is apt to find the people a rather suspicious lot.
				How a little girl loves to say to a little boy, "Oh, you are going to catch it!"
				"I'll tell you the worst thing I ever did," we heard a man say in company the other day.
					We'll bet the thing he told wasn't the worst thing he ever did.
				At the home of an Atchison couple, a cat and a dog were lying close together, sound
					asleep in the sun. "That cat and dog don't quarrel," said the wife; "why do we?" "Tie them
					together, and see what will happen," replied the husband.
				When you are very busy, don't waste valuable time telling how busy you are.
				
				How dull a story sounds after you have heard it! Your actions are that tiresome to those
					who have known you a long time.
				No doubt you think there is a lot of complaining in the community in which you live. No
					more complaining in your community than in others, probably.
				The more worthless a man becomes, the more grievances he has.
				After a man has loafed four or five years, he concludes he is entitled to an office.
				A lecture is not the worst thing in the world, but it is next to a "reading" by an
					elecutionist.
				When there is a death in the house there is always a great search for the family Bible to
					be used at the funeral.
				Give a little boy nickels, and he will hang around you ever afterwards for other nickels.
					Same way with grown people, although they may not show their greed as plainly as the
					little boy.
				
				The fact that two men do not agree should not attract any more attention than an
					additional drop of water in the river.
				Every town has its men who take pleasure in running after other men's hats when they blow
					off.
				We have an idea the women pay a good deal of attention to the hats worn by milliners.
				Ask any book agent who sent him to you, and you will find it was one of your friends.
				When a friend is in trouble, don't annoy him by asking if there is anything you can do;
					think up something appropriate, and do it.
				With all its meanness and dirt, we rather like Chicago.
				We shouldn't care to have the reputation of saying meaner things than any other living
					man.
				When you are bothered a good deal by bores, do you hunt up agreeable men, and bore them
					by complaining?
				
				A man can't half work, and half play; he must either be a hard worker and a success, or a
					poor worker and a failure.
				We'd hate to invite a real Chicago man to our house; our things would look so common to
					him that he would probably kick them to pieces.
				In summer, a man with an automobile can make us feel envious, but in winter a man with a
					sleigh cannot, however many bells he may have.
				We don't care much for the cute sayings of the dear little children about Santa Claus. We
					are not only old, but we're rough, and have a hard heart.
				Time flies so fast here lately that when I go to bed at night, I sometimes think I might
					as well remain there until I die of old age; it won't be long.
				Every man we ever knew had ambition, but only a few had application with it.
				When you have seen one celebration, or one circus, you have seen them all.
				
				What has become of the old-fashioned farmer who caught the woman school teacher who
					boarded at his house, and washed her face in the snow?
				If you have no reason to expect a letter with money in it, hope will do you no good.
				We have noticed that in every conversation there is something about "finding people
					out."
				Seven-tenths of the younger men are usually so much in love that they can't do their best
					in other respects.
				A music teacher who can't play, but who claims to be able to teach, always reminds us of
					a lot of other people.
				Press notices are as easy to obtain as letters of recommendation.
				The next time you hear a sensational story "on" a man (or a woman), pick it to pieces,
					and see if it does not look unreasonable. Most sensational stories are untrue, and people
					might satisfy themselves of it by looking the stories over.
				
				Don't be a fool. It is terribly disagreeable being a fool. We know; we have tried it.
				When you were a boy, did you have any financial dealings with your father? If you did,
					they were conducted on this plan: Your father gave you a calf. When you had taken care of
					it for some time, and it became a cow, he sold it, and put the money in his pocket. Almost
					every boy has a grievance of this kind against his father.
				Every man knows better than he hopes.
				People either have too much or not enough to do.
				Everyone can stand a little more than he thinks he can.
				When a man is convicted of foolish conduct, he nearly always says that the people are not
					liberal enough.
				No wonder people love little girls: when there are annoying children in the neighborhood,
					the annoying children are BOYS.
				
				As soon as a man acquires fairly good sense, it is said he is an old fogy.
				A little of the flattery you throw at a man, may fall off, but most of it will stick.
				The greatest outrage in town, is probably located in your neighborhood.
				If a man dies and leaves his estate in an uncertain condition, the lawyers become his
					heirs.
				The women in the country have too much to do; the women in town haven't enough to do for
					their own good.
				As a rule, people are good enough except in the little things of life. So many of them
					lack the ability to be agreeable; so many of them are bores, and have foolish notions that
					an hour's study might rid them of. So few people realize the importance of politeness and
					of a little common-sense.
				There are many pitiful sights in the world. One of the most pitiful is to see a
					distressed mother carry her sick baby to the doctor.
				
				Every time a boy shows his hands, some one suggests that he wash them.
				We would like to bet that the woman who is lecturing on "Is Man an Angel?" will decide he
					is not.
				A man will boast that his father was poor, and his mother was good, but we never saw one
					yet who was not ashamed to admit that his mother was an equal-suffragist.
				Nothing makes us so mad as to pass a grocery store, see a coop of young chickens out in
					front, and note that they are all roosters. But yesterday we had a chance to be really
					indignant. We visited a big poultry house, and out of the fourteen hundred chickens in the
					milk-fed department NINETY PER CENT WERE ROOSTERS! Isn't life as sweet to a rooster as to
					a pullet?
				We never knew a person who wasn't saturated with some fool notion.
				When a woman drives a horse, she is always whipping it with the lines.
				
				A conceited young man will probably get over it in time: experience takes it out of him.
					But there isn't much hope for the conceited old man.
				People never lose an opportunity to take a smash at their neighbors. When there is a
					robbery they say: "In my opinion, the robber doesn't live very far away."
				The older a man grows, the more convinced he becomes he will have to be his own best
					friend.
				When anyone feels good, it is not because he has had good luck, or taken medicine, but
					because he is young.
				The more worthless a man is when he leaves a town, the greater the probability that he
					will come back.
				A citizen who believes that a certain thing should be done called at The Globe office
					to-day, and said: "You can scold the people into doing it." But we do not wish to become a
					common scold. People are becoming tired of having others tell them what they should
					do.
				
				There are so many worthless men in the world that a man who behaves himself half the time
					is tolerably sure to become distinguished.
				Don't take up a man's time talking about the smartness of your children: he wants to talk
					to you about the smartness of his children.
				When a man dies, it is customary to say he left a vacancy that will be hard to fill.
					There isn't any vacancy left: if you take a cup of water out of the river, it leaves no
					vacancy.
				An old man suffering with paralysis was advised to use electricity. "You can't cheat time
					with electricity, or with anything else," he said. "Nothing will make a man of 70 feel
					like a man of 40."
				What length of time does "spend the evening" stand for? One hour, two hours, three, or
					four? Who knows? As a general proposition you should always get out of a house where you
					are making a call before 10 o'clock.
				You can make up a quarrel, but it will always show where it was patched.
				
				There is a famous good boy in Atchison. It is said that when his mother tells him to
					carry in wood, he carries in so much as to fill the kitchen, and his mother is compelled
					to order him to carry some of it out.
				In every crowd of boys there is one boy who cries every time anyone points a finger at
					him. And of course he is always annoyed. Anyoneman or boywho is easily
					annoyed may expect a good deal of it.
				When a man invents anything, all his friends assist in setting him crazy by saying it
					will certainly be a big thing, and will make him rich, although they know nothing about
					it.
				If a man abuses an enemy, he hurts himself, and if he praises him, his friends say he is
					a hypocrite. There seems to be no course more creditable than the simple course of keeping
					still.
				It is easier to do your duty than it is to worry over neglect of it. Fifteen minutes work
					will fix the fence where the pig gets in. But if the break is neglected the pig will worry
					you every hour of the night and day.
				
				When a boy goes to school wearing a new pair of shoes, all the other boys spit on
					them.
				A man's family often regard him as a stingy man who must be worked into every
					expenditure, although that which is regarded as stinginess may only be an effort to live
					within his means.
				One wise man states a proposition. Another wise man says the proposition is foolish. What
					is the truth? Half the time we don't know whether we are right or wrong, although all the
					time trying to do right.
				A man and wife have no sooner reared children of their own than they have to begin over
					again with their grandchildren. Old age, that should be free from cares, has more cares
					than any other time of life. There are at least fifty women in Atchison who make
					nursemaids of their mothers.
				Atchison reporters have two rules: When a bachelor goes into a barber shop, and orders a
					shampoo, they suspect he is about to get married; and when a woman orders extra cream of
					the milkman, they expect a party.
				
				Except the flood, nothing was ever as bad as reported.
				When you file complaint against an automobile-owner for running too fast, be sure you
					have four or more witnesses with you: the automobile-owner will have at least three with
					him, and they will all swear that they were running at lawful speed.
				Give a boy a piece of chalk, and leave him alone with his conscience in front of a fence,
					and he will not write, "Praise the Lord." On the contrary, he will write something that
					the first man who comes along will rub out.
				When a man is notoriously bad, people have a great deal of charity for him, and say,
					"Give the devil his due; he is not as bad as painted." But when a man is reliable, they
					say he is overrated, and good at hiding his tracks.
				A woman never loafs; she shops, entertains, and visits.
				People never have as good a time on a "big day" as they expect.
				
				"She is the kind of a woman," said an Atchison woman to-day, in speaking of another, "who
					never fills a lamp until she is ready to use it."
				Always remember that your neighbors watch you closely, and that your neighbors are very
					particular.
				An Atchison rabbit lately hit a man, while greatly excited, and made his nose bleed. Then
					he hurried up home, got his wife and three children, and brought them down-town to show
					them the blood on the sidewalk.
				Nearly every financial disaster results from trying to make money fast.
				People are never very reliable when they tell how sick they were, or how a pain hurt.
				A girl's idea of modesty is to let loose quick when she shakes hands with a strange
					man.
				Some women cook for men as though only women lived in the house, and then expect the men
					to be satisfied.
				
				Every three years, a new play appears, based on a little, meek husband, and a big, bossy
					wife.
				One of the funniest things we know of is the manner in which a young man drops out of the
					social world when he marries.
				This actually happened to-day: I asked a man, "How do you spell your name?" "I'm no
					scholar," the man replied; "I don't know."
				When a wife dies the husband nearly always says, "Well, I was a great trial to her. I
					might have done much better; I would do better if I had my life to live over." But when a
					husband dies, the widow nearly always says, "Well, I did my duty."
				An Atchison man belongs to so many different benevolent societies that he is
					destitute.
				An Atchison campaigner says that when a man in the audience asks him a hard question, he
					replies: "I thank you for reminding me; I am coming to that presently." And then the
					speaker forgets about it, and doesn't answer the question.
				
				So many things which are easy to recommend, are hard to do.
				A good many brickbats are thrown at Society by those who can't get in.
				When men are not regretting that life is so short, they are doing something to kill
					time.
				Of course there is no such thing as true love, but there is an imitation that is very
					pleasant.
				When a man buys a new hat, he wants one just like the one he had before. But a woman
					isn't that way.
				When a woman gives a party, she figures on twenty-two guests to the gallon.
				It makes a banker as mad to go behind his counter as it does a grocer to take an
					apple.
				Parents are very much afraid of anything happening at school to take the minds of their
					children off their studies. They were never on.
				
				Some men, not being satisfied with their naturally ugly faces, insist upon whistling upon
					the street.
				People don't care so much for the defense as for the prosecution. "Guilty" is the popular
					verdict.
				A really dangerous man generally tries to avoid trouble.
				A great many victims of laziness are always posing as victims of hard times.
				At some time in the life of every man he tries poetry and the chicken business.
				When a man takes off his socks, you can usually see a scar on his toe where he cut it as
					a boy.
				When the weather is bright, and the women are on the streets, a polite man does nothing
					but take off his hat, and bow, and tie horses to telephone poles.
				Did it ever occur to you that there is a good deal of fun in being shocked?
				
				When a man asks your advice, he usually tells you just how he expects you to decide.
				I lately saw a long list of things people shouldn't do. I do every one of them.
				A woman should not have been engaged any oftener than she has been married, and she
					should not have been married more than once.
				In your family album, you probably have a picture of an uncle who was a soldier during
					the Rebellion, and who had his picture taken in soldier clothes, with his revolver in his
					hand.
				A girl wearing a new hat met a gentleman friend on the street yesterday. "How do you like
					my new hat?" she asked. The man looked at the hat a moment, and inquired: "You can't trade
					back?" "No," the girl replied. "Well," the man said, "then I like it."
				It is said that by adroit manangement, a woman at an afternoon reception can find herself
					in the crowd going out to the dining-room at least six times.
				
				It is a rare man who will not abuse his partner or employer.
				A man is scared a hundred times for every time he is hurt.
				A boy is like a hound pup in one particular: he never gets enough to eat.
				Human nature never changes; if a man promises to do better than men have done in the
					past, do not believe him.
				A man who has no poor kin thinks it would be a pleasure to help them.
				No man ever loved a woman after quarreling with her.
				We have noticed that most jokes told by men either relate the experiences of an Irishman,
					or of a couple lately married.
				An Atchison man is so worthless that, instead of putting off until to-morrow what he
					should do to-day, he puts it off until Monday.
				
				An old man, poor and deserted, is a pretty fair case of realism.
				Awfully worthless people often make a lot of costs in court.
				What has become of the old-fashioned little boy who ate so much it made him poor to carry
					it?
				There is a great laugh in other towns because Atchison religious converts are baptized in
					Brewery creek. There is a creek south of town called Whisky creek, which would make the
					joke still more humorous.
				The real dread of men is not the devil, but old age.
				There are few grave legal questions involved in a poor estate.
				No one can teach school a long time without becoming bossy.
				The lion and the lamb lie down together about as often as dentists pull teeth without
					pain.
				
				The average girl brought up in a religious family has the same fierce desire to become a
					missionary that a boy has to go out West and fight Indians.
				An Atchison woman, the mother of a boy named William, often talks in her sleep, and says:
					"William, don't do that!"
				"In our family," said a woman to-day, "the children were never whipped. Poor papa got all
					the punishment."
				An heiress is about to visit Atchison. The young men should remember that what the town
					needs now worse than anything else is outside capital.
				There is a lot of amusement in town over the manner in which a lot of smart people were
					lately "worked." A little man came to Atchison from Chicago, and, although it was known
					that he was a schemer, it was not supposed that such an insignificant-looking little man
					could do much harm. But he didn't do a thing but work up a crowd of about the smartest
					people in town, and charge them $5.50 each for the privilege of catching driftwood in the
					Missouri river NEXT SPRING! Not now, mind you, but next spring!
				
				Women never eat much, and, when there are no men around to cook for, they don't eat at
					all.
				An Atchison retail grocer who has been selling cigars for twenty years, smoked a really
					good cigar lately, and it made him sick.
				Impolite people are a great burden to the community in which they live. They cause more
					trouble than burglars. Look yourself over. Are you impolite? If you are, you are
					interfering with your prospects of success. If you are impolite, remember that people rip
					it to you behind your back.
				After a man and wife have quarreled a good many years, they pay no attention to the truth
					in telling their "side of the story."
				An Atchison man is so contrary that cheese physics him.
				Most men waste too much time on schemes that won't work.
				Boys say that any girl who wants fireworks, is a Tomboy.
				
				There is no such thing as a convincing argument, although every man thinks he has
					one.
				We confess that we like to see a farmer come to town with two mule colts following his
					team.
				How rarely you find your favorite barber idle!
				The eternal feminine question: "How much is it a yard?"
				How honest are the people? How much do they exaggerate when they tell "their side" of a
					story? How much advantage are they willing to take, when they are in control? How much
					gossip are they willing to retail, knowing it to be untrue? Look yourself over; are you
					tolerably careless in morals?
				A woman ought to be pretty, to console her for being a woman at all.
				Much of that which is called "pure devilment," is pure human nature.
				Nature is always stronger than culture.
				
				We have noticed that if you think before you speak, the other fellow gets in his joke
					first.
				We would like to know someone who can play a guitar. We have known a few people who can
					play pianos, violins, and the like, but we never knew anyone who could play a guitar,
					although we never knew anyone who was not willing to try.
				When a woman goes to the depot to meet a visitor for whom she doesn't care much, how
					mechanically they kiss when they meet!
				Nearly every man accepts this fiction: "Everybody knows me."
				A woman rarely gets along with the driver of a milk-wagon longer than three months.
				When a man gets the idea into his head that he is the only honest man in the world, he
					soon becomes a great nuisance.
				When there is a popular visitor at the house, there is a great fuss among the children as
					to which shall "sit by her" at the table.
				
				It is not surprising that there is some "talk" about you; haven't you heard something
					"on" everyone in town? You are no exception to the general rule.
				Occasionally a man finds his wife looking in a certain Queer Way, and when he asks, "What
					is the matter?" she looks at him a moment, bursts into tears, and replies "Nothing."
				In reading war stories, we have noticed this: There will be a perfect hail of bullets:
					shot and shell turn the position into a perfect hell. After the charge, the account will
					state that one man was wounded.
				We never could get up much enthusiasm over the militia.
				A man never receives as many letters as he thinks he should.
				A pretty man always believes he is entitled to extra privileges, and is mad half the time
					because he doesn't get them. For it is always the case that the ugly men get everything
					away from the pretty men.
				
				People buy too many things they could do without.
				Every favorite should remember that a rival is liable to appear at any time.
				Of late, when a man does anything in which there is no sense, he says he was
					hypnotized.
				Smoking a pipe is a great comfort to a man, no doubt; but how it makes him smell!
				Is there a tradition that a barn must always be painted red? Ever see a barn painted any
					other color?
				There are a number of disagreeable things to step in. But did you ever have experience
					with chewing-gum? We also hate to step on a cat.
				If you are going anywhere, and have anything to do when you get there, hurry along; don't
					waste so much time on the way.
				How we poor people like to find fault with the rich!
				
				Some men are too active; they stir up unnecessary trouble.
				Some people take delight in pouring ice-water on enthusiasm.
				As a rule, the possession of money means industry, saving, and old age.
				To town people, it seems easy for farmers to keep country roads in good condition.
				A man who has owned a piano a good many years is amused at the man who is buying one.
				We have noticed that scrawny women are very discreet in the matter of cutting their
					dresses low in front.
				The trouble in the world is nearly all due to the fact that one-half of the people are
					men, and the other half women.
				Only one person in twenty has the gift of being a satisfactory guest; the remaining
					nineteen should remain at home.
				
				The women look for a certain portion of their reward in heaven, but the men want theirs
					now.
				Do a creditable thing, and nobody cares much. But if there is a "joke" on you, everybody
					will become interested at once.
				In the early days, it was the rule not to interfere in a fight. The weaker man had ample
					protection, it was argued, by saying "Enough."
				We often think of a remark made by Alois Philipp, an Atchison band-teacher. When Mr.
					Philipp turns out with a band, all his players are amateurs, except that he occasionally
					hires a clarinet-player from Kansas City. Last fall, at Forest Park, he was listening to a
					concert given by the Banda Rosa, a professional band of sixty men, and possibly the best
					band ever heard in the United States. At the conclusion of a magnificent selection, an
					Atchison man stepped up to Mr. Philipp, and said: "They can talk all they please about
					these big Italian bands, but I like your band better." Mr. Philipp replied: "Heaven knows
					I am conceited, but that is spreading it on too thick." (Note: Can they spread it on too
					thick to suit you?)
				
				Every time a country band goes out to play an engagement, some member is unable to find
					his cap, and wears a straw hat.
				Years ago there lived in Atchison a troublesome citizen. The mayor complained to the
					chief of police. "There is only one thing to do with this man," said the chief of police,
					"and that is to kill him." The mayor hated to order that done, and the man continued to do
					as he pleased.
				At a wedding, the men look so cross, and the women so happy.
				When children have to wait at dinner, they will hate the guests.
				The man who won't work is always willing to make room for the man who will.
				A long time ago, a little good poetry was written. Ever since, people have been bothered
					to death with poor imitations.
				An Atchison woman recently said: "No one will believe I am forty." O, yes, they will.
				
				Sometimes a woman who is wronged punishes the man who has wronged her to such an extent
					that he becomes the injured party.
				Four Atchison sisters have worn the same dress to be married in. This is the right way to
					treat a father.
				An Atchison man claims that he can tell the minute he hears a woman's voice whether she
					wants to vote or not.
				The longer we live the more we admire polite, modest, agreeable people, and the less we
					worship those who have become great by accident, and are impudent as a result.
				A certain Atchison married man is young, good-looking and smart. Yet he is attentive to
					his wife. A very unusual case. Usually, when a married man is young, good-looking and
					smart, he neglects his wife.
				An Atchison man who was told he should not say "widow woman" as it is improper, now says
					"widow lady."
				
				Most people are always expecting something important to happen. As a reporter, we have
					noticed that nine people out of ten, when asked for an item, say: "Nothing new, as
					yet."
				We heard an old gentleman say lately: "When I was young, I worked very hard, and didn't
					take any care of myself. And now look at me!" And he did look pretty tough, being bald,
					and toothless, and sick. But exposure during his youth never hurt him; hard work, when
					young, never hurt him. Nothing the matter with that man except his age.
				A certain Atchison doctor leaped into instant popularity. People wondered and wondered,
					and finally they found out: he tells women patients that the smell of cooking makes them
					ill; that they should keep out of the kitchen, and out of the dining-room except at
					meal-times.
				Who will chop the wood in future for all the lawyers and physicians? Who will wash the
					dishes for all the girls who play the piano, and paint?
				For every nice old man, there are two or three nice old women.
				
				Nearly all the women make the same mistake, when men find fault with them, or make
					suggestions: they say the men don't know anything about it, and pay no attention.
				There are men who can never learn except when taught by a policeman.
				One of the greatest outrages in the world is for a well-behaved, worthy woman to be
					"talked about" by vicious, untruthful men.
				If you know what you are going after, and go after it boldly, people will get out of your
					way. But if you are timid, everybody will show a disposition to trip you.
				The liberty of the press is most generally approved when it takes liberties with the
					other fellow, and leaves us alone.
				The little mean tricks cause more trouble in the world than the big ones.
				A man will promise any favor that is not to be granted until next year.
				
				An Atchison man of sixty, who has tried to distinguish himself in every way he could
					think of, finds at the close of his life that he has nothing to be proud of except a good
					well.
				It is a rare man who can do a favor delicately.
				The more husbands a woman has had, the less fuss she makes about packing up and leaving
					one of them.
				Abusing the prosperous in order to curry the favor of the envious, is an old game that
					still works better than it should.
				Some young men in the country never regard circus day as successful unless they have a
					fight with a circus man.
				When an agent walks into your office, you may safely depend on this: His purpose is to
					benefit himself; he doesn't care anything about your interests.
				Love is a game in which both players always cheat.
				
				Another man to-day fully made up his mind to have a fight, but at last accounts his
					friends were successfully holding him.
				It is not a very pleasant thought for the men, but widows seem to jog along pretty
					comfortably; no widow looks as though she had spoiled her complexion by crying all
					night.
				If another man gets a higher salary than you receive, it is probably because he is worth
					more. Employers do not pick men out to pay good wages to because they have curly hair.
				Believe that you are good, and that everyone else is bad; that is the modern way.
				People do not dread death so much, but while they live, they would like to be young.
				People don't pay much attention to what I say. How do they treat you?
				As soon as a man is particularly good at a thing, people begin to pick at him, and say
					hundreds of men are better.
				
				We heard a man say to-day: "I have lots of friends." We don't feel that way about it. How
					do you feel?
				An old man has one comfort: he is old enough to know that there is no fun in a "party,"
					and refuses to go.
				A decent, industrious man is as sure to get along as a loafer and drunkard is sure to go
					to the devil.
				"Who will take care of the babies, when the women get their rights?" someone asks. There
					won't be any babies.
				When a bachelor is rather aged, people say of him: "It's my opinion that he's a widower.
					Look him up, and you'll find he has a lot of children somewhere."
				Of course no sensible man is ashamed of his age, but he regards it as he does his bank
					account; nobody's business but his own.
				Automobiles are like people: the cheap ones are noisy.
				
				A farmer who has tried for years to catch wolves, without success, said to-day: "I
					sometimes think the wolves kill enough rabbits to offset the harm they do."
				We know an Atchison girl so tanned, sunburned and freckled that we cannot resist the
					conclusion that she has been in swimming.
				A marriage will take place in Atchison shortly. One-half the people are working to save
					the woman, and the other half are working to save the man.
				A certain South Atchison girl is not versed in music, painting or literature, but when
					she milks the cow, she can throw two streams into a bucket all right enough.
				Not even a woman ever liked all her kin.
				The only excuse for a man school teacher is that he whips harder than a woman.
				When the men quit tipping their hats to a woman, it is a sign they "know" something on
					her.
				
				After a man is fifty years old he knows so many people that speaking to them all becomes
					hard work.
				A woman hasn't thoroughly learned the art of shopping if she can't make the rounds
					down-town without spending a cent.
				The great trouble is, people expect to be happy, and are mad because they are not. People
					have no reason to expect to be happy.
				When a man tells how he was whipped as a boy, the women are usually sympathetic, but the
					men say: "I'll bet you deserved it."
				The great demand is for wives without kin. A man does hate to marry a woman, and then
					have two or three other members of her family thrown in.
				There should be more written contracts, and fewer "understandings." Half the quarrels
					between men originate because they do not understand agreements alike. Written contracts
					would avoid all this.
				
				We have always found it a pretty good rule to avoid an "intellectual treat."
				People are usually willing to do their duty, but they do not like to do too much of
					it.
				Not every man who is unmarried, is looking for a wife. The girls should get this notion
					out of their heads.
				It is about as much trouble to get a girl ready to go away to school as it is to get her
					ready to be married.
				Everyone feels privileged to steal an apple from a farmer's wagon.
				Most people eat as though they were fattening themselves for market.
				Nearly every man says of his dog: "His father cost a thousand dollars."
				What has become of the old-fashioned man who puzzled his brain with trying to discover
					the "cost mark" of the storekeeper he traded with?
				
				One of the surprising things of this world is the respect a worthless man has for
					himself.
				In the average family quarrel, there are not devils on one side, and angels on the
					other.
				There is a sweetness in a woman's smile at a dry-goods store that her husband never
					sees.
				We never see a married woman without wanting to ask her what she is looking so cross
					about.
				People are not so dishonest as is claimed: half the horses advertised as stolen, have
					only strayed away.
				Sleighing is not what it is cracked up to be. The horse has a habit of occasionally
					throwing at those in the sleigh with lumps from his feet.
				There is a great howl from shocked people if a mother, in nursing her baby, displays any
					part of her person. Indeed, public sentiment is such that she has to turn her face to the
					wall when performing such duties. Yet in pictures, and on the stage, the greater the
					display, the greater the applause.
				
				We suppose there never was a married woman who did not say to someone, at some time, that
					if it wasn't for the children, she would leave him.
				A lot of big-mouthed men are always telling you that you should do a number of things
					that you should not do. Use your own judgment; probably it is as good as the judgment of
					the big-mouthed men, who are working for a Following.
				You complain about little things. But you will have something worth complaining about
					some day; when you are old, and neglected, and sick, and can't get well.
				A girl should be given an allowance every week, if it is not more than fifty cents. It
					will teach her how to handle the great sums intrusted to her care when she marries.
				We shall always think that it looks shiftless to see a man drinking tea.
				When you lose a hundred dollars, your friend says he is sorry, but it is impossible for
					him to be as sorry as you are.
				
				If a woman can't fool a man, it means either she is very much in love with him, or that
					she is particularly stupid.
				Every man believes that he lives in the best neighborhood in the world, which would
					indicate that the people are pretty decent everywhere.
				There is a good deal of cheap wit about hugging girls in a waltz: as a matter of fact,
					when a man hugs a woman, he does not do it in a crowd.
				A man who does a really charitable act should be as modest about it as though he were
					receiving charity.
				Inquiry will develop the fact that, when a man can be hypnotized to do a thing, he wanted
					to do it anyway.
				When some women "entertain," they work so hard that you can't enjoy yourself for being
					sorry for them.
				The proudest man we ever knew had nothing to be proud of but his whiskers, and they were
					red.
				
				When a woman returns from a party, she says the refreshments were "splendid," but the
					next day she will begin to pick at them.
				"No woman," said a late novel, "should marry a man who cannot help her reach the
					heights." How the women love that sort of thing!
				Don't touch a piano unless you can play.
				Discount your expectations at least 80 per cent.
				No man is as wicked in his acts as he is in his thoughts.
				What good luck burglars and wolves have! And what tough luck honest people and quail
					have!
				As an evidence against society, we have noticed that when a man goes to a party, he
					swears that he will never go again.
				No man has a right to spend money on beer, and then claim that times are so hard that he
					cannot pay his grocery and meat bills.
				
				Raising children is like making biscuits: it is as easy to raise a big batch as one,
					while you have your hands in the dough.
				When a man steals money from another man, he absconds, but when money is stolen from the
					people, he doesn't have to run off.
				Don't cram your opinions down the throats of other people; some of the opinions which
					seem important to you are very objectionable to others.
				The more we hear of the "new" woman, the more we admire the old-fashioned kind.
				A stingy man should be grateful that other people are not as stingy as he is; otherwise
					he wouldn't do so well.
				A woman should either not play the game of love, or pay her losses as cheerfully as she
					pockets her gains.
				If you own a Jersey cow, and it has a heifer calf, that's a sign that you are lucky. Most
					Jersey calves are gents.
				
				Men are always shocked when a woman who has been deceived by a man, insists on marrying
					him.
				As soon as a man outgrows a foolish notion, and drops it, a younger man adopts it and
					picks it up.
				Nuisances never abate themselves.
				Never take anyone's word when you can get a contract.
				Preachers are so popular among women that it is a wonder they don't marry into richer
					families.
				Offer to feed an English sparrow, and it won't eat; it is so accustomed to stealing its
					living that it is suspicious of kindness. The English sparrow is like a wolf: a wolf would
					run from kindness. But how well the wolves and English sparrows get along as thieves!
				Most of the opinions you hear are wails. Very few people are sincere. When a man talks,
					he is usually representing his prejudice, or his individual troubles. Very few people
					condemn a thing because it is wrong, or praise it because it is right.
				
				So far as is known, there is never an epidemic that carries off wolves, foxes, English
					sparrows, and other pests.
				You often hear that this is a free country, and that a man is at liberty to express his
					opinion. It is not true.
				It greatly surprises young people to learn that anyone hates them. It is an equal
					surprise to the old to be told that someone likes them.
				Abuse a man unjustly, and you will make friends for him.
				It is easy to invent a scheme, but difficult to make it work.
				If a man hires a servant girl, he doesn't think his wife has anything to do.
				If you will keep quiet yourself, you can profit by other people talking too much.
				Every time you become confidential with some people, you hear of a new kind of dirty
					trick.
				
				When a man visits an office, he usually talks in a loud voice. Probably he argues to
					himself: "I can't talk to all, but if I pitch my voice high, all may hear and enjoy my
					jokes."
				We have heard of such a man, but we never actually knew a man who had married a woman
					with money. If such a man should be exhibited in a dime museum, we should cheerfully pay
					to see him.
				Occasionally you hear a man say: "I intend to do right, no difference what people say."
					As though people are in the habit of finding fault when a man does right! People always
					approve when a man does right.
				If you want to make a man very angry, get some one to pray for him.
				Plenty of people can stand adversity, but only a few can stand prosperity.
				We have noticed that statements to the effect that work is always better than idleness,
					usually refer to men only.
				
				We never knew a circus to divide, but we never heard of a circus that was not charged
					with it.
				Even the wives of the best husbands in the world are eager for an opportunity to earn a
					little money for themselves.
				There is a saying that it is impossible to please everybody. It should be changed; it is
					really impossible to please anybody.
				When you hear that a man has erected an enormous building in a big town, you are apt to
					think: "How much money men make in a big town!" But did you ever look up the mortgages on
					these big buildings?
				An Atchison man who has a sweetheart was telling her what a Fierce Desire he is compelled
					to overcome. His sweetheart was very curious, and finally induced him to confide in her.
					This is what it turned out to be: A fierce struggle to keep from eating too much.
				When you have a headache, you usually know where you got it.
				
				People find fault with me about all sorts of things. While I was being shaved this
					morning, the barber growled to me because my brother Bruce is hard to shave.
				Don't abuse your friends, and expect them to consider it criticism.
				As a man grows leaner because of age, his wife grows fatter.
				A man seldom knows what is coming to him until it is right on him.
				You can't say anything complimentary to a woman that will surprise her.
				Some men are so conceited that when they whistle, they think they are making music equal
					to a brass band.
				If grandchildren annoy a grandmother, she is careful not to let anyone know it. A
					grandfather isn't so particular.
				As a rule, when a story is funny, it isn't true.
				
				A man who hopes a great deal, will not work.
				The ordinance requiring men to shine their shoes at least once a day, is meeting with
					some opposition, but it is right. Too many men are careless in their personal appearance,
					although they have plenty of time to go fishing, and plenty of time to discuss the tariff
					question.
				There is nothing quite so tiresome as the Overworked Martyr.
				The trusts do not cause you as much trouble as your own extravagance.
				The new preacher has arrived. Now if the women do not spoil him, he may be very
					useful.
				It is easier to join the mob than to argue with it.
				"I hate him," said a man to-day, "as I hated the devil when I believed in him."
				This may be depended upon: A girl who has her picture taken with her dress cut very low,
					will kiss strange boys.
				
				You will not, as a rule, acquire much interesting information from the man who is willing
					to tell all he knows.
				We have often wondered how turkey would taste in August.
				It is surprising how many grown people there are who can't spell.
				Nearly every man has the fool habit of sitting in the shade, and wishing things, and
					believing that he is earnestly striving for them.
				You are always abusing the devil, and scaring the children with him. But have you ever
					noticed how well the devil treats you? If you are never hurt until the devil hurts you,
					you are all right.
				As soon as we get rid of one difficulty, we usually find another waiting to take its
					place.
				The women have agreed that a widower has a right to marry again, provided he waits ten
					years, marries a woman as good as his first wife, and near her age.
				
				We would like to be so rich that we would never worry about dry weather, or rainy
					weather. Ever since we can remember, we have been worrying because of the lack of rain, or
					because of too much rain.
				No man ever called a woman an angel who did not know better.
				There is one thing you must always make up your mind to: some people don't know you, and
					wouldn't like you if they did.
				We understand that many women want husbands who can't get them. It is the easiest thing
					in the world for a woman to make a man marry her, if she is clever. Men are great chumps,
					and are as easily caught as flies; there never was a man who could escape from a clever
					woman. The most important thing for a husband-hunter to do is to enforce prohibition. If
					she wears a white dress and a blue sash, let her see that a man does not muss her up with
					his dirty hands.
				Ever remark how many things you are compelled to do in which there is no pleasure, no
					profit and no sense? And you cannot possibly avoid them.
				
				In buying a gentle horse, always remember that a gentle horse is a lazy horse.
				People never grumbled more than they are doing now, or had more reason to feel
					satisfied.
				A bachelor is now known as an Old Tom. (Chart: The term originated with turkey-breeders.
					After a gobbler is of no use except to fatten and eat, he is known as an Old Tom.)
				Boys gossip a little, but their gossip is usually not vicious. To-day we heard a boy say
					to his friend, another boy: "You know that new dog they have at Smithson's? Well, it's a
					she."
				The Atchison girls say of a certain rich bachelor: "He has money, but he wants it all
					himself."
				It must make a husband feel uncomfortable to have his wife say thirty or forty times a
					day: "I have nothing to wear."
				When you're old, you're old, and you can do nothing for it.
				
				Nothing tires a man more than to be grateful all the time.
				A big North Atchison dog preached all last night, taking burglars for his text.
				Nothing pays so well as a little order and system in your affairs. You will be disturbed
					to-night because you neglected to do half a dozen things that you might have done easily
					with a little system.
				There is nothing in this world quite so pretty as love between a mother and daughter.
					When we hear that a girl is coming home from school, after an absence of several months,
					we usually go to the depot to see her mother hug her. There is something a little funny
					about love between man and wife, and there is something not exactly perfect about the love
					between mother and son, but the love between mother and daughter is usually just
					right.
				They all claim it, but no man is overworked.
				The better a pie tastes, the worse it is for you.
				
				A man should be taller, older, heavier, uglier, and hoarser than his wife.
				No man can be called a hopeless fool until he has made a fool of himself twice the same
					day in the same way.
				Mrs. John Murphy gave a luncheon for her son Roger when Roger was a little boy, and the
					boy acted so badly during the party that when the luncheon was ready, the boy was not
					allowed to come to the table.
				Going to school finally becomes a habit. Many a young man continues in school long after
					he should be at work.
				We confess to being indolent. For years we have been seeing the word (Sic!) without
					knowing its meaning. We might find out by calling to the oracle in the next room, but we
					are busy just now, and will again put off finding out the meaning of the word, as we have
					been doing so many years. We rather enjoy procrastination, we have practiced it so
					long.
				Don't tell a lie unless you are willing to eat it.
				
				When women go shopping, it is more than half loafing.
				A reformer doesn't care to reform the people if he can fool them.
				We have remarked that when a man cannot find work, his wife can.
				When Americans begin talking about school-houses and war, they go crazy.
				When a mean, useless, troublesome man is kicked, he always says there is nothing against
					him except that he Stands for the Right.
				No wonder women believe in men marrying for love: they know that few women can be married
					for money.
				Maybe it is because we no longer have little children of our own, but we do not believe
					children are whipped as much as formerly; we haven't seen a child whipped in years. And
					there has been another change: we no longer see children's noses held to make them take
					nasty medicine.
				
				Women often say of a man who is perfectly sober: "That man is drunk!"
				When your cow gets out, how the neighbors enjoy running in and telling you about it!
				Why is it that so many girls are Episcopalians, while their mothers belong to other
					churches?
				At what stage during a young man's attentions to a girl can he withdraw with honor? Is he
					bound after he has squeezed her hand?
				Last fall an Atchison man had a fat hog, and people said to him: "What a lucky man you
					are!" But his kin heard about his having a fat hog, and, by the time he killed it, seven
					of them were living with him. And they remained at his house all winter.
				You demand the Square Deal. Do you give it to others? Hundreds of thousands of people, in
					little ways, are not square with others, and are annoying, and nagging, and devilish.
				When I'm unfair, I know it; and so do you.
				
				If you have good health, you must work for it. Have you the nerve to make an effort?
					Wouldn't the effort necessary to have good health be more agreeable than the "dragging
					around" that sick people do?
				About the only thing a man notices in new spring goods is negligee shirts.
				We suppose we have wretched taste; anyway, we don't care for Scotch dialect.
				A woman was talking about a play she lately attended. She was greatly pleased with it,
					but was determined to find fault, as some people do. "Well," she said, "I liked it, but it
					was mighty improbable."
				Every old and broken-down politician is a Boss Buster.
				After children are twenty-seven years old, they should quit calling their father
					"papa."
				A man who has a side line finally gives his side line more attention than he gives his
					business.
				
				In your own conduct, reverse everything a fool or hypocrite does, and you will thus learn
					more than a university can teach you.
				The man who will bow and scrape for women, isn't as valuable to them as the man who will
					work for them without grumbling.
				Nothing will so surely make a fool of a man as taking part in an amateur show. Or a
					woman, either.
				Nearly every really bright student at school is ambitious to become a teacher. Nearly
					every particularly good Republican is anxious to become a leader, and run for office.
				When a man believes that his wife is trying to save herself, allowing him to go to the
					devil, he invents a new kind of religion, or says that the religion patronized by her does
					not amount to anything.
				Civilization is nothing more than politeness, industry and fairness. Savages are always
					thieves, always loafers, and always impolite and unfair.
				
				Ever since I can remember, I have been trying to quit some bad habit. I believe this is
					expected of the men, but I believe I never knew a woman who was trying to quit anything. A
					woman never admits that she has a bad habit.
				There is a very slow man in Atchison; he is fat and lazy, and never hears of anything
					until it is old. This morning I encountered him as he sat on a dry-goods box in front of a
					store. "Hello," he said, sleepily, "when did you get back?" I replied that I returned from
					the West Indies nearly three weeks ago. The lazy man looked interested, and said: "I
					didn't know you had been to the West Indies. I was wondering when you returned from
					Japan." (I returned from Japan FOUR YEARS AGO.)
				Women like to attend weddings, to hear the big, sweet, juicy promises the bridegrooms
					make.
				If your batting average is high enough, you needn't worry for fear the big leagues won't
					find it out.
				Aid is never satisfactory. The best way is not to need it.
				
				Lots of the stories on widowers are not true.
				Some men never get gay except when they eat at a hotel; then they want to flirt with the
					dining-room girls.
				A girl with a lot of fellows hanging around her is the most worthless person on earth;
					both to herself and family.
				When a man says he is seventy-eight years old, and feels as young as ever he did, we
					wonder how a man that near the grave can lie so cheerfully.
				I have lately been half sick, and lounging about home. I have read a great deal, and it
					occurred to me, what a lot of shiftlessness there is in reading!
				We have heard people abused so much that we don't care for it any more; we would rather
					hear people praised.
				"I love my wife," said a man to-day, "but when I explain my views to her fully and
					clearly as we sit around the evening lamp, I do wish she'd quit yawning so much."
				
				"I have many very important ideas," said a man to-day, "but I have never been able to get
					them before the people. When I begin talking, some one always jumps in, and tells me what
					HE thinks. People are very impolite in this respect. I try to be polite, and, as a result,
					never get to say anything."
				If you annoy anyone unnecessarily, you are mean; that's the long and short of it.
				Instead of efforts being made to reform the fools and educate them, everything possible
					is done to encourage them.
				We always rather like a man who has been to hell, and returned to give notice to others
					that it is a good place to keep away from.
				One of the first things a man should learn is: Never try to flirt with a woman who
					doesn't care for it.
				Never bet with a woman. If you win, she says no gentleman expects to collect a bet from a
					lady; and if you lose, she says every gentleman makes it a point of honor to pay a bet he
					loses with a lady.
				
				Don't expect presents all the time; occasionally give one.
				When people call at your house, don't ask your daughter to bore them by singing.
				We have reached an age when we admit that a man may have an opinion different from ours,
					and be neither a fool nor a scoundrel.
				You people who quarrel easily, remember that no quarrel was ever really made up.
				One of the difficult tasks in this world is to convince a woman that even a "bargain"
					costs money.
				When a man moves into a country town, the thing that surprises him most is the great
					number of men who do nothing all day but stand on street corners and exchange fool
					opinions.
				If you work industriously, tell the truth, and keep your record clean, you will some day
					get paid for it. You may not receive your reward to-day or to-morrow, but some day, in
					some shape or other, you will get value received.
				
				It is a pitiful thing to hear a good baby cry.
				It is surprising how long a thing will live after it is on its last legs.
				Compliment some people, and it makes them feel so superior that they are apt to be
					insulting.
				The man who attends steadily to his own business will find that he constantly has more
					business to attend to.
				Man learns from experience, after all: when the oldest girl in the family is given a
					musical education, the other girls are not.
				The women are always telling how they dislike asking for money; but did you ever know a
					woman who disliked it so much that she refrained from doing it?
				The duller the town, the more numerous the bores.
				Somehow a woman fool always seems to be a greater fool than a man fool.
				
				How hard it is to convict a guilty man in the courts; and how easy it is to convict an
					innocent man in the newspapers and Reform meetings!
				No doubt you often say of people, "They're funny." But you needn't talk: so are you.
				At some time in his life, everyone promises particularly well, but something nearly
					always happens to ruin him.
				We hear this expression oftener than any other: "Something should be done." How easy it
					is for people to lay out work for others!
				Somehow, you hate to tell a man he can't spell.
				It is very hard to pursue such a course that it pleases both a young and an old
					person.
				I have lived a long time, but I have never convinced a woman of anything; no man ever
					did. Once I thought I had, but a week later I found the woman still in error.
				How fat a woman can get!
				
				A man is always willing to lend a helping hand, but he does hate to lend money.
				As soon as people begin to think they are important, they begin to talk louder.
				When a little man goes to a party, the first thing he does is to hunt up a big woman to
					dance with.
				A man who is willing to live by his wits, is willing to steal.
				The greatest thing in the world is for a man to be able to do something well, and say
					nothing about it.
				Get any man's confidence, and you will find that there is an unaccountable prejudice
					against him.
				Times are changing. Wolves used to run from dogs. The other day, two dogs took after a
					wolf below town, but the wolf didn't do a thing but turn on the dogs and whip them
					both.
				Never believe more than half of the story a man tells on his opposition.
				
				"My ambition," said a man to-day, "is to have as little to do as a woman."
				When a farmer gets gout, it is from over-indulgence in ice-cream and cake, and from
					drinking too much coffee.
				It must be a great comfort to marry a woman with money of her own. "Mary," a husband
					could say to such a wife, "here is the grocery bill of twenty dollars. Give me your half
					of it."
				People are always saying it is "awfully quiet," as though they are entitled to rushing
					business every day. Whereas every sensible man should know that, except Saturdays and
					circus days, it is always quiet.
				Everything is fair in weather.
				A boy is never satisfied until he catches a fish so big that it pulls him into the
					creek.
				Every little while we see this heading in the newspapers: "The Secret of Happiness."
					There is no such secret.
				
				A new play is entitled, "Thou Shalt Not." It isn't usually expressed so elegantly. "Don't
					Do That," is a more common expression of the same thing.
				An Atchison girl who is to be married shortly, will be compelled to buy another outfit:
					her girl friends have looked at her clothes, and picked them over so much, that they are
					worn out.
				A farmer was eating dinner in a restaurant to-day. "Give me a little more chicken," he
					said to the waiter, "to make my bread come out even."
				Talk with any little man long enough, and he will remind you that Napoleon was of small
					stature.
				It is not a crime to be fooled; so many smart people are trying to fool you. But it is a
					crime to fool yourself.
				The facts are that a man may breathe properly and eat properly, and sleep properly, and
					obey all the rules of sanitation, and then die of old age at 70 to 74.
				
				It is your enemies who keep you straight. For real use, one active, sneering enemy is
					worth two ordinary friends.
				When a man is applauded for doing or saying a smart thing, he tries so hard to score
					again that he becomes a nuisance.
				If you can't do anything about it, don't talk about it.
				Every meal a dyspeptic eats is equal to a spell of sickness.
				If a girl marries, and does poorly, all the other girls are discouraged for months.
				Every man claims to read both sides, but no man does.
				Talking politics is loafing; don't forget it, and call it patriotism.
				A good way to fool the people, and get them to follow your banner, is to promise them a
					lot of things they are not entitled to.
				
				A "ringing" speech is always abusive.
				Every man thinks his best work is not appreciated because it is above the heads of the
					people.
				Lodge emblems may be all right in lodge halls, but they have no business on the
					streets.
				If you are not bossed by a woman, you find it necessary to do a lot of disagreeable
					fussing to avoid it.
				There is an unusual man in Atchison who, if you tell him a secret, will surprise you: he
					will keep it. But he is probably the only one in the world.
				An editor recently sold out, and, in his valedictory, said: "I hope the members of the
					Little Mutual Admiration Society to which I belong will not make me ridiculous by saying
					that I am going to Chicago to look at The Tribune, with a view of buying it."
				Every man has a notion that his "principles" are better than those of other people.
				
				Most of the stories about the "Wonderful American Newspapers" are printed in the American
					newspapers: we don't hear the people talking much along that line.
				Do you know of a nastier noise than a mule makes when he is lonesome, and calls to his
					friends?
				A number of young men will shortly give an amateur minstrel performance; and we know what
					is going to happen the night of the show: the people will laugh themselves to death.
				If a man does his duty, and gets down to work early every morning, the slow-pokes and
					sleepy-heads will say he is greedy.
				We will never get over thinking it is wonderful to hear two people talk in German, and be
					able to understand each other.
				A politician becomes a statesman after he is elected.
				A shiftless man's favorite saying: "O, we'll get along somehow!"
				
				We become so tired shaking hands that we almost scream with agony when we see another
					handshake approaching.
				We don't believe the men look for second wives as industriously as they used to.
				When your wife buys a new hat, how much attention does she pay to your taste?
				Walk toward a big mirror, and ten to one you will remark that you have a more awkward
					walk than you imagined.
				About all that can be said in favor of some places of amusement: they afford a place to
					go.
				I am a wretched grammarian, but I confess that when I catch a man in an error, an error
					so palpable that even I can detect it, I enjoy it as much as anyone.
				When a man tells you what people are saying about you, tell him what people are saying
					about him; that will immediately take his mind off your troubles.
				
				It must be nice to be a bulldog; a bulldog is let alone so much. People are not
					particularly kind to a bulldog, but it isn't kindness a man longs for: it's being let
					alone.
				Men are always trying to sell out, and asking too much.
				You needn't love your enemy: if you refrain from telling lies about him, you are doing
					well enough.
				We know a certain man who is always being treated unjustly. And it is never his fault; he
					is fair with everybody, he says, but every dayalmost every hour, in factsome
					one plays him a mean trick. But it is NEVER his fault. All of you know men of that
					sort.
				No American considers that he is doing his duty unless he is worrying the life out of
					three or four people.
				Everyone past forty years of age is looking for a true friend. People of twenty think
					they have several.
				
				Worthless men devote a lot of time, we have noticed, to "talking things over."
				Housekeepers are becoming so shiftless that grocers will finally sell hot water in
					cans.
				We do not see why the men make so much fuss about the hats their wives buy; they do not
					seem to be high-priced. In the window of the ten-cent store there is a display of trimmed
					hats, complete, at ten cents each. No man should fuss about paying ten cents for his
					wife's spring hat.
				You can do more for yourself than anyone will do for you.
				When a woman is in love with a man, she hasn't as much confidence in him as she pretends
					to have.
				I don't want my friends to die for me. If they will be polite, and let me alone, I will
					be satisfied.
				When anyone says, "This is the most terrible town in the world for gossip," put it down
					that that person has been up to something to excite gossip.
				
				People in big towns are so selfish; we should rather live in a little town, where the
					people sympathize with you when in trouble, and where, if you have no trouble, they will
					look up some for you.
				A gentleman lately visited me over Sunday. When he went away, I thought well of him. I
					have discovered why he pleased me; he occasionally agreed with me. "There is a good deal
					in that," he would say, when I expressed an opinion. "You are right," he would say on
					other occasions. And he let me talk occasionally. That's another thing I admired about
					him.
				A certain Atchison man is very industrious, and has made money. People generally abuse
					him, and say he squeezes every dollar until the eagle on it screams. Another Atchison man
					is idle, and a disgrace to his family. People abuse him, and say he should be ashamed of
					his shiftlessness. So it seems men are abused whether they are industrious or idle. But
					the industrious man who has saved his money, is better off than the idle man who has
					nothing.
				There is usually a piano in every two-story house.
				
				When father has charge of the baby, its face is always dirty.
				So few women know how to use dry-goods after they get them.
				Among men, a model wife is one who doesn't think she is better than her husband.
				People make as much ado about making up their minds as if it amounted to something.
				Last night my pipe wouldn't draw, and I couldn't fix it. It made me mad, and I wished I
					had the nerve to quit smoking then and there. It would have made a beautiful story to tell
					my sons.
				The man who marries against his will, because the woman is more cunning than he is, never
					makes a good husband.
				There are a number of questions we never try to settle.
				Poor and rich people have very funny notions of each other.
				
				Every really clever man ought to be locked up; he finds so many victims.
				Some people pay no attention to meanness unless they find it in others.
				Men like women to admire them for their future, and make no inquiries into their
					past.
				The rule is that within three weeks after a woman marries, she begins to talk more about
					her kin than her husband bargained for.
				It is possible for a man to have a good many friends one day, and almost none the
					next.
				Some people never have anything except ideals.
				Among the men, there is always a lot of smoke where women are concerned, but, as a rule,
					very little fire.
				A young man is apt to believe that things just happen. His father knows that everything
					that happens is some sort of a natural result.
				
				Spring never comes as soon as people expect it.
				A man can keep a secret all right, if it is a mean story on himself.
				When a man has nothing else of value to brag about, he tells how conscientious he is in
					voting, and that he wouldn't sell his vote at Any Price.
				A sour man may make a living, but a polite man may make a fortune.
				There are a great many stories of the brave men of antiquity, to shame living
					cowards.
				The man who is drunk half the time imagines that people "don't notice it." But they
					notice slighter things than that.
				Probably the most uncomfortable experience in the world is when two people who do not
					like each other, get together and "talk things over."
				Ever think seriously of the fact that some day you must die? Don't you think that you are
					such a favorite, a new rule will be made in your case?
				
				Nothing makes us so mad as for a farmer to come to town on Saturday, and intimate that
					while he has been working hard all week, we have been loafing.
				Ever remark the difference between the man of sixty and the man of seventy? The man of
					seventy looks a good deal more than ten years older. Do men fail very rapidly between
					sixty and seventy?
				After a man passes sixty, his mischief is mainly in his head.
				In every business failure, there are a lot of "funny" things that people dissect and
					discuss.
				The people seem to be improving a little: they care less for political meetings than
					formerly.
				A crowd of people can find amusement in looking at each other, and making remarks.
				We can understand how a man can go crazy over a nice woman, but we can't understand how a
					man can go crazy over a woman who sells her affection at wholesale.
				
				It always seems wrong to us for a drunken gent to appear on the street with a sober
					lady.
				A bold woman may annoy a man for a time, but finally she gets the worst of it.
				When you hear that a man is looking for you, and is very anxious to see you, it's
					something disagreeable.
				There's something new that a gentleman can do for a lady: crank her automobile.
				More than half the people have nothing to do but to notice things, so don't imagine that
					you can cut up without being talked about.
				The only complimentary thing said about a certain Atchison man is that he has a smart
					step-child.
				No man is really clever unless he can handle a book agent pretty well.
				It always seems to us that a pacing horse does twice as much work in traveling as is
					necessary.
				
				An Atchison man recently decided to be as attentive to his wife as he was while courting
					her. But he couldn't come back.
				We rather like to see a woman hang on her husband's arm, if she does it because she loves
					him, but we don't like it if she hangs on because he's hers.
				A man always has a lot on hand he never attends to.
				People are very "picky;" don't give them a chance at you.
				Of all the different brands of excitement, the excitement connected with a strike is the
					worst.
				If you promise a boy a dime, give it to him; don't expect him to wait days and days. A
					boy waiting for a dime coming to him, suffers.
				An Atchison woman can lie on her bed at night and tell every person passing in the
					street, by his walk. In addition, she can tell every automobile that passes, by its "chug
					chug."
				
				There is to be a party to-night, and this afternoon a woman called up her husband, and
					asked: "What shall I wear?" "Never mind, now," her husband replied; "don't be coy. You're
					going to wear that old black dress; the only thing you have, and you know it."
				An Atchison duck-hunter said to-day: "For the life of me I can't understand how men can
					go crazy over baseball." . . . This critic was twenty years old when his father died. His
					father left him a good farm. The young man shot that away, and is now shooting away a
					little money his wife brought him.
				An Atchison woman who had been away for years, came back one day, and claimed to be a
					married woman. At regular intervals she visited Atchison, but no one ever saw her husband.
					Then she came back wearing mourning, and said her husband was dead. Several years later it
					developed that the woman had never been married at all; that, for some reason, she had
					been fooling us. Which reminds us of another Atchison woman: when she came here, many
					years ago, she said she was a widow, but it has been learned lately that the woman has
					never been married.
				
				Here is an item that should amuse the Eastern papers, and it is true: Mrs. Will Jackson,
					wife of the district judge, is doing her own work while her servant girl is taking her
					vacation abroad. The servant girl attended the Passion Play, and greatly enjoyed it.
				We asked a man to-day for an item. "I can give you a joke on a neighbor," he said. Lots
					of these.
				In one respect I am a gossip: when I hear anything good about people, I always tell
					it.
				Every time we see big, fat George Shifflett, we can't help laughing over the fact that
					when he isn't feeling well, his wife makes him take Jayne's Vermifuge, a worm medicine for
					children.
				At a reception in Atchison yesterday there were fifty women present. Wine was served, and
					only two refused it. But a woman drinking wine is not a serious performance: she takes a
					sip, and that is about all.
				It is easy enough to attract comment, but favorable comment comes slowly.
				
				An Atchison girl "showed off" an out-of-town fellow Sunday. He carried a cane. Think of a
					young man carrying a cane up Commercial street! The other girls are envious, and have
					started a story that he wore a bustle.
				"How are your folks?" one negro asked another to-day. "They are well enough to eat all I
					can earn," was the reply, "and then go to bed hungry."
				Entertaining company costs as much as sickness.
				Overeating isn't good for the best of stomachs.
				Everyone knows something he can't tell.
				As a rule, the meaner a man is, the more he thinks of himself.
				A man never does justice to himself as an entertainer when his wife is around.
				A man is sometimes so busy making money that he neglects to take care of what he has
					already made.
				
				Fishing and hunting men seldom become great.
				Many people would be more truthful were it not for their uncontrollable desire to
					talk.
				A nice woman is cousin to the angels: we know a woman who is as good to old people as she
					is to babies.
				About the worst thing you can say against a man is that he is of so little consequence
					that he is not even asked to sign petitions, or write letters of recommendation.
				When an Atchison man gives evidence of having a little money, the people are apt to
					wonder where he stole it. This is unfortunate. What do people engage in business for, if
					not to make money? And can a town amount to anything unless its people get something
					ahead?
				The old fellows won't attend parties, but they like to be invited.
				"The back end of a grocery store," said a farmer's wife to-day, "looks as bad as a
					kitchen."
				
				An Atchison business man said to-day: "If my wife should persistently serve as a member
					of a committee, I should leave her. There is no necessity for women doing this sort of
					thing, and when a woman engages in it, her husband's business is injured. Other people
					don't like it, and resent it."
				Nothing disturbs a man more than to see a lot of fun going on when he isn't having any
					himself.
				People are always willing to believe things that they should not believe, but they
					sometimes regard with suspicion anything that has truth written all over it.
				Some people are always saying, "I never had any education." The best educated people
					educate themselves. You are not taking proper care of yourself if you are not educating
					yourself as you go along. Don't make a task of it, but pick up a little from day to
					day.
				The Town Bad Man said to-day: "I have been mean, as all the world knows, but I have never
					induced a woman to get ready to marry me, and then failed to show up."
				
				No one admires a womanly woman more than we do, but we have no use for the style of woman
					who is referred to as "A Grand Woman." A woman of that kind always takes interest in some
					Great Work she can't accomplish.
				Being a professional musician in a country town must be an awful thing.
				A pup has more vitality than any other living thing. A pup can begin howling at nine
					o'clock in the evening, as soon as the children are put to bed, and no longer able to play
					with it, and howl steadily until the children begin playing with it again in the
					morning.
				We have long contended that the proudest thing on this earth is a real negro minstrel
					when he appears in the street parade.
				If you engage in something that is wrong, and are not whipped for it, how bold you become
					in following your wrong course!
				If a girl is at all masculine, people call her "Mr." behind her back.
				
				Everyone has his bandit days, when it seems that work does not pay, and that a real
					genius is a man who steals. But those are night thoughts: nothing in that sort of
					philosophy, except trouble.
				After you have sympathized with a man every day for two or three months, ever notice that
					you become very tired of him?
				An Atchison man has been sick so long that when his wife meets people on the streets, she
					says, without being asked: "He's just about the same."
				More money is put into mining and politics than is taken out.
				During our long life, we have remarked the exact time when many of our friends have been
					marked by Death. They may live a year or two, and go to the Springs, and try operations,
					but Death soon asserts itself, once it has marked a man. And we have noticed that most men
					know it when Death sets its seal upon them; there is a certain mournfulness about them
					that is pitiful: they don't want to go, but nothing can help them, and they submit, and
					look off into vacancy in a pitiful way.
				
				Look at nearly any man at work, and you detect him in lazy tricks.
				Every man who builds a new house has a good deal to say about the "Slow Pokes" who built
					it.
				We will be hated for saying it, but one man like John D. Rockefeller is worth 50,000
					whittlers and whistlers.
				When people go hunting in this vicinity, about all they find to shoot at are signs
					reading: "No hunting allowed on these premises."
				When girls are good-looking, they hear about it from the moment they rise until they go
					to bed at night. No wonder they are spoilt.
				We don't need a big navy or a big army any more than we need a large government
					appropriation for more breweries and distilleries.
				In nearly every country town there is one dining-room girl who is a beauty, and who
					attracts as much attention as Mlle. Lina Cavileri attracts in New York.
				
				When people take general interest in a "story," and it isn't as shocking as they wish,
					they add to it until it is sufficiently shocking to satisfy them.
				They say idleness will kill a man. But I have noticed that, while I am not very contented
					with life during the week, I am almost a happy man on Sunday.
				A good many things work out on paper that will not work out in practice. There is the tea
					store. It can be demonstrated beyond doubt, on paper, that a tea store will pay. But it
					never does.
				After all the talk, the fact remains that a man can "get along" if he wants to.
				In some places, a man who continues to work after he is worth twenty thousand dollars, is
					considered a great big pig.
				One great trouble is that the fools think they are the people.
				A man who amounts to nothing, is always greatly provoked by a useful, worthy man.
				
				Do you recall how jealous you were, years ago, of a certain woman? And how completely you
					have recovered?
				What is said behind your back is the community's estimate of you.
				You often complain of being tired. You'd get tired if you had nothing to do.
				Considering the way they have always been ground down in this country, the people seem to
					get along pretty well.
				Here is a confession I have long wanted to make: I think I am better than the men who are
					always trying to reform me.
				In our judgment, it should be a penitentiary offense for a politician to talk reform,
					and, when he wins on the reform talk, increase taxes.
				During a dry spell, when the heavens are overcast, and thunder crashes, we long for it to
					rain as intensely as we want our club to win when it is behind in a ball game.
				
				I don't want to solve the problems of life; I want to get rid of hearing them talked
					about.
				Smart men have been trying for many centuries to make hard work easy; but they couldn't
					do it, and you can't.
				The greatest possible joke on a woman is for a man to shoot her because he Loves Her.
				Ever remark how many people there are who want you to neglect your own affairs, in order
					to give them "encouragement"?
				Men have a very mean way of referring to an old love affair that was formerly very
					important to them. And women are worse.
				What has become of the old-fashioned man who said to his boy: "Pull off my boots, son,
					and the next time I see a dime rolling up hill, I'll give it to you"?
				Another person's secret is like another person's money: you are not so careful with it as
					you are of your own.
				
				A certain Atchison man has no opposition; but he seems to have about as much trouble as
					anybody.
				When a woman likes to wait on a man, that settles it: she loves him.
				An Atchison woman who has had three unsuccessful love affairs since she became a widow,
					is always saying she is as innocent as a Young Girl.
				One of the most common mistakes people make is saying: "People won't notice it."
				Politicians have always been trying to rob the rich, but so far they have not succeeded
					in doing it.
				We know what is happening to a man when he complains bitterly of the injustice of gossip:
					he's getting a dose.
				Is there not ONE man in the world willing to admit that he is occasionally in the wrong?
					We have never met one.
				Some people are courteous only to strangers.
				
				When a woman abuses us, we stand it; we can't fight a woman, but we have a way of getting
					even: we abuse her preserves behind her back.
				So many people want us to apologize when it's their turn.
				You half-way please your friends; and displease others very much.
				What a busy man is compelled to neglect, would keep a lazy man employed.
				A woman in gay colors simply can't look as mournful as a woman in mourning.
				It seems to be natural to men to advocate big reforms. But it never was natural with us.
					The only real reform we ever advocated with spirit is letting the schools out two hours on
					the morning of a circus parade.
				A woman worked for years for her church. When her daughter was married, her church was
					closed, and she had no pastor, and it was necessary to have the ceremony in a strange
					church.
				
				After an Atchison man has been to New York, there is a difference; he is a little
					loftier, and not quite so well satisfied with Atchison as formerly.
				A man so seldom gets his rights that when we hear of a man who does, we rejoice. To-day
					we heard of a man who has four women in his family: at dinner recently, all of them were
					up from the table at one time, waiting on him.
				We've noticed that when a forty-horsepower automobile becomes stuck in the mud, two real
					horses can pull it out.
				Some people know so many awful things that are untrue.
				How far do you go in disliking the man you don't like? Do you believe he would steal?
				If a man is in undisputed control at his home, and cream is scarce, does he not ALWAYS
					take more than his share of cream for his oatmeal?
				An Atchison girl has a little white dog that is pampered so much that it has fits like a
					cat.
				
				Another thing which is about as sure as death and taxes, is that no man can go on
					bluffing indefinitely without being called.
				When a woman doesn't care to slave to keep her house immaculate, she says of a woman who
					does: "She is nasty clean."
				"God knows," we often hear people say, "I have trouble enough already." And usually the
					poor devil tells the truth.
				"The most conceited thing I ever knew a man to say," said a woman to-day, "my husband
					said to me when he proposed: he said he could make me happy."
				Many editors are like barking dogs: they bark at nothing, or, if they bark with good
					cause, keep on barking long after the original excuse for barking has been removed.
				When a woman appears on the street with a mean look on her face, we can tell whether she
					is thinking of her husband, her grocer, her milkman, or her husband's folks.
				
				If you go to church, and like the singing better than the preaching, that's not
					orthodox.
				The louder a fool talks, the less disposition on the part of Wisdom to dispute what he
					says.
				Some men are so mean that when they attend a ball game, they want to see the home team
					beaten.
				The men who make money are the men who make a town. No town prospers where it is a sin to
					make more than two dollars a day.
				After a bride and groom return from their wedding trip, they attract no more attention
					than an exploded firecracker the morning after the Fourth of July.
				The rich men of a town change every ten or fifteen years.
				Every woman imagines that she is an ideal sick-room visitor.
				When a boy begins to smoke, it is time for him to quit school.
				
				"Byron awoke one morning, and found himself famous." We are becoming tired of this
					statement, too; we hear it almost as often as "All quiet on the Potomac."
				We never met a certain Atchison man that he did not say something disagreeable. There is
					a movement in Atchison to starve him to death, which is succeeding, and we have helped
					some.
				When a man buys a ticket to a lecture, he pays out his hard-earned money for the
					privilege of hearing that he doesn't live right, doesn't eat right, and doesn't do
					anything right.
				A business man said to-day: "I am called on so many times to give aid that I am disposed
					to admire the English sparrow. The English sparrow is at least able to take care of
					itself; no one is asked to help the English sparrow."
				What a terrible time people have trying to have a good time!
				In politics, a lot of things happen, and a lot of fellows claim the credit.
				
				A certain amount of distinction is due a certain woman in Atchison because she is the
					only woman in town who pronounces the word squalor properly. (Let the reader try the
					pronunciation.)
				You can make a fairly intelligent guess at anything except a badly written name.
				No storekeeper feels just right on Sunday unless he has had a good Saturday.
				After every big failure, it turns out that some pretty shaky men get credit at the
					banks.
				A widower in town can board, but a widower in the country must get married.
				There is a lot of little gossip in every town, but the real big stories are seldom
					known.
				Those riding in automobiles are not as happy and comfortable as those on foot think they
					are.
				An unfortunate love affair is more disastrous for a woman than a business failure for a
					man.
				
				It is probable that every woman has been kissed against her will, but only a few tell
					about it.
				A man should either be able to keep his temper, or be able to whip the man he is
					quarreling with.
				No man is able to understand why his opposition isn't taken out and horsewhipped, and
					ordered to leave the community.
				When there is an accident, and two or more are reported killed, some people are almost
					disappointed if the report isn't true.
				If you don't like this world, complain to the girl who is at home from school for the
					holiday vacation; she is running it at present.
				The first thing a visiting girl does is to look at the dry-goods stores. The next thing
					she does is to look at the churches and preachers.
				The popularity of dogs is due to a story, told years ago, and never authenticated, that
					there was once a dog that would go after the cows.
				
				A great trick of pretty women is not to be very fond of anyone.
				The remedies that most people recommend they do not use themselves.
				After a man passes fifty, it shocks him a little to be called by his first name.
				Generally, when the household goods are all removed from a burning house, the building is
					saved.
				When you are in the company of a man of fifty, don't say: "O, dear, I am becoming old; I
					passed forty the other day."
				The people who have to stay around those who are coughing, have as tough a time as those
					who have the cough.
				A boy at school learns to read in about three weeks. After that he never learns anything.
					Take a boy out of school after he learns to read, and he will know about as much when he
					is a man as the boy who graduates from a college.
				
				In spite of our troubles, we all do pretty well.
				People like a good baby better than a pretty one.
				Your friends are often afraid to do you a favor, fearing it will displease your
					enemy.
				A man never enjoys a serenade, because he doesn't know the proper thing to do at its
					conclusion. What should you do when you are serenaded?
				A sixteen-year-old girl walks along the street as though she owns the world, and is on
					her way to get it; but as a rule, she is going after five cents worth of thread for her
					mother.
				The finest household furniture in the world will look poor and tired out when piled in a
					mover's wagon.
				The least popular man in every gang of workmen is the man who is always "getting off,"
					and allowing his associates to do his work. The man who makes a success sticks to his job
					pretty steadily.
				
				A man remodeled a store, and fitted it up in modern fashion. But it remained empty so
					long that when the owner finally rented it, he was compelled to again refit it.
				Few men can look themselves over and give their faults a fair hearing.
				It makes very little difference with some men whether they make a statement on oath at
					the court-house, or on the street.
				One of the first to rush from the burning hotel in Kansas City, lately, was a man engaged
					at the dime museum to eat fire.
				"That's a fine boy," a man said to the mother of a little boy to-day. "He's a dirty boy,"
					the mother replied, "but tell the gentleman," continued the proud mother, "that the dress
					you have on was clean this morning."
				A man ran for a street car, and caught it. When he entered the car, he was puffing.
					"That's age or fat," a woman who was sitting in the car said; "which is it?"
				
				An old-fashioned woman served a mince pie for dinner yesterday. She had made her own
					mince-meat, and moistened it liberally with brandy and sherry. Her husband took a bite,
					and said: "Minnie, that was not a bite: that was a drink."
				An Atchison woman was accused of looking cross this morning. "If you had as much company
					as I have," she replied, "you'd look cross, too." The next time you think of going
					visiting, remember that people nearly always talk about visitors.
				"He is this kind of a Republican," an Atchison man said to-day, in speaking of a certain
					loyal party man: "he will give his party credit for this year's enormous corn crop, and
					blame the recent Democratic landslide for the lower prices."
				A farmer won't come to town unless he has an excuse. Bert Blair came to town to-day, in
					his automobile, to have a husking-peg fixed.
				"I'm sorry I didn't learn stenography in the first place," said a woman to-day who lately
					secured a divorce; "I thought of that, but he coaxed me to try marriage instead."
				
				Considering that Ben Davis is an insignificant little man, he has mighty big troubles, to
					hear him tell it.
				We do not believe in ghosts, but the talk about them scares us.
				Most things people are compelled to take, have been picked over.
				People never care for the divorced man who talks a great deal about it.
				Do people complain more because of too much dry weather than they complain of too much
					rain?
				When you think a man is talking nonsense, possibly he is talking sense, and you are
					unable to comprehend him.
				The young love; the old hate. It is a sign of weakness to venomously hate people.
				Miss Susette Wilkins, formerly of Atchison, is now an actress; anyway, she ran off, and
					has never been heard from, and nobody knows where she is.
				
				There is an auditor in every man's life to check him up.
				There is nothing people remark so quickly as stinginess in others.
				Many a man goes off to have a good time, and doesn't have it.
				We often declare that we never force ourselves on people; but many of us do.
				Another girl who took piano lessons, expecting to go into society, has turned out a
					stenog.
				Leave something on your plate for the cat, and your stomach will do better.
				Occasionally a doctor is noted for encouraging women to be sick.
				Of course it's not a sin for a woman to spit, but how unladylike it looks!
				Lots of people who are crazy, are quiet: it isn't necessary to send them away.
				
				Always remember that the person that you find fault with a great deal, will finally
					rebel.
				What do people talk most about? We have concluded that they talk most of Outrages.
				Some men are like phonographs: every day they reel off exactly the same records.
				One bold Insurgent, a manufacturer of butterine, claims that butterine is BETTER than
					butter.
				Americans are so much given to "fun" that you hear jokes everywhere except at
					funerals.
				What will the future bring you? Probably another demonstration of your weaknesses.
				If we were a drunkard, we would prefer to go it alone; we wouldn't want a wife and
					children crying around.
				Some people think that if they do not eat with a knife, or drink coffee out of a saucer,
					that is enough to know about etiquette.
				
				The first time a man kisses a woman other than his wife, he feels as sneaking as a farmer
					when sending his first order to Montgomery-Ward & Co. But the husband and farmer soon
					become hardened, and patronize not only Montgomery-Ward, but Sears-Roebuck, and
					others.
				Two Atchison girls are in a fuss. Each one relates to her friends a perfectly innocent
					conversation, and adds: "Now, that is ALL that was said." Then what are they fussing
					about? There must have been more said than they let on.
				Atchison people are asking: "Who is the Painted Lady?" She walked down Commercial street
					yesterday afternoon, and her cheeks were as red as blood. Sometimes we fear that, once or
					twice in a century, a woman turns up who has poor taste.
				A farmer went into a store to-day to buy a certain make of lamp his wife wanted. The
					proprietor tried to sell him another make, claiming it was a superior article. "Maybe you
					can prove to her that you know more about it than she does, but I can't," said the
					farmer.
				
				Atchison has a well-known Light Sleeper. When he came down town this morning, he said: "I
					didn't sleep a wink last night." "Then you were at the fire?" he was asked. "What fire?"
					the Light Sleeper replied. "Why," said the other man, "the Blair elevator burned last
					night, and you were the only man in town who didn't hear the commotion."
				Somehow, a barefooted woman always shocks a man. A man knows a woman has feet, but he
					hates to see them.
				If a woman didn't occasionally go wrong, the good ones would be so proud that there would
					be no living with them.
				When two members of the same family meet in the street, they always seem to have
					something disagreeable to talk about.
				You read a great deal in the funny papers about fathers going downstairs and kicking
					young men out for remaining too late with their daughters, but no such thing ever happens.
					All a father does, under such circumstances, is to growl to his wife.
				
				All the people will not love you, no matter what you do. Might as well quit expecting
					them to, and become content to be misrepresented, and talked about unjustly.
				Some people act ridiculously, and then become indignant because people tell it.
				We believe the old war between men and women grows fiercer every year.
				Saving money requires as much genius as writing poetry, and it is of a better sort.
				When women attend a party, on the way home they have quite a little criticism to offer,
					even if they had a good time.
				Show us a man willing to begin at the bottom, and we will show you a man who will some
					day get to the top.
				If a bad story is told about you, and you know it is untrue, should it not occur to you
					that probably the scandalous story about your neighbor may be untrue?
				
				You may have noticed this: Before marriage, a young woman will be polite to the men, and
					seem to like them, but after marriage, she will have an air indicating that she hates them
					all.
				If you receive an anonymous letter, don't regard your enemies with suspicion; watch your
					friends.
				When a schemer visits a town, and his scheme fails to go, he says it is the dullest town
					he ever visited in his life.
				People live now as long as they ever did, only they will not admit it. After people pass
					a certain age, they quit telling how old they are. We know lots of people who are as old
					as Methuselah, if they would admit it.
				A farmer lately found 22 snake-eggs in one nest. Snakes are so useless that it is safe to
					say that every one of those eggs would have hatched under normal conditions, and that
					every one of the snakes would have grown up and bitten a boy.
				Did you ever know a good farmer who was a good politician?
				
				Ever hear an old-fashioned woman who knows a good deal about poultices get started about
					doctors, with their knives and big words?
				When it comes to the morality of our ancestors, none of us can boast much: the records do
					not show that Adam and Eve were married.
				Since the churches are always looking for something new in the way of entertainments, why
					not try a chicken-eating match between two preachers?
				An old-fashioned Atchison woman announced to her children yesterday: "Hereafter you must
					all keep track of your own ages; I won't do it any longer for you."
				If we were a woman, we don't believe we know a man we'd marry.
				An Atchison girl has such red hair that if she should break one of her hairs, she would
					bleed to death.
				It is said that every housekeeper has at least one dirty habit.
				
				A married man attracts no more attention than a baseball player in winter. But let his
					wife die, and he will attract as much attention as a good third baseman at the beginning
					of the season.
				Take an inventory of your acquaintances, and you will find that those under 30 are the
					"promising" ones.
				We would like jelly better if newspaper accounts of accidents didn't use the expression:
					"Crushed to jelly."
				Every morning for seven years past, in going to work, we have met a certain girl on a
					certain street. We would like to know how many more years we will be required to meet her
					before she will be willing to speak to us without an introduction. After we had met her
					six years, we spoke to her one morning, but she looked so shocked that we have felt
					humiliated ever since.
				One of the griefs of my life is that when I drive, vagrant dogs run after me and bark,
					and I have never been able to hit one of them with the whip, although I always try.
				
				When a business man has had a good many partners, it is a bad sign.
				Americans put too large an imprint on everything they make. When a farmer buys a new
					wagon, he is really hauling about a sign for the manufacturer.
				You needn't compliment me; I care less for that sort of thing every year. If you want to
					please me, quit picking at me behind my back.
				An Atchison school teacher was whipping a boy the other day, and the boy pulled a cap
					pistol with which to defend himself.
				What Atchison needs more than "eastern capital" is a disposition on the part of its own
					citizens to use their own money.
				Eight hours' work a day will not hurt any man; it's the eight hours' work that follows at
					night that hurts.
				You may think that in the confusion, a bride will not notice it if you do not send a
					present, but she will.
				
				There are a hundred times in a man's life when he longs to be in a position to go out and
					slam the door, and never come back.
				Young men frequently say, "When the old-timers die off, and we get some of their money in
					circulation, we'll have a good town here."
				A day's work has been steadily decreasing for hundreds of years.
				In their efforts to get rich, some men never get beyond a house and lot.
				Young men would go in society more if the girls didn't work them so hard.
				Every time you look at a twelve-year-old boy, he needs a new pair of shoes.
				There is less sense and more money in the world than ever before in its history.
				About half the time, a man feels like a cat which has just eaten a canary.
				
				We wonder if it ever occurs to young men that people watch them very closely?
				Every man throws a rock now and then that he would like to have back in his hand.
				After a man passes fifty, he would rather gossip about wickedness than engage in it.
				Nearly every man who has a fad, wants to see it made a study in the public schools.
				I try not to be prejudiced, but I do not make much headway against it.
				Why don't some of the married women look as pretty as the widows? What's to hinder?
				Experience indicates that if a girl wants a husband, she must get out and hustle for one,
					the same as a man hustles for a job.
				When you get through with your work, for heaven's sake go off and rest; don't bother the
					man who is still busy.
				
				It always makes a man mad to ask him to be identified.
				Women have the most to wear, but men have the most to eat.
				After all, nearly everything is knocked down to the highest bidder.
				When a boy gets mad, he always looks for a rock, but he rarely throws it.
				Did you ever notice the wolfish manner in which a man looks at a pretty girl?
				When a man diets, he eats oatmeal in addition to everything else he usually eats.
				We often think too much is made of the beer joke "on" Germans, as too much is made of the
					whisky joke "on" Kentuckians.
				While a boy is away with a gun, his mother declares that if the good Lord will bring him
					back alive, she will never let him go again.
				
				A black-edged envelope looks so dismal that it should be excluded from the mails.
				Most people have seen worse things in private than they pretend to be shocked at in
					public.
				A boy seems to learn just so much in skating, and then stop; boys do nothing on the ice
					now that boys did not do thirty years ago.
				When a boy is whipped at school, and his mother sends him out into the yard to get a
					stick of the size the teacher used, to show visitors, the case against the teacher is
					pretty bad.
				A well-behaved, patient man never knows whether his wife loves him or not. But let him
					shoot somebody, or forge a note, and his wife stands by him in a manner to attract the
					attention of everybody.
				An unconfirmed rumor seldom lives more than forty-eight hours.
				Having two love affairs at the same time is as much trouble as twins.
				
				If a woman is patient, and kind, and sensible, her husband will fall in love with her
					again after they have been married ten or fifteen years.
				In nine cases out of ten, when people are indignant, there is no remedy.
				There is no such place as heaven; the people made hell out of it long ago.
				Half the world does not know how the other half lives, but is trying to find out.
				A woman cannot keep moth out of a few old duds in a single closet; but think of the
					genius of men who keep moth out of clothing stores!
				People do not claim long that a prominent politician was made by his wife; they soon
					begin to insinuate that the devil had a hand in it.
				Another Atchison man is pulling his tacks. (Chart: Of late, when a man finds it
					unpleasant to remain in a town, it is the proper thing to say he is pulling his tacks out
					of his carpets and getting ready to move.)
				
				When not studying the Bible, a preacher must find week-days mighty lonesome.
				What has become of the old-fashioned father who whipped his son until the neighbors said
					the blood ran out of the poor boy's shoetops?
				Children are punished by scolding them, or by whipping them. But after they become men
					and women, they are punished by gossiping about them.
				There is a certain style of man who always believes, if he has heard of the controversy,
					that Bacon wrote Shakespeare's plays. There is no reason whatever to believe that Bacon
					wrote Shakespeare's plays, but that's exactly the reason why a certain style of man always
					believes that he did.
				A married man is usually compelled to spend his evenings explaining his jokes to his
					wife, and the school lessons to his children.
				After a married woman's sister has lived with her a few years, the husband begins to boss
					the sister-in-law in the same way he bosses his wife.
				
				When a man hears that a boy has been drowned, he fears it may be his boy, the same as he
					fears it may be his house when he hears the fire-whistle.
				When a poor man expresses his opinion of a rich man, he particularly abuses his poor
					little shriveled-up soul, which is no larger than a mustard seed.
				You hear men speak of certain things as "appetizers." Men do not need an appetizer: we
					all eat too much, and what we need is something to dull appetite.
				Sis Hungerford, who has been hoping for years that something would happen to prevent it,
					gave up last week, and went to work in one of the dry-goods stores. She is a nice girl,
					and had high ideals, but was finally compelled to give them up.
				When a popular society gives an amateur entertainment, there is one thing sure: you must
					take part, or buy a ticket.
				When a farmer comes to town in winter with a load of corn, he usually has a lot of
					rabbits on top, which he will sell for his boys.
				
				Rip Van Winkle is very popular in literature; but what a trial old Rip was as the town
					drunkard in the village of Falling Water! And what a nuisance he was to his industrious
					wife!
				Some communities are never stirred up until a man kisses a woman. Women may be robbed,
					and talked about unjustly, and every other sort of villainy may go on, but the people
					never become really stirred up until a man kisses a woman.
				We have heard husbands say a good many mean things about their wives, but we have yet to
					hear a man say his wife eats too much.
				Lots of people are nearly as smart as John D. Rockefeller, the world's richest man; but
					the little difference makes a big difference.
				The children who attend a certain church in Atchison say that the preacher prays so long
					that they can count two street cars go by.
				You can pick up a boy's school-book, and find instantly where he is studying. Every page
					he has passed over is full of marks and dirt.
				
				A few years ago, an Atchison woman broke her leg, and she was so modest that she wouldn't
					have it set unless her mother could do it.
				When a man asks a hundred dollars for a horse, he expects to get about $60.
				No man ever became an anarchist until after he had been a loafer a long time.
				A girl not only has great trouble in getting money to buy a hat, but she has great
					trouble in finding a hat that suits her after she gets the money.
				After it is positively known that a man is rich, his neighbors begin saying that they
					never did, and never will, bow down to the Golden Calf.
				When a woman is in love with a man, the man soon shows it by the way he imposes on
					her.
				A boy is as tired of hearing, "Say thank you," as a parrot is of hearing, "Polly wants a
					cracker!"
				No one ever took all of a bottle of medicine.
				
				It is a good, old-fashioned rule, in listening to gossip, that anyone who will bring,
					will carry.
				Probably a widower enjoys a second wife as much as a widow enjoys her husband's life
					insurance.
				When a thing should be done, too many people believe that "the city," or "the railroads,"
					should do it.
				Every renter asks so much that he finally moves, just because he is mad, and not because
					he can do better.
				People are very tired of the whisky joke, but probably the marrying joke pleases them
					fully as well, or better.
				An Atchison man and his wife are not on speaking terms because he said he couldn't tell
					his rubbers from hers.
				An Atchison woman who married a baker is saying that his pies are not as good as her
					mother used to make.
				
				Some men want to show how smart they are every minute.
				A tittle-tattle among children becomes a gossip when grown.
				People always resent it when a doctor's wife "roots" for her husband.
				An Atchison schoolboy says the reason he never has his lessons is because he lives on
					Thirteenth street, and is unlucky.
				We can tell a school teacher as far as we can see her, and she has to be married at least
					ten years before the trademarks are effaced.
				The worst thing that can be said of a man is that he is one of the kind that spoils
					children's entertainments by making long, dry speeches.
				A brakeman says the roast beef served at a certain Atchison restaurant yesterday was so
					tough that he was compelled to chew the gravy.
				Which is poorest: hunting, or fishing?
				
				When a boy breaks a window, his first impulse is to run. And he has the same impulse when
					he is grown.
				When a man gets down, he is nearly as hard to get on his feet again as a horse with a
					broken leg.
				There ought to be a law punishing the man who sells you a scheme which will not work out
					as he promised.
				We don't know how it is among the women, but among the men a good whist-player nearly
					always drifts into poker.
				A man may eat hotel gravy without particularly bad results, but home-made gravy is good,
					and therefore dangerous.
				When a man gets up in the world, he's like a flying machine: no one can tell how long he
					will stay up.
				We have a longing to live in Germany. Joe Schott says a man is just as good as a woman in
					Germany.
				
				Nature seems to be a polygamist. A poultry journal says: "For one drake, keep eight
					ducks."
				After a man quits a job, he tells around that it was necessary to hire three men to do
					his work.
				Every girl seems to have an ambition to make her waist smaller than is natural, and her
					bust larger.
				Are you on a Sucker list? Agents have Sucker lists, which they trade with each other. In
					every town there is a Sucker list of people who are easy. Is your name written there?
				You have, no doubt, remarked how effective a worthless man is in politics, but let a
					really good man get into it, and he is so helpless as to be pitiful.
				Everyone must run the risk of rain.
				Almost every public speaker mentions his dear wife, and the fact that he has been
					abroad.
				We never knew a man who could keep a horse decent-looking in winter-time.
				
				After a man discovers how little he knows, he begins to suspect that possibly others do
					not know as much as they claim.
				The longer you travel the right road, the easier it becomes; but the longer you travel
					the wrong road, the more difficult it becomes.
				We have often thought it a pity that a man's stomach is not better than his appetite.
				After a man has been out of Congress awhile, people say, "You wouldn't think that man had
					been in Congress, would you?"
				After a boy gets in a three-base hit, it takes his mother a long time to get him under
					control again.
				Any man who holds a particularly good job has a distinguished look.
				Encourage the useful man, instead of the idle schemers and trouble-makers.
				Women who are invited to a party are not satisfied: they want to be asked to help
					receive.
				
				A man never knows the price of a Christmas present given him; a woman can tell within a
					few cents, no matter what the present, or where it came from.
				What an awful row a little boil can kick up! In spite of its small size, it seems to be
					pulling ligaments out of your body.
				Nothing looks prettier on a woman than a white apron with a big bow at the back.
				A parrot's talk seems to be a good deal like a baby's: intelligent only to its owner.
				When a man worries a great deal, he says he is overworked.
				A woman who has a nice house worships it like a miser worships his gold.
				There should be some consideration for the man who never needs help.
				You can fool a fool the same way three or four times.
				
				It is a great deal more satisfactory and respectable to bury a husband than to get a
					divorce from one.
				If a woman's daughters hang on too long, she says a girl who marries before she is 30, is
					robbed of her girlhood.
				When John D. Rockefeller was a boy, his parents were always scaring him by telling him
					that he was liable to go to the poorhouse. They frightened him so thoroughly that he now
					owns nearly all the money in the world.
				A boy may look like his mother, but he will act like his father.
				We wouldn't be a Prodigal Son for the little fatted calf there is in it.
				When you go back to your old home after an absence of twenty or thirty years, the joy of
					people in seeing you again is very likely to be mixed with annoyance at being bothered.
					After people haven't seen a man for twenty or thirty years, they don't care much if they
					never see him again.
				
				A Protestant preacher's idea of great success in his work is to convert a Catholic.
				Did you ever see two left-handed persons shake hands?
				A good many of the bills introduced in Congress read like politicians talk.
				Every man believes pain hurts him worse than any other man in the world.
				The police cannot depend on the description of a burglar, because he always looks bigger
					than he really is to the frightened man whose house he enters.
				People like abuse so well that they pay no attention to nice things said of a man in an
					obituary. "Huh!" they say, "they always whitewash a man after he is dead!"
				An Atchison man has been moody and silent several days, and his women-folks thought he
					was meditating devilment. Yesterday it developed that he had typhoid fever.
				
				Old-fashioned women say men who are over-fond of dogs are mean to women.
				Many a man who had a hard boyhood, tries to be good to his son, and ruins him.
				The most pitiful case of slavery in the world is when an old bachelor marries a widow
					with a lot of grown children.
				There are a good many worthless things about a man, but we sometimes think his opinions
					are about the most worthless.
				Men seem to do more courting in every succeeding generation, and less marrying.
				A number of men were standing around a stove in a store this morning, finding fault.
					Suddenly one man said: "Barbers charge $5 for shaving a dead man, because they claim they
					throw away the razor and the towel used. But did you ever know a barber to throw away the
					razor he used in shaving a dead man? How do we know they throw them away?"
				
				If a man should be suddenly changed to a woman, he couldn't get his clothes off.
				A small man always has one weapon he can use against a great big man: he can "talk" about
					him.
				THE END.
			
		
		
			
			
				OTHER BOOKS BY E. W. HOWE
				
					Daily Notes of a Trip Around the World
					Editorial in the New York "Independent": The best literature on travel we ever
						read.
					S. S. McClure, editor "McClure's Magazine": I have read them with tremendous interest.
						I do not know that I ever have read any book of travel so well done.
					Elbert Hubbard: Howe's travel notes are great.
					Edward Bok, editor "Ladies' Home Journal": Here is a lesson in travel-writing that is
						worth while, and may not be done again in a hurry. Howe's book contains humor,
						freshness, pathos, and keen observation: here is travel-writing that IS travel-writing.
						I cannot imagine a person who should not read this book.
					Editorial in "Harper's Weekly": A more interesting and vivid account of a flitting
						through outlandish foreign lands is hard to find.
					New York "Sun": It has the humor of Mark Twain's "Innocents Abroad."
					Chicago "Tribune": Howe is always worth reading. The reader will chuckle over every
						page. The charm of the book is the charm of the authorhe's so different.
					W. D. Howells: The Howe travel notes are delightful.
					Two volumes in a box; illustrated; $2.25 net. Postage, 16 cents.
					Crane & Company Topeka, Kansas
				
				
				
					
						The Literary Sensation of a Quarter of a Century Ago, and Still Selling:
					
					The Story of a Country Town
					Edinburgh "Review": Western civilization in back-country districts has been well drawn
						by Edward Eggleston, but with greater intensity and reserve power by E. W. Howe in "The
						Story of a Country Town."
					Letter from W. D. Howells: I wish to thank you for the great pleasure I have had in
						reading your "Story of a Country Town." It is a very remarkable piece of realism, and
						constitutes a part of the only literary movement of our time that seems to have vitality
						in it. I don't know how to tell you the impression the simple, naked humanness of the
						book gives me. It has faults, as any fool might say, but you have written a book so good
						that it will be hard for you to write a better. Upon your honest piece of work I give
						you my hand, with my heart in it.
					New York "World": We are not sure that we have not found the long-sought "American
						novel" in "The Story of a Country Town." Frazer's mazagine calls it "the Greatest
						American novel."
					Mark Twain: I believe this is the first time I have ever furnished an opinion about a
						book, but I like "The Story of a Country Town" so much that I am glad of a chance to say
						so. Howe's style is so simple, sincere, direct, and at the same time so  clear and so strong, that I think it must have been born to
						him, not made. His picture of the arid village life, and the insides and outsides of its
						people, are vivid, and what is more true, I know, for I have seen it all and lived it
						all. "Big Adam" is a mighty figure in the procession of originals that is marching out
						of the ark of American literature to possess the land. When I read passages about "Big
						Adam" to Geo. W. Cable, he shouted, "Superb! He is colossal!"
					Charles Dudley Warner: The most remarkable novel of the year is "The Story of a Country
						Town." It well deserves the sensation it has created, on its own merits. The book is
						full of genuine American humor and real pathos. The story is really dramatic. Without
						self-consciousness, the author has wrought in the temper of a true artist. The book is
						one of the small number of genuine American books which cannot to be left out when we
						reckon up our literature of fiction.
					Joseph Hatton's London Correspondence of the Boston "Herald": I find much satisfaction
						in going out of my way to commend to Americans "The Story of a Country Town." Americans
						need no longer despair of a real characteristic native novelist. "The Story of a Country
						Town" is as purely American as "Nicholas Nickleby" is purely English.
					Boston "Traveler": Many a reader will finish the "Country Town" with tears in his eyes,
						who has read novels by the score every month, and only yawned when the last leaf was
						turned.
					Cloth, $1.25; Paper, 50 cents, postage included.
					Houghton, Mifflin & Co. Boston :: New York
				
				
				
					The Trip to the West Indies
					Boston "Globe": If you are looking for a book to drive away the blues, or if you think
						there is nothing new under the sun, read "The Trip to the West Indies," a
						well-illustrated volume of 350 pages. Every page sparkles. A book of genuine value;
						contains natural humor, lots of Yankee horse sense, and genuine philosophy.
					Boston "Herald": The book is abundantly worth reading. The notes regarding Venezuela
						and the Panama Canal are of prime importance. He is a close observer, and there is a
						freshness in his observations of men and things that is very taking.
					St. Louis "Globe-Democrat": It will be dangerous to dip into this book unless you want
						to read it: the book is so entirely and completely different from anything ever before
						or likely to be written. The pages reveal the Howe pose, and the Howe pose is one of the
						most consistently pleasant extant.
					Portland "Oregonian": The reader unconsciously begins to smile, then to chuckle, and
						then to laugh. "The Trip to the West Indies" deepens the favorable impression heretofore
						made by Mr. Howe as a genial, chuckling philosopher; it gives the reading world notice
						that a new humorist has arrivednot a humorist of the brass-band type, but a
						quiet, dry, almost cynical one.
					$1.35 net; postage, 12 cents.
					Crane & Company Topeka, Kansas
				
			
			
			
				A Monthly Magazine By the Author of this Book
				E. W. Howe's Monthly A FARMER'S MAGAZINE
					FOR TOWN PEOPLE
				One Dollar a Year Ten Cents per Copy
				Published at POTATO HILL FARM Atchison, Kan.
			
		
	
