
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Hubbard, Kin, 1868-1930.. Abe Martin's Brown County almanack. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2013).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1103
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		



			

			
				
				HALFTITLE

				Abe Martin's Almanack

			


			

			
				COPYRIGHT

				Title Copyrighted

			


			

			

				

					Abe Martin's Brown County Almanack

				



				 By Kin Hubbard
				

				

				

					A Volume of Philosophy, Incidents and Scenes Direct from
						the Paw Paw Belt of Indiana

				

				

				ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR

				

				
					ABE MARTIN PUB. CO.
					INDIANAPOLIS One Dollar 

			


			

			

				VERSO

				PRESS OF WM. B. BURFORD INDIANAPOLIS

			


			

			

				DEDICATION

				To my baby daughter, Virginia, who has just found her toes

			

			

			

			

			

			

			

				ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

				Thanks are due to The Indianapolis News for permission to
					republish much of the material in this volume

			

			

			


			

			



				REARWORD

				


				It seems to me that of all the literary and scientific productions of the times the one
					that needs a foreword least is an Almanack. An Almanack must stand or fall by its
					contents, its predictions, its reflections and conclusions concerning the seasonable
					changes, and no foreword that might be written can gloze over any inadequacies that may
					appear as the year runs its length.
				What an Almanack should have is a Rearword. That is, there should be written each year a
					Rearword for the Almanack that should be run as the Foreword for the Almanack of the next
					year, calling attention to the eminent accuracy of all that was presented for the guidance
					and instruction of the people in the volume for the year just closed, with, perhaps, a  few modest words of congratulation to the public that they
					were let in on so meritorious an enterprise.
				This, of course, is an innovation in Almanack-making, but Kin Hubbard is an innovator,
					and I am certain he will see the value of the suggestion, as will the thousands who are
					cheered by his philosophy and guided by his meteorology. Thus, proudly taking my position
					as a literary Columbus, I pronounce this Foreword a Rearword for the 1909 Almanack, which
					was the best book of its kind I ever saw; and also a prophecy concerning the 1910
					Almanack, which I have not seen yet, but which I know will surpass all the previous
					Almanacks, for I have watched Kin Hubbard's development from sliphorn to science, from
					parader to philosopher, with pride and enthusiasm--per aspera ad nasturtium, as Miss Fawn
					Lippincut would say.
				SAMUEL G. BLYTHE.

			

		

		


			

			
				
				Abe Martin's Brown County almanack

				


					ABE MARTIN'S SAYINGS

					

						Abe Martin of Brown County, Indiana

						From a Photograph Taken Ninety-three Years After General Howe
							and One Hundred and Fifty-three British Evacuated Boston

					


					

					Miss Tawney Apple attended th' Thanksgivin' hop at Melodeon Hall, an' says that some
						girls look good in anything an' some in hardly anything.

					

					Ex-Pres. Roosyfel walked three miles t' church yisterday an' returned on foot.

					


					Ole Ez Pash started t' whitewash his chicken coop Saturday but he didn' have terbacker
						enough t' finish it.

					

					Lafe Bud has been refused a pension thro' th' Tell Binkley agency. He wuz in th' Boer
						war at St. Louis.


					


					Miss Germ Williams wuz t' spend th' day in Morgantown yisterday but she fergot t' have
						it put in th' paper, so she didn' go.

					

					Alex Tansey returned t'day with a hundred an' twenty pound bride with two hundred
						dollars in her own name. They'll live at th' New Palace Hut-tel fer awhile till they
						separate.

					

					It's wonderful what a difference it makes in th' cost o' livin' when th' weather gits
						so your daughter kin spend th' evenin's on th' veranda.

					

					Lafe Bud is back from his vacation an' has gone t' French Lick fer a rest.


					

					I'll bet it's purty hard t' associate any sentiment with reg'lar ole fashioned winter
						weather an' drive a milk wagon.

					

					Pinky Kerr has more hard luck. He's lost seven hats on Bryan, an' Saturday he got word
						that th' mill he's been workin' in is goin' t' start up.

					

					Young Lafe Bud has a new baby sister t' grow up an' support him.

					


					I guess Constable Newt Plum's little granddaughter up t' Indynoplus is wonderfully
						smart. She kin name all th' presidents, an' next week they're goin' t' teach her t' shut
						th' car door.


					

					 

					A noncombatant wuz hit on th' head with a teacup as he wuz passin' th' Moots home this
						morning'.



					


					Bermudy onions from Texas, Scotch whisky from Terre Haute an' French dry cleaners from
						Indynoplus.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple will probably not go t' Niagary Falls this summer, as she's havin' a
						ready-made dress altered.

					

					Tilford Moots' wife gits in a fight with him ever mornin' so he won't come home t'
						dinner.

					

					Th' trouble with a tellyphone is that th' grocer allus understands you t' say three
						pounds instead o' one.

					

					Mrs. Lib Pash has asked th' State Board o' Pardons t' let her boy out o' th'
						Jeffersonville prison. She says he hain't satisfied there.


					

					Miss Tawney Apple says she didn' see nobuddy durin' leap year that she'd have but a
						young college feller, an' she didn' feel strong enough t' support two.

					

					Miss Fawn Lippincut is practicin' on a eight-egg filbert tart.

					

					Tipton Bud is as slow 'bout payin' his bills as a prominent business man.

					

					You kin bluff some folks by offerin' 'em work.

					

					Ther's a feller in ever community that tries t' look like Buffalo Bill.


					

					Mother can't flare up an' leave like a hired girl.

					

					A feller don't stay in th' limelight long these excitable times unless he's a
						whitewasher.

					

					Young Lafe Bud wuz put out o' th' New Palace Hut-tel yisterday fer garglin' soup.

					

					People who used t' look fer situations now look fer jobs.

					

					You kin git on th' good side o' most any man by tellin' him he don't look a day
						older.

					

					Whenever you see three farmers standin' t'gether ther talkin' 'bout a ditch.


					

					Lafe Bud says that tippin' is a relic o' barberism.

					

					Ole Niles Turner smokes th' best se-gars he kin find. Sometimes ther half smoked an'
						wet, but usually o' fair quality.

					

					Of all th' addin' machines th' pie counter is th' most pop'lar.

					

					Constable Newt Plum's son-in-law, up at Indynoplus, has adjusted his sewer assessment,
						an' will be allowed t' keep his home. He talks feelin'ly o' th' lawyers an' friends who
						have stood by him nobly durin' all th' improvements in his neighborhood, an' 'specially
						his wife, who he says is th' bravest little woman on earth. 

					

					Th' council met at th' livery stable last night an' decided t' hold a local option
						'lection jist t' advertise th' town.

					

					Th' feller that don't advertise may know his business, but nobuddy else does.

					

					People that blurt out "jist what they think" never think o' nothin' pleasant.

					

					Constable Newt Plum's son-in-law wuz operated on fer pendycitis Tuesday, but th'
						operation wuz not successful, an' he expects t' go t' work agin Monday.

					

					Th' feller that practices on a clarionet has no immediate friends.


					

					 

					Who'd want t' be an aviator an' be down an' out most o' the time?


					

					Th' last place t' look fer fish is at a fishin' resort hut-tel.

					

					Th' only time some fellers er ever seen with ther wives is when they bring 'em down
						town t' sign some property away.

					

					Ther's so many agents an' grafters travelin' 'bout these days that it's almost
						impossible t' find th' proprietor in.

					

					Even Colonel Roosyfel is workin' a skin game.

					

					Ther's no greater point o' interest in any community than a reliable citizen.

				


				

				

					WINS FAIR BRIDE

					

					Happy Climax of a Romantic Meeting At Niagara Falls

					

						Mr. and Mrs. J. Dwight Moon

					

					At the ever popular home of Mr. Tilford Moots and wife and her. mother, just east of
							 the stave factory, last evening at 8 p. m., the happy
						realization of a dream that began at Niagara Falls, a popular Eastern resort, not quite
						a month ago, was consummated among a bevy of neighbors and real friends and potted
						flowers. Anna Aroma, only daughter of the Mootses, plighted her troth to J. Dwight Moon.
						The bride was snappily arrayed in a going-away suit of dull, mottled effect, with a
						solid vestibule train and no jewelry except a few pins showing. Little Dorothy Bud,
						attired in spotless plaid, was the ring bearer. The groom looked somewhat shiny but neat
						and clean in conventional black, and held a large silver, hunting case watch, the gift
						of the bride's father. He also holds a responsible position in one of the largest
						concerns in Illinois and comes from an old Sucker State family long prominent in the
						councils of the nation, his father having hauled the mail from the depot to the
						postoffice at Paris, Illinois,  during the war. The bride
						is the niece of Dr. St. Clare, a prominent specialist of the ear, eye and nose somewhere
						in Iowa, and a first cousin of Mr. Chester White, long a prominent brakeman on the
						Peoria division of the Big Four. She also has a married aunt in the East. She has a
						large circle of friends among the younger set and has long been closely identified with
						the burnt-wood movement. Reverend Wiley Tanger was the officiating clergyman and talked
						feelingly of the duty of the bride's father to the husband, and how both sunshine and
						shadow would alternate as they wended their way down life's pathway to the great beyond.
						Drawing his cleanly shaven face nearer and nearer the bride he kissed her gently as her
						newly made husband slipped five brand new ones into his hand. The happy couple's
						departure for their future home in the West at 10 p. m. was attended by all the usual
						jokes and antics. 

					

					One Week Later.

					Mrs. Tilford Moots has gone to Paris, Illinois, to spend a few months with her
						daughter, Mrs. J. Dwight Moon, nee Anna Aroma Moots.

					Five Months Later.

					Mrs. Tilford Moots has returned from Paris, Illinois, accompanied by her daughter, Mrs.
						J. Dwight Moon, nee Anna Aroma Moots, who will make her home with her parents, as Mr.
						Moon has accepted a traveling position which will keep him away from home the greater
						part of the time.

					 

				


				

				

					ABE MARTIN'S SAYINGS


					A woman never hesitates to git on a crowded street car--she knows some workin' man'll
						git up an' give her his seat.

					

					Tipton Bud has sent his wife a souvenir pustal card from th' Yellowstone Park, sayin':
						"I'm standin' right on th' edge o' a precipice lookin' straight down five thousand feet.
						Wish you wuz here."

					

					Ole Niles Turner wants t' know how you play Sunday ball.

					

					A feller allus looks simple when he meets somebuddy that used t' know his wife.

					

					Ther's lots o' foxier fellers than Joe Cannon, but ther very few.


					

					Th' feller with a deep, thick voice allus gits th' most attention an' generally knows
						th' least.

					

					Young Lafe Bud has left his wife t' accept an offer fer an experienced single man with
						no capital.

					

					Tilford Moots' son what settled in Dakota a year ago has written t' his father fer a
						home-seekers' ticket.

					

					If ther's anything I feel as sorry fer as a hoss fallin' down it's a man travelin'
						alone with a baby.

					

					Th' hardest thing t' stop is a temporary chairman.


					

					Mrs. Tilford Moots is scarcely able t' do her housework, an' th' doctor says she'll
						have t' have her 'phone taken out. 
					


					Miss Fawn Lippincut has a new gold tooth an' it shines like a gallus buckle.

					

					Til Moots has put his garden all in, an' says he expects' t' raise ever'thing usually
						seen on a fust-class spring hat.

					

					If ther's one thing more'n 'tother that a relative hates it's a foldin' bed.

					

					A travelin' doctor with short hair caused considerable comment at th' hut-tel
						t'day.


					

					Lafe Bud has won a scholarship in a barbers' college.

					

					Ez Pash says th' thing he can't understand is that neither Cook er Peary er from
						Ohio.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple missed school Monday. She had t' stay home an' gather up th' Sunday
						paper.

					

					Th' more important a feller gits around a concern th' easier it seems t' git along
						while he is on a vacation.

					

					Mrs. Tilford Moots has decided not to visit her mother in Illynoy this fall. She says
						she'd rather put th' money in rugs.

				


				

				

					THE GREAT AUK

					


					By Professor Alex Tansey

					Somewhere in the East the slow, tedious process of assembling a Great Auk (also 

							 A Distinguished German Authority
						 spelled Alk, Awk, Alck and Alka) is in progress. This bird belonged to an
						antediluvian race of monsters even exceeding in dimensions the famous Diplodoccus
						Carneglei, and, while being distinctly Arctic in its proclivities, huge disosaurian
						deposits are not infrequently found in Florida. When entirely erected and completed with
						all trimmings this fowl will undoubtedly be found to be at least a head taller than the
						celebrated  Gigantosaurus Agustus Africanus, of which we
						know so little. According to a distinguished German authority the Great Auk 

							The Great Auk Nearing Completion

						 abounded in Labrador as late as the Tilden campaign, while a scientist of
						repute in one of the Eastern States writes that large numbers of the birds were seen as
						early as the fifth  century on the Funks off the south
						coast of Newfoundland. In a recently published interview a prominent Southern scientist
						is 

							A Prominent Southern Scientist

						 made to say that a splendid specimen of the Great Auk was seen on the streets
						of St. Augustine, Florida, in the fall of '73. He is further quoted as saying that it is
						the only North American bird without wings, and that it defended its young by kicking
						when overtaken in the chase. He tells also of the finding of a section of the spine in
						the eighties, near Alabama, that measured thirty feet in length, and that it soon
						crumbled when exposed to the warm Southern atmosphere.

				


				

				

					ABE MARTIN'S SAYINGS

					 

					Don't a feller feel good after he gits out of a store where he nearly bought
						something?

					

					A box o' vaneered se-gars has reached here, th' fust o' th' campaign.

					


					It's th' easiest thing in th' world t' be funny in a parlor.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple's aunt has finally got enough coffee coupons t' git a clothes
						wringer, but it killed her husband.

					


					Mrs. Tilford Moots went t' town this mornin' determined t' git an egg plant fer a
						nickel.

					

					Lib Pash has got three nice chickens out o' her garden so fer this spring.


					

					Th' feller that eats hash at th' New Palace Hut-tel don't know what he's missed.

					

					It's seven miles t' Morgantown as th' crow flies er nineteen miles accordin' t' th'
						leadin' jeweler.

					

					Constable Newt Plum's married dorter hit her finger with a hatchet yisterday an' th'
						fust thing she yelled wuz "git his number."

					

					It seems like th' folks that go t' work at eight er nine o'clock make all th'
						money.

					

					You mustn' eat oysters in August 'cause some folks call it Orgust.


					

					Ole Niles Turner has lost his teeth, an' he talks like a gum boot rollin' down
						stairs.

					

					Miss Mazie Bud, of Stop 15, Sundayed at Stop 16.

					

					Most ever'thing folks talk t' you 'bout these days don't concern nobuddy but
						'emselves.

					

					Tipton Bud is one o' them farmers that votes, rain er shine.

					

					Tilford Moots wuz exhibitin' a wooden chain at th' pustoffice yisterday that showed
						considerable genius. He jist carved it out with a reg'lar penknife Monday mornin' while
						his wife wuz plowin'.


					

					A ragged, broken down feller passed th' pustoffice this mornin' an' Pinky Kerr said:
						"You wouldn' think from lookin' at him that he played an elegant game o' billiards ten
						years ago."

					


					Cheer up--ther' hain't no one everbuddy likes.

					

					Hats fer women can't ever be any worse than they are now.

					

					A tent an' awnin' company is makin' a new uniform for Constable Plum.


					

					Mrs. Tipton Bud tripped on a croquet arch yisterday an' broke her nose. Constable Newt
						Plum says no further games kin be played in his jurisdiction 'til all th' brutal
						features er eliminated.

					

					Th' feller that don't git skinned nowadays is disappointed.

					

					Boys will be boys an' so will lots o' ole men.

					


					Somethin's wrong somewhere when a feller can't save as much as he could when he wuz out
						o' work.

					


					Lafe Bud had a fine twelve dollar suit ruined up t' Indynoplus yisterday. He wuz tryin'
						t' cross the street like he'd allus lived there.


					


					Ever father expects his boys t' do all th' things he wouldn' do when he wuz young.

					

					A soft answer is often good fer another month's rent.

					

					Never judge a man by th' cigar that's named fer him.

					


					Th' feller that charges "jist whatever you think's right" allus gits th' best o'
						it.


					Miss Tawney Apple don't know whether t' git a one er two bushel hat.

					

					It often happens that a feller's usefulness ends when his salary is raised.

				


				

				

					The Stage

					

					

						The Last Tie Broken. A Scene from Prof. Alex Tansey's New Drama,
							"No Chauffer to Guide Her"

					

					Pinky Kerr hain't never been sick a day, an' he's been travelin' with a theatrical
						company nearly all his life. He says walkin' is the natural exercise.

					

					Ther wuz a phonergraph show at Melodeon Hall last night an' th' crowd broke all
						records.

					

					A nickelodeon pianner player has been known t' go five days without food. er water.

					

					It takes eight Sunday papers t' heat Melodeon Hall.

					

					'Bout th' only thing that kin be run on wind is a the-atrical boardin' house.

					

					Th' feller that kin climb up on a Chautauky stage an' face a sea o' shirtwaists an'
						still hold onto his composure needn' worry 'bout th' Aldrich bill.


					

					It seems like th' folks that owe everybuddy in town never miss a show.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple is sellin' tickets at th' nickel the-ater an' she thinks she's a
						actress.

					

					Th' comedy troupe that played at Melodeon Hall all last week didn't give away no cut
						glass pitcher Saturday night as they advertised. Th' manager came out an' said business
						had been so good he would give a rollickin' farce instead.

					

					Th' lecture on "Altruism" at Melodeon Hall last night didn' materialize, as nobuddy
						knew what it meant.


					

					Th' Olympic The-atrical Club played Professor Tansey's new mellerdrammer, "Hair Lip,
						th' Scout," at th' hall last night. Th' play wuz so good that after Miss Lippincut
						rendered "Short Sheets Make th' Bed Seem Longer" th' audience got up an' left, refusin'
						t' take any more fer ther money.

					

					Pinky Kerr says he wuz treated like a dog all th' time he was with Uncle Tom's
						Cabin.

					

					One peculiarity 'bout th' the-atrical business is that ever'buddy on th' stage thinks
						ther th' best in th' business.

					

					Th' court house has t' move, as a nickel theater wants th' room.


					


					It's allus a relief t' see a show advertised that you've seen once.

					


					It's purty hard t' face th' music sometimes --'specially in a nickel the-ater.

					

					Th' feller that wouldn't walk across th' street t' see a circus would cut his own
						hair.

					

					Ike Lark wuz fired out o' th' band fer takin' a ten-bar rest in a overture at Melodeon
						Hall last night.

					

					Pinky Kerr has been offered a fine seven-thousand-dollar job at Washin'ton, but he
						says he'd rather stay here an' play in th' band.


					

					Last night wuz as blustery an' stormy as if ther wuz a virtuoso concert at Melodeon
						Hall.

					

					Th' legislature ort t' pass a law makin' it a criminal offense fer th' second fiddler
						t' wear his hair like th' leader.

					

					Some women take great pride in ther hair an' others never take ther hat off till th'
						curtain is nearly up.

					

					It's a mighty mean man that tells his little boy that th' pe-rade is all ther is t' a
						circus.

					

					Pinky Kerr says he has a aunt that never seen a train o' cars, an' Tipton Bud says he's
						got a uncle that never seen "Way Down East."

				


				

				

					New Melodeon Hall

					

					By Miss Germ Williams
					

						The Popular Old Playhouse

					

					During the closed season for theatricals Melodeon Hall has undergone many notable  changes. The walls about the ticket office window have been
						handsomely whitewashed and the railing along the gallery stairway has been neatly
						sandpapered. It is the intention 

							Constable Newt Plum, New Manager of Melodeon Hall

						 of Constable Newt Plum, who has assumed the management of the popular old
						playhouse, to make other important changes. If his present plans carry, an effort will
						be made to oust  Tell Binkley, who occupies a lower floor
						room just in the rear of the livery stable end. If this can be brought about a dressing
						room will be added, thus making the theater one of the most comfortable as well as the
						most modern opera halls west of Lima, Ohio. Manager Plum is also determined to put an
						end to the old custom, so long popular with the patrons of the theater, of eating
						sardines during a performance and throwing the empty boxes on the floor and
						elsewhere.

				

				


					Building Notes


					


					Mr. Lal Moots, o' Indynoplus, has turned over his new home as part payment o' a sewer
						assessment an' will return here an' begin life over.


					

					After a feller gets through havin' a house built he reads ever'thing he signs.

					


					Tilford Moots' new house is all finished but th' mortgage.

					

						Tipton Bud and Wife and Son Lionel in the Early Sixties

					

					Tipton Bud's brother hung hisself this mornin'. He leaves a wife an' a half finished
						house.

				


				

				

					For Fair Woman's Eye

					

					 

					Chewin' gum loses its strength when left exposed on th' bed post over night.

					

					Lots o' young husbands er glad when th' fust baby comes on account o' th' safety
						pins.


					

					You kin allus tell a novel-readin' mother by th' names of her children.

					

					Any woman looks good in th' ole fashioned sunbonnet-side view.

					

					You kin fool a girl on most ever'thing 'cept what's stylish.

					

					Miss Fawn Lippincut says this is positively th' last time she'll change her waist
						line.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple says that a liberal quantity o' burnt umber spread freely over th'
						neck in a true girlish fashion will obliterate th' winter water line.


					

					It wuz too late t' play cards after th' ole fashioned mother got through with th'
						housework.

					

					Miss Germ Williams' cousin married th' most pop'lar an' richest feller in Champaign,
						Illynoy, Saturday, an' she's combed her hair th' same way fer fifteen years.

					

					Th' Shakespeare Club met at Miss Fawn Lippincut's t'day an' discussed hats.

					

					Some girls will tolerate most any kind of a feller rather than give back any
						jewelry.

					

					A woman don't begin t' look purty till nine o'clock in th' mornin'.


					

					What's become o' th' ole fashioned nubia with window curtain tassels hangin' on th'
						ends that th' girls used t' wear?

					

					Grandmother didn' know nothin' 'bout th' benzoate o' sody. She hid her jelly t' make it
						keep.

					

					Th' modern girl writes t' a woman's maggyzine instead o' askin' her mother.

					

					Miss Germ Williams says it is not proper fer a young man t' go out between films when
						he takes his girl t' th' nickel the-ater.

					

					Miss Fawn Lippincut has thrown away her panatella corset. Hip! hip!


					

					A Indian baby never cries, but who would want to be an Indian father?

					

					It is said by one who is in ever' way qualified t' speak on th' subject that th' reason
						thousands o' girls never git married is that at some time er other they've expressed
						'emselves as bein' bitterly opposed t' housework.

					

					What's become o' th' good, ole fashioned girl that used t' say "Excuse onions," instead
						o' lyin' 'bout bein' at home?

					

					Th' June bride should remember that it's not allus easy t' dress up-t'-date on th'
						money from her husband's ole clothes.

					

					False teeth er all right in ther place.


					

					A flat is one room all cut up.

					

					If your husband don't like t' stay at home mebbe it's 'cause you don't know he chaws
						terbacker.

					

					Th' Colonial Whist Club met yisterday an' talked about ever'buddy in town.

					

					Mrs. Tilford Moots' sister passed away yisterday at Roundhead, Ohio. She had long been
						prominent in all movements fer th' betterment o' women, an' her husband has been missin'
						fer years.

					

					If ther wuz only three women in th' world they'd all hate housework.


					

					Miss Fawn Lippincut is writin' a recipe on how t' keep from turnin' red at a musical
						comedy.

					

					Pianner playin' is a fine accomplishment, but th' practicin' ort t' be done in th'
						woods.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple says if it wuzn't fer startin' ever'buddy t' knockin' she'd announce
						her engagement.

					

					Babies er great institutions. Most folks wouldn't take a million dollars fer th' fust
						one er refuse a nickel fer th' second.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple, who is t' be married in September, has asked fer a respite.


					

					Nothin' fades like popularity if it's overexposed.

					

					Ther's no substitute fer th' bloom o' youth that you can't tell across th' street.

					

					A slice o' egg plant makes a dandy sink stopper.

					

					I guess it's better in th' long run t' keep your mouth shut, even if you do get th'
						reputation fer bein' uninterestin'.

					


					

					Lots o' fellers take ther hat off in a elevator that think a woman's place is in th'
						kitchen.

					

					The average girl would look better if she'd dress her hair accordin' t' her face.

					

					Ever girl has an age when she can't decide whether t' try t' git married er be a
						trained nurse.

					

					Miss Fawn Lippincut says it's perfectly proper fer a feller t' take his girl's arm
						while passin' a engine house.


					

					

						Nothin' a little man says ever sounds probable.

					

					

					Ther' never wuz a real county fair without an ole lady in a black alpaca dress an'
						sunbonnet settin' under a tree by th' art hall smokin' terbacker an' pennyroyal
						mixed.

					

					Miss Tawney Apple, bride t' be, went up t' Indynoplus t'day t' buy her tonneau.

					

					After all, th' only ole, reliable, safe an' sane sport is croquet.

					

					Ther' never kin be any real happiness where ther's bad coffee.

					

					After a feller gits married he goes home at noon fer a couple o' weeks t' kiss his wife
						an' then he begins t' eat down town.


					

					After a feller distinguishes himself these days he starts right in t' make it pay.


					

					Rev. Wiley Tanger has resigned his pastur age, as his wife didn' care fer croquet.


					

					Owin' t' th' hard times th' members o' th' Prosperity Club er wearin' ther uniforms
						ever' day.

					

					Th' hardest thing 'bout makin' a speech is knowin' what t' do with your hands.

					

					While workin' by th' hour yisterday Sam Hale wuz found dead near th' pump from drinkin'
						too much water.

					

					Tipton Bud wuz up all night with his baby walkin' in his bare feet on a crex rug.

					

					Th' feller that argues with himself allus gits th' best o' it.

					

					Th' fool an' his father's money soon part.

					

					You kin tell how some girls hate work by th' fellers they marry.

					

					Th' more you read how t' raise chickens th' fewer eggs you gather.

					

					Some men er not as black as ther painted an' some women not as pink.


					

					Tell Binkley says th' Indynoplus street car conductors er th' most accomodatin' fellers
						he ever met. When he paid his fare Sunday one o' them told him he wuz sorry he didn'
						have a Canadian quarter t' give him.

					

					Some fellers git credit fer bein' quiet an' inoffensive when ther really in th' mail
						order business.

					

					Never take anything t'day you can't put back t'morrow.

					

					You kin fool all th' people all th' time after th' cantaloupe season opens.

					

					When two homely people meet they allus seem glad t' see each other.


					

					Young Lafe Bud is slowly recoverin' from a rim fire sandwich he et at Helmsburg.

					

					Ther's entirely too many people in this country lookin' fer light employment.

					

					Ther's lots o' varieties o' Dimmycrats, but th' stringless er very few.

					

					A grown person allus looks simple ridin' b'hind a pony.

					

					Dock Mopps visited his boyhood home at Tulip, Indianny, yisterday, fer th' fust time in
						forty years. He found ever'thing jist th' same, 'cept th' whiskers er longer.


					

					Th' fust thing lots o' folks think of as soon as they git up in th' mornin' is how they
						kin git ther names in th' paper.

					

					Ole Mat Thomas, who fell thro' th' hay hole at th' livery stable Monday, will never be
						able t' work agin, so his boys have joined th' reg'lar army.

				

				

				


					Uncle Niles Turner

					

					

						Uncle Niles Turner
						By one who was there

					


					On the twenty-third day of last November Uncle Niles Turner celebrated his one hundred
						and third birthday. His faculties are still unimpaired, and he takes great pride in the
						fact that he never reported a conductor. He talks interestingly of a very wet spring in
						the early thirties when every croquet set in the village sprouted.

				


				

				

					Tea, Coffee, Iced Tea or Milk

					

					A clump of drummers was homeward bound one Friday night in a day coach. After lying for
						quite a while about their week's business the subject was abruptly changed to dining-
						room girls. One fellow told of the 

							"Leaning Carelessly on the Back of My Chair She Said," Etc.

						
						 dificulty of getting anything to eat at a hotel where a
						repertoire company in "standard plays" was stopping, another of the futility of asking
						for the second egg during the winter months, another of a dining-room girl that used to
						say, "Floating island or fruit," and when asked what kind of fruit replied, "Apple
						butter." Finally Lafe Bud kicked the shoe off his left foot and carelessly threw his leg
						over the arm of his seat and said: "During the campaign of 1904 I had been traveling for
						some days organizing Taft clubs." (Here Mr. Bud kicked off his other shoe, and throwing
						the seat back, rested both feet on the soft, plush top.) "At three o'clock one morning I
						arrived at a small town on the B. and O. in Indiana. Going to the leading hotel I was
						admitted to the office and sat down to read last week's paper by a lantern till
						breakfast time." (Mr. Bud changed his position, and, opening a window, cooked his feet
						up on the sill, much  to the discomfiture of a stylishly
						dressed lady just behind him.) "I was just dozing off to sleep when the dining-room door
						swung back with a bang and a frayed-out blonde, with her shoestrings trailing and
						shooing back the flies with her apron, said, 'Breakfast is ready fer those what want
						it.' Following her to the transient table near the golden oak sideboard, I was soon
						seated, and then, guess what she said, leaning carelessly on the back of my chair?"
					"What?" came a chorus of salesmen's voices.
					"Squirrel er eggs?"

				


				

				

					Motoring

					

					 

					A ortomobile salesman could talk about a cow jist as easy.

					

					Tell Binkley charged a quarter's worth o' segars this mornin', cranked his bran new
						tourin' car an' started fer Indynoplus t' have a note renewed.

					

					Th' Rev. Wiley Tanger says th' road t' th' devil is th' most pop'lar speedway in th'
						world.

					

					'Bout th' best thing I kin say fer a tourin' car is that th' lines don't' git under th'
						tail.

					

					This mornin' Tell Binkley jumped int' his new three-thousan'-dollar tourin' car, an',
						after testin' th' carbuter, hurried t' th' poor farm, arrivin' jist ten minutes too late
						t' see his mother alive.

					

					Tell Binkley says if folks er bound an' determined t' go head o'er heels in debt they
						might jist as well git good tourin' cars while ther at it.

					

					Tell Binkley wuz up t' Indynoplus t'day an' bought a set o' auto tires an' paid a
						dollar on his furniture.

					

					Miss Fawn Lippincut has a linen suit but no auto.

					

					With a single bound Tell Binkley jumped int' his three-thousan'-dollar tourin' car this
						mornin' an' started over th' hills at a merry clip fer Indynoplus t' see th' circus, an'
						not bein' able t' borrow any money he returned home after th' p'rade

					

					While curryin' his toupee this mornin' Tell Binkley wuz given till Monday t' pay th'
						remainin' $2,800 on his tourin' car.


					

					 

					Pinky Kerr says he don't believe anybuddy ever bought a lobster when he wuz sober.


					

					Th' fust purty weather allus brings out a lot o' dizzy lookin' plug hats.

					

					What's become o' th' ole-time freckled face village pest that played th' French harp
						with his nose?

					

					It haint no trouble fer a feller with a good reputation an' a wide circle o' friends t'
						steal all th' money he wants if he's built that way.

					

					When it comes t' raisin' revenue what's th' matter with a national lottery? Th'
						consumer would at least git a little excitement.

					

					Th' mills o' th' gods er usin' th' same ole roller process.


					

					Th' resturint keeper is havin' a hard time these days cuttin' a pie so 't'll pay fer
						itself.

					

					You can't even be pleasant these days without some one tryin' t' take advantage o'
						you.

					

					Once in a long time you find enough relatives on speakin' terms t' hold a family
						reunion.

					

					Hain't it funny what ugly men an' dogs some women kin love.

					

					Young Lafe Bud says that th' thing that impressed him most durin' his trip over
						Indianny with Senator Beveridge wuz payin' 15 cents fer a plate o' beans at Wabash.

				


				

				


					The Home-Coming of Brough McGee

					

					By Miss Germ Williams

					It has been many a year since any public event brought to the surface as much lively
						interest as the home coming exercises at Melodeon Hall last Thursday night in honor of
						Mr. Brough McGee. Every available inch of space was utilized, and many late comers had
						to either return home or hang around and play pool at the Little Gem. Professor Clem
						Harner's silver cornet band played "Home, Sweet Home," and was immediately followed by
						Mr. Alex Tansey, who delivered the address of welcome without referring to his notes
						once. It was most brilliant, instructive and eloquent, and to those who know Mr. Tansey
						only casually it was indeed a great surprise. His 
						knowledge of life and conditions on the plains in the early days shows much
						studiousness. Mr. Tansey spoke in full as follows:
					"Ladies, Gentlemen of the Band, and Gentlemen--There has been in my life, though brief
						as it has been, so to speak, four particularly bright epochs, so to speak, that stand
						out on memory's scroll like four great golden teeth in the face of time, as I might say
						in way of illustration, so to speak. The first was my privilege in introducing William
						Jennings Bryan to the citizens of Shoals in the late memorable campaign. The second, the
						distinguished honor of having been chosen to perform the same function an hour later at
						Bedford to an immense throng. The third was the still further splendid pleasure of
						introducing the Peerless Nebraskan to a multitude of souls at Bloomington fifty minutes
						later. Now, my fellow ladies and friends, I have the distinguished honor, so to speak,
						to introduce to  you one, though distinguished in no
						lesser degree, though along widely different lines, so to speak, is thereby no less
						distinguished. (Liberal applause.) Our subject this evening is a man, who, in the prime
						of young manhood, with a breast fairly bursting with all that is good and manly, struck
						out westward at a time when men were tried as at no other time in our country's time.
						(Applause.) A time when the westward traveler, so to speak, encountered in his pathway
						innumerable dangers without number. Where the unbroken trail to the then great unknown,
						so to speak, passed through a labyrinth of peril, pathos and pestilence. Danger lurked
						behind each nodding cacti and scrubby sage brush. Bath tubs, ice, shaving sticks, lawn
						mowers and other luxuries that are ours today were unknown then. Pushing on, besmeared
						with the dust of fatigue but ever hopeful, the westward traveler of the early fifties
						was indeed a man  of inscrutable nerve, so to speak. On
						and on, and on again, he trudged over jagged peaks, through gloomy, echoful canyons,
						always within hailing distance of hostile savages, though being careful not to hail,
						through villages of scowling, bewhiskered Mormons--always onward toward the great
						Golden West, so to speak, over barren wastes of sand and alkali with naught but the
						heaven's blue canopy for a tarpaulin, so to speak. I tell you, my friends and members of
						the band,' them was the times when men were tried, and the bones of them that was found
						wanting are bleaching on the desert today. Who was to transform the boundless sandy
						wastes and marshy plains, the forest fastnesses and mountain regions of the great West,
						so to speak, to a luxuriant paradise of mineral wealth, yellow fields of grain and a
						land of homes and firesides? Who, I might add, so to speak, was to bring about this
						great transformation? Oh,  my friends and musicians, our
						guest of this evening belonged to that little band of fearless men who deserve .to rank,
						so to speak, with the illustrious Plymouth Rocks--I should say Rhode Island Reds--or I
						mean, of course, Pilgrim Fathers. (Applause lasting some minutes.) So, I say, it is a
						great honor to stand here tonight before this great audience and splendid band, by
						universal request, and have the distinguished honor, so to speak, to introduce to you a
						man who, though ripe in years and whose career is crowned with success, comes back to
						you the same genial nature's nobleman. My friends and band, I have the distinguished
						pleasure of introducing to you Mr. Brough McGee, of Apache County, Nevada."
					As Mr. Tansey took his seat amid wild cheering, Mr. McGee arose dressed in a tight
						fitting brown and black suit and spoke in thick, blunt tones in full as follows:


					
					

						Mr. Brought McGee

					

					"I hain't no speech maker. I like to hear 'em, but I don't make 'em. I guess nobuddy
							 here remembers me. You wuz all little shavers when I
						went West in the fifties 'bout the time the Haines boys killed their mother. It took a
						lot o' grit to go West them days. I done pretty well I guess, but I had to have grit. If
						you hain't got grit in the West they'll eat you up."
					At the conclusion of Mr. McGee's address a number of our older citizens hung about him
						while the crowd was moving out.

				


				

				

					Wet and Dry Notes

					

					 

					It makes some folks keg-backed t' live in a dry town.

					

					Tell Binkley received a barrel o' sugar t'day containin' one hundred an' twenty
						pints.


					

					Ole Niles Turner presented a prescription fer a pair o' spectacles Saturday an' th'
						clerk said, "I'm jist out, but I expect a barrel in t'morrow."

					

					Tilford Moots' nephew, o' Muncie, has got th' rheumatism from holdin' a wet poll
						book.

					

					A small, inexpensive piece o' ice added t' one cup o' water will make it cool.

					

					Some feller down at Seymour has a set o' bar fixtures an' a alligator vest fer sale. If
						women kin stand 'round th' polls all day in Orange county they kin stand up in th'
						street cars.

					

					Th' New Plush Ultra debatin' club tackled "Which is th' most destructive, fire er
						water?" at Melodeon Hall last night, an' th' drys won.

					

					Th' ladies' orangeade society, o' Orange county, is assistin' at th' polls in Jennings
						county t'day.

					

					If it sounds like a tub full o' dishes it's a bootlegger.

					

					A little liquor in a cellar never hurt nobuddy.

					

					You don't git no bologna with your drink at a drug store.

					

					When you see three men in a buggy it's a cinch ther full.


					

					 

					It's purty hard t' watch a three ring circus in a dry county. 

					

					While young Lafe Bud wuz returnin' from Indynoplus yisterday a sudden lurch o' th'
						train caused him t' be thrown violently t' th'. ground, but fortunately he escaped with
						only two broken bottles.

					

					Ther hain't nothin' t' take th' place o' whisky unless it's born in you.

					

					A bootlegger fell off th' court house steps at Franklin yisterday an' it took seven
						doctors t' pick th' glass out o' him.

					

					Miss Bunnie Jones, o' Martinsville (dry), will visit her aunt in Richmond (wet) this
						week.

				


				

				

					Sawdust Scented, Much Frequented, Circus Tented

					

					Lay--dees and Gent--men:   While announc--ing our con--cert a few
						mo--ments ago I forgot to mention the crown--ing feature, Miss Nina Del--mato, the
						most in--trepid, the most daring of all aerialists, in her mar--velous, death
						de--fying, perilous descent on a slender cable from the top--most pinnacle of this vast
						pavilion by the hair of her head to the earth below, a dis--tance of one hun--dred feet!
						See her! I thank--you.

				

				

				

					ECHOES OF THE LATE UNPLEASANTNESS

					

					Campaign Episodes From Indiana The Political Hotbed of
						America

					By Hon. Ex-Editor Cale Fluhart

					The most picturesque feature of a presidential campaign in our country today is the
						Indiana Whirlwind Finish which both great parties participated in at the eleventh hour
						to warm up the tired farmer and give new life to the old party wheel horses.
					The following observations are given just as they appear in my diary, and the
						illustrations are lifelike and true:


					

					 

					A novel incident marked Mr. Bryan's stop at Noblesville. A babe was passed to the rear
						platform over the heads of the crowd, and the Unparalleled Commoner, beaming with
						smiles, kissed the tot and passed it back. The crowd was so large that the little child
						did not reach its mother on the edge of the throng for fully two hours.


					

					 

					Many distinguished looking women crowded the galleries and listened to every word Mr.
						Taft spoke in regard to law by injunction.

					 

					At Bloomfield Mr. Bryan remarked that the intelligence of a family was often in the
						wife's name.


					


					 

					It remained for Scottsburg to make the finest demonstration of the day in honor of Mr.
						Taft. Clem Taylor was the grand marshal, and the parade started on the dot.

					 

					When it was known that John McCutcheon, George Ade and Sam Blythe were on the Beveridge
						special the town soon filled with strangers, who soon filled up.


					

					 

					At Shoals the crowd that greeted Mr. Taft was very complimentary when it is considered
						that the hazel nut season was at its height. When the band played "On the Wabash" a
						handsomely dressed young lady from Terre Haute wept freely.

					

					 


					Mr. Beveridge spoke almost five minutes at Walkerton and confined himself closely to
						the issues of the day. When the dray load of people drove away loud cheers went up for
						the fearless young senator.


					

					 

					When the farmers in the vicinity of Tulip heard that Wm. Dudley Foulke was liable to be
						on the Taft special hundreds of them stopped their work in the fields and drove to town
						to hear the band.


					

					 

					The first voters' club of Rising Sun seemed to affect Mr. Taft deeply, and he spoke to
						the young members of the boundless opportunities in Panama for strong, able-bodied
						shovelers.


					

					 

					Fully an hour before the Bryan special reached Gosport the lively strains of the cornet
						band of that city could be heard distinctly across the wild moor.


					

					 

					At Lime Dale the Rusty Hinge Quartet joined the Taft party and charmed the crowds at
						many stops until Fort Wayne was reached.


					

					 

					It soon got noised about that the Senator Beveridge special would stop two minutes at
						Jasonville and the poolroom was soon deserted and the people generally gave him a
						rousing welcome. 

					

					 

					Even the more modest homes of Crawfordsville were lavishly decorated in honor of the
						Great Commoner.


					

					 

					When Mr. Bryan appeared thousands upon thousands of farmers fought madly to shake hands
						with the famous Westerner, and every mention of the physical ownership of railroads was
						cheered lustily.


					

					 

					At Lafayette it was declared by some of the older residents that the Bryan reception
						was even greater than accorded James G. Blaine in 1884.


					

					Constable Newt Plum's son-in-law up at Indynoplus, who had his nose cut off last
						summer, says that sometimes he's glad o' it as it helps th' street car conductors t'
						remember that they got his fare.

					

					Ole Niles Turner can't read, an' during' th' Spanish-American War he wuz holdin' a
						paper upside down an' said, "Hello, here's another battleship blown t' h--l."

					

					Constable Newt Plum accidentally locked his whiskers up in a cash register last night
						an' it wuz three o'clock before his cries fer help wuz heard.


					

					If ther wuz only three men in th' world two o' them would be grafters.

					

					A feller kin have a swelled head an' still wear a number six hat.

					

					Th' handiest girl at a weddin' is th' one that never had a beau.

					

					It's natural fer ever'buddy t' be dissatisfied with ther lot--'specially when a sewer
						hits it.

					

					Lots o' folks git credit fer havin' a strong will power when ther only pig-headed.


					

					Men git ole before they know it, but women don't.

					


					Th' feller that has lots o' friends never knows what kind o' se-gars he's smokin'.

					

					Some folks pay a compliment like they went down in ther pocket fer it.

					

					You never know a feller till you go fishin' with him.

					


					We allus pay four prices fer a good time.

					

					A feller hain't necessarily lucky 'cause he wins a bride.


					

					 

					All things come t' him that waits--if he knows where t' wait.


					

					You kin excuse a good many things in a feller that pays his honest debts.

					

					You never hear o' no lost opportunities bein' returned by th' finder.

					

					Nothin'll stop some people but a small admission fee.

					

					Uneasy lies th' head that looks bum in a straw hat.

					

					No matter what a little man wears it makes him look littler.

					


					Never take a rough way t' git even.


					

					Mrs. Tilford Moots' father died yisterday. He wuz 89 years ole an' had only been t'
						Niagary Falls three times.

					

					Th' only time th' average husband gits anything t' eat is when ther's company in th'
						house, an' then he has t' eat slow.

					

					President Taft kin take a vacation, but th' plain people have t' stay at home an' read
						his golf scores.

					

					Constable Newt Plum's married daughter is jist crazy t' move way out where she kin
						raise chickens an' miss ever'thing.

					

					One o' th' worst o' th' fifty-seven varieties o' undesirables is th' feller that asks
						you a question an' then don't pay no attention t' your answer.

					

					Food fer thought will remain on th' free list.

					

					After eatin' a hearty supper an' chattin' in a unusually optimistic vein on his porch
						with members of his household, Uncle Ez Pash wuz found an hour later at a Dimmycratic
						caucus.

					

					Generally speakin', farmers have had a purty prosperous time durin' th' last seven
						years, but still, after payin' fer new tires an' pianolas, they hain't saved so much
						after all.


					

					Which would you rather do, somebuddy er go fishin'?

					

					If prosperity will jist return no questions will be asked.

					

					A ball club has t' lose 'bout twenty straight games b'fore th' sportin' editur says,
						"Well, we can't expect t' win all th' time."

					

					Tilford Moots talks some o' sellin' his farm, as he says it's too confinin'.

					

					A feller don't have over two er three real friends in a lifetime. Once in a while you
						meet some one that's nice an' clever, but he generally turns out t' be an agent fer
						somethin'.

					

					You never hear nothin' 'bout "th' money father used t' make."

					

					Dock Marsh an' th' boys er back from a huntin' trip in Arkansas. They killed eight
						quarts.

					

					Nobuddy kin talk as interestin' as th' feller that's not hampered by facts er
						infermation.

					

					Speakin' o' th' hereafter, I think a feller gits 'bout ever'thing that's comin' t' him
						on this earth--unless he's a doctor.

					

					What is worse than havin' some one try t' tell you about a play they saw?


					

					Ther's only 'bout two places left any more where a feller don't get skinned--th'
						pustoffice an' th' town pump.

					

					A reg'lar sport is a feller that kin beg his cigarettes an' play pool so good it don't
						cost him nothin'.

					

					Mrs. Tipton Bud says she'd rather play bridge all th' time than do without a hired
						girl.

					

					Some people worry an' others don't pretend t' pay anything.

					

					Young Lafe Bud has accepted a position with th' Vanderbilts--brakin'.


					

					Clothes don't make th' man, but they've helped many an actress.

					

					A friend that hain't in need is a friend indeed.

					

					Opportunity only knocks once--generally before you're married. 
					

					Experience is a dear teacher but he delivers th' goods.

					

					Hat store lookin' glasses 'll take th' conceit out o' a feller quicker'n anything
						else.

					

					Two kin live cheaper than one--but not as long.

				


				

				

					Tell Binkley

					

					
						Tell Binkley and His "Pioneer Day" Hat
					

					There are thousands of Tell Binkleys. Clean cut, a ff ab 1 e fellows, considerate,
						kindly and execution proof; taking large interest in public affairs; selling oil land
						today and mining stock tomorrow; prominent at all gatherings and foremost in group
						photographs; the head and spirit of all movements for betterment of town or city;
						borrowing here and there and paying eventually; drinking or leaving it alone; always
						sympathetic and kind.

					

					Tell Binkley came to Brown County ten years ago and he has been expecting a check from
						somewhere every day since. For a while he was a trusted employe of the Bean Blossom
						Trust Company, but his wide circle of friends caused the institution to close its doors,
						and after a short absence abroad the indictment was quashed and he returned to his old
						haunts. He is still the same whole souled, polished, kindly gentleman, liberal to a
						fault and sharing his massive touring car with the highest and humblest citizen
						alike.

				


				

				

					ABE MARTIN'S SAYINGS

					It seems like some folks er fated t' go clean thro' life puttin' up hammocks fer others
						t' enjoy.

					

					It must be embarrassin' t' be poor an' prominent.

					

					You won't meet any autos in th' straight an' narrow path.

					

					Children soon git ont' th' grocer that breaks a cracker in two t' make th' scales
						balance.

					

					Some folks patternize a grocery an' others send ther little children with a book.

					

					Some fellers er land poor an' others have ther money tied up in dress suits.

					

					Tell Binkley, who has been loafin' 'round here fer years, will address th' workin' men
						at Melodeon hall t'day on th' "Dignity o' Labor."

					

					I knowed a feller back in '59 that went on one o' them polar expositions. His boat wuz
						frozen up tight in latitude eighty-three all that blazin' hot summer, an' his wife an'
						little children wuz at home without a bit o' ice in th' house.

					

					Ole Niles Turner says that th' plain, ever'day wool an' cotton mixed variety o'
						consumer hain't hankerin' very much fer another "square deal" administration.


					

					This has been a wonderful record breakin' year, but so fer nobuddy has beat th' booze
						game.

					

					Professor Alex Tansey, who spent one whole winter in Sandusky, Ohio, an' who is widely
						conversant in polar travel, repudiates th' Cook an' Peary dashes. He says nobuddy but
						Eliza Harris could o' made th' remarkable time.

					

					Th' feller with a family t' support don't know whether t' laugh er git mad when he
						reads President Taft's speeches.

					

					Lafe Bud has resigned his job at th' sawmill 'cause it took up too much o' his
						time.


					

					Pinky Kerr wuz up t' Indynoplus yisterday an' stopped at a reg'lar hut-tel almost two
						hours from tip t' tip.

					

					Onions eaten raw will destroy th' odor o' a hot lead pencil eraser.

					

					Lafe Bud is gittin' t' look like th' feller that reforms in th' third act.

					

					Hon. Ex-Editur Cale Fluhart says he got bounced off a newspaper once fer gittin'
						scooped on a lingerin' death.

					

					Th' survivors o' a $7 Niagary Falls Excursion will hold a reunion in th' Moots grove
						Saturday.


					

					Some of our brightest politicians say anominated fer nominated.

					

					Miss Fawn Lippincut has written a purty little song called "Take Back Your Heart, I
						Ordered Walrus."

					

					People that can't sing never refuse.

					

						The End

					

				

			


		

		



			


			

			

				

					Other Abe Martin Books

					

					Abe Martin's Sayings (1907), $1.00.
					Abe Martin's Almanack (1908), $1.00. The W. K. Stewart Co., Indianapolis.
					Abe Martin's Almanack (1909), $1.00. Abe Martin Pub. Co., Indianapolis.

				

			

		

	
