
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Sembower, Charles Jacob, 1871-. The life and the poetry of Charles Cotton. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1323
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			
			
				ADVERTISEMENT
				PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
				
					THE WAR OF THE THEATRES. By Josiah H. Penniman. $1.00.
					THE RISE OF FORMAL SATIRE IN ENGLAND UNDER CLASSICAL INFLUENCE. By Raymond M.
						Alden. $1.00.
					"THE FAIRE MAIDE OF BRISTOW." By Arthur H. Quinn. $1.00.
					GEORGE CHAPMAN AND "THE TRAGEDIE OF CHABOT ADMIRALL OF FRANCE." By Ezra Lehman.
						Boards, $1.25.
					THE HECTOR OF GERMANIE. By Wentworth Smith. (Edited by Leonidas Warren Payne,
						Jr.) Boards, $1.25.
					FLETCHER'S "ROYALL KING AND LOYALL SUBJECT." By Kate Watkins Tibbals. Boards,
						$1.25.
				

				D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, AGENTS, NEW YORK
			


			
			
				
					THE LIFE AND THE POETRY OF CHARLES
						COTTON
				
				BY
					CHARLES JACOB SEMBOWER
					PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH, INDIANA UNIVERSITY

				
					UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, AGENTS,
					NEW YORK
					1911
				

			
			
			
				VERSO
				Copyright, 1911
					BY THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA

				J. F. TAPLEY CO.
					NEW YORK

			

			
			
				CONTENTS
				
					INTRODUCTION
						1
					THE POETRY OF CHARLES COTTON
						64
					THE POETRY OF NATURE AND OF MEDITATION
						101
					INDEX 
						121
				
			


			
			
			
				
					INTRODUCTION
				To the general reader, the name of Charles Cotton means hardly anything at all; and
					indeed to scholars, who are not specialists within the period in which his life fell, it
					is little more than a name. Now and then, to be sure, it is remembered as the name of
					Walton's associate "Angler," perhaps also as that of the translator of Montaigne, or, much
					less favorably, as that of the author of a burlesque poem called the "Virgil
					Travesty."
				Nevertheless, Cotton has not been without appreciators who rank him as one of the most
					delightful minor poets of the seventeenth century. Wordsworth knew him well, and in "A
					Letter to a friend of Robert Burns," pays a tribute to him as a "highly-gifted man" who
					not only in certain unfortunate circumstances of his life, but in "versatility of genius"
					bore "no unobvious resemblance to the Scottish bard." Coleridge found in the volume of
					"Poems on Several Occasions" (1689) by Cotton, "not a few poems replete with every
					excellence of thought,  image and passion which we expect or
					desire in the poetry of the milder Muse." Charles Lamb quotes and praises the poet more
					than once,—in this case, as so often elsewhere, hitting upon the distinctive quality
					in his man. "How say you, reader"—he exclaims after quoting Cotton's "New
					Year,"—"do not these verses smack of the rough magnanimity of the old English vein?
					Do they not fortify like a cordial; enlarging the heart, and productive of sweet blood and
					generous spirits in the concoction? Where be those puling fears of death just now
					expressed or affected? Passed like a cloud-absorbed in the purging sunlight of clear
					poetry-clean washed away by a wave of genuine Helicon—." Archbishop Trench, more
					careful perhaps to guard against the charge of over-praise, found in Cotton's poems "a
					merit which," he says, "certainly strikes me more than any singular wealth of fancy which
					I can find in them; and which to Wordsworth also must have constituted their chief
					attraction; namely, the admirable English in which they are written. They are sometimes
					prosaic, sometimes blemished by more serious moral faults; but for homely vigor and purity
					of language, for the total absence of any attempt to conceal the deficiency of strong and
					high imagination by a false poetic diction—purple rags torn from other men's
					garments and sewn upon his own—he may take his place among the foremost masters of
					the tongue." In America it was Lowell who found Cotton to be "an excellent poet, and a
					thorough master of succulently idiomatic English, which he treated with a  country-gentlemanlike familiarity, as his master, Montaigne,
					had treated French." And again in defense of the poet, Lowell says, "If he wrote the
					'Virgil Travesty,' he also wrote verses which the difficult Wordsworth could praise, and a
					poem of gravely noble mood addressed to Walton on his Lives, in which he shows a knowledge
					of what goodness is that no bad man could have acquired. Let one line of it at least shine
					in my page, not as a sample but for its own dear sake:— 'For in
						a virtuous act all good men share.'"
				
				So much, in brief, as to the rare quality of language, mind and heart that is to be found
					in Cotton's serious verse. Why, if all this is so, has he been, as a poet, so long
					neglected
				Two or three reasons at once occur to the student of the poetry of the period. In the
					first place, very little of his best work was published in his lifetime. It circulated to
					some extent amongst his friends, who were not insensible to its high merit; but it was not
					printed till 1689. Then it came too late. Cotton himself, though driven to it by
					necessity, had helped to establish a taste for licentious verse and for burlesque. In
					1689, there was little appreciation remaining for the verse of Cotton's youth and early
					manhood. Perhaps even if it had been published at the time of its production, it would
					still have been out of key with the public taste. The "sweet amenity" of his master, Isaac
					Walton, had met with little response as pure literature. Until well into the eighteenth
					century, the "Angler" was  thought of as merely a pleasant
					manual for the craft. "The magnanimity of the old English vein" would probably have been
					as easily overlooked. At all events the reputation that Cotton gained after 1660 as a
					translator and as a pleasant burlesquer and compiler was naturally adverse to a quick
					response to the work of his serious muse. This reputation as a clever man-of-letters kept
					fresh well into the next century, but there is little or no record that his poetry was
					known at all. It had to wait for its hearing until the beginning of the following century,
					when a genuine love of nature and of thoroughly poetical conception sought out and
					discovered poetry wherever it lay hid.
				As a poet, however, he would naturally have suffered much from the changing attitude of
					his time toward poetry. Professor Schelling, in the introduction to his "Seventeenth
					Century Lyrics," has pointed out that "Whilst the larger number of poets between 1640 and
					1670, according to temperament or circumstances, held either to the old manner, as did
					Milton and Marvell, or went over wholly to the new, as did Waller and Denham, a few were
					caught, so to speak, between the conflicting waves of the two movements, and are of
					unusual historical interest on this account." Of those who, without being reactionary,
					were loyal to the spirit that was passing, Charles Cotton was by no means the least.
				The poet was descended from an ancient and honorable family. His great-grandfather was
					Sir Richard Cotton, Comptroller of the Household and Privy 
					Councilor to Edward the Sixth. His grandfather was Sir George Cotton of Warblenton in the
					county of Sussex and of Bedhampton in the county of Southampton. Sir George married
					Cassandra, one of the co-heiresses of Henry Mackwilliams of Stanburne-hall in the county
					of Essex, "sometymes of the honorable band of Pensioners to the late Queene of ffamous
					memorye, Queene Elizabeth." Sir George's son, Charles Cotton, Esquire, became the poet's
					father.
				Charles Cotton, the elder, has left no record of himself in letters, but his fame is
					plentifully preserved in the writings of his friends and admirers. Herrick and Lovelace
					are among those who inscribed poems to him. Of the poets, Herrick gives the most detailed
					appreciation of the man.
				
					
						"For brave comportment, wit without offence,
						Words fully flowing, yet of influence:
						Thou art that man of men, the man alone,
					
					
						Who with thine own eyes read'st what we do write,
						And giv'st our numbers euphony and weight;
						Tell'st when a verse springs high, how understood
						To be, or not, born of the royal blood.
					
					
						For which, my Charles, it is my pride to be
						Not as much known, as to be lov'd of thee."
					
				Thus, though he was not himself a poet, he was a critic of rare ability and a man beloved
					by those whose work he criticised. Lovelace, in dedicating to him the poem called "The
					Grasshopper," made affectionate reference to his capacity for good-fellowship,  a characteristic which we shall find also to be not the least
					distinctive among those of his son:— 
						
							"Thou best of men and friends ! we will create
							A genuine summer in each other's breast;
							And spite of this cold Time and frozen Fate,
							Thaw us a warme seate to our rest."
						
				
				Another contemporary poet, Henry Glapthorne, praised him with convincing discrimination;
					his friend, Alexander Brome, dedicated an edition of Fletcher's "Monsieur Thomas" to him;
					and his relative and neighbor, Sir Aston Cokaine, affectionately took him to task in a
					poetical epistle for his part in an edition of Beaumont and Fletcher's plays, which seemed
					to Sir Aston over-generous to the Frenchman, Beaumont, at the expense of the Englishman,
					Fletcher. In 1652, Davenant dedicated the Seventh Canto of the Third Book of "Gondibert"
					to him; in stanzas iv and v, we find this friendly prophecy: 
						
							"And Charles, in that more civil Century,
							When this shall wholly fill the voice of Fame,
							The busy Antiquaries then will try
							To find amongst their Monarch's coin, thy Name.
						
						
							Much they will bless thy Virtue, by whose fire
							I'll keep my laurel warm, which else would fade,
							And, thus inclos'd, think me of Nature's Quire,
							Which still sing sweetest in the shade."
						
					
				
				The list of the friends of the elder Cotton is, indeed, an imposing one; it includes,
					besides those mentioned, such famous names as those of Ben Jonson,  Donne, Selden, May, Carew, Walton, Chief Justice Vaughn and Lord Clarendon. The
					latter's portrait of him—few can sketch more deftly than Clarendon —is
					interesting not only on its own account, but also for the striking resemblance that it
					leaves us to find between the father and the son:—
				"Charles Cotton," says Lord Clarendon, "was a gentleman born to a competent fortune, and
					so qualified in his person and education, that for many years he continued the greatest
					ornament of the town, in the esteem of those who had been best bred. His natural parts
					were very great, his wit flowing in all the parts of conversation; the superstructure of
					learning not raised to a considerable height; but having passed some years in Cambridge,
					and then in France, and conversing always with learned men, his expressions were proper
					and significant, and gave great lustre to his discourse upon any argument; so that he was
					thought by those who were not intimate with him, to have been much better acquainted with
					books than he was. He had all those qualities which in youth raise men to the reputation
					of being fine gentlemen; such a sweetness and gentleness of nature, and such a civility
					and delightfulness in conversation, that no man in the court, or out of it, appeared a
					more accomplished person; all these extraordinary qualifications being supported by as
					extraordinary a clearness of courage and fearlessness of spirit."
				It was an extraordinary heritage. Yet the younger Cotton was endowed with most of these
					traits, the finer and deeper ones no less than some of  those
					that had more dash and color. There remains to be mentioned only one other faculty which
					the father may have bequeathed to his son-the gift of expression. We have the testimony of
					no less a man than Isaac Walton to the elder Cotton's possession of this gift. Walton,
					speaking of the ancestral estate, Beresford, says, "The pleasantness of the river,
					mountains, and meadows about it, cannot be described, unless Sir Philip Sidney or Mr.
					Cotton's father were again alive to do it." This power of description was one of the most
					eminent possessed by the son.
				The poet's mother was Olive Stanhope, the daughter and heiress of Sir John Stanhope and
					his wife, Olivia Beresford. Her father was half-brother to the first Earl of Chesterfield;
					her mother was a descendant of the "brave Beresfords," a family that had been prominent
					for centuries in the county of Derby. The ancient seat of the Beresfords, Fenny Bentley,
					was only a short walk to the northeast of Beresford Hall, the poet's birthplace. The
					Beresfords, ancient and modern, are known as men of fighting blood. One of them,
					Thomas—or "Tom"—was a hero of Agincourt, and left a story attached to his name
					which is of credit to the family. On the eve of his marriage, according to this story, the
					blast of a trumpet announced the approach of a messenger of King Henry the Fifth with a
					proclamation to his loyal subjects that he had been insulted by the French king, and that
					all unmarried men were to hasten to his standard. The Beresfords were loyal, Thomas was as
					yet unmarried; he must choose between  his bride and his king.
					At the urgence of his betrothed as well as by his own desire, he followed the King into
					France. At Agincourt, he had the valor and good-fortune to save King Henry's life. He was
					rewarded later at his marriage by the special congratulations and favor of royalty. Such
					stories, if simple, make a tradition to which the least of kin does not listen with
					indifference, and serve as a more or less potent standard of conduct for a loyal line of
					soldiers and gentlemen. The Beresford name has come down through a list of rather
					remarkable men. Humphrey Beresford, one of the sixteen sons of Thomas of Agincourt, was
					the ancestor in direct line of the illustrious Irish Beresfords, Earls of Tyrone,
					Marquises of Waterford. Olivia Beresford, great-grandmother of the poet, had been the sole
					heiress of her father Edward Beresford, and had come into possession of the family
					estates. These had descended to her daughter Olive (Beresford) Stanhope, and in due course
					they passed to her daughter, Olive (Stanhope) Cotton, mother of the poet, Charles.
				The story of the love affair and run-away marriage of the poet's father and mother is one
					of much interest, as shown in the detailed account of it found by Mr. John Sleight in
					1868, among some old family deeds and papers at Bentley Hall. The mutual passion of the
					young lovers, their hopes and fears, the plot and the carrying-out of it, have suffered
					surprisingly little in the hands of some old attorney:
					"The 'Severall answeare of Charles Cotton, Esquire,  to
						the bill of Complaynt of Sir John Stanhope, Knight, Complaynannt.' "This defendant
						sayeth that it is true that understanding of the virtuous disposition of the
						Complaynannt's daughter, and receavinge satisfaction of the good report hee had heard,
						by the sight of her person, he did by all possible means addrease himself to intimate
						unto her his desires, and having the opportunity to meet with her att the house of one
						of her Aunts, hee, this defendannt did, in shorte time, discover her affection towards
						this defendannt, and there upon he was emboldened to proceede to move her in the way of
						marriadge. And there were some messages interchanged betwixt them, whereby she signified
						her readiness to answeare this defendannt's desires therein, and the difficulty to
						obteyne her but by carrying her away. And did herselfe appointe to come to this
						defendannt, If he could come for her; where upon hee prepared a coache, and in the
						eveninge of the day, in the Bill mentioned, hee came in a Coache neere unto Salisbury
						Courte, where the Complaynannt dwelleth. And this defendannt's now wyfe came of her owne
						accorde to this defendant, and went away with the defendannt and the same night this
						defendannt confesseth that they were marryed together; in doinge whereof if this
						defendannt's passion and fervency of affection have transported him beyond the bounds of
						wisdome, dutye, and good discretion, this defendannt doth most humbly crave the pardon
						and favorable construction of this most Honble Courte and of the
						Complaynannt concerninge the same."
				


				

				Sir John Stanhope, in his bill of complaint, had imputed mercenary motives to the young
					lover, in carrying off the young woman, who was under the legal age of sixteen years. To
					make this charge probable, he alleged that the young husband was without means for her
					support. To this the defendant answered that "he had an estate in Landes of Inheritance
					and Rents left unto him of the yearly value of £600 per annum, or thereabouts, which he
					yet hath—besides a personall estate to the value of one thousand marks, or
					thereabouts. And," goes on this excellent attorney, "if the same be not aequivalent, or
					proportionable to the Complaynannt's daughter's estate; This Defendannt doubteth not but
					to supply any wants thereof by his affectionate love to his wyfe, and respectfull
					observation of such a ffather. And this defendannt further saith that he did not know that
					said Olive was under the age of sixteene yeares, but was credibly informed that she was of
					age of above sixteene years, nor knoweth what Inheritance was descendedable upon the
					Complaynannt's Daughter (now this defendannt's wife) att the tyme that he sought to
					obteyne her for his wyfe; his affections beinge more fixed upon her person, and the
					Allyance of soe noble a ffamilye, than upon her estate."
				The decision of the court is not included among these family documents; but that it
					favored the young lovers is shown by the record of a subsequent court decision, dated
					Whitehall, 13 January, 1629. This deals with a petition to the King by one John Darbyshire
					and Anne, his wife; "to escape from a  mercenary.
					father-in-law, the petitioners intermarried, and unknowingly incurred the penalty against
					women marrying under the age of 16 without their parents' consent." In this case, the
					Attorney General reported "that the parties, if prosecuted might be punished and fined,
					but that there have been precedents of pardons in like cases, ex. qr.
					that of Mr. Cotton, for marrying the daughter of Sir John Stanhope, who was heir to her
					mother of a fair estate."
				 The only issue of this marriage was Charles Cotton, the poet. He was born, the 28th of
					April, 1630, at Beresford Hall, which, to judge by the old prints, was a typically
					comfortable and homelike English country seat. We have fortunately a few details from Part
					II. of the "Angler" and from some of Cotton's poems which not only confirm the impression
					of the prints, but give to them also something of the tinge of life. Piscator (Cotton)
					says to Viator: 1 "Walk but into
					the parlour, you will find one book or other in the window to entertain you the while." A
					sunlit cheerful parlor no doubt it was with a row of books on the broad sill of its
					latticed window, and beside it a comfortable chair for the reader. Elsewhere in the
					"Angler" we are told that Cotton's servants "knew his certain hours" and that there was no
					tiresome waiting for dinner and supper. "How sweet are all things here!" the poet exclaims
					in "The Retirement," "How cleanly do we feed and lie! What good hours do we keep! How
					quietly we sleep! What peace! 1 Complete Angler, Part II., chap. X.
					 What unanimity!" All must have been order, punctuality and
					cleanliness.
				 The surroundings of the Hall were no less delightful, to judge from Walton's comment
					upon "the pleasantness of the river, mountains, and meadows about it." Just behind the
					Hall, arose the hill that formed the western wall of Beresford Dale. It was along this
					green slope that Piscator and Viator walked in the early morning of their famous day of
					good sport and good conversation. They stood at the edge of the bluff, overlooking
					Beresford Dale. On a level with them were the bald hill-tops and open moorland of the
					Peak. Beneath them, in its idyllic glen, ran the "silver" Dove.
				Viator said, "'Tis a delicate morning indeed; and I now think this a marvellous pretty
					place.
				Piscator: Whether you think so, or no, you cannot oblige me more than to say so, and
					those of my friends who know my humour, and are so kind as to comply with it, usually
					flatter me that way. But look you, Sir, now you are at the brink of the hill, how do you
					like my river, the vale it winds through like a snake, and the situation of my little
					fishing house?
				Viator: Trust me, 'tis all very fine; and the house seems at this distance a neat
					building. Piscator: Good enough for that purpose; and here is a bowling green too, close
					by it; so, though I am myself no very good bowler, I am not totally devoted to my own
					pleasure, but that I have also some regard to other men's. And now, Sir, you are  come to the door; pray walk in, and there we will sit, and
					talk as long as you please." 1
				 The little fishing house, here mentioned, was built to commemorate one of the most
					beautiful friendships of which we have record, that of Cotton and his hermetical father,
					Isaac Walton. But Walton, in fact, so Cotton tells us, saw it only a-building, and before
					the roof was on; in which case, nevertheless, he must have seen the famous "cipher stone"
					with the interlaced initials, above the door, and resting on it, the large square stone,
					with its legend "Piscatoribus Sacrum, 1674." It was not here therefore, but in the
					cheerful parlor at the Hall that we must imagine the two actual sportsmen conversing in
					their parabolic vein before and after the day's outing. But doubtless they often seated
					themselves upon the grass to talk near the spot where the fishing house now stands as a
					monument to their friendship.
				 And when Piscator and Viator, as Cotton represents them in his part of the "Angler,"
					entered the fishing house, they found themselves in a room about fifteen feet square,
					paved with black and white marble, its walls covered, from the pavement to the ceiling,
					with paneled wainscoting. In the large panels were painted scenes of fishing, and in the
					smaller the various sorts of tackle and implements used. On the left side, opposite the
					door, was a fireplace; and on the right, a large "beaufet" with folding doors whereon were
					portraits of Cotton, Walton, and a boy servant. Underneath the beaufet was a cupboard, on
					the door of which were 1
						Angler, Part II., chap. III.
					 painted a trout and a grayling. In the center of the room
					was a black marble table, supported by two stone feet. At this table Piscator and Viator
					"sate them down," and while Piscator smoked the pipe of tobacco "which," said he, is
					"always my breakfast," the two discoursed on the secrets of angling.
				 A few paces from the door of the fishing house was "Pike Pool." Here a conical shaft of
					limestone, covered with lichens and creepers, rose from the bed of the stream to the
					height of thirty or forty feet. About its base the Dove had dug herself a deep pool. On
					the Derby side a wall of rock rose from the water; on the Stafford side a lawn stretched
					back to the hill over which Piscator and Viator had come conversing. At this point the
					anglers first tried their skill. 1
					"What have we got here?" asked Viator, "a rock springing up in the middle of the river!
					this is one of the oddest sights that ever I saw." The place is still as Viator saw it. It
					is a spot of absolute quiet and seclusion; the silence is broken only by the Dove
					chattering over little stone weirs. Such a place fishermen often see in dreams.
				 We need not follow Piscator and Viator farther. Theirs was a successful day; "Go thy
					way, little Dove!" exclaimed Viator in the evening, "thou art the finest river ever I saw
					and the fullest of fish." Perhaps they were at the moment returning to the Hall by way of
					the foot-path leading up the Staffordshire bank of the Dove to the top of the hill from
					which, in the morning, they had looked down upon Beresford Dale. 1 Angler, Part II., chap. VI.
				

				
				 The path ran near two objects that have interest for us. Near the summit of the hill was
					the tower alluded to by Cotton in an "Epistle to John Bradshaw, Esq." In this epistle the
					poet describes a journey from London to Beresford Hall by way of St. Albans, Stratford and
					Lichfield. He came at night-fall of the fifth day within sight of his "Hero's Tow'r," from
					which the light of "her flambeaux" beaconed him to his "long long'd-for Harbour of
					delight." And not far from the tower was a narrow cleft in the rock wide enough to allow
					one person to pass through. It opened into a large hollow, in the solid rock. To-day this
					cavity is known as "Cotton's Hole." It is probably one of the caves which the poet
					apostrophizes in "The Retirement." "Oh, my beloved caves!
						
						What safety, privacy, what true delight
							In th' artificial night
							Your gloomy entrails make,
							Have I taken, do I take!
							How oft, when grief has made me fly
							To hide me from society,
							Ev'n of my dearest friends, have I
							In your recesses' friendly shade
							All my sorrows open laid,
							And my most secret woes entrusted to your privacy!"
						
				
				If we combine into one conception the necessity which drove the poet to lodge with "hard
					favoured grief" in the gloomy entrails of his beloved rocks; and the grateful pleasure
					which he found in the  sweetness and seclusion of Beresford
					Dale, in the innocent sport which the "fair Dove" afforded him and in the cleanliness and
					order of the domestic life at the Hall, we may realize somewhat the manner of man Cotton
					was, and we may value at its true worth the frank and winning revelation of the man given
					by his poetry.
				 No record remains of his boyhood and youth at Beresford. From the place itself we may
					guess how these years passed. The Dove was near, in which a boy might fish and bathe;
					hills and caves afforded adventure; flowers and nuts were there to be gathered, and
					animals to be tamed, such as the little marten to which he later addressed some charming
					lines. There were excursions to Hartington on market days, and visits from time to time to
					the world of fashion at Buxton. During the long "Peak" winter, there were studies to be
					mastered, a routine relieved by indoor amusements and by the festivities of the English
					yule-tide.
				 There was of course a period of school life, but of it likewise no record is left. It
					was, perhaps, during his school days that Cotton was called upon to bear his first great
					sorrow, the sudden death of his mother at the age of thirty-eight. Tradition says that she
					was a woman of great beauty, of much intellect, and of extreme gentleness; Charles was her
					only child, and the two were, no doubt, very dear to each' other. She was buried at
					Bentley, the ancient seat of her family. To her, Sir Aston Cokaine inscribed the following
					epitaph: 
					
						
							"Passenger, stay, and notice take of her,
							Whom this sepulchral marble doth inter:
							For Sir John Stanhope's daughter, and his heir
							By his first wife, a Beresford, lies here.
							Her husband of a noble house was, one
							Everywhere for his worth belov'd and known,
							One only son she left, whom we presage
							A grace t' his family, and to our age.
						
						
							Now thou may'st go; but take along with thee
							(To guide thy life and death) her memory."
						
					
				
				From tradition we learn that Cotton's father took great interest in his son's education.
					He took a hand in it personally by choosing authors for translation, and by setting the
					boy themes for practice in writing. That the elder Cotton was in this respect a competent
					mentor for his son there can be no doubt. We have only to recall Herrick's praise of his
					fine taste in poetry, and Walton's testimony to his gift for description. Under these
					circumstances, it was perhaps not a matter of great moment whether or not the poet had a
					college training. The tradition is persistent that he was sent to Cambridge, though Mr.
					Bullen considers this not proved. Nevertheless, he somehow acquired a knowledge of the
					classics equal at least to that of a Cambridge graduate, and he became early in life
					widely read in French and Italian literature. Sir Aston Cokaine, in "Poems of Diverse
					Sorts," 1658, addressed an epistle "To my Cousin, Mr. Charles Cotton, the younger," in
					which the following lines occur, 
					"'In how few years have you rais'd up an high Column of learning by your industry."
				
				And again, in the same volume, Sir Aston says, 
						
							"D'Avila, Bentivoglio, Guicciardine,
							And Machiavil the subtle Florentine,
							In their originals I have read through,
							Thanks to your library and unto you.
						
						
							When you have more such books, I pray vouchsafe
							Me their perusal."
						
					
				This seems to contradict the inference of Macaulay in a note to his History of England
					(chap. iii) as to the scarcity of books in country places in the seventeenth century, an
					inference drawn by Macaulay from the fact that "Cotton seems, from his Angler, to have
					found room for his whole library in his hall window: and Cotton was a man of letters."
					Cotton did his translations at Beresford; from this it would seem that he may have had
					about him there a library of considerable size.
				 The first published verses of Cotton appeared in Richard Brome's "Lachrymae Musarum,"
					1650, a volume of elegies written by "divers persons of Nobility and Worth, upon the death
					of the most hopefull Henry Lord Hastings." Among the contributors to this volume, besides
					Cotton, were Thomas Bancroft, Sir Aston Cokaine, Alexander Brome, Sir John Denham, Andrew
					Marvell, and Robert Herrick. Though Cotton was but nineteen 
					years of age, his elegy is far from being the poorest in the volume; it is one of the
					best. It is conventional, like most of the others; but it shows no glaring faults in
					taste, and it was evidently written with the poet's eye upon the object. Two years later
					he prefixed commendatory verses to Edmund Prestwick's translation of Seneca's
					"Hippolytus." Belonging to about this time are several interesting poems, to be found in
					the posthumous volume of "Occasional Poems." Among these is "An invitation to Phillis," a
					variation upon Marlowe's theme "Come live with me and be my love." The setting for the
					poem is evidently Beresford Dale,
				
					
						"Come live with me, and be my love,
						And thou shalt all the pleasures prove,
						The mountains towering tops can show
						Inhabiting the Vales below.
						From a brave height my Star shall shine 1
						T' illuminate the desart Clime.
						Thy Summer's bower shall overlook,
						The subtil windings of the Brook,
						For thy delight which only springs
						And cuts her way with Turtles Wings."
					
				
				Further on the Dove is specifically mentioned, "Where crystal Dove
						runs murm'ring still."
				 The companion piece to this, "The Entertainment to Phillis" should also be mentioned; it
					is equally "sweet," musical, and sensuous: 
						1 This refers to the "Hero's Tow'r" mentioned
						above.
					
					
						
							"I have such Fruits too, for thy taste,
							As teeming Autumn never grac't,
							Apples, as round, as thine own Eyes;
							Or, as thy Sister Beauties prize,
							Smooth, as thy snowy Skin, and sleek
							And ruddy as the Morning's cheek,
							Grapes, that the Tyrian purple wear,
							The spritely Matrons of the Year,
							Such, as Lyaeus never bare,
							About his drowsy Brows, so fair,
							So plump, so large, so ripe, so good,
							So full of flavours, and of blood."
						
					
				
				In passing, it is worthy of mention that in these poems, and others of this period,
					Cotton shows a great fondness for alliteration, especially of the liquids, and of the
					s-sound that, instead of hissing, sings. Take for example, "Sweet, as
						the milk of Sand-red Cow"; and again, 
						
							"Carpets where Flowers woven grow,
							Only thy sweeter steps to strew,
							Such as may emulation bring,
							To the wrought mantle of the Spring."
						
					
				
				Also of this period is the "Song Montross"; Montross was captured and executed, May 21,
					1650. "Laura Sleeping" 1 and "Laura
					Weeping," 2 two beautiful lyrics,
					are likewise, to judge from evidences of poetic style, of this period: 1Poems, 1689, p. 519.
					2Ibid., p. 521.
					
					
						
							"Sweet sorrow drest in such a look,
							As love would trick to catch desire;
							A shaded Leaf in Beauties Book,
							Charact'red with clandestine Fire." 1
						
					
				
				These poems, as we have seen, are smooth and warmly colored, and it should be added,
					relatively impersonal. But in the "Eclogue. Damon. C. C. Thyrsis. R. R." a somewhat
					different note is struck. This eclogue was written, probably, about 1650; for Thyrsis
					says, evidently referring to the death of the King, January 30, 1649, 
						
							" 'Las! who can sing? since our Pan dy'd
							Each Shepherd's pipe is laid aside:
							Our flocks they feed on parched ground,
							Shelter, nor Water's for them found:
							And all our sports are cast away,
							Save when thou sing'st thy Cœlia." 2
						
					
				
				Damon replies, 
						
							"Cœlia, I do confess alone
							My object is of Passion,
							My Star, my bright Magnetick Pole,
							And only Guidress of my Soul." 3
						
					
				
				Damon (C. C.) is obviously Cotton himself, and Thyrsis (R. R.) Ralph Rawson, his tutor.
					Ralph Rawson was in residence at Brasenose college, Oxford, in 1648, and was expelled by
					the Parliamentary visitors in that year. He was, about this time, Cotton's 1Poems, 1689, p. 522.
					2Ibid., p. 360.
					33 Ibid., p. 403.
					 tutor either at Cambridge, or,—which is more
					probable,—his private tutor at Beresford.
				 It is altogether probable that the Cœlia of the eclogue is Cotton's distant relative,
					Isabella Hutchinson, the inspiration of many of the lyrics, written, say, between 1650 and
					the time of his marriage to her in 1656. She was the daughter of Sir Thomas Hutchinson of
					Owthorpe, by his second wife, Catherine, who was the daughter of Sir John Stanhope of
					Elvaston. There was opposition to the marriage from some quarters on the ground of too
					close a blood relationship; in "The Separation" 1 Cotton cries, 
						
							"But oh, th' unwelcome cause,
							Of superstitious Laws!
							That us, from our mutual embraces tear,
							And separate our bloods, because too near."
						
					
				
				And again, 2
					
						
							"But I'll pursue her, till our flood agree,
							Alpheus I, and Arethusa she."
						
					
				
				So far as the lovers themselves were concerned, love met love with "equal flame." The
					poet was in despair when his mistress was coy or when she was absent from him; but, on the
					whole, he indulged himself very little in conventional grief. More often he expressed
					doubt of his own worthiness. This note rings true whenever we find it. He seems to have
					been unwontedly clear-eyed, even circumspect, 1 Poems, 1689, p. 347, stanza iii.
					2 Ibid., p. 348.
					 from beginning to end. He expressed himself like one sobered
					rather than intoxicated by happiness. He seemed anxious, one might say, to avoid if
					possible the fatality of bliss. His appeal was egotistical, and yet it does not offend; it
					sprang from insight and sincerity, not from willful self-assertion. He realized, even in
					the heyday of passionate desire, that love cannot thrive long on self-abnegation. He knew
					that the best and the highest is nevertheless earth-born, that it is a flower which fades
					quickly when cut off from the stock on which it grows. By virtue of his sincerity he
					instinctively escaped the poetical dilemma of his age. He was too much of a realist to be
					a Platonist in love, and too wholesome to be a cynic. To illustrate his temper, take the
					fifth stanza of "Estrennes to Calista," 1
					
						
							"You who my last love have, my first love had,
							To whom my all of love was and is paid,
							Are only worthy to receive
							The richest New years-gift I have.
							My love, which I this morning give,
							A nobler never Monarch gave
							Which each new-year I will present a-new
							And you'll take care, I hope, it shall be due."
						
					
				The last line of this quotation illustrates what is meant by calling him a realist; it is
					by such fidelity to the mixed texture of human experience and human feeling, that, time
					and again, he wins conviction. 
				1 Poems, 1689, p. 162.



				

				As the time for his departure to France drew near, his love poems took on a tone of
					apprehension. He wished for an avowal from his betrothed which would hold him, in absence,
					true to himself at his best, and to her. He had no doubts of her constancy, —which
					is the finest compliment a lover can pay,— but he was not absolutely sure that he
					could be true to her and to himself:— 
						
							" 'Tis my ador'd Diana, then must be
							The Guid'ress to this beaten Bark of mine,
							'Tis she must calm and smooth this troubled Sea,
							And waft my hope over the vaulting Brine:
							Call home thy venture Dian then at last,
							And be as merciful as thou art chaste."
						
					
				
				He took her picture with him, explaining why with disarming frankness: 
						
							"Then, Sweetest, would thy Picture turn
							My wandering eyes to thee at home."
						
					
				
				Upon trial of himself, however, he proved impervious to temptation, and announced naively
					in "The Retreat," 
						
							"I'm returned, my Fair, but see
							Perfection in none but thee."
						
					
				
				Isabella must have had a rare amount of insight and good-sense, for there is a quality of
					love that would have cavilled at that. Evidently she did not, nor does the reader, who
					cannot help loving this lover, so scrupulously honest with himself and with  her. One believes him when he sings in the ode, "To Isabel":
						1
					
						I.
						
							"Fair Isabel, if aught but thee
							I could, or would, or like, or love;
							If other Beauties but approve
							To sweeten my Captivity:
							I might those Passions be above,
							Those Pow'rful Passions that combine
							To make, and keep me only thine.
						
						II.
						
							Or, if for tempting treasure I
							Of the World's God, prevailing Gold,
							Could see thy Love, and my Truth sold,
							A greater, nobler Treasury;
							My flame to thee might then grow cold,
							And I like one whose love is sense,
							Exchange thee for convenience.
						
						III.
						
							But when I vow to thee, I do
							Love thee above or Health, or Peace,
							Gold, Joy, and all such Toys as these,
							'Bove Happiness and Honour too:
							Thou then must know, this love can cease,
							Nor change for all the glorious show
							Wealth, and Discretion bribes us to.
						
						IV.
						
							What such a love deserves, thou, Sweet,
							As knowing best, may'st best reward;
							I, for thy bounty well prepar'd, 1 Poems, 1689, p. 449.


							

							With open arms my Blessing meet.
							Then do not, Dear, our joys detard;
							But unto him propitious be,
							That knows no love, nor life, but thee."
						
				
				 The marriage took place in 1656, upon Cotton's return from his travels in France and
					Italy. Before this event, he and his father had vested the manors of Bentley, Barrowashe,
					and Beresford, with other lands, in trustees, to sell off so much of the property as would
					pay a mortgage of £1700, and to hold the rest in trust for the younger Cotton and his
					heirs. The elder Cotton, who had greatly impoverished his estates by law-suits, died in
					1658.
				 For the next ten or eleven years, the poet seems to have lived, very happily, the life
					of a country gentleman. Much of his time was taken up with the care of his estates; but,
					like his cousin Sir Aston Cokaine at the neighboring estate of Pooley, he found time for
					reading and study, and for the indulgence, as he puts it, of "an incurable humour of
					scribbling." During these years, many of his best lyrics were written. It seems probable
					that the "Summer Day Quatrains" were composed during the early years of his married life;
					and to these years, perhaps, should be assigned the fine ode to "Winter," which Wordsworth
					so much admired. Here, too, should be placed a number of amorous elegies and lyrics which
					seem to show the influence of certain French poets, in particular that of Malherbe,
					Voiture, Racan, and Théophile de Viaud. "The Battail of Yvry," a narrative poem based on
					French history, belongs also to these years,—i. e., 
					the years just before the Restoration—as the concluding couplet of the last stanza
					indicates, 
						
							"Leaving fair France unto his brighter Ray
							May ev'ry injur'd Prince have such a Day."
						
					
				
				Belonging to this period, too, are some pieces of a satirical cast such as "The Litany,"
					probably written before 1660, and "The Joys of Marriage," a poem of mildly satirical
					banter, in which is embedded the following characteristic tribute to his wife: 
						
							"Yet with me 'tis out of season
							To complain thus without reason,
							Since the best and sweetest fair
							Is allotted to my share:
							But alas! I love her so
							That my love creates my woe;
							For if she be out of humour,
							Straight displeased I do presume her
							And would give the World to know
							What it is offends her so:
							Or if she be discontented,
							Lord, how am I then tormented!
							And am ready to persuade her
							That I have unhappy made her:
							But if sick I then am dying,
							Meat and med'cine both defying:
							So uneasie is his Life
							Who is married to a Wife."
						
					
				
				At the Restoration, in 1660, Cotton published a panegyric in prose on Charles II. He was
					an ardent royalist. The only bitterly satirical verses that he ever wrote were those
					provoked from him  by Waller's eulogy on Oliver Cromwell.
					Nevertheless, neither he nor his father appears to have suffered any persecutions at the
					hands of the Commonwealth party. In an "Epode" 1 addressed to Alexander Brome, he expressed his joy at the
					return of the King: 
						
							"Now let us drink, and with our nimble Feet,
							The Floor in graceful measures beat;
							Never so fit a time for harmless Mirth
							Upon the Sea-guirt spot of Earth.
							The King's returned!"
						
					
				
				In the same poem, the following lines are found: 
							"Our Griefs once made us thirsty, and our Joy,
							If not allay'd, may now destroy,
							Light up the silent Tapers, let them shine,
							To give Complexion to our Wine;
							Fill each a Pipe of the rich Indian Fume
							To vapour Incense in the Room,
							That we may in that artificial shade
							Drink all a Night ourselves have made.
							No Cup shall be discharged, whilst round we sit,
							Without a smart report of wit,
							Whilst our Inventions quickened thus, and warm,
							Hit all they fly at, but not harm;
							For it Wit's mastery is, and chiefest Art
							To tickle all; but make none smart."
						
					
				
				In 1664, Cotton began his burlesque writing, with the publication of "Scarronides, or the
					First Book of Virgil Travestie." Six years later, this book was reprinted, with a travesty
					of the "fourth book" 1 Poems,
						1689, p. 511.
					 added. During the poet's lifetime, six editions of
					"Scarronides" appeared. He seems always to have been ashamed of this, his most popular
					work, as many passing allusions in his epistles and elsewhere attest; but hard necessity
					drove him to burlesque, as from time to time it drove him to his caves. His only defense
					was that the age in which he lived required burlesque of him, and that he did it as well
					as he could. His best in this kind, we must admit, was better than that of any other,
					excepting Butler. Compared with the similar work of Mennis and Smith in the "Musarum
					Deliciae," Cotton's doggerel is fine art. It is almost never dull; it does not amble, nor
					trot; it gallops, as it should, with vigorous ease. Whatever may be the true judgment of
					his burlesque, it undoubtedly gave pleasure in its day. Pepys, for one, records on March
					2nd, 1663-64, that, stopping on his way home at St. Paul's Church yard,-in spite of an eye
					"mightily out of order with rheum" he "there looked upon a pretty burlesque poem called
					'Scarronides or Virgilian Travesty,' " which he found "extraordinary good."
				 It is interesting to note that the publication of the "Scarronides" synchronizes with a
					crisis in Cotton's financial affairs. Some time prior to the year 1664 he had applied to
					Parliament for power to sell part of his estates, in order to pay his debts. In 1665 this
					petition was favorably acted upon. Now the question rises, what was the cause of his
					constant pecuniary embarrassment? Was it due, as the usual impression seems to be, to the
					dissipations of a reckless bon vivant? Before an answer is given to this
						 question, let us recall one or two well-ascertained facts
					concerning the matter.
				 In the first place, it should be remembered that Cotton's estates came to him seriously
					encumbered. From the outset he was engaged in law-suits which he had inherited, in some
					degree, with the paternal estates. Moreover, his amiable weakness of generosity laid him
					open to the arts of designing men, and gave occasion to those pathetic references to
					ingratitude and neglect met with in the eclogues, odes, epistles, and elsewhere. Of these
					one may be cited, in passing : 1
					
						
							"The want of Wealth I reckon not distress,
							But of enough to do good offices.
							Which growing less those Friends will fall away;
							Poverty is the ground of all decay:
							With our Prosperities our Friendships end,
							And to misfortune no one is a Friend,
							Which I already find to that degree
							That my old Friends are now afraid of me,
							And all avoid me, as good men would fly
							The common Hangman's shamefull company.
							Those who by Fortune were advanced above,
							Being oblig'd by my most ready love,
							Shun me, for fear least my necessity
							Should urge what they're unwilling to deny,
							And are resolv'd they will not grant; and those
							Have shared my meat, my Money, and my Cloaths,
							Grown rich with others Spoils as well as mine
							The coming near me now do all decline,
							Least shame and gratitude should draw them in
							To be to me what I to them have been;
							By which means I am stripp'd of all Supplies
							And left alone to my own Miseries."
						
					
					1 Eclogue: Poems, 1689, p.
						108.
				

				

				Such means of being "stripp'd of all supplies," taken in connection with inherited debts,
					and the unsettled condition of public affairs in his day, are in themselves sufficient to
					account for his straitened circumstances.
				If we are careful to avoid unjust inferences, it may, however, be freely admitted that
					according to our standards Cotton was intemperate. On one occasion 1 he writes to his friend Bradshaw that having got
					as far as Uttoxeter on his way home from London, it being market-day, 
						
							"I was constrained with some kind lads to stay
							Tippling till afternoon, which made it night
							When from my Hero's Tower I saw the light
							Of her Flambeaux, and fancied as we drave
							Each rising Hillock was a swelling wave
							And that I swimming was in Neptune's spight
							To my long long'd-for Harbour of delight."
						
					
				
				In the "Voyage to Ireland" 2 he
					stops at a wayside inn for refreshment, and finds "the best ale in England," 
						
							"I speak it with tears
							Though I have been a Toss-pot these twenty good years,
							And have drank so much liquor has made me a Debtor."
						
				
				Again, in an epistle to Sir Clifford Clifton 3 he scribes himself as having, 1 Poems, 1689, p. 55.
					2 Ibid., p. 174.
					3 Ibid., p. 328.
					
					"Grown something swab with drinking good Ale."
				But in this same epistle 1 he also
					says, that though 
						
							"His delight is to toss the cann merrily round
							And loves to be wet,"
						
					 he nevertheless "hates to be drowned."
				 Such instances might be multiplied. Two considerations must be taken into account in
					attempting to estimate their value as indications of Cotton's habits and the probable
					consequences of them; namely, the attitude of the time toward drinking, and the
					conventions of private correspondence and of burlesque under which he so constantly spoke
					of himself as a "toss-pot." It is certain that he was not more, and may have been much
					less, indulgent to himself in this respect than the average gentleman of his time. It was
					a great time for drinking. Even grave divines consumed large quantities of wine. And
					Pepys, who was himself very often "fox'd with drink," tells of a lady who at one draught
					drank a pint and a half. The evidence which Cotton himself furnishes is not sufficient to
					prove him a drunkard, even if such evidence were to be taken literally, as of course it is
					not. Such evidence occurs mainly in epistles to intimate friends,-such friends as might
					have been expected to understand as well as to enjoy a decided touch of self-caricature.
					The other source of evidence is the "Voyage to Ireland in Burlesque." But here, obviously,
					the rules of burlesque must be applied to what the poet has said of his drinking, as well
					as to what he has said of 1
						Poems, 1689, p. 329.
					 himself in other respects. His confessions, if taken
					literally, might as easily prove that he was a bad poet as that he was a bad man, for he
					disparages his poor muse as well as himself. The zest of caricature, of course, depends
					upon exaggeration,—an exaggeration which by its evident falsity suggests the truth.
					An age which does not know the subject of the caricature may well be at a loss to
					distinguish false from true. What is perhaps plainest in these cartoons of Cotton is the
					glimpse they give of a charming personality. Such facts as they suggest of character and
					habits must be carefully weighed in the most delicate—and of necessity, uncertain
					—scales of criticism.
				 At about the time of this first crisis in his business affairs Cotton seems to have made
					strenuous efforts to retrieve his fortunes. The preface to his translation of the "Duke of
					Espernon" (published in 1669-70) shows that among other shifts he had sought public
					employment. But whatever this was, "it did not hold long." Some light may possibly be
					thrown upon what this employment was by the following letter found by Mr. H. F. Wake in a
					folio of Cotton's translations of the "Duke of Espernon," formerly in the Tixall Library.
					The letter, Mr. Wake explains, though without name or date, is by careful comparison, in
					Cotton's handwriting. It is given here for what it may be worth.
				
					"Sir when I was last with you I aquainted you how Sir Thomas Ingram had aquainted me
						how he was by his Majestyes order to send down a comytyon to me and others to exammyne
						dyvers wasts offenses  and losses his majesty suffered in
						Needwood and the Honor of Tutbury. I am through his Majestyes gratyouse Favor his
						lieutennant off the Forrest and his high Steward off the Honor of Tutbury. I then
						likewise tould you I conceaved I had reason to beelieve iff the commytyon weare Full itt
						would tuch some persons what would endevor to avoyd itt and I have some assurance now it
						is so For the commytyon, a coppy off which the Channcelor sent mee to peruse, is I
						conceave defective in what I Feared it would For itt gives us Full power to fynd out all
						trespases in the woods and game but the greatest prejudice his Majesty suffers in is his
						grants of offyses; in grants off Lands concealements of Lands and incrochments. I have
						given Sir Tho: Ingram an answer by a letter For hee writt to me to know my opynyon off
						the commytyon."
				"After being delivered from that employment," —Cotton in the preface to the
						'Duke of Espernon' says,—"I was taken off by so long and so uncomfortable a
						sickness, that I found myself utterly unfit for any undertaking of this, or any other
						kind, and consequently had almost given over all thought of proceeding in a work which
						at some melancholy times I believ'd I might not live to finish. 1 Being since restored to a better state of
						health, and coming to review my papers, either the dislike of what I had already done,
						the shame of having been so long in doing it, the indisposition my disease left still
						hanging upon me, the bulk of what I had undertaken, the little license I conceived I
						might have wherewith to 1 A
							more intimate account of this sickness seems to be afforded by the epistle to Sir
							Clifford Clifton quoted below.
						 perform it, or all together, had almost persuaded me to
						hold on to the same resolution, and forever to let it alone: till recollecting myself I
						remembered I had a greater obligation upon me (which nevertheless I do not think fit to
						publish in this place) to go through with what I had already begun, than was to be
						dissolv'd by any truant humour, or private aversion of my own."
				 These words, written probably at the end of the year 1666, or the beginning of the
					following year, would seem in the light of what we know of his pecuniary difficulties
					about this time, to be an obvious allusion to them. Furthermore, if there should be any
					doubt as to his energy and patience in trying to conjure forth his muse when she was
					unwilling, the epistle to Sir Clifford Clifton may be quoted at length to dispel it. We
					see the poet, just out of his illness, start from his couch, 
						
							"Where I lay dull and muddy.
							Of my servants inquiring the way to my study
							For in truth of late days I so little do mind it
							Should one turn me twice about I never should find it."
						
					
				
				Arrived at his study, he "brawls" for his muse (which, as he says, some call "invoking"),
					but she will not respond. 
						
							"I then fell to searching, since I could not leave her.
							I sought all the shelves, but never the nearer:
							I tumbled my Papers, and rifled each Packet,
							Threw my books all on heaps and kept such a racket


							

							Disordering all things, which before had their places
							Distinct by themselves in several classes,
							That who'd seen the confusion, and look't on the ware,
							Would have thought he had been at Babylon Fair."
						
					
				
				Evidently, in spite of his careless tone, he was ordinarily a methodical literary worker.
						
						
							"At last, when for lost I had wholly resign't her
							Where canst thou imagine, dear Knt, I should find her?
							Faith, in an old Drawer, I late had not been in,
							'Twixt a coarse pair of sheets of the Housewife's own spinning,
							A Sonnet instead of a coif her head wrapping,
							I happily took her small Ladiship napping.
							Why how now, Minx, quoth I, what's the matter I pray,
							That you are so hard to be spoke with to day?
							Fy, fy on this Idleness, get up, and rouse you,
							For I have a present occasion to use you:
							Our Noble Mecaenas, Sir Clifford of Cud-con,
							Has sent here a Letter, a kind and a good one:
							Which must be suddenly answer'd, and finely,
							Or the Knight will take it exceeding unkindly;
							To which having some time sat musing and mute,
							She answer'd sh'ad broke all the strings of her Lute;
							And had got such a Rheum with lying alone,
							That her voice was utterly broken and gone:
						
						
							"Besides this, she had heard 1 that of late I had made
							A friendship with one that had since bin her Maid;
							One Prose, a slatternly ill-favour'd toad, 1 A reference, no doubt, to Cotton's work on
									the translation of the "Duke of Espernon."


							

							As common as Hackney, and beaten as Road,
							With whom I sat up sometimes whole Nights together,
							Whil'st she was exposed to the Wind and weather.
							Wherefore, since that I did so slight and abuse her,
							She likewise now hop'd I would please to excuse her."
						
					
				
				He now tries to regain his muse's favor by representing to her the lure of fame. 
						
							"Which she so much despised, she pish't at the name;
							And told me in answer, that she could not glory at
							The Sail-bearing Title of Muse to a Laureat,
							Much less to Rhymer, did nought but disgust one,
							And pretended to nothing but pittiful Fustian
							But oh, at that word, how I rated, and call'd her,
							And had my Fist up, with intent to have maul'd her:
							At which, the poor Minx, half afraid of the matter
							Changing her note, 'gan to wheedle and flatter;
						
						
							Being thus made Friends, we fell to debating
							What kind of Verse we should congratulate in:
							I said 't must be Doggrel, which when I had said,
							Maliciously smiling, she nodded her head
							Saying Doggrel might pass to a friend would not show it,
							And do well enough for a Derbyshire Poet."
						
				 The epistle goes on to congratulate Sir Clifford upon his election to Parliament,
					advises him to give money to His Majesty, to beware falling out with his betters, and to
					avoid treason. It ends with an interesting description of the poet by himself. 
					
						
							"Farewell then, dear Bully, but ne're look for a Name
							For, expecting no honour, I will have no shame; 1
							Yet, that you may ghess at the Party that writes t'ee,
							And not grope in the dark, I'll hold up these Lights t'ee.
						
						
							He always wants Money, which makes him want ease,
							And he's always besieg'd, tho himself of the Peace,
							By an Army of Duns, who batter with Scandals,
							And are Foemen more fierce than the Goths or the Vandals.
							But when he does rally, as sometimes he does,
							Then hey for Bess Juckson, and a Fig for his Foes:
							He's good Fellow enough to do every one right
							And never was first that ask't, what time of Night:
							His delight is to toss the cann merrily round,
							And loves to be wet, but hates to be drown'd:
							He fain would be just, but sometimes he cannot,
							Which gives him the trouble that other men ha' not.
							He honours his Friend, but he wants means to show it,
							And loves to be rhyming, but is the worst Poet.
							Yet among all these Vices, to give him his due,
							He has the Vertue to be a true Lover of you."
						
				
				At about the date of this epistle to Sir Clifford Clifton, Cotton became a captain in the
					Earl of Chesterfield's regiment of foot; this was a part of a levy raised in anticipation
					of a land invasion by the Dutch, who in June of 1667 burned Sheerness, 1 An allusion, perhaps, to his feeling about
						the "Scarronides," anonymously printed in 1664; he was at this time at work on the
						"fourth book" of it, which was published in 1670.
					 entered the Medway, and sailed to within twenty miles of
					London. England was much alarmed. Pepys makes this jotting, on the twelfth of June: "The
					newes is true, that the Dutch have broke the chaine and burned our ships, and particularly
					'The Royal Charles'; other particulars I know not, but most sad to be sure. And the truth
					is I do fear so much that the Kingdom is undone." Cotton and his regiment had, a few days
					before, passed through London on their way to Harwich, where the militia was assembling.
					On the ninth of June, Pepys had recorded "In comes my Lord Berkeley who is going down to
					Harwich also to look after the militia there; and there is also the Duke of Monmouth, and
					with a great many young Hectors, the Lord Chesterfield, My Lord Mandeville, and others."
					No more definite record remains of Cotton's military service. Perhaps, as he said of his
					other public employment, it "did not hold long," though there is some reason to believe
					that three years later he went to Ireland in a quasi-military capacity. Chesterfield's
					regiment was in commission for only a short time, being disbanded soon after the
					conclusion of the peace with Holland, on the twenty-first of July, 1667. 1
				
				For the following year and a half we have no record of Cotton, unless, as seems probable,
					an epistle to John Bradshaw 2
					belongs to this time. In- this, after a vivid description of a journey from London 1 Calendar of State Papers: 1667.
						Pepys, 12 June, 1667; ibid., 9 June, 1667. Dalton, Army Lists, i, 79.
					2 Poems, 1689, p. 83.
					 to Beresford, he gives the following characteristic account
					of himself:— 
						
							"And now I'm here set down again in peace,
							After my troubles, business, Voyages, 1
							The same dull Northern clod I was before,
							Gravely enquiring how Ewes are a Score,
							How the Hay-Harvest and the Corn was got
							And if, or no, there's like to be a Rot:
							Just the same sot I was e'er I remov'd,
							Nor by my travel, nor the Court improv'd;
							The same old fashion'd Squire, no whit refin'd
							And shall be wiser when the Devil's blind."
						
					
				
				In the spring of 1669, his wife, whom he deeply loved, died. She was buried at
					Alstonfield on the twenty-sixth of April. As issue of this marriage there had been eight
					children; five were living. Beresford, the eldest, and the only son, was but twelve years
					of age. Perhaps we may now begin to understand what Cotton must have had at heart when he
					wrote in the preface to the "Duke of Espernon," àpropos of his impulse to abandon that
					work, and his remembrance of the obligation that urged him on to it, "I therefore
					reassum'd my former purpose, and some months since (probably 1668-69) took the book again,
					in good earnest in hand, which when I have said, any ingenious person may reasonably
					wonder how a man, in good earnest, and that has so little to do in the world as I have,
					could be all this tedious 1
						By "Voyages" it is probable that he means "journeys." Cf. "A Voyage to Ireland in
						Burlesque," in which only a description of travel by land is given.
					 time about such a piece of work as this. To which (if what I
					have already said will not serve for an excuse) I shall answer, that, although by my
					incapacity, my ill fortune, or both, I stand excus'd from publick employment, I have
					notwithstanding so much private concern of my own to divert me, and so few moments to
					bestow upon myself, that I wonder 'tis done so soon: an apology I might however have
					spar'd, since my haste will I fear be legible in every line."
				The "History of the Life of the Duke of Espernon: the great favorite of France" was
					published in the year 1669-70. It covered the period of French history "from the year
					1598, when D'Avila leaves off, down to our own times, 1642." It was dedicated to Gilbert,
					Lord Archbishop of Canterbury, one of His Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council. Of this
					dedication Cotton says "I have . . . been prompted thereunto by an honest Vanity I have,
					the World should take notice, that how private soever my life has been, I have not
					altogether convers'd with Obscurity: but that I have had the Honour to be sometimes known
					unto, and to have been Favour'd by one of the greatest Prelates, and the best men upon
					Earth." In the same "humour," modestly his own, he affirms in the preface that his motives
					in making the translation were not "any design of advantage, that consideration being ever
					very much below my thoughts: not to oblige the world, that being above my expectations;
					but having an incurable humour of scribbling upon me, I believ'd I could not choose a
					braver subject for my  Friends' diversion, my own
					Entertainment than this. . . . It was not therefore out of any ambition I had to be again
					in Print, I having suffer'd too much that way already." This reference is evidently to the
					"Scarronides," and the unwelcome reputation that it gave him. He did not, however, on
					account of this feeling, desist from the writing of burlesque. In this same year, he
					reprinted the "Scarronides" with a travesty of the fourth book of Virgil added. It proved
					to be very popular, going through nine editions during the author's lifetime.
				In May of this year (1670) he made a journey, or as he called it, a "voyage" to Ireland.
					His experiences on the way from Beresford to Wales are given in the burlesque poem, "A
					Voyage to Ireland." It affords us many interesting glimpses of the poet. At forty years of
					age he might well, he says, be considered wiser than to run such errands as these, though
					in his youth, he 
						
							" . . . was one of those People
							Would have gone a great way to have seen an high steeple
						
						
							But to tell you the truth on't, indeed it was neither
							Improvement nor pleasure for which I went thither; "
						
					
				
				It was necessity, as he explains, that induced him to go "to the place whereof Nick was
					asham'd." At Chester he was invited to sup with the mayor, the latter's eye having been
					caught by "a glorious  Gold Belt" that the poet wore. The
					occasion gives rise to a flow of the poet's mild satire, some of it directed—to our
					illumination—against himself:— 
						
							"Supper being ended, and things away taken,
							Master Mayor's Curiosity 'gan to awaken;
							Wherefore making me draw something nearer his chair,
							He will'd and requir'd me there to declare
							My Country, my Birth, my Estates, and my Parts,
							And whether I was not a Master of Arts;
							And what the bus'ness was had brought me thither,
							With what I was going about now and whither:
							Giving me caution, no lye should escape me,
							For if I should trip, he should certainly trap me.
							I answer'd, my Country was fam'd Staffordshire;
							That in Deeds, Bills, and Bonds, I was ever writ Squire;
							That of Land, I had both sorts, some good, and some evil,
							But that a great part on't was pawn'd to the Devil;
							That as for my Parts, they were such as he saw;
							That indeed I had a small smatt'ring of Law,
							Which I lately had got more by practice than reading,
							By sitting o' th' Bench, whilst others were pleading;
							But that Arms I had ever more studi'd than Arts,
							And was now to a Captain rais'd by my desarts;
							That the bus'ness which led me through Palatine ground
							Into Ireland was, whither now I was bound;"
						
					
				
				What the business was, which led him into Ireland, it would be, all things considered,
					somewhat interesting  to know. But about that he is
					unwontedly reticent.
				In 1671 he prepared for publication a translation of Horatius by
					Corneille. The Horatius was not, in fact, merely a translation; it
					contained a number of original songs and choruses, which according to Mr. Alfred Wallis in
					"Notes and Queries" 1 are to be
					found no where else in Cotton's published poetry. It is important to note that the preface
					to this adaptation shows that the translation prior to 1671 existed only in manuscript,
					and that it was done as early as 1665, for "the private amusement of a fair young lady,"
					the poet's relative, Mrs. Stanhope Hutchinson. It would seem, therefore, that the work was
					not done originally for publication, but that now, under the stress of circumstances, it
					was put upon the market.
				Two years later, 1673, the publisher, Henry Brome, brought out an unsigned work, entitled
					"The Compleate Gamester, or Instruction how to play at Billiards, Trucks, Bowls, and
					Chess: Together with all manner of usual and most gentile games, either on Cards or Dice.
					To which is added, The Arts and Mysteries of Riding, Racing, Archery, and Cock-fighting."
					This compilation, which was popular in its day, was republished several times before 1699,
					when its authorship was at last ascribed by the publisher to Charles Cotton, Esq. Its
					publication seems to be added proof that Cotton had been driven to "pot-boiling." That he
					was not altogether occupied 1
						"Notes and Queries," 6th S. vol. viii, 1883.
					 with hack-work is indicated by the fact that his poem
					addressed to Walton on the "Life of Dr. Donne" also belongs to this year. But that he was
					mainly so occupied is open to little doubt. For in the next year, 1674, he published his
					translation of "The Commentaries of Blaise de Montluc, Mareschal of France, wherein are
					described all the combats, rencounters, skirmishes, battles, sieges, assaults, scalades,
					the taking and surprise of towns and fortresses, as also the defence and assaults of the
					besieged, etc." He was perhaps taking his captaincy somewhat seriously, and at the same
					time turning his interest in it to account. In the same year he published "The Fair One of
					Tunis, or the Generous Mistress; A new Piece of Gallantry, Out of French," the
					frontispiece of which represents a Knight in armor on horseback, receiving from Mars a
					spear entwined with laurel, and from Venus a chaplet. In this year, too, he wrote a set of
					commendatory verses which appeared with Thomas Flatman's volume of poems. 1
				
				For the most part, during the nine or ten years following the granting of his petition to
					Parliament in 1665 to be allowed to sell a part of his estates 1 These verses, by the way, are of interest as
						expressing Cotton's generous though discriminating praise of a poet—one unlike
						himself— who has yet perhaps to receive his full measure of appreciation.
						Flatman,—says Cotton,—knew how to "reconcile frailty with Innocence," 
							
								"The Love you write, Virgins and Boyes may read,
								And never be debauch't but better bred;
								For without love, Beauty would bear no price,
								And dulness, than desire's a greater vice."
							
						
					
					 in order to pay his debts, Cotton was engaged, then, as we
					have seen, in trying to stem the tide of his misfortunes. He seems not to have been
					lacking either in resources or in energy. Yet, as subsequent events show, his efforts had
					been of little avail. He had obtained public employment, but soon "stood excused from it";
					he had entered the army, but before he had seen any length of service, peace had been
					declared; then, from about 1670 onward, he had worked almost as a literary drudge, doing
					the bidding of the book-sellers, or adventuring on like speculations of his own. The
					epistle to John Bradshaw, written about this time (perhaps 1673-74), serves to recall this
					period of his life. Settled again at Beresford, he had begun, he says, "to live at the old
					rate," 
						
							"To bub old Ale, which nonsense does create,
							Write lewd Epistles, and sometimes translate
							Old Tales of Tubs, of Guyenne and Provence
							And keep a clatter with th' old Blades of France
							As D'Avenant did with those of Lombardy,
							Which any will receive, but none will buy
							And that sets H. B. 1 and me
								awry."
						
					
				
				Amid this bewilderment of private griefs, and public misfortunes, he bore himself for the
					most part with cheerfulness; one might say with a cavalier-like gayety of courage. Some of
					his occasional verses, it must be admitted,—such, for example, as the odes on
					"Poverty" and "The World"— were colored by his sorrow and defeat; but adversity
						1 H. B. Henry Brome, his
						publisher.
					 did not make him hoarse or mute; within his compass he sang
					with a clear voice that gave expression to a sound heart.
				An episode of these years was his marriage to his distant relative, the Countess Dowager
					of Ardglass, eldest daughter of Sir William Russell, and widow of Wingfield, fifth Baron
					Cromwell. Just when the marriage took place is not known. The act of administration of
					Cotton's effects in 1695 speaks of the Countess of Ardglass as his widow. That the
					marriage took place sometime before 1675 a document soon to be given in abstract will
					show. In dealing with this passage in the poet's life Cotton's biographers have concerned
					themselves only with what would appear to be the obvious motive for such a marriage.
					Cotton was broken in fortune: he had a family of five young children: his distant
					kinswoman was a reasonable choice for the head of his household, particularly since she
					had a jointure of £1,500 a year. No doubt at Cotton's time of life these considerations
					had much weight with him. However, as to the jointure of £1,500 a year, there is some
					reason to believe that it was secured to his wife; it did not, at any rate, relieve his
					financial embarrassment. Convenience does not seem to have been the sole motive for his
					second marriage. Among his occasional poems there is a considerable number which have a
					tone of intimately discriminating praise rather than one of mere gallantry, but which, for
					all their evident sincerity, lack the morning freshness of his youthful verses to
					Isabella. It is not improbable that these were addressed to his  second wife. They express a feeling as genuine as was the love of his youth.
					Time, of course, has left its marks on the poet, and with characteristic honesty he makes
					no pretense to a sentiment which life perhaps grants only once. But in these verses if
					there is less of the early fire, there is no abatement of manly tenderness, and there is
					the added charm of a peculiar candor. The "Stanzas Irreguliers" 1 to Chloris, which begin with the more startling
					aspects of this candor, close with its more delicate shades. 
						I.
						
							"Lord! how you take upon you still!
							How you crow and domineer!
							How! still expect to have your will,
							And carry the Dominion clear,
							As you were still the same that once you were!
						
						VI.
						
							And Faith, consult your glass, and see
							If I ha'n't reason on my side;
							Are those eyes still the same they used to be
							Come, come, they're alter'd, 'twill not be deni'd;
							And yet, although the glass be true,
							And shew you, you no more are you,
							I know you'll scarce believe it,
							For Womankind are all born proud, and never, never leave it.
						
						VII.
						
							Yet still you have enough, and more than needs,
							To rule a more Rebellious heart than mine; 1 Poems, 1689, p. 118.


							

							For as your eyes still shoot my heart still bleeds,
							And I must be a Subject still.
							Nor is it much against my will,
							Though I pretend to wrestle and repine:
							Your Beauties still are in the height,
							And I must still adore,
							New Years, new Graces still create,
							Nay, maugre Time, Mischance and Fate,
							You in your very ruines shall have more,
							Than all the Beauties that have grac'd the world before."
						
					
				
				This may be an expression of middle-aged sentiment, but it is a rare expression of the
					depth of it; paradoxical as it may seem, the romance of love remains, although stripped of
					illusion.
				In the "Calendar of State Papers" for 1675 there is preserved an amended draft of a
					second Act enabling Charles Cotton, Esq., to sell lands in order to pay debts, and also to
					raise portions for his younger children. In the light of what we have seen of his ten
					years' struggle with adverse circumstances, this document becomes one of pathetic
					interest. It states that his wife Isabella was then dead; that she had left one son and
					four daughters, who were prevented, by their father's mortgages, and other incumbrances,
					from enjoying the advantages to which they were entitled under the previous settlement in
					1665, and that, therefore, he was willing to divest himself of his title to his property
					for the payment of his debts, which, together with £2,000 to be raised for his daughters'
					portions, amounted to about £8,000. Parliament, therefore, enacted that all his lands
					should be "vested in trustees  who should allow him to retain
					Beresford Hall, and to receive the sum of forty pounds per annum during his own life, and
					the life of the Right Hon. Dame Mary, Countess Dowager of Ardglass, and after her decease
					the sum of sixty pounds yearly above the said annuity as long as he might live; that as
					much land should be sold as would pay his debts, and raise £2,000 for his daughters'
					portions and that the rest of his estates should be conveyed to his only son, Beresford
					Cotton, and the heirs of his body, with remainder to the heirs of his father."
				In view of these facts it seems significant that in this year, 1675, he published the
					"Burlesque upon Burlesque, or the Scoffer Scoft, being some of Lucian's Dialogues, newly
					put into English Fustian." It was frequently reprinted; burlesque seems to have been the
					poet's one sure source of revenue.
				In the following year (1676) he published his most famous original work in prose, a
					treatise on fly-fishing, which was added as a "Second Part" to the fifth edition of
					Walton's "Complete Angler." Prefixed was an epistle, dated 10th March, 1675-76, "To my
					most worthy father and friend, Mr. Isaak Walton, the elder," in which Cotton says that his
					treatise had been hurriedly written in ten days. Nevertheless, the "Second Part" is not
					unworthy of its place beside the first. It has been successfully adapted to the form of
					the "First Part," and though it lacks somewhat the peculiar charm of its prototype, it is
					perhaps rather better than its model when considered as a book of practical instruction
						 for anglers. At the end of this "Second Part" Walton had
					his publishers print the verses by Cotton entitled "The Retirement" (which, Walton
					declared to his friend, "will make any reader that is blest with a generous soul, to love
					you the better), and also an epistle from himself to Cotton which may be quoted as one of
					the few records that remain of the charming friendship between the two.
				
					
						
							
								"To my most Honored Friend "Charles Cotton,
									Esq.
								"Sir,—You now see, I have return'd you, your very pleasant, and useful
									discourse of the Art of Fli Fishing Printed, just as 'twas sent me: for I have
									been so obedient to your desires, as to endure all the praise you have ventur'd to
									fix upon me in it. And when I have thankt you for them, as the effects of an
									undissembled love: then, let me tell you, Sir, that I will endeavor to live up to
									the character you have given me, if there were no other reason; yet for this
									alone, that you, that love me so well, may not, for my sake, suffer by a mistake
									in your judgment.
								"And, Sir, I have ventur'd to fill a part of your Margin, by way of Paraphrase,
									for the Reader's clearer understanding, the situation both of your Fishing-House,
									and the pleasantness that you dwell in. And I have ventur'd also to give him a
									copy of Verses, that you were pleas'd to send me, now some years past; in which he
									may see a good picture of both; and, so much of your own mind too, as will make
									any Reader that is blest with a Generous soul, to love you the better. I confess,
									that for doing this you may justly judge me too bold: if you do, I will say so
									too: and so far commute my offence, that, though I be more than a hundred miles
									from  you, and in the eighty-third year of my Age,
									yet I will forget both, and next begin a pilgrimage to beg your pardon, for, I
									would dye in your favour: and till then will live,
								"Sir, "Your most affectionate "Father and Friend,
									"Izaak Walton.
									"London, April 29th, 1676."
							
						
					
				
				The friendship of Cotton and Walton continued to the latter's death. In Walton's will
					(dated August 16, 1683), Cotton was among those named to receive a ring with the motto "A
					friend's farewell." To the 1675 edition of Walton's "Lives" Cotton prefixed a copy of
					commendatory verses dated 17th January, 1672-73, in which he speaks of Walton as "the best
					friend I now or ever knew," and in the "Second Part" of the Angler he attempts with
					humorous delicacy to express what the older man's affection meant to him. "My opinion of
					Mr. Walton's Book," he says in the character of Piscator, Junior, "is the same with every
					man's that understands anything of the Art of Angling, that it is an excellent good one,
					and that the fore-mentioned Gentleman understands as much of Fish and Fishing as any man
					living: but I must tell you farther, that I have the happiness to know his person, and to
					be intimately acquainted with him, and in him to know the worthiest man and to enjoy the
					best and truest Friend any man ever had; nay, I shall acquaint you further, that he gives
					me leave to call him father, and I hope is not yet asham'd to own  me for his adopted son. . . . My father Walton will be seen twice in no man's
					company he does not like, and likes none but such as he believes to be honest men, which
					is one of the best arguments I have, that I either am, or that he thinks me one of those,
					seeing I have not yet found him weary of me." And how delightful the companionship of the
					older and the younger man was may be gathered from the Angler. 1 "All this," exclaims Piscator, on one occasion,
					at a bold suggestion from his pupil, "in a strange river and with a fly of your own making
					! Why, what a dangerous man are you!"
				And Viator replies: "I, sir, but who taught me? Damoetas says by his man Dorus, (Arcadia) so you may say by
						me.
					
						
							. . . "If my man such praises have
							What then have I, that taught the knave!"
						
					
				Cotton's pleasure in the companionship is further expressed in his verses inviting Walton
					to visit Beresford. 
						
							"If the all-ruling Powers please
							We live to see another May,
							We'll recompense an Age of these
							Foul days in one fine fishing day.
						
						
							A day without too bright a Beam,
							A warm, but not a scorching sun,
							A southern gale to curl the stream,
							And (master) half our work is done.
						
						1 The Complete Angler, ed.
							Hawkins, p. 37.
						
						
							We'll think ourselves in such an hour
							Happier than those, though not so high,
							Who, like Leviathans, devour
							Of meaner men the smaller Fry.
						
						
							This (my best Friend) at my poor Home
							Shall be our Pastime and our Theme,
							But then should you not deign to come
							You make all this a flatt'ring Dream."
						
					
				
				We cannot, perhaps, resist the hope that the poet enjoyed in Walton's company more than
					one such reprieve from the worry of debt, the drudgery of hack-work, and the uncongenial
					task of forcing his Muse to make faces at herself in burlesque. What at times this worry
					and drudgery meant to him we get a hint from verses like these: 1
					
						I.
						
							"Fy! What a wretched World is this?
							Nothing but anguish, griefs and fears,
							Where, who does best, must do amiss,
							Frailty the Ruling Power bears
							In this our dismal Vale of Tears.
						
						II.
						
							Oh! who would live, that could but dye,
							Dye honestly, and as he shou'd,
							Since to contend with misery
							Will do the wisest Man no good,
							Misfortune will not be withstood.
						
						
							Grant me then, Heav'n, a wilderness,
							And there an endless Solitude, 1 The World: Poems, 1689, p. 291.


							

							Where though Wolves howl, and Serpents hiss,
							Though dang'rous, 'tis not half so rude
							As the ungovern'd Multitude.
							And Solitude in a dark Cave,
							Where all things husht, and silent be,
							Resembleth so the quiet Grave,
							That there I would propose to flee,
							With Death, that hourly waits for me."
						
					
				
				Such contemplative poems as "The Retirement," 1 "To my dear and most worthy Friend, Mr. Isaak Walton," 2 "Contentment," 3 "To Mr. John Bradshaw, Esq.," 4 and "Poverty" 5 belong without doubt to this latter period of the poet's life;
					to the years, say, between 1670 and 1680. But his vivacity is unexhausted; in an
					"Anacreontic," written 1680, —when he was "fifty Winters old,"—we find him
					singing, 
						
							"Fill a Bowl of lusty Wine,
							Briskest Daughter of the Vine;
							Fill't untill it Sea-like flow,
							That my cheek may once more glow.
						
						
							Wine breeds Mirth, and mirth imparts
							Heat and Courage to our hearts,
							Which in old men else are lead,
							And not warm'd would soon be dead."
						
					
				
				In 1681, he published "The Wonders of the Peak," a descriptive poem somewhat after the
					manner of Hobbes' "De Mirabilibus Pecci," and dedicated to 1 Poems, 1689, p. 133.
					2 Ibid., p. 114.
					3 Ibid., p. 331.
					4 Ibid., p. 59.
					5 Ibid., p. 303.
					 "Elizabeth, Countess of Devonshire, with all acknowledgment
					and devotion." The pictures in this poem are often vividly clear, and the legends
					connected with some of the "wonders" are told with spirit and humor. Burlesque and real
					admiration are quaintly mingled. The poet knew his public, and here again, yielded to its
					taste.
				In 1685-6 he published his translation of Montaigne's Essays, dedicating it to George
					Savile, Marquis (or at that time Earl) of Halifax. It ranks among the acknowledged
					masterpieces of translation.
				Cotton died in February, 1687, four years after the death of his old friend Walton. The
					entry "1686-1687, Feb. 16, Charles Cotton" appears in the burial register of St. James,
					Piccadilly. A contemporary MS. diary (quoted by Oldys) records that the poet died of a
					fever when in his fifty-sixth year.
				It seems almost certain—from the evidence which follows—that the epistle,
						1 addressed to the Earl of
					—, was written near the end of the poet's life. He enjoyed at that time the close
					friendship of the brilliant George Savile, Earl (afterwards Marquis) of Halifax, to whom
					as we have seen he dedicated his "Montaigne." Bits of description of the Earl of —
					are entirely applicable to the Earl of Halifax. The Earl was almost exactly of Cotton's
					age, and Cotton in this epistle, says: "We do on our last Quarter
						go,"
					1 Poems, 1689, p. 274.
					 referring perhaps to both himself and the Earl, adding, of
					himself, 
						
							"I may, perhaps, with much ado,
							Rub out a Christmas more or two
							Or if the Fates be pleas'd, a Score,
							But never look to keep one more."
						
					
				
				He must have been at least fifty years of age—which supposition would place the
					poem sometime after the year 1680—in order to have passed, or to have been upon the
					point of passing into the "last quarter" of life. But there is reason to believe that he
					was some years older, for, a "Collection of Diverting Sayings, Stories, characters, etc.,"
					in verse and prose, supposed to have been made by him about the year 1686 and, after his
					death found in manuscript in the library of the Earl of Halifax, seems to fit remarkably
					well into the following quotation from the epistle we are speaking of: 
						
							"Some three Months hence, I make account
							My Spur-gall'd Pegasus to mount,
							When, whither I intend to go,
							My Horse, as well as I, will Know;
							But being got with much ado,
							Out of the reach a Stage or two,
							Though not the conscience of my shame,
							And Pegasus fall'n desp'rate lame,
							I shake my stirrups, and forsake him,
							Leaving him to the next will take him;
							Not that I set so lightly by him,
							Would any be so kind to buy him;
							But that I think those who have seen
							How ill my Muse has mounted been,
							Would certainly take better heed,


							

							Than to bid money for her Steed.
							Being then on foot, away I go,
							And bang the hoof, in cognito,
							Though in condition so forlorn,
							Little Disguise will serve the turn."
						
					
				
				That in 1686 the poet was still living upon his estate seems to appear from an item in
					Plat's "Natural History of Staffordshire"—a work licensed to be printed in April,
					1686—which mentions the author's "most worthy friend, the worshipful Charles Cotton
					of Beresford, Esquire," and "his pleasant mansion at Beresford." But only a year later,
					the poet had died in obscure circumstances in London. The touching epistle to Lord Halifax
					would seem then to have been written on the eve of his final departure from Beresford. The
					following lines from it furnish their own comment upon the circumstances that had fallen
					out for him, as well as upon his quality of courage: 
						
							"We do on our last Quarter go,
							And that I may go bravely out,
							Am trowling merry Bowl about,
							To Lord, and Lady, that and this,
							As nothing were at all amiss,
							When after twenty days are past,
							Poor Charles has eat and drunk his last.
						
						
							No more Plum-porridge then, or Pye,
							No Brawn with Branch of Rosemary,
							No chine of Beef, enough to make
							The tallest Yeoman's chine to Crack;
							No bag-pipe humming in the Hall,
							Nor noise of House-keeping at all,


							

							Nor sign, by which it may be said,
							This House was once inhabited."
						
					
				
				It was a farewell spoken with his old cheerful smile, but it has a wistful cadence of
					regret.
				 In the act of administration of Cotton's effects, one Elizabeth Bludworth was mentioned
					as his principal creditor (Beresford Cotton, Esq.; the honorable Mary, Countess-Dowager of
					Ardglass, his widow; Olive Cotton, Catherine Cotton, Jane Cotton, and Mary Cotton, his
					natural and lawful children first renouncing) and was dated 12 September, 1687. Beresford
					Cotton, his son and heir, was living at Nottingham, 11 January, 1688, as the following
					baptismal entry in the parish register of St. Mary shows: "Stanhope, son of Mr. Berrisford
					Cotton and Katherine." Beresford became a captain in the army under William the Third;
					Olive married the well-known divine and writer, George Stanhope, Dean of Canterbury;
					Katherine married Sir Berkeley Lucy of Braxbourne; Mary became the wife of Augustus
					Armstrong; Jane married Beaumont Perkyns of Sutton Bonington, and was the mother of Lucy,
					Countess of Northampton.
				 At the time of Cotton's death, he was at work on a translation of "The Memoirs of
					Monsieur de Pontis, who served in. the French Army fifty-six years, under Henry IV, Lewis
					VIII, and Lewis XIV, Kings of France, containing many remarkable passages relating to the
					War, the Court, and the Government to those Princes." He was engaged, then, to the end of
					his life in supplying his public  with parallels to the evils
					of the time in England by means of translations from the French. Since the time of Oliver,
					royalists of a contemplative turn had fallen back on history and philosophy for
					encouragement, and example. In "Pastor Fido," 1647, a copy of which Cotton is known to
					have possessed in his youth, Sir Richard Fanshaw explains his purpose in translating as
					being that of furnishing his Prince with "the image of a gasping state (once the most
					flourishing in the world): A wild Boar (the sword) depopulating the Country: the
					Pestilence unpeopling the Towns: their gods themselves in the merciless humane Sacrifices
					exacting bloody contributions from both: . . . Because it seems to me (beholding it at the
					best light) a Lantskip of those Kingdoms (your Royall Patrimony), as well in the former
					flourishing, as the purest distractions, thereof, I thought it not improper for your
					Princely notice at this time, thereby to occasion your Highness, even in your recreations,
					to reflect upon the sad Originall, not without hope to see it yet speedily made a perfect
					parallel through-out; and also your self a great Instrument of it." This purpose must have
					been Cotton's likewise in his heroic poem, "The Battail of Yvry," written about 1658, in
					which a French prince, traitorously dispossessed of his rights, is shown triumphantly
					regaining them at last. The poem ends with a couplet which is obviously an allusion to
					Cotton's exiled Prince :— 
						
							"Leaving Fair France unto his brighter Ray—
							May ev'ry injur'd Prince have such a day."
						
					
				

				

				In this connection, Cotton's translation of "The Moral Philosophy of the Stoics," from
					the French of Du Voix is significant. It was done, as seems probable from the dedication
					to his friend and kinsman, John Ferrers, a year or two before the Restoration. And,
					indeed, the fine ode to "Winter," though of course not a translation, seems to bear
					interpretation as a political satire. Furthermore, Cotton, in his dedication of the "Duke
					of Espernon," emphasizes the fact that "a more Illustrious Image of Virtue, and Honour
					than is here represented in the Person of the Duke of Espernon, in my little Reading I
					have nowhere met with, a more exemplary Piety, a braver Courage, a more shining and
					unblemished Loyalty, more inviolate Friendships, nor a nobler Constancy in all the shocks
					of Fortune . . . " And finally, the translation of Montaigne came at a time when the
					example of that gentle skeptic might be expected to do much toward abating the fanaticism
					of a hundred warring factions. Under the circumstances of the time, a safer and more
					effectual way of criticism is hard to imagine, or one more in accord with both Cotton's
					gentleness and his courage.
				 Two years after the poet's death, an unauthorized collection of his occasional poems was
					published. This volume is to be considered at length in the following section. For the
					present, we may say of these poems, what he himself has said of certain passages in the
					life of the admirable Duke of Espernon, that, though they are not "altogether to be  justified," there are "none that may not be slipt over amongst
					so many better pages, like a Counterfeit piece in a great summe of current gold." 
			
		


		
			
			
				THE LIFE AND THE POETRY OF CHARLES COTTON
				
			
				

					THE POETRY OF CHARLES COTTON
					 The volume of miscellaneous verse, entitled "Poems on Several Occasions," was
						published in 1689, two years after the poet's death. The publisher's preface to Cotton's
						translation of the "Memories of the Sieur de Pontis," 1694, asserts that the poet had
						himself made a collection of his poems for the press, but that, owing to the "ungenerous
						proceeding" of a piratical publisher, the printing of this authentic edition had been
						prevented. The collection of 1689 shows haste in compilation; no fewer than nineteen
						poems appear twice, and the typography throughout is so careless, especially in respect
						to the pointing, that one's impression in reading is frequently confused, or blurred.
						Nevertheless, after a careful consideration of the volume, evidences of deliberate
						intention in the arrangement of certain groups of poems give rise to the surmise that
						here, after all, we have the authentic collection referred to in the preface to the
						"Memories of the Sieur de Pontis." This is a surmise, however, which cannot be
						verified.
					 The volume may be considered as having two main divisions. The first comprises, for
						the most part, original poems; the second is made up altogether of translations. The
						original poems, exclusive of the repetitions referred to above, number 175; the
						translations, 80. The original poems may be classified 
						under the following types: Amorous lyrics, including odes and elegies, number 59;
						Pindaric odes of the Cowleyan variety, 7; sonnets, 10; songs, 10; epigrams, 16;
						epitaphs, 5; burlesque epistles, and descriptive and narrative burlesques (in which are
						to be found much important biographical data), 17; eclogues, 2; sets of lines, 9;
						satires, 3; convivial lyrics, 3; paraphrases, 3; heroic poems, 2; one dialogue and one
						Christmas hymn; and finally, seven important miscellaneous lyrics, including "The
						New-year" and "The Retirement."
					 The translations are from the Latin, the Italian and the French. The French
						translations are of particular interest, and a subsequent part of this section is
						devoted to them. For the moment, it is sufficient to remark that the headings of not a
						few of the original poems point to French models, as for instance, Les
							Amours, Estrennes, rondeau, virilai; the word épigramme is used
						to indicate a poem not identical with the English epigram, and the phrase "stanzas
						irreguliers" is employed as subtitle for such poems as "The Retirement."
					 But before taking up the discussion of Cotton's indebtedness to the French, it will be
						best to consider certain native influences. Some of these have left only slight traces
						on his work. Traces of the so-called "Metaphysical School" are rare, even the Cowleyan
						odes being almost as simple and direct as poetic expression can be. The conceit, when
						employed, lacks serious intention. It is generally a playful touch, as in the last
						stanza of the song beginning, "Join once again, my Celia, Join":— 
						
							
								"Thanks, sweetest, now thou'rt perfect grown,
								For by this last kiss I'm undone;
								Thou breathest silent darts,
								Henceforth each little touch will prove
								A dangerous strategem in love,
								And thou wilt blow up hearts."
							
						
					
					Taking Cotton's poetry all in all, the conceit occurs so infrequently that the
						influence of the metaphysical poets upon him is almost negligible. Likewise, it may be
						said that the cynicism which was prevalent in his time left no deep impress on his work.
						When he does give expression to that mood, the result is a rough badinage which has
						difficulty in keeping its tone, and which invariably gives way in the end to obvious
						good-humour. In "Love's Triumph," for example, he starts off bravely enough: 
							
								"God Cupid's Power was ne're so shown
								Since first the Boy could draw a bow,
								In all past Ages, as this one,
								This love-sick Age we live in now;
								Now He and She from high to low,
								Or Lovers are, or would seem so."
							
						
					
					He goes on, indeed, to malign these too easy lovers, the young, the old, the foul, the
						fair; but in the end, as the hearty ring of the denunciation has all along suggested, he
						is discovered to be only mock serious: 
							
								"And yet there is, there is one prize,
								Lock'd in an adamantine Breast;
								Storm that then, Love, if thou be'st wise,
								A conquest above all the rest,


								

								Her Heart, who binds all Hearts in chains,
								Castanna's Heart untouched remains."
							
					
					So it is, over and over again; the discord is but preparation for the harmony. In
						brief, Cotton is too much a realist, in the best sense of that term, to be cynical; he
						is too catholic in his sympathies, and too humorous. This same manliness of temper saved
						him, moreover, from another affectation of his day, that of Platonic love. Here again,
						however, as in the case of the conceit and of the fashionable attitude of cynicism, he
						is not above making incidental use of the cult of Platonic love, and its vagaries. He
						makes it serve his turn, now and then, by way of graceful compliment. In the song,
						already quoted from, "Join once again, etc.," we find the following example: 
							
								"Each Kiss of thine creates desire,
								Thy odorous Breath inflames Love's fire,
								And wakes the sleeping coal:
								Such a Kiss to be I find
								The conversation of the Mind,
								And whisper of the Soul."
							
						
					
					In this stanza, the quaint blending of sensuous and Platonic love, with its suggestion
						of double entente, is worth observing, since it directs us to Cotton's
						ultimate attitude toward love.
					 Among the native influences, under which he wrote, by far the most important was the
						sensuous hedonism of Carew. What in Carew especially attracted Cotton was the value the
						hedonist attached  to the fleeting and irrevocable present.
						Carew sings in "Persuasions to Love," 
							
								"O love me, then, and now begin it,
								Let us not lose this precious minute;
								For time and age will work that wrack
								Which time and age can ne'er call back."
							
						
					
					And Cotton in the ode "To Cɶlia" 1 strikes almost precisely the same note: 
							
								"Ill Husbandry in Love is such
								A scandal to Love's pow'r,
								We ought not to misspend so much
								As one poor short-liv'd hour."
							
						
					
					Carew writes again, 
							
								"O then, be wise, and whilst your season
								Affords you days for sport, do reason;
								Spend not in vain your life's short hour."
							
						
					
					And Cotton, on his part, pleads, 
							
								"What such a love deserves, thou, sweet,
								As knowing best, may'st best reward;
								I, for thy bounty well prepar'd
								With open arms my blessing meet.
								Then do not, dear, our joys detard;
								But unto him propitious be
								That knows no love, nor life, but thee."
							
						
					
					This note is struck frequently by both Cotton and Carew. But the evidences of Carew's
						influence do not stop with this. A somewhat casual survey of Carew's poems for points of
						resemblance between him and Cotton has yielded the following possible 1 Poems, 1689, p. 8.
						 comparisons (in point of theme): Carew's "Secrecy
						Protested" with Cotton's "Sonnet" (How should'st thou love, and not offend); Carew's "A
						Prayer to the Wind" with Cotton's ode "Laura Sleeping"; Carew's "Mediocrity in Love
						Rejected" with Cotton's ode "To Chloris"; 1 Carew's "Good Counsel to a Young Maid" and his second, "Good
						Counsel to a Young Maid" with Cotton's "Old Tityrus to Eugenia"; Carew's "To Her
						Absence, A Ship," with Cotton's "The Tempest"; Carew's "To the Painter" with Cotton's
						"To My Friend, Mr. Lely." These comparisons include only obvious cases. When subtle
						resemblances, such as the pace and turn of verse, the pitch of emotion, and the poetic
						quality, are taken into account the indebtedness of Cotton to Carew is seen to be more
						than superficial. A reader fresh from a perusal of Carew finds many echoes of his music
						in the amorous lyrics of Cotton.
					Now, let us turn to an important difference between them. Cotton is often, for a
						moment, as hedonistic as Carew; but the mood with Cotton is not a prevailing one. It is
						frequently recurrent, but not persistent. Here, once more it must be said, Cotton's keen
						sense of reality will not permit him to rest secure with "this precious minute." He is
						usually found poised somewhere between the impetuosity of desire and the cool
						circumspection of good sense. In the ode "To Isabel," over against the impetuosity of "Then do not, dear, our joy detard;"
						1 Poems, 1689, p.
							55.
						 we find this expression of carefully evaluated feeling: 
							
								"But when I vow to thee I do
								Love thee above, or health, or peace,
								Gold, joy, and all such toys as these,
								'Bove happiness and honor too:
								Thou then must know, this love can cease,
								Nor change, for all the glorious show
								Wealth and discretion bribe us to."
							
						
					
					This mood is clearly different from the hedonism of Carew; and with Cotton it is the
						predominating mood. As may be seen from the following quotation from Davenant's preface
						to Gondibert (1650), this attitude of Cotton was not unrecognized in the criticism of
						his day. "Love," says Davenant, "in the Interpretation of the Envious, is Softness; in
						the Wicked, good men suspect it for lust; and in the Good, some spiritual men have given
						it the name of Charity. And these are but terms to this which seems a more considered
						definition, that indefinite Love is Lust, and Lust when it is determin'd to one is Love.
						. . . They who accuse Poets as provokers of Love are enemies to Nature; and all affronts
						to Nature are offences to God, as insolences to all subordinate officers of the Crown
						are rudeness to the King. Love, in the most obnoxious interpretation, is Nature's
						Preparative to her greatest work, which is the making of Life. And since the severest
						Divines of these latter times have not been asham'd publiquely to commend and define the
						most secret dutys and entertainments of Love in the Married, why should not poets
						civilly  endeavor to make a Friendship between the Guests
						before they meet, by teaching them to dignifie each other with the utmost of estimation?
						And Marriage in Mankinde were as rude and unprepar'd as the hasty election of other
						Creatures, but for acquaintance, and conversation before it, and that must be an
						acquaintance of Mindes, not of bodye; and of the Minde Poesy is the most natural and
						delightful Interpreter." Let us compare with this, the second stanza of Cotton's
						"Estrennes to Calista": 1
						
							
								"Love is the Soul of Life, though that I know
								Is call'd Soul too, but yet it is not so,
								Not rational at least, untill
								Beauty with her diviner light
								Illuminates the groping will,
								And shews us how to chuse aright
								And that's first prov'd by th' objects it refuses,
								And by being constant then to that it chuses."
							
						
					
					Cotton's attitude toward love, then, it may be repeated, was not that of the cynic who
						denied the divinity of love altogether, nor was it that of the Platonic idealist who
						detached worthy love entirely from the sensuous. Cotton's attitude is expressed
						succinctly in his words, "Love is the soul of life." His mood in its sensuousness has
						much in common with that of Carew; but it is after all essentially different, for he
						affirms that, 
							
								"Love by swift time, which sickly passions dread,
								Is no more measur'd than 'tis limited;"
							
						
						1 Poems, 1689, p.
							162.
					
					
						 These two moods,—one almost identical with the
						prevailing mood of Carew, and the other almost diametrically opposed to that poet's
						hedonism,—Cotton tries to harmonize. At least, if he does not consciously try to
						harmonize them, he habitually brings them into juxtaposition, as if he intended thus to
						suggest a quality of love which otherwise he found inexpressible. In a word, he tries to
						find a point of stability between the impulse to see and describe things as they
						actually are, and the idealizing impulse to extenuate and veil. He attempts to harmonize
						clean and sane knowledge both of himself and of others with the intoxicating buoyancy of
						love. These two antagonistic moods, dramatically contending for mastery, give warmth and
						vital interest to the amorous lyrics of Cotton.
					His translations from the French throw light upon his significance as a lyrical poet.
						There is a note in his work which is hard to account for, if one considers only his
						immediate predecessors and his contemporaries at home. That French literature, poetry
						and prose, appealed to him with unusual power, there is much evidence to prove. His
						interest in the French lyrists began probably a good while before his journey to France
						in 1655, and throughout his life thereafter he was employed from time to time either in
						translating, or in adapting, from the French.
					Desportes (1546-1606) and Bertaut (1552-1611), two minor Ronsardists, are the earliest
						of the French lyrists to find a place in his translations. Each is represented by a
						single poem, the one from  Desportes an Épigramme of five stanzas, "Some four years ago I made Phillis an offer," 1 and that from Bertaut, a set of
						five stances, "Whilst wishing Heaven in his ire." 2
					
					A comparison of the translation of the Épigramme of Desportes with
						its original reveals the fact that the translation is hardly more than a rough
						paraphrase. The well-bred restraint of the original has given place in the translation
						to a tone of rollicking bravado. Cotton has missed the spirit of the original almost
						altogether. Here, as elsewhere, in spite of his liking for the French, he is essentially
						English: more than once in his translations he seems almost consciously to assert his
						pride in his nationality by naming bluntly what he perhaps takes to be, let us say, an
						insincere delicacy in the French. It may be doubted whether "hearty, cheerful Mr.
						Cotton" could ever have appreciated at its full value the satiric verve and the subtle,
						seemingly innocent malice of Desportes. There were other qualities in the French lyrist
						which Cotton could have appreciated. If he had translated more from him, he might, when
						the occasion rose, have rendered with much effect Desportes' tender sensibility and
						picturesqueness. But he did not, so far as his publications show, put himself in the way
						of that opportunity. In only one respect does it seem that this French lyrist may have
						influenced Cotton's original work: Both are fond of the military figure. Cotton's
						employment of it, as for instance in the "Ode to Winter," may owe something 1 Poems, 1689, p. 165.
						2 Ibid., p.
							147.
						 to Desportes. There had, however, been plenty of precedent
						for it in English verse, at least after the time of Spenser; though it should be
						remembered that, as Mr. Sydney Lee has shown, Spenser himself owed much to the influence
						of the writings of Desportes. With this possible exception of the employment of military
						imagery, it is hard to find specific traces of the influence of Desportes upon Cotton's
						own work.
					The translation from Bertaut, unlike that from Desportes, is a conscientious
						translation, and serves as an admirable illustration of the characteristic qualities of
						this French poet,—namely, his liking for antithesis, paradox, and pointe: 
								"Whilst wishing Heaven in his ire
								Would punish with some judgment dire
								This heart to love so obstinate;
								To say I love her is to lie,
								Though I do love t' extremity,
								Since thus to love her is to hate."
							
						
					
					Through five stanzas variations are made upon this paradox, in the end the powers being
						petitioned to grant the lover, 
							
								"Both for my punishment and grace,
								That, as I do, she love and hate."
							
						
					
					This is a note that has been struck more than once by Cotton himself. An example is
						this stanza from "Les Amours": 1
						1 Poems, 1689, p.
							380.
						
						
								"She, that I pursue, still flies me;
								Her that follows me, I fly;
								She, that I still court, denies me;
								Her that courts me, I deny.
								Thus in one Web we're subtly wove,
								And yet we mutiny in love."
							
						
					
					And for another instance, take the third stanza from Cotton's fine "Ode": 1
						
								"And must I then be damn't from Bliss
								For valuing the blessing more,
								Be wretched made through Happiness,
								And by once being rich more poor?"
							
						
					
					This "Ode" is one which, in conception, is peculiarly Cotton's own; yet, like "Les
						Amours" and the ode "To Celia," it shows unmistakably, in detail, the influence of
						Bertaut.
					Bertaut and Desportes were evidently not great favorites with Cotton. Their effect upon
						him seems mainly a superficial effect upon his poetic practice, and yet they had in one
						fundamental respect a close resemblance to him. Like him, they were eclectic or
						transitional poets, being in close touch with the passing school and at the same time
						foreshadowing the abatement of poetic fervor which (under the influence of Malherbe) was
						soon to follow. Like him, they were members of no school. At any rate, they were the
						least typical of their school. There would seem, thus, to have been a certain affinity
						between these two poets and Cotton, and it is possible that 1 Poems, 1689, p. 212.
						 they may have influenced him in ways not easy to
						trace.
					The succeeding school to the Ronsardists had its leader in Malherbe (1555-1628). He set
						going a reaction against the Pleiade, or Ronsardists, expressing scorn for their
						subserviency to the classics, as well as for what seemed to him their distraught
						enthusiasm. According to Balzac, Malherbe was the first to teach the French that the
						secret of eloquence lay in the choice of thought and expression, and in the arrangement
						of words and ideas rather than in the words and ideas themselves. In the interest of
						simplicity and elegance he instituted reforms in versification, making the line instead
						of the stanza the structural unit. Malherbe's influence upon Cotton may be said to have
						been a superficial one, in the sense that it was an influence upon his manner rather
						than upon his poetic conception.
					The one short poem which Cotton selected for translation from Malherbe, suggests at
						first glance a distinct point of resemblance between the two poets. It is an épigramme "Writ in Calista's Prayer-Book." 1 The original is as follows: 
							
								"Tant que vous serez sans amour,
								Calista, priez nuit et jour,
								Vous n'aurez point mes6ricorde;
								Ce n'est pas que Dieu ne soit doux:
								Mais pensez-vous qu'il vous accorde
								Ce qu'on ne peut de vous?"
							
					
					The translation reads: 1 Poems, 1689, p. 51.
						
						
							
								"Whilst you are deaf to love, you may,
								Fairest Calista, weep and pray,
								And yet, alas ! no mercy find,
								Not but God's mercifull, 'tis true,
								But can you think he'll grant to you
								What you deny to all mankind?"
							
						
					
					Here, somewhat as in translating from Desportes, Cotton has evidently tried to heighten
						the effect of the original by introducing an exclamation in the third line and by giving
						in general more rhetorical pointe to the épigramme.
						Otherwise, except in translating the second line "Fairest Calista, weep and pray,"
						instead of "Pray night and day," the translation is literal.
					But the important point to notice in comparing the two is the fact that here a note is
						struck common to the poetry of both Cotton and Malherbe. It sounds clearly in the last
						three lines of the translation, and in the corresponding lines of the original. It is an
						appeal of the lover to what purports to be merely good sense and justice, by means of a
						certain sweet disputativeness of the heart. Both Malherbe and Cotton make frequent use
						of this appeal; Malherbe in one instance, at least, has shown himself to be fully
						conscious of his attitude: 
							"Quant à moi, je dispute avant que je m'engage,
							Mais quand je l'ai promis, j'aime éternellement."
						
						1
					
					And again, in another poem, after a number of stanzas of almost deliberate
						disparagement of himself 1 Poesies, p. 136.
						 and his affection, Malherbe suddenly queries, 
							
								"Mais à quoi tendent ces discours
								Q beauty qui de mes amours
								Êtes le port et le naufrage?
								Ce que je dis contre ma foi,
								N'est-ce pas un vrai témoignage
								Que je suis déjà hors de moil?" 1
								
							
						
					
					This standing aloof from passion to view it sanely, and thus to test its merits in the
						court of good-sense, is characteristic of Malherbe, even in his most fervid verses,
						those inspired by "Calista," the Vicontesse d' Auchy. The same point of view is taken by
						Cotton, also, time and again. In these lines from Cotton's ode "To Chloris" 2 we find an expression of it: 
							
								"Though I pretend to wrestle and repine
								Your beauties sweet are in their height,
								And I must still adore."
							
						
					
					So, too, in the following lines from the ode "To Love," 3 after four stanzas of self-analysis, he makes a confident
						appeal for justice, 
							
								"Raised to this height, I have no more,
								Almighty Love, for to implore
								Of my auspicious Stars, or Thee,
								Than that thou bow her noble mind
								To be as mercifully kind
								As I shall ever faithful be."
							
						
						1 Poesies, p.
							142.
						2 Poems, 1689,
							Stances Irreguliers, p. 12.
						3 Poems, 1689, p.
							44.
					
					
						 And again, at the end of "The Expostulation" 1 the note is struck: 
							
								"Whence then can this change proceed?
								Say; or whither does it tend?
								That false heart will one day bleed,
								When it has brought so true a Friend
								To cruel and untimely end."
							
						
					
					It might seem from these examples that here we have discovered between Malherbe and
						Cotton an identity of attitude, and perhaps of conception. Both make a show of resisting
						love, as if to compel the emotion to prove itself: if it survives that ordeal they press
						their case as if to do so were almost compulsory by nature,—"like must of
						necessity respond to like" and love, above all, finds itself helpless to resist its
						kind. But a closer study of Cotton makes one conclude that though he does indeed take
						this attitude more than once,—prompted no doubt by Malherbe to its use as a poetic
						device,—it is not a deep nor a vitally characteristic attitude with him. With
						Malherbe this mood is the prevailing one, and though at times, in his most personal
						lyrics, it does not seem to serve his purpose to the best advantage, it does serve most
						admirably when, vicariously inspired, he gives play to that half-dramatic gift by means
						of which he produced highly successful plaints for his friends and patrons. Cotton,
						unlike the French poet, had no aptitude for vicarious inspiration; personal inspiration
						seems to have been absolutely necessary for his best work. So that, among 1 Poems, 1689, p.
							3.
						 French lyrists, Racan and Théophile, with their natural
						egoism, found the deepest response in him.
					But, nevertheless, upon Cotton's poetic style the influence of Malherbe seems clearly
						marked. Malherbe stood for simplicity in poetic expression. But he was not an extremist
						even in this respect. Rather, in attempting to reach his ideal, he took the narrow path
						between preciosity on one hand and colloquialism on the other. So far as diction was
						concerned, his simplicity meant hardly more than current good usage, taken in a wide
						sense to include the usage common to all classes. His poetic words were to be also good
						prose words, and the specifically poetic values attached to them, however they may have
						been acquired, were not to be considered. In a sense this attitude was truly simple and
						unaffected, though it was not, of course, an elemental simplicity and naturalness such
						as Wordsworth in advocating simplicity seems sometimes to have had in mind. This
						simplicity of Malherbe, however, was the simplicity of Cotton. It is especially so in
						Cotton's best work, as for instance in "The Retirement," and other poems addressed to
						Isaac Walton, in "The New Year," the "Summer Day Quatrains," and the "Ode to Winter." In
						these poems the effect is produced by means of the harmonious arrangement of simple
						elements. This is true in spite of the fact that both Malherbe and Cotton make frequent
						use of classical personifications. They accepted that convention as simply as they
						accepted other conventions of current good usage. 
					
						 Another phase of similarity between Malherbe and Cotton
						may be mentioned here, though it is hardly more than another aspect of what has just
						been pointed out. Malherbe had what may be called a keen illative sense; his poems
						progress step by step toward a goal, and if the direction is not in a straight line, the
						deviation is explicitly marked. This method of construction gives clearness, or the
						appearance of clearness, to his compositions. In Cotton, one finds a reflection of this
						too; though by him it seems to be hardly as seriously employed as by Malherbe. Cotton's
						egoism, one feels, is frequently restive behind this mask of reasonableness. At such
						moments, the effect produced is quaint and touching. Beneath the clear-voiced ring of
						lines rhetorically linked together, one catches that peculiar undertone of wistful
						eagerness which is one of Cotton's most authentic notes.
					To recapitulate, the two aspects of Cotton's verse that may with some degree of
						certainty be ascribed to the influence of Malherbe are, first, that plain,
						matter-of-fact simplicity of much of his best poetry; and, secondly, that illative
						method of arrangement, which, masking decorously the willful pulse of passion, gives at
						least the appearance of logical necessity to a dilemma of sentiment. The influence of
						Malherbe, perhaps because it affected mainly the surface of Cotton's poetry, is not
						difficult to trace in his work. A few instances of it may be found in the following
						poems: "Elegy," 1 "The New 1 Poems, 1689, p.
							11.
						 Year," 1 the "Joys of Marriage," 2 "Epistle to John Bradshaw, Esq." 3 and "Ode." 4
					
					Maynard (1582-1646) was one of Malherbe's chief disciples. Malherbe himself said that
						Maynard made excellent verses, but had unfortunately applied himself to a genre for
						which he was not fitted: he wished to write épigrammes, but lacked the
						power to succeed because he had not enough pointe. Of the épigrammes of Maynard, Cotton translated ten. If the large number seems to
						indicate an affinity between the two poets, it consisted in a desire to make use of a
						poetic form with which Cotton had no greater success than Maynard. Maynard's gift was
						not that of the epigrammatist, nor was Cotton's. Both could begin an épigramme with promise, but neither was able to finish it with the required
						pungency. For wit they frequently substituted grossness. Neither had the peculiar
						intellectual quirk of the epigrammatist. Cotton's best work in this genre is illustrated by the "Epigram." 5 It is obviously in the manner of Maynard but it is rather
						better than any of the translated épigrammes, being more spirited in
						attack, and having more pointe. Many of Cotton's amorous lyrics, also,
						take an epigrammatic turn; for instance, the ode "To Celia" 6 and the "Sonnet." 7
					
					But, as in the case of Malherbe, the influence of Maynard upon Cotton would seem to
						have been only 1 Poems,
							1689, p. 33.
						2 Ibid., p. 36.
						3 Ibid., p. 126,
							129.
						4 Ibid., p. 212.
						5 Ibid., p. 337.
						6 Ibid., p. 143.
						7 Ibid., p. 146.
						 superficial. Cotton's Muse was peculiarly hospitable to
						any influence that came her way. At the same time that he was, in all probability,
						experimenting in his verses with the cynicism of Maynard, he was also imitating the
						delicate flattery, real and affected, of the Hôtel de Rambouillet. The
						influence of this latter coterie of poets has left marked—though as in the case of
						Malherbe and Maynard, also superficial—traces in Cotton's work.
					About 1608, Catherine de Vivonne, or as she was called later Madame de Rambouillet,
						displeased with the coarseness of the life at the French court, withdrew herself from
						it, and assembled about her at the Hôtel de Rambouillet a famous
						coterie. For the present purpose it is not necessary to give an extended account of the
						group of men and women, who, catching her spirit, dedicated themselves to the
						cultivation of refined amusement and polished conversation. During half a century,
						however, they exerted a wide influence upon social ideals and manners, and though at
						length, the absurdity of some of their aspirations,—that, in particular, of
						Platonic love,— became glaringly apparent, they presented for the most part an
						example of fair and decorous social life.
					Naturally, this ancillary court of Madame de Rambouillet sought to express itself in
							vers de société. Voiture (1598-1648) and Benserade (1612-1691) were
						the most brilliant of these coterie versifiers. Their function consisted in the
						composition of witty, impromptu verses, in honor of the polite life of the Hôtel de Rambouillet. Their  opportunity was such
						as could be furnished by any salient trifle,—a novelty of personal adornment, for
						instance, or a clever jeu d' esprit. The object of their art was
						compliment so delicately shaded that at first glance it failed to catch the eye as
						compliment, and pleased insensibly. Of such art, prettiness, ingenuity, and above all
						gayety were the essential graces. Both Voiture and Benserade performed their task
						successfully: Voiture in particular did so exquisitely well that he is still remembered
						as the model for this kind of poetical concetti. 
					Cotton translated little from these experts in preciosity,—nothing, in fact, but
						an épigramme of Benserade, 1 and that épigramme happens not to be
						peculiarly characteristic of their work. That he translated nothing at all from Voiture
						may be accounted for by the fact that the latter's work was not published until 1695.
						But Voiture's work was finished by 1648, and it is probable that Cotton came in the way
						of it during his residence in France, in 1655. Though Cotton translated very little from
						these poets, there is no lack of evidence that he knew of their work, and for a time,
						was much influenced by it. Among his lyrics there are a number obviously in the manner
						of the coterie. These are "Her Name," 2 "Her Hair," 3 "To
						Cupid," 4 "Her Sigh," 5 "Cɶlia's Ague," 6 and "A Valediction." 7 In general these poems have as their object
							1 Poems, 1689, p.
							636.
						2 Ibid., p. 367.
						3 Ibid., p. 385.
						4 Ibid., p. 472.
						5 Ibid., p. 407.
						6 Ibid., p. 418.
						7 Ibid., p. 420.
						 the turning of well-bred compliment, and they accomplish
						their task with a vivacity and grace comparable to that of their models. They show, in
						particular, the unmistakable influence of Voiture. In "Her Sigh," for one instance, the
						light grace of the classical allusion (stanza III) is strongly suggestive of Voiture: 
							
								"When Thisbe's Pyramus was slain
								This sigh had fetched him back again,
								And such a sigh from Dido's chest
								Wafted the Trojan to her Breast."
							
						
					
					In these poems of Cotton, also, the pretty duplicity of Platonic love is affected in a
						way which is characteristic of Voiture. In "Her Hair" (stanza II) these lines occur; 
							
								"Me thinks I'm now all sacred fire,
								And wholly grown
								Devotion:
								Sensual Love's in chains,
								And all my boiling veins
								Are blown with sanctifi'd desire."
							
						
					
					Of the same sentiment and treatment, the last four stanzas of "A Valediction" furnish
						another good example. The Platonic cult had of course been in vogue for a long time in
						both France and England; but these touches in Cotton may be confidently ascribed to the
						influence of Voiture, because of their employment as means incidental to the real object
						and appeal of the poem—that of delicately veiled flattery.
					Furthermore, Voiture's method of amplification  by means
						of antithesis is also found in these verses of Cotton. Those "To Cupid" 1 furnish perhaps the best example.
						Stanza II may serve as illustration. 
							
								"Surrender without more ado,
								I am both King and subject too,
								I will command, but must obey,
								I am the Hunter and the Prey,
								I vanquish, yet am overcome,
								And sentencing, receive my doom."
							
						
					
					The mere fact that antithesis has been used is not, of course, the significant thing;
						but the manner of its employment, for the purpose of light, crisp amplification,
						suggests at once the coterie.
					To turn again to a comparison of general effects, an interesting resemblance exists
						between Voiture's Stances "Sur sa Maîtresse rencontrée en habit de garçon,
							sur un soir de Carnaval,"
						2 and Cotton's "Amoret in
						Masquerade." 3 In these poems the
						theme is identical; the poet feels strangely attracted by a boy who proves to be his
						mistress in disguise. The treatment is the same in both poems, being ingenious and
						pretty, and conveying that indefinable vivacity which is the perfection of this sort of
						verse, rising as it does from a sincere desire to please.
					Finally, there is in Cotton's volume another indication of the influence of these
						coterie poets. Among his original poems are found two rondeaux and a
							virelai. The importance of this fact becomes plain when it is
						remembered that these and other 1 Poems, 1689, p. 472.
						2 Œuvres, p. 102.
						3 Poems, 1689, p.
							156.
						 artificial forms had been for the most part discarded by
						the French themselves toward the end of the fifteenth century, and were revived only
						about 1640, by the coterie. 1
					
					Voiture wrote some thirty rondeaux in the common form; a a b b a, a a
						b, (refrain), a a b b a, (refrain). Neither of Cotton's rondeaux
						conforms to this rime scheme. The first differs also from those of Voiture in being
						anything but gallant. The second is in keeping with the spirit of Voiture, and even in
						respect to technique compares favorably with his.
					The presence of these forms among Cotton's lyrics is significant as helping to show how
						closely he was in touch with French poetic movements. No other of his contemporaries
						except Patrick Carey, 2 who had
						lived most of his life in France, made any use of these French forms. After Cotton they
						were no longer used for strictly poetic purposes by English poets until the
						comparatively recent work of Austin Dobson, Edmund Gosse, and their imitators.
					1 The Pleiade, in setting about the improvement of French verse, had rejected these
						forms because they felt that the language needed the discipline furnished by the
						adoption of classical and Italian forms. And later when Malherbe, in turn, sought to
						withstand this tendency of the Pleiade, he did not revert, as might
						naturally have been expected, to the older native forms, but urged merely the perfecting
						of the language and forms as they existed. The archaic diction and the loose structure
						of the medieval poets was as distasteful to him as the extravagance of the Ronsardists.
						Thus the Provengal forms, as well as the rondeau, and other Northern
						forms, had been discarded by French lyrical poets for more than a century.
					2 Patrick Carey: Trivial
						Poems and Triolets, 1651.


					
					So far as it has been dealt with as yet, the influence of the French lyrists on Cotton
						seems to have been mainly superficial. Here and there in his work we find a poem which,
						in part or as a whole, suggests the manner of Desportes, of Bertaut, of Malherbe, of
						Maynard, or of the coterie poets. Now and then, indeed, even a poetic idea seems to have
						been caught from one or other of them. But in such cases Cotton seems to be only
						experimenting with an idea that for the moment has caught his fancy. Of the poets so far
						mentioned, Malherbe's influence seems, all in all, to have been the most important. It
						was not a vital influence, to be sure, but it was a pervasive one. It accounts for much
						of the simplicity and directness of Cotton's verse, and for its free, clear movement.
						But two other poets are now to be mentioned whose influence upon Cotton was preeminently
						important, because of a real poetic kinship that existed between him and them. These two
						are Théophile de Viaud and Honorat de Racan.
					 Théophile de Viaud (1590-1626), like Desportes, Bertaut, and also Racan, was an
						eclectic. In reading him, says Julleville, one is reminded often of Malherbe, now and
						then of Régnier, sometimes of Ronsard and of Desportes. 1 He refused to bend his spirit to meet the requirements of
						either school, and tried, as he himself said, to harmonize in his art "la douceur de
						Malherbe et 1'ardeur de Ronsard." 1 Langue et Litterature Française, Par M. Petit de Julleville, vol. iv, p.
							61.
						 He was at his best, perhaps, when he "medit de la passion
						et affecte l'egoisme": 
							
								"Car (he says) c'est une fureur de chercher— qu'en nous-même
								Quelqu' un que nous aimons et quelqu' un qui nous aime.
								Le cɶur le mieux donné tient toujours à demi.
								Chacun s'aime un peu mieux toujours que son ami."
							
						
					
					His poetic theory consisted only in the practice of naturalness and simplicity; "Les
						plus excellents traits de la poésie sont à bien peindre une naïveté." In respect to
						form, he went even farther than Malherbe in the direction of simplicity, or perhaps
						better, of naturalness. Toward the end of his poetic life, he gave up the use of
						conventional classical mythology altogether, as Malherbe never did, and in general
						cultivated an artistic independence that could not always be distinguished from an
						innate dislike of discipline. He bitterly condemns those poets, who 
							
								"Grattent tant le françois qu'ils le dechirent tout,
								Blasmant tout ce qui n'est facile qu'à leur goust;
								Sont un mois à cognoistre, en tastant la parole,
								Lors que 1'accent est rude ou que la rime est molle,
								Veulent persuader que ce qu'ils font est beau
								Et que leur renommée est franche du tombeau,
								Sans autre fondement sinon que tout leur age
								S'est laissé consommer en un petit ouvrage,
								Que leurs vers dureront au monde precieux,
								Parce qu'en les faisant ils sont devenus vieux.
								. . . Mon ame," (he adds) "imaginant, n'a point la patience


								
								De bien polir les vers et ranger la science.
								La regle me desplaist, j escris confusément:
								Jamais un bon esprit ne fait rien qu aisément." 1
							
						
					
					These lines express at once the strength and the weakness of Théophile; he had much
						more poetic power than Malherbe, but he lacked that poet's genius for taking infinite
						pains. Théophile affected rather the bel air, le ton cavalier, as 2
					 Cotton translated three of Théophile's poems, his beautiful Stances
						"Quand tu me vois baiser tes bras,"3 a sonnet, "Chere Isis, tes beautez out trouble la nature," 4 which Cotton has turned into an "ode," and an
							Elegie, "Depuis ce triste jour qu' un adieu malheureux." 5
					
					These translations follow their originals closely, and reproduce remarkably well their
						spirit; though they undergo a distinct change of manner in crossing the channel. The
						translation of the following lines is unusually literal: 
							
								"La rose en rendant son odeur,
								Le soleil donnant son ardeur,
								Diane et le char qui la traine,
								Une Naiade dedans 1'eau,
								Et les Graces dans un tableau,
								Font plus de bruict que ton haleine." 6
							
							1 Œvres Completes de
								Théophile, Par M. Alleaume, Paris, 1856, "Elegie, a une dame," pp. 218, 219.
							2 Théophile, Fragments
								d'une Histoire Comique (Euvres, vol. ii, p. ii).
							3 Théophile, (Œvres, vol.
								i, p. 209—Cotton's trans. (Poems: 542).
							4 Ibid., vol. ii, p.
								53—Cotton's trans. (Poems: 573).
							5 Ibid., vol. ii, p.
								62—Cotton's trans. (Poems: 575).
							6 Théophile, Stances,
								vol. i, 209.
							
							
								"In breathing her perfume the Rose,
								In shooting forth his heat the Day,
								The Chariot, where Diana goes,
								And Naiads, when in Flouds they play,
								The silent Graces in a Picture, too,
								Make more of noise, than thy soft Breathings do." 1
								
							
						
					
					In the succeeding lines from the same poem, the difference between the two poets begins
						to appear. Théophile says simply, in his third stanza, 
							
								"Le sommeil, aise de t'avoir,
								Empesche tes yeux de me voir
								Et te retient dans son empire
								Avec si peu de liberté
								Que ton esprit tout arresté
								Ni murmure ny respire."
							
						
					
					Cotton substitutes Morpheus for "sleep," and, with bold strokes of his brush, almost
						altogether overlays the delicate limning of the original, thus: 
							
								"Morpheus, glad of the surprise,
								In his black Empire thee detains,
								And hides from seeing me thine eyes
								With so dull, so heavy chains,
								That thy soft slumber'd-charmed spirits lye
								Dumb, without murmurs at his Tyranny."
							
						
					
					For the same note of difference, compare the following, the twenty-first line of
						Théophile's Elegie, "Ainsi que le soleil est
							suivy de la nuict," with its corresponding line in the translation, 1 Poems, 1689, p. 544.
						
						"For, as black night pursues the glorious Sun," and this, the
						sixty-ninth line of the original, "Tomber d'un precipice et voir
							mille serpens" with Cotton's paraphrase of it, 
							
								"And there a thousand ugly Serpents see,
								Hissing t' advance their scaly Crests at me."
							
						
					
					In these cases, it would seem that Cotton cared very little for the lightness and ease
						of the French, and tried deliberately to give his translations a more robust vigor, or
						else that he made the translations before he came to appreciate fully the real power of
						the French.
					These examples, however, taken by themselves are in danger of giving a wrong impression
						of the difference between Théophile and Cotton. Whereas, in the case of Malherbe, the
						resemblance was a matter of form rather than of spirit, in this case it is rather one of
						spirit than of form. In reading these translations, with their originals in mind, one is
						struck time and again, in spite of an obvious difference in manner and detail, with the
						happy success of the reproduction in substance. Substantially, the impression given is
						true. Where Cotton deviates from his original, it is evidently for the sake of what at
						the time seemed to him an increase of vigor. Sometimes, in these cases, there is a clear
						echo of an Elizabethan gusto and grandiloquence quite alien to Théophile. For this
						reason I should date these translations early; before Cotton came really to  understand Théophile. That he did come to understand him
						later, and that he tried, in the best sense, to imitate him, I believe the following
						citations will tend to prove. Compare Théophile's "La Solitude" (Œuvres, vol. i, 176)
						with Cotton's "The Surprise" (Poems: 392); the translation from Théophile (Poems: 542)
						with Cotton's original poem, "The Visit" (Poems: 395). And as showing in temper the same
						influence, though I cannot in these instances make specific comparisons with poems of
						Théophile, take the following: "Day-Break" (Poems: 339); "Ode, Is't come to this, that
						we must part" (Poems: 212); "To Chloris" (Poems: 439); "Taking Leave of Chloris" (Poems:
						440), and "The Tempest" (Poems: 374). 1 Especially convincing seems the comparison of Cotton's "Elegies" with those
						of Théophile.
					Attention should be called, also, in noting the resemblance between them, to the
						moralizing vein found in both Théophile and Cotton. See Théophile's "Ode" ((Œuvres, vol.
						i, 190); "Ode, À Monsieur de Montmorency ((Œuvres, vol. i, 161); and "Consolation, À
						Mademoiselle de L." (Œuvres, vol. i, 212); in these the gentle stoicism expressed is
						strongly suggestive of the spirit of Cotton's poems addressed to Isaac Walton, and of
						that set of verses "To John Bradshaw, Esq." 2 Here as elsewhere, of course, the same allowance must be
							1 In this last case,
							however, the conception is rather to be attributed to Desportes, than to Théophile;
							but the manner resembles Théophile.
						2 Poems, 1689, p.
							59.
						 made for subtle differences of manner. Théophile is keenly
						delicate both in drawing and coloring; Cotton is comparatively rough and bold. But the
						spirit of their erotic verses is essentially the same. Both are fervidly sensuous, and
						yet both have a tendency to abate the effect of their impetuous egoism; bits of
						conversational detail are slipped in to mitigate the fervor of the verse, as if the man
						of the world tried thus to moderate an expression of feeling too serious for
						conventional life. This note is often, in the poetry of both, very touching in its
						suggestion of humorous deprecation.
					 In an epistle, À Monsieur du Farcis, Théophile in declaring his
						inability to write love verses by vicarious inspiration or in the abstract as Malherbe
						had done, explains what his forte is: 
							
								"Ces termes esgarez" (he says) "offencent mon humeur,
								Et ne viennent qu'au sens d'un novice rimeur
								Qui reclame Phebus; quant à moy, je l' abjure
								Et ne recognois rien pour tout que ma nature."
							
						
					
					The note of individualism, so often to be found in Cotton in combination with fervor of
						feeling and picturesqueness of expression, seems attributable in part at least to the
						encouragement and example of Theophile.
					From Racan, the lyrist who had with Théophile,— and even more subtly perhaps than
						the latter,—a vital influence upon Cotton's work, Cotton translated but two
						lyrics. One of these is the erotic ode, "Ungrateful cause of all my harms," 1 and the 1 Poems, 1689, p. 618.
						 other, a "Bacchic Ode, Now that the Day's short and
						forlorn." 1 The first of these
						suggests at once a comparison with one of Cotton's original lyrics, that "To Chloris."
						The following stanzas may serve to illustrate. The first is from Racan's Ode, as
						translated by Cotton, 
								"In Bloody Fields where Mars doth make
								With his loud thunder all to shake
								Both Earth, and Heaven to boot;
								Man's power to kill me I despise,
								Since Love, with Arrows from your eyes,
								Had not the pow'r to do 't." 2
							
						
					
					The one that follows is from Cotton's original lyric, "To Chloris," 
							
								"Yet, when I rush into these Arms,
								Where Death and Danger do combine,
								I shall less subject be to harms
								Than to those killing eyes of thine." 3
							
						
					
					The other translation, the "Bacchic Ode," resembles in general such bacchanalian poems
						of Cotton as the "Chanson à Boire," 4 " Clepsydra," 5 and
						the odes, "Come, let us drink away the time," 6 and "The Day is set did Earth adorn." 7 These poems, like the "Bacchic Ode" from Racan,
						are not merely drinking songs. They have—and it is the 1 Poems, 1689, p. 319.
						2 Racan's Ode, as
							translated by Cotton.
						3 "To Chloris," an original
							poem; Poems, 1689, p. 439.
						4 Poems, 1689, p.
							74.
						5 Ibid., p. 105.
						6 Ibid., p. 443.
						7 Ibid., p. 446.
						 most striking thing about them—an undertone of
						seriousness, at times even of melancholy. They emphasize the vanity of taking too much
						thought of the morrow, and insist upon the preciousness of the fleeting present. "He
						ne'er can recover," says one of Cotton's songs, "the day that is over"; let him not then
						neglect the pleasure of good-fellowship, the gracious invitation of "Plump Autumn's wealthy overflow."
					
					It is tender and thoughtful sentiment rather than the love of good-cheer which
						characterizes these convivial songs. Bons vivants both Cotton and
						Racan no doubt were, but in spite of their love of sensuous pleasure they were at heart
						unaffectedly pious as well as tender. 
					In these respects the two poets were most suggestively alike, and in some added
						respects as well. Both had an abundance of force and poetic gift; both were impatient if
						not careless workmen. But alike as they are in the elements of poetic feeling, in poetic
						manner they seem at times almost diametrically opposed. They suggest certain cases of
						friendship, now and then encountered, in which two persons of totally different manner
						agree in an essential attitude toward things. Cotton is for the most part vigorous in
						phrasing,—so vigorous that his effects are sometimes almost brusque; his lines
						march boldly. Racan, on the other hand, is gentle and restrained, his pervasive appeal
						being that of the most delicately toned sentiment and emotion. Yet, even with this
						aspect of Racan in mind, one  may find verses of Cotton
						which rival those of the French lyrist in delicacy. "Cœlia's Fall," 1 and the "Epitaph on M. H." 2 are poems in which Cotton shows a fineness of
						feeling and expression at least equal to that of Racan.
					Another point of likeness between these two poets is their attitude toward nature. Both
						were sincere lovers of nature, though neither was attracted by it as something worth
						while apart from human feeling. Human emotion in the presence of nature impressed them
						more than beautiful colors and shapes. In the case of both, however, truth of sentiment,
						simply and naturally expressed, gives to their slightest touches of description a
						delightful freshness and charm. An illustration of this attitude may be found in the
						following (the last three) stanzas of Racan's "The Country Life": 
							
								"Crois-moi, retirous-nous hors de la multitude,
								Et vivons désormais loin de la servitude
								De ces palais dorés où tout le monde accourt.
								Sous un chêne éléve les arbrisseaux s'ennuient;
								Et devant le soleil tous les astres s'enfuient,
								De peur d'être obligs de lui faire la cour.
							
							
								Après qu'on a suivi sans aucune assurance
								Cette vaine faveur qui nous paît d' esperance,
								L'envie, en un moment, tous nos dessein detruit;
								Ce n'est qu'une fumee; il n'est rien de si frêle.
								La plus belle moisson est sujette a la grêle,
								Et souvent elle n'a que des fleurs pour du fruit.
								Agréables deserts, séjour de l'innocence,
								Où, loin des vanites, de la magnificence, 1 Poems, 1689, p. 519.
									2 Ibid., p.
										354.
								


								
								Commence mon repos et finit mon tourment,
								Vallons, fleuves, rochers, plaisante solitude,
								Si vous fûtes témoins de mon inquietude,
								Soyez-le désormais de mon contentement."
							
						
					
					With these stanzas from Racan may be compared, in particular, the eighth and tenth
						divisions of Cotton's ode, The Retirement: 
							
								VIII.
								"Oh, my beloved Rocks I that rise
								To awe the Earth, and brave the Skies;
								From some aspiring Mountain's crown
								How dearly do I love,
								Giddy with pleasure, to look down,
								And from the Vales to view the noble heights above!
							
							
								X.
								"Lord! would men let me alone,
								What an over-happy one
								Should I think myself to be,
								Might I in this desert place,
								Which most men by their voice disgrace,
								Live but undisturbed and free!
								Here in this despis'd recess
								Would I manage Winter's cold
								And the Summer's worst excess,
								Try to live out to sixty full years old,
								And all the while
								Without an envious eye,
								On any thriving under Fortune's smile,
								Contented live, and then contented die."
							
						
					
					Here, it is to be remarked, Cotton is the more vigorous; Racan the more gentle and
						restrained. But after all, this difference between the two in point  of execution may be largely a difference of national idiom. Cotton is the
						English, so to speak, of Racan, and Racan is the French of Cotton.
					It can scarcely be doubted, in recapitulating the influence of the French lyrists upon
						Cotton, that the general clearness and simplicity of his poetry are due in a
						considerable measure to their combined influence. But in these respects Malherbe's
						influence was, perhaps, the predominating one, an influence which was, however,
						pervasive rather than deep. Other superficial tendencies in Cotton may be traced, in
						part at least, to these French lyrists: his fondness for military imagery to Desportes,
						for mythological allusion to Malherbe, for pointe to Maynard, and for
						amplification by antithesis to Voiture. But it was in Théophile de Viaud and in Racan
						that he found vital encouragement. Between him and these two there is real kinship. Like
						him, they are poets of compromise, assimilating and adapting everything suitable to
						their purpose. Like him, though careless workmen, they are in feeling and conception
						genuinely poetic. Théophile's fervor and picturesqueness, and Racan's tender sensibility
						must, to judge by what seems most distinctive in Cotton's own work, have appealed to him
						strongly. The poetic point of view in all three is the same. It is that of
						simple-hearted, almost naïve egoism,—an egoism that, having no misgivings,
						expresses itself frankly, and yet is tempered by a sincere desire to be found worthy of
						what is so egoistically sought. It has an insistence at once so natural and tender
						—at times so wistful—that one easily condones 
						its selfishness. It is an attitude toward love very different from the cynical attitude
						of most of Cotton's contemporaries at home, and, whether he derived it from these French
						lyrists or not, he held it in common with them. 
				
				

				
					THE POETRY OF NATURE AND OF MEDITATION
					In spite of what Cotton has said about the "cold and blustering climate of the Peak"
						his beloved Beresford Dale was a bit of Arcadia. Its color and warmth, and its
						atmosphere of soft holiday-calm must have served as the setting for the "Invitation to
						Phillis," the theme of which is that of Marlowe's exquisite lyric, 
							
								"Come with me and be my love
								And thou shalt all the pleasure prove."
							
						
					
					He set himself too great a task in attempting— if he did attempt—to rival
						Marlowe. But his amplification has a beauty of its own; the variations, though
						superabundant, have remarkable fluency and grace: 
							
								"Thy Summer's bower shall over-look
								The subtil windings of the brook,
							
							
								From this thy sphear thou shalt behold
								Thy showy Ewes troop o'er the mold
								Who yearly pay my Love a-piece
								A tender Lamb, and silver Fleece.
								And when Sol's Rayes shall all combine
								Thine to out-burn, though not outshine,
								Then, at the foot of some green Hill,


								

								Where crystal Dove runs murm'ring still,
								Will angle for the bright-ey'd Fish
								To make my Love a dainty dish;
								Or, in a cave by Nature made,
								Fly to the covert of the Shade,"
							
					The companion piece to this, the "Entertainment to Phillis," is written in the same
						vein, expressing the same naive and indiscriminate satisfaction in beauty whether of art
						or of nature. The note which has been struck with most perfect success by Marlowe in the
						well-known couplet, 
							
								"A belt of straw and ivy-buds,
								With coral clasps and amber studs,"
							
						
					
					Cotton here elaborates with the zest of youth: 
							
								"Within my Love will find each room
								New furnished from the Silk-worm's loom;
								Vessels of the true antick mold,
								Cups cut in Amber, Myrrh, and gold;
								Quilts blown with roses, Beds with down
								More white than Atlas' aged Crown;
								Carpets where Flowers waxen grow,
								Only thy sweeter steps to strew,
								Such as may emulation bring.
								To the wrought mantle of the Spring.
								There silver lamps shall silent shine,
								Supply'd by Oyls of Jessamine,
								And mists of odours shall arise
								To air thy little Paradise.
								I have such Fruits, too, for thy taste,
								As teeming Autumn never grac't;
								Apples as round as thine own eyes;
								Or, as thy Sister Beauties prize,


								

								Smooth as thy snowy skin, and sleek
								And ruddy as the Morning's cheek;
								Grapes, that the Tyrian purple wear,
								The spritely matrons of the year,
								Such as Lyæus never bare
								About his drowsy brows, so fair,
								So plump, so large, so ripe, so good,
								So full of flavor and of blood.
								There's water in a Grot hard by,
								To quench thee, when with dalliance dry,
								Sweet as the milk of Sand-red Cow,
								Brighter than Cynthia's silver Bow,
								Cold as the Goddess' self e'er was,
								And clearer than thy looking-glass."
							
						
					
					These poems obviously suggest the spirit of such lyrists as Barnfield and Breton, and
						in a less degree that of Herrick; they foreshadow the abundant fancy and the unabashed
						hedonism of Keats. The poignancy of Keats is lacking, but in these poems of Cotton there
						is almost if not quite equal sympathy with sensuous joy.
					But this idyllic charm was not the only debt that Cotton owed the Elizabethan lyrists.
						The bracing naturalism of Shakespeare's "Winter" appealed to him with perhaps even
						greater power. The "Summer-Day Quatrains" present a series of genre
						sketches that in vividness are almost unsurpassed. Let the following stanzas serve for
						example and comparison; the first from Shakespeare's lyric, 
							
								"When icicles hang by the wall
								And Dick the Shepherd blows his nail
								And Tom bears logs into the hall
								And milk comes frozen home in pail,"
							
						
						 and these two from Cotton's "Evening Quatrains," 
							
								"The Cock now to the roost is prest,
								For he must call up all the rest;
								The sow's fast pegg'd within the Sty
								To still her squeaking progeny.
							
							
								Each one has had his supping mess,
								The cheese is put into the Press,
								The Cans and Bowls clean scalded all
								Rear'd up against the Milk-house Wall."
							
						
					
					Again, in this stanza from the "Night Quatrains," there is the same direct and graphic
						realism: 
							
								"The Fire's new rak't and Hearth swept clean
								By Madge the dirty Kichin-quean,
								The Safe is lock't, the Mouse-trap set,
								The Leaven laid, and Bucking wet."
							
						
					
					It is interesting to note, whether the fact is significant or not, that a Scotch poet,
						Alexander Hume (1560-1609), almost a hundred years before, had taken the same theme as
						that of Cotton's "Summer-day Quatrains" and treated it in the same manner. In "The Day
						Estivall" 1 Hume wrote: 
							
								"The burning beams down from his face
								Sae fervently can beat,
								That man and beast now seek a place
								To save them frae the heat.
							
							
								The breathless flocks draw to the shade
								And freshure of their fold; 1 Veitch, Feeling for Nature in Scottish Poetry, vol. i, p.
										332.


								

								The startling nolt as they were mad,
								Run to the rivers cold.
							
							
								The laborers that timely raise,
								All weary, faint, and weak
								For heat, down to their houses gaes,
								Noon-meat and sleep to take.
							
							
								The caller wine in cave is sought,
								Men's brotheing beasts to cool;
								The water cold and clear is brought,
								And sallad steeped in ule."
							
						
					
					And Cotton follows, in the "Noon Quatrains": 
								"The Day grows hot, and darts his rays
								From such a sure and killing place,
								That this half-world are fain to fly
								The danger of his burning eye.
							
							
								His early glories were benign,
								Warm to be felt, bright to be seen,
								And all was comfort, but who can
								Endure him when meridian?
							
							
								The grazing herds now droop and pant,
								E'en without labour fit to faint,
								And willingly forsook their meat
								To seek out cover from the heat.
							
							
								The lagging ox is now unbound,
								From larding the new turn'd up ground,
								Whilst Hobbinol, alike o'erlaid,
								Takes his coarse dinner to the shade.
							
							
								Cellars and grottoes now are best
								To eat and drink in, or to rest,
								And not a soul above is found
								Can find a refuge underground."
							
						
					


					

					Both poets do justice, with vivid realism in detail, to the successive phases of a
						summer day-the freshness of sunrise, the withering heat of noon, the pause of evening,
						and the suspension of night, as symbolized by the sky, the earth, and the occupations of
						town and country. Whether the English poet was directly indebted to his Scotch
						predecessor is, of course, impossible to say.
					These genre pictures of Cotton are often framed, so to speak, in the
						gilt of mythology. To cite one of the best of them: 
							
								"Hark! Hark! the watchful Chanticleer
								Tells us the day's bright harbinger
								Peeps o'er the eastern hills, to awe
								And warn Night's sovereign to withdraw.
							
							
								The Morning Curtains now are drawn,
								And now appears the blushing dawn;
								Aurora has her roses shed,
								To strew the way Sol's steeds must tread.
							
							
								Xanthus and Æthon harness'd are,
								To roll away the burning Car,
								And, snorting flame, impatient bear
								The dressing of the charioteer."
							
						
					
					The effect of the combination of mythological splendor with intense realism is
						comparable to that produced by certain contemporary Dutch painters, the so-called
						"stuff-painters" who bestowed much care on the luster of their silks and satins, as if
						thereby to invest scenes of peaceful domestic life with pictorial splendor. But to this
						effect Cotton, in concluding each set of quatrains,  adds
						a touch of contemplative reflection, and in the blending of all of these
						elements—mythology, realism and meditation—recalls to mind Carlyle's
						"Glorious summer twilights when the Sun like a proud Conqueror and Imperial Taskmaster
						turned his back, with his gold-purple emblazoning, and all his fire body-guard (of
						Prismatic colours); the tired brick-makers of this clay earth each might steal a little
						frolic, and those meek stars would not tell of them." 
					The "Ode to Winter," to judge by its title, might be expected to be a companion-poem to
						the "Summer-day Quatrains." But the inspiration of the two poems is from quite different
						sources. In the "Ode to Winter," we have, instead of a series of sketches, charming in
						themselves, a poem much more direct, and keen of purpose. Winter is represented as a
						proud conqueror, a mortal enemy, who with his perfectly appointed host sweeps over the
						sea, attended by storm and wreck, 
							
								"To ravish from our fruitful fields
								All that the teeming season yields,"
							
						 and who, at last, binds the earth in shining chains of ice. When his force is seen
						to be irresistible, the poet retreats into a fortress, 
							
								"Where all the Roarers of the North
								Can neither Storm nor Starve us forth."
							
						
					
					Safely shut in, he defiantly bids, 
							
								". . . Old Winter take his course,
								And roar abroad till he be hoarse,


								

								And his Lungs crack with Ruthless Ire,
								It shall but serve to blow our Fire."
							
						
					
					The poem ends with a stanza which gives rise to an interesting question. If the
						composition is considered as one merely of fancy and sentiment this stanza seems an
						unhappy excrescence. It reads as follows: 
							
								"Or let him [Winter] Scotland take and there
								Confine the plotting Presbyter,
								His Zeal may frieze, whilst we kept warm
								With love and wine, can take no harm."
							
					
					This stanza suggests that its explanation as well as that of the entire poem may
						possibly be found in the state of public affairs about the time it was written. The
						poem, indeed, bears with remarkable detail interpretation as a political satire. It will
						be recalled that it was only about mid-winter, 1655-6, that the people of England and
						Wales became aware that they were, and had been for some time, under a new system of
						home-government, called Government by Major Generals. The
						Commonwealth, under stress of circumstances, had been forced step by step toward a
						military despotism. The country was now divided into twelve military districts, each
						under a major-general, with a force supported by a tax of ten per cent. on royalist
						estates. Masson, in his Life of Milton, says: "What with the vigilance of the major-
						generals in their districts, what with edicts of the Protector and the Council for the
						direction of the major-generals, the public order now kept over all England and Wales
						was wonderfully strict. At  no time since the beginning of
						the Commonwealth had there been so much of that general decorum of external behavior
						which Cromwell liked to see. Cock-fights, dancing at fairs, and other such amusements,
						were under ban."1 Then, the
						Protector began concerning himself with "the plotting Presbyter." Royalists, such as
						Cotton, were now coming to feel that their cause had only to withstand a siege until the
						real spirit of the nation should reassert itself. The royalist poet, therefore, might
						well sing as follows, in a spirit far from that of stoical resignation,— 
							
								"Then let the chill Sirocco blow,
								And gird us round with hills of snow;
								Or else go whistle to the shore,
								And make the hollow mountains roar,
							
							
								Whilst we together jovial sit
								Careless, and crown'd with mirth and wit;
								Where, though bleak winds confine us home,
								Our fancies round the world shall roam.
							
							
								We'll drink the wanting into wealth,
								And those that languish into health,
								The afflicted into joy, th' opprest
								Into security and rest.
							
							
								The worthy in disgrace shall find
								Favor return again more kind,
								And in restraint who stifled lie
								Shall taste the air of liberty."
							
						
					
					The poem when considered as symbolical of the political condition becomes at once, as a
						whole, more 1 Masson, Life
							of Milton, vol. v, p. 51.
						 significant, and more artistic. Wordsworth, it will be
						recalled, found this ode merely a highly successful employment of fancy in the treatment
						of nature and of sentiment. But evidently, from what he said of it, the value of the
						composition as a whole did not appeal to him strongly. He probably had difficulty, as
						Mr. A. H. Bullen did also, with the concluding stanza cited above.
					Moreover, difficulty has been felt with the word "Vanished" in the following couplet
						from stanza xxv. The edition of 1689 reads, 
							
								"Vanished the Countrys of the Sun
								The fugitive is hither run."
							
						
					
					The poet is here speaking of the approach of winter from over seas. The word may, it is
						true, be only a misprint for "banished," but, assuming that it is not, may the poet not
						mean to suggest involuntary retreat by force of natural law? If so, he may be supposed
						to wish to suggest to the reader that the protectorate would ultimately vanish before
						the returning sun of royalty. To conceive of winter as coming from the south is at best
						awkward, unless one supposes a symbolical intention in the poem. It may be recalled that
						during 1655-6 there was much successful military and naval activity in the "Countries of
						the Sun." In April, 1655, Blake chastised the deys of Algiers, Tunis and Tripoli; and in
						May, Penn and Venables were sent to make reprisals in the Spanish West Indies. Thus, the
						disturbing conception of winter as approaching from the south, and moving toward
						Scotland, seems explained by the  political
						situation—the succession of events being, first, the successful operations abroad
						in the south during the summer months of 1655, secondly, the realization by the English
						in mid-winter of the trend of affairs at home, and finally the preparations that were
						making in regard to the spiritual needs of Scotland. However, the use of "fugitive" in
						the second line of the above quotation may give some additional difficulty. But perhaps
						it means, in accord with the above suggestion, that the conqueror is already a fugitive
						from the countries of the sun, and will be a fugitive from England, too, when, in
						season, the sun of royalty returns.
					On purely poetical grounds, however, this fine "Ode to Winter" may claim appreciation.
						As Wordsworth has said, the rapidity of detail and the profusion of fanciful comparisons
						"indicate on the part of the poet extreme activity of intellect and a corresponding
						hurry of delightful feeling." The following stanzas will illustrate the truth of this
						judgment and show how vividly the scenes of the poem have been realized. Winter
						approaches over the sea: 
							
								IX.
								"See, where a Liquid Mountain rides,
								Made up of innumerable Tides,
								And tumbles headlong to the strand,
								As if the Sea would come to Land.
							
							
								X.
								A Sail, a Sail I plainly spy,
								Between the Ocean and the Sky,



								

								An Argosy, a tall-built ship,
								With all her Pregnant Sails a-trip.
							
							
								XI.
								Nearer and nearer she makes way,
								With Canvas Wings into the Bay;
								And now upon the Deck appears
								A crowd of busy mariners.
							
							
								XV.
								Nearer she comes, and still doth sweep
								The Azure Surface of the deep,
								And now at last the Waves have thrown
								Their Rider on our ALBION.
							
							
								XVI.
								Under the Black cliffs' spumy base
								The sea-sick hulk her freight displays,
								And as she walloweth on the Sand,
								Vomits her burthen to the Land.
							
							
								XVIII.
								With Heads erect, and plying oar,
								The ship-wreck'd mates make to the Shoar;
								And dreadless of their danger, climb
								The floating Mountains of the brine."
							
						
					
					How graphic that last stanza is! One would hardly expect from an inlander such specific
						treatment of the sea in storm. Cotton has, however, another picture of storm at sea
						worthy of a place beside this one; it is entitled "The Storm." 1 The following lines describe the tempest at its
						height: 1 Poems, 1689, p.
							199.
						
						
							
								"Wave rode on wave, and every wave a sea.
								Of our small bark, gusts rush'd the trembling sides—
								Against vast billows that contain'd whole tides,
								Which in disdainful fury beat her back
								With such a force as made her stout sides crack,—
								'Gainst others that in crowds came rolling in,
								As if they meant their liquid walls between
								T' engage the wretched hulk and crush her flat,
								And make her squeeze to death her dying freight.
								Sometimes she on a mountain's ridge would ride,
								And from that height her gliding keel then glide
								Into a Gulf yawning, and deep as Hell,
								Whilst we were swooning all the while we fell." 1
							
						
					
					Cotton must have been one of the first among English poets to find poetic satisfaction
						in these titanic disturbances of nature. The appeal of the sublime, however, can hardly
						be said to have been what affected him. He does not identify himself in spirit with an
						overwhelming force in nature and achieve victory over it by virtue of obedient
						acceptance. Shelley frequently shows such transcendant humility and strength of soul.
						But for Cotton, mankind belongs to one order; nature to another, and a distinct, order
						of being. He represents a war of elements; man is an onlooker, and may be a passive
						sufferer. There are, indeed, in his descriptions occasional touches of what has been
						called the "pathetic fallacy"; but they are incidental to the main effect and without
						serious poetical intention. Cotton is too naive a realist to identify the spirit of man
						with the physical forces of nature. He merely describes what his eyes see, suggests the
						attendant 1 Of. Donne, The
							Storm, Muses' Library, vol. ii, p. 1.
						 emotions of the observer, and adds the meditative
						accompaniment which a lively fancy supplies him. But it is noteworthy, none the less,
						that he is among the first of English poets to triumph over the terror of storm at sea,
						and over the benumbing cold of winter by simple strength of heart and unsubduable
						liveliness of fancy. It was this manly virtue, no doubt, which caused Charles Lamb to
						call him the "hearty, cheerful Mr. Cotton."
					From this aspect of the poet-characterized, also, by Lamb, as his "rough magnanimity,"
						we pass to consideration of his meditative poetry. It perhaps derives in part from the
						"bold and insolent vein" of such Elizabethan meditative poems as a "Farewell to the
						Vanities of the World" which has been variously attributed to Dr. Donne, Sir Henry
						Wotton, and Sir Walter Raleigh: 
							
								"I would be great, but that the sun doth still
								Level his rays against the rising hill;
								I would be high, but see the proudest oak
								Most subject to the rending thunder-stroke;
								I would be rich, but see men, too unkind,
								Dig in the bowels of the richest mind;
								I would be wise, but that I often see
								The fox suspected whilst the ass goes free;
								I would be fair, but see the fair and proud,
								Like the bright sun, oft setting in a cloud;
								I would be poor, but know the humble grass
								Still trampled on by each unworthy ass:
								Rich, hated; wise, suspected; scorned, if poor,
								Great, feared; fair, tempted; high, still envied more;
								I have wished all, but now I wish for neither;
								Great, high, rich, wise, nor fair, poor I'll be rather."
							
						
					
					
						 With these lines may be compared the following stanzas of
						Cotton's "Contentation." The two passages are rather closely parallel, both in topic and
						in point-of-view, though they express an obvious difference of temper: 
							
								"Is it true happiness to be
								By undiscerning Fortune plac't,
								In the most eminent degree
								Where few arrive, and none stand fast?
							
							
								Titles and wealth are Fortune's Tayle,
								Wherewith the Vain themselves ensnare!
								The great are proud of borrowed spoils
								The Miser's plenty breeds his care.
							
							
								The one supinely yawns at rest,
								Th' other eternally doth toyle,
								Each of them equally a beast,
								A pampered Horse, or lab'ring Moyl.
							
							
								Excess of ill-got, ill-kept pelf
								Doth only Death and Danger breed,
								Whilst one rich Worlding starves himself
								With what would thousands others feed.
							
							
								Nor is he happier than these
								Who in a moderate estate,
								Where he might safely live at ease,
								Has lusts that are immoderate.
							
							
								For he, by these desires misled,
								Quits his own vine's securing shade
								T' expose his naked, empty head
								To all the Storms Man's peace invade."
							
						
					
					The parallel might be followed out at greater length. It is not the likeness, however,
						but the difference  between the two poems, considered as
						wholes, which is important for the present purpose. The final mood of the "Farewell" is
						expressed as follows: 
							
								"Then here I'll sit and sigh my hot love's folly,
								And learn to affect an holy melancholy;
								And if contentment be a stranger then,
								I'll ne'er look for it but in heaven, again."
							
						
					
					But Cotton could not "affect an holy melancholy"; the world's disease was as plainly
						evident to him as to the other, but he saw clearly, also, that, 
							
								"There are no ills but what we make,
								By giving Shapes and names to things;
								Which is the dangerous mistake
								That causes all our Sufferings.
							
							
								We call that sickness, which is health;
								That persecution, which is Grace;
								That poverty, which is true Wealth,
								And that Dishonour, which is praise.
							
							
								Providence watches over all,
								And that with an impartial eye,
								And if to misery we fall
								'Tis through our own infirmity."
							
						
					
					"Unaffectedly pious" is one of the phrases which Mr. A. H. Bullen has applied to
						Cotton, and perhaps a truer one could not be found for this aspect of his personality.
						Clear recognition of the hard facts of life, and cheerful determination to withstand
						them, combine in these poems of meditation to produce that "gravely noble mood" which,
						as Lowell  says, "shows a knowledge of what goodness is
						that no bad man could have acquired." It is not a little significant to find this
						cavalier poet and his great Puritan contemporary in substantial agreement upon an
						important point. Cotton declares that man happy, 
							
								"Who from the busie World retires
								To be more useful to it still
								And to no greater good aspires,
								But only the eschewing ill,"
							
						 and Milton with a distinction of phrase that is only his, but with no greater
						sincerity, expresses the same thing: 
							
								. . . "God doth not need
								Either man's work or his own gifts; who best
								Bear his mild yoke, they serve him best; his state
								Is kingly. Thousands at his bidding speed,
								And post o'er land and ocean without rest;
								They also serve who only stand and wait."
							
						
					
					In most of Cotton's poetry, the two phases of his work just discussed-namely, his
						realistic description of nature and his meditation on the meaning of life-are kept
						apart, or if found in combination they appear successively. The effect of the latter
						method is that of somewhat disparate moods linked together by rather a loose bond of
						contiguity. A fundamental law of association does bind them together, but as a matter of
						artistic execution the composition leaves something to be desired. This criticism is
						true of both the "Ode to Winter" and the "Summer-day Quatrains." But there is one poem
							 of which it cannot be said. This is "The Retirement,"
						the poem with which Walton chose to adorn his book. In it Cotton has made harmonious the
						varied emotions arising from his contemplation of nature and of life. Here he seems to
						be giving expression to the full compass of his feeling: to the pleasure he took in
						cleanly household offices, in the freshness of green fields, and in the happiness of
						days passed by the side of his "beloved Nymph! Fair Dove, Princess of Rivers"; but fused
						with these sensuous pleasures is the deeper satisfaction he sometimes found in
						meditation, when, at moments, he rose to almost Wordsworthian clairvoyance and felt the
						presence of a power in life and nature "to chasten and subdue." At such a time he sings: 
							
								"Farewell, thou busy World, and may
								We never meet again;
								Here I can eat, and sleep and pray,
								And do more good in one short day
								Than he who his whole age outwears
								Upon thy most conspicuous theatres,
								Where nought but vice and vanity do reign.
							
							
								Good God! how sweet are all things here!
								How beautiful the fields appear!
								How cleanly do we feed and lie!
								Lord! what good hours do we keep!
								How quietly we sleep!
								What peace ! what unanimity!
								How innocent from the lewd fashion
								Is all our business, all our conversation!
							
							
								Oh, how happy here's our leisure!
								Oh, how innocent our pleasure!



								

								Oh, ye valleys, oh, ye mountains,
								Oh, ye groves and crystal fountains,
								How I love at liberty
								By turn to come and visit ye!
							
							
								O, Solitude, the soul's best friend,
								That Man acquainted with himself dost make,
								And all his Maker's wonders to intend;
								With thee I here converse at will,
								And would be glad to do so still;
								For it is thou alone that keep'st the soul awake."
							
						
					
					It is by this poem, representing him at his best, that we choose to remember Cotton,
						agreeing with Walton that it cannot fail to make any "reader that is blest with a
						generous soul" love him the better. The clean vigor and firm simplicity of the lines
						ensure their own appreciation.
				
			
		

		
		
				
				
			
				INDEX
				
					A.
					Agincourt, 8.
					Alliteration, 21.
					Anacreontic, An, 56.
					Angler, The Complete, first part, 1, 3, 51-52; second part, 12-14,
						19, 51-55.
					Antithesis, Cotton's use of, 74, 86.
					Amoret in Masquerade, 86.
					Ardglass, Countess Dowager of (Cotton's second wife), 48, 51, 60.
				

				
					B.
					Bacchic Ode, 95.
					Balzac, 76.
					Bancroft, Thomas, 19.
					Barnfield, 103.
					Barrowashe (estate), 27.
					Beaumont, 6.
					Benserade, 83-84.
					Bentley Hall, 9, 27.
					Beresford (Hall, and estate), 8; description of, 12-16, 17, 27, 41, 43, 47, 51,
						59.
					Beresford, Edward (great-great-grandfather of poet), 9.
					Beresford, Olivia (great-grandmother), 9.
					Beresford, Thomas, hero of Agincourt, 9.
					Beresford, Humphrey, son of Thomas, 9.
					Beresfords, the Irish, Earls of Tyrone, Marquises of Waterford, 9.
					Berkeley, Lord, 40.
					Bertaut, 72-76, 88.
					Blaise de Montluc, Mareschal of France, the Commentaries, of,
						46.
					Bradshaw, epistle to John, 16, 32, 40, 47, 56, 82, 93.
					Breton, 103.
					Brome, Alexander, 6; epode addressed to, 29.
					Brome, Henry, 45, 47.
					Brome, Richard, 19.
					Bullen, Mr. A. H., 18, 110, 116.
					Burlesque, 3, 4, 29, 30, 33, 51, 57, 65.
					Burlesque upon Burlesque, 51.
					Burns, Robert, 1.
					Butler, Samuel, 30.
				

				
				
					C.
					Calendar of State Papers (1675), 50.
					Carew, Thomas, 7, 67-72.
					Carey, Patrick, 87.
					Carlyle, Thomas, 107.
					Chanson a Boire, 95.
					Charles II, 28.
					Chesterfield, Earl of, 39, 40.
					Clarendon, Lord, 7.
					Classical imagry, 80, 89, 106.
					Clepsydra, 95.
					Clifton, Sir Clifford, 32, 36-39.
					Coelia's Ague, 84.
					Coelia's Fall, 97.
					Cokaine, Sir Aston, 6, 17, 18, 19, 27.
					Coleridge, 1.
					Collection of Diverting Sayings, Stories, Characters, etc.,
						58.
					Come, let us drink away the time, 95.
					Come, live with me and be my love (Marlowe), 20, 101.
					Complete Gamester, the, 45.
					Contentment, 56.
					Conceit, use of the, 65-66.
					Contentation, 115.
					Corneille, 45.
					Coterie poets, 83-88.
					Cotton, Sir Richard (great-grandfather), 4.
					Cotton, Sir George (grandfather), 5.
					Cotton, Charles, Esq. (father), 5, 6, 7, 18; death of, 27.
					Cotton, Charles, the poet, appreciators among the poets, 1-3; reasons for neglect of
						him in his own day, 3-4; ancestry, 4-9; traditions of his family, 9-12; birth of, 10;
						ancestral estate, 12-16; early education, 17-19; death of mother, 17; first published
						verses, 19-23; love affair and marriage, 23-27; politics, 28; beginning of burlesque
						writing, 29-30; financial difficulties, 30-32, 34-39; reputation for intemperance,
						32-34; military service, 39-40; death of wife, 41; "voyage" to Ireland, 43-44;
						hack-work, 45-46; marriage to Countess of Ardglass, 48-50; publication of "Second Part"
						of "Angler," 51; friendship of Walton and Cotton, 52-56; death of Cotton, 57-60;
						administration of effects, 60; his children, 60; political purpose of certain of his
						works, 6b-62; publication of "Poems on Several Occasions," 64; native influences upon
						his poetry, 65-72; French influence, 72-100; his poetry of nature, 101-114; poetry of
						meditation, 114-119.
					Cotton, Beresford (son), 60.
					Cotton, Olive (daughter), 60.
					Cotton, Catherine (daughter), 60.
					Cotton, Jane (daughter), 60.
					Cotton, Mary (daughter), 60.
					Cotton, Stanhope (grandson), 60.
					"Cotton's Hole," 16.
					Country Life, The (Racan), 97.


					
					Cromwell, Oliver, 29, 61, 109.
					Cynicism, absence of in Cotton, 67.
				

				
					D.
					Darbyshire, John, 11.
					Darbyshire, Anne, 11.
					Davenant, Sir William, 6, 47, 70.
					D'Avila, 19, 42.
					Day is Set did Earth Adorn, The, 95.
					Denham, Sir John, 4, 19.
					De Mirabilibus Pecci (Hobbes), 56.
					Desportes, 72-76, 77, 88.
					Dobson, Austin, 87.
					Donne, 7; Walton's Life of, 46, 114.
				

				
					E.
					Eclogue, Damon C. C. Thyrsis R. R., 22.
					Elegy, 81.
					Elizabeth, Duchess of Devonshire, 57.
					Elizabeth, Queen, 5.
					Elizabethan lyrists, 103.
					Entertainment to Phillis, The, 20.
					Epigram, use of, 82.
					Epigramme, Writ in Calista's Prayerbook (Malherbe), 76.
					Espernon, Duke of, preface to translation, 34, 35, 41, 42,
						62.
					Estrennes to Calista, 24, 71.
					Expostulation, The, 79.
				

				
					F.
					Fair One of Tunis, 46.
					Fanshaw, Sir Richard, 61.
					Farewell to the Vanities of the World, 114.
					Fenny Bentley (estate), 8.
					Ferrers, John, 62.
					Fishing house, the, 13, 14, 52.
					Flatman, Thomas, 46.
					Fletcher, 6.
					France, Cotton's trip to, 25, 27, 72.
					French lyrists, influence of, 27, 65, 72-100.
				

				
					G.
					Glapthorne, Henry, 6.
					Gilbert, Archbishop of Canterbury, 42.
					Good Counsel to a Young Maid (Carew), 69.
					Gondibert, 6, 70.
					Gosse, Edmund, 87.
				

				
					H.
					Hastings, Lord, 19.
					Hedonism, of Cotton and Carew, 67-72; of Keats, 103.


					

					Her Hair, 84.
					Her Name, 84.
					Herrick, 5, 18, 19, 103.
					Her Sigh, 84-85.
					His Amours, 74-75.
					Hippolytus (Seneca), translation of, 20.
					History of England (Macaulay), 19.
					Horatius (Corneille), translation of, 45.
					Hutchinson, Isabella (wife of Cotton), 23, 25; death of, 41.
					Hutchinson, Sir Thomas (father of Isabella), 23.
					Hutchinson, Catherine (mother), 23.
					Hutchinson, Mrs. Stanhope, 45.
					Hume, Alexander, 104.
				
				
					I.
					Idealism of Cotton, 72.
					Illative method of arrangement, in Cotton and Malherbe, 81.
					Ingram, Sir Thomas, 34.
					Ireland, voyage to, 43.
				

				
					J.
					Join once again, my Celia, join, 65.
					Jonson, Ben, 6.
					Joys of Marriage, The, 28, 82.
					Julleville, 88.
				
				
					K.
					Keats, 103.
				

				
					L.
					Lachrymae Musarum (Richard Brome), 19.
					Lamb, Charles, 2, 114.
					Laura Sleeping, 21, 69.
					Laura Weeping, 21.
					Lee, Mr. Sidney, 74.
					Litany, The, 28.
					Lives (Walton), 3, 53.
					Love, Cotton's poetical attitude toward, 67-72.
					Lovelace, 5.
					Love's Triumph, 66.
					Lowell, 2, 3, 116.
				

				
					M.
					Macaulay, 19.
					Marlowe, 20, 101.
					Malherbe, 27, 75-82, 87, 88, 90.
					Mandeville, Lord, 40.
					Marvell, Andrew, 4, 19.
					Masson, 108.
					Maynard, 82, 83, 88.


					
					Mediocrity in Love Rejected (Carew), 69.
					Memoirs of Monsieur de Pontis, etc., 60.
					"Metaphysical School," 65, 66.
					Milton, 4; Masson's Life of, 108, 117.
					Monmouth, Duke of, 40.
					Montaigne, 1, 3, 57, 62.
					Moral Philosophy of the Stoics (Du Voix), Cotton's translation of,
						62.
					Montross, 21.
					Musarum Deliciae (Mennis and Smith), 30.
				

				
					N.
					Natural History of Staffordshire (Plat.), 59.
					New Year, The, 2, 80.
					Notes and Queries, 45.
				
				
					O.
					Occasional Poems, 20.
					Ode, 82.
					Old Tityrus to Eugenia, 69.
				

				
					P.
					Paradox, use of, 74.
					Pastor Fido, 61.
					Pepys, Samuel, 30, 33, 40.
					Persuasions to Love (Carew), 68.
					Pike pool, 15.
					Piscator, 12, 13, 14, 15, 53-55.
					Platonism, absence of in Cotton's poetry, 24, 67, 71; imitation of, 85.
					Pleiade, The, 87.
					Poems of Diverse Sorts (Sir Aston Cokaine), 18.
					Poems on Several Occasions, 1, 64, 65.
					Poverty, 47, 56.
					Prayer to the Wind, A (Carew), 69.
					Prestwick, Edwin, 20.
				

				
					Q.
					Quatrains, Evening, 104.
					Quatrains, Night, 104.
					Quatrains, Summer Day, 27, 80, 103, 104, 107, 117.
				

				
					R.
					Racan, Honorat, 27, 80, 88.
					Raleigh, Sir Walter, 114.
					Rambouillet, Madame de, 83.
					Rambouillet, Hotel de, 83.
					Rawson, Ralph (Cotton's tutor), 22.
					Realism, in Cotton, 24, 67, 69.
					Régnier, 88.

					

					Restoration, the, 28, 62.
					Retirement, The, 12, 16, 52, 56, 65, 80, 98, 118.
					Retreat, The, 25.
					Ronsard, 88.
					Ronsardists, the, 72-76, 87.
					Russell, Sir William (father of the Countess of Ardglass), 48.
				

				
					S.
					Savile, George, Marquis of Halifax, 57, 59.
					Scarronides, or the first book of Virgil Travestie, 29, 30, 39,
						43.
					Schelling, Professor Felix E., 4.
					Selden, 7.
					Separation, The, 23.
					Seventeenth Century Lyrics (Schelling), 4.
					Sheerness, burning of, by Dutch, 39.
					Shelley, 113.
					Sidney, Sir Philip, 8.
					Simplicity, of Cotton and Malherbe, 80, 81; of Theophile, 89.
					Song of Montross, 21.
					Sonnet, How shouldst thou love and not offend, 69.
					Spenser, 74.
					Stanhope, Olive Beresford (grandmother), 9.
					Stanhope, Olive (mother), 9.
					Stanhope, Sir John (grandfather), 8, 10, 11.
					Stanhope, Sir John, of Elvaston (grandfather of Isabella Hutchinson), 23.
					Storm, The, 112.
				

				
					T.
					Tempest, The, 69.
					Tixall Library, 34.
					To Chloris, 69, 95.
					To Celia, 68, 75, 82.
					To Cupid, 84, 86.
					To her absence, A ship (Carew), 69.
					To Isabel, 69.
					To my Friend, Mr. Lely, 69.
					To the Painter (Carew), 69.
					Translations, by Cotton, 65.
				

				
					V.
					Valediction, A, 84, 85.
					Vaughn, Chief Justice, 7.
					Vers de Société, 83-88.
					Viator, 12, 13, 14, 15, 54.
					Viaud, Theophile de, 27, 80, 88-94.
					Virelai, 65, 86, 87.
					Virgil Travesty, the, first book, 1, 3, 29; fourth book,
						43.
					Voiture, 27, 83-88.
					Voyage to Ireland in Burlesque, 32, 33, 43-45.
				

				
				
					W.
					Wake, Mr. H. F., 34.
					Waller, 4, 29.
					Wallis, Mr. Alfred, 45.
					Walton, Isaak, 1, 3, 7, 8, 13, 14, 18, 46, 51-55, 80, 119; lines to, 56, 93,
						118.
					Winter, Ode to (Cotton), 27, 62, 73, 107-112, 117.
					Winter, Shakespeare's, 103.
					Wonders of the Peak, 56.
					Wordsworth, 1, 2, 3, 27, 80, 111.
					World, The, 47, 55.
					Wotton, Sir Henry, 114.
				
			
		
	

