
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Johnson, Francis, 1837-1908. Famous assassinations of history from Philip of Macedon, 336 B. C., to
					Alexander of Servia, A. D. 1903. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1107
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				Frontispiece
				
						JULIUS CÆSAR
					
			
			
			
				
					Famous Assassinations of History
					
					From Philip of Macedon, 336 B.C., to Alexander of Servia, A.D.
						1903
				
				BY
					FRANCIS JOHNSON
					WITH TWENTY-NINE PORTRAITS
				
				Chicago
					A. C. MCCLURG & CO.
					1903
			
			
			
				Verso
				COPYRIGHT A. C. MCCLURG & CO. 1903
				Entered at Stationers' Hall, London
				Published September 19, 1903
				UNIVERSITY PRESS · JOHN WILSON AND SON · CAMBRIDGE, U. S. A.
			
			
			
				Preface
				THE thirty-one assassinations, famous in history, which are narrated in
					this volume, have never before had their stories told in a collected form in any language.
					The accounts of them were scattered through the historical works of all nations, and
					through many volumes of private memoirs, which had to be scanned for proper and
					trustworthy material. It is hoped that their presentation in this form will make an
					interesting volume, not only for the student of history, but also for the general reader,
					on account of the historical and psychological interest which attaches to them.
				These assassinations embrace a period of nearly twenty-five centuries, — that of
					Philip of Macedon, in 336 B.C., being the first, and that of Alexander and Draga, in the
					present year, being the last. Only those assassinations have been included which either
					had an important and political bearing on the world, or on the nation immediately
					affected, or which left a profound, and, it would seem, indelible impression on the
					imagination of contemporaries and posterity. All those which were not distinguished by one
					of these features were excluded from this series.
				
				It will undoubtedly occur to some who read this volume that it should have included the
					assassination of President Garfield. It was omitted, not from any want of respect or
					sympathy for the memory of our illustrious martyr-President, but simply for the reason
					that his assassination rather grew out of the morbid aberration of one diseased mind than
					out of the general spirit of the epoch in which he lived.
				Others may think that the assassinations of Henry the Third of France, of Henry of Guise,
					and of Marshal Coligny, which are certainly famous in history, should have found a place
					here. But they all grew out of the same spirit of religious hatred and conflict in France
					during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and Henry the Fourth was selected as its
					most illustrious victim.
				It has been the object of the writer to make each of these "famous assassinations" the
					central scene of a picture in which the political, religious, or national features of the
					epoch in which the assassination occurred are portrayed with historical fidelity and
					strict impartiality.
				F. J. LAFAYETTE, IND., August 1, 1903.
			
			
			
				Contents
				
					CHAPTER I
						ASSASSINATION OF PHILIP OF MACEDON (336 B.C.)
						3
					CHAPTER II
						ASSASSINATION OF TIBERIUS GRACCHUS (133 B.C.)
						11
					CHAPTER III
						ASSASSINATION OF JULIUS CÆSAR (44 B.C.)
						25
					CHAPTER IV
						ASSASSINATIONS OF TIBERIUS, CALIGULA, CLAUDIUS, NERO (A.D.
							37-68)
						35
					CHAPTER V
						ASSASSINATION OF HYPATIA (A.D.
							415)
						41
					CHAPTER VI
						ASSASSINATION OF THOMAS À BECKET (December 29, 1170)
						53
					CHAPTER VII
						ASSASSINATION OF GESSLER (A.D.
							1307)
						67
					CHAPTER VIII
						ASSASSINATION OF IÑEZ DE CASTRO (A.D. 1355)
						77
					
					CHAPTER IX
						ASSASSINATIONS OF RIZZIO AND DARNLEY (March 9, 1566; February 9, 1567)
						89
					CHAPTER X
						ASSASSINATION OF WILLIAM OF ORANGE (July 10, 1584)
						111
					CHAPTER XI
						ASSASSINATIONS BY IVAN THE TERRIBLE (1560-1584)
						131
					CHAPTER XII
						ASSASSINATION OF HENRY THE FOURTH OF FRANCE (May 14, 1610)
						147
					CHAPTER XIII
						ASSASSINATION OF WALLENSTEIN
							(February 24, 1634)
						165
					CHAPTER XIV
						ASSASSINATION OF THE BROTHERS JOHN AND CORNELIUS DE WITT (August 20, 1672)
						191
					CHAPTER XV
						ASSASSINATION OF ALEXIS, SON OF PETER THE GREAT (June 26,
							1718)
						211
					CHAPTER XVI
						ASSASSINATION OF PETER THE THIRD OF RUSSIA (July 17, 1762)
						221
					CHAPTER XVII
						ASSASSINATION OF GUSTAVUS THE THIRD OF SWEDEN (March 17, 1792)
						249
					
					CHAPTER XVIII
						ASSASSINATION OF JEAN PAUL MARAT (July 13, 1793)
						283
					CHAPTER XIX
						ASSASSINATION OF PAUL THE FIRST OF RUSSIA (March 24, 1801)
						301
					CHAPTER XX
						ASSASSINATION OF AUGUST VON KOTZEBUE (March 23, 1819)
						315
					CHAPTER XXI
						ASSASSINATION OF THE DUC DE BERRY (February 13, 1820)
						327
					CHAPTER XXII
						ASSASSINATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN (April 14, 1865)
						343
					CHAPTER XXIII
						ASSASSINATION OF ALEXANDER THE
								SECOND OF RUSSIA (March 13, 1881)
						359
					CHAPTER XXIV
						ASSASSINATION OF WILLIAM MCKINLEY, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (September 6, 1910)
						381
					CHAPTER XXV
						ASSASSINATIONS OF ALEXANDER I. AND DRAGA, KING AND QUEEN OF SERVIA (June 10-11, 1903)
						399
				
			
			
			
			
				Illustrations
				
					Julius Cæsar
						Frontispiece
					Philip of Macedon
						3
					Tiberius Gracchus
						11
					Caligula
						35
					Claudius
						37
					Thomas à Becket
						53
					Gessler
						67
					Iñez de Castro
						77
					David Rizzio
						89
					Lord Darnley
						94
					William of Orange
						111
					Ivan the Terrible
						131
					Henry IV.
						147
					Wallenstein
						165
					John de Witt
						191
					Cornelius de Witt
						205
					Alexis
						211
					Peter III.
						221
					Gustavus III.
						249
					Jean Paul Marat
						283
					Paul I.
						301
					
					August von Kotzebue
						315
					Duc de Berry
						327
					Abraham Lincoln
						343
					Alexander II. of Russia
						359
					William McKinley
						381
					Alexander I. of Servia
						399
					Queen Draga
						409
				
			
		
		
			
			
				Famous Assassinations of History
				
					CHAPTER I PHILIP OF MACEDON
					
					
					
					
						PHILIP OF MACEDON
					
					
					Famous Assassinations
					CHAPTER I ASSASSINATION OF PHILIP OF MACEDON (336
						B.C.)
					THE assassination of Philip of Macedon, which occurred in the year
						336 B. C., was one of the most important in
						ancient history, not only because it terminated the glorious career of one of the most
						remarkable men of his times, but also because it led immediately to the accession of
						Alexander, one of the supremely great men of history, — an event which would very
						likely not have taken place at all if Philip had continued to live for a number of years
						and had himself selected the successor to his throne. Philip of Macedon was then at the
						height of his power. The battle of Chæronea, in 338 B. C., had made him the master of Greece; and by his tactful and generous treatment
						of the vanquished he had even been appointed by the Amphictyon League commander-in-chief
						of all the Greek forces, which he intended to lead, at the head of his Macedonian army,
						against the Persians, and to conquer their mighty empire. This stupendous plan, by whose
						accomplishment Philip would have anticipated the glorious achievements of Alexander, his
						son, was frustrated by his assassination.
					
					While Philip had arranged everything for his descent upon Persia, and had been
						frequently absent from home, his domestic affairs in his own capital, which had never
						been of a very satisfactory character, took such an unfavorable turn as to require his
						personal attention. As a husband, Philip had often given just cause of complaint to
						Olympias, his royal spouse. Wherever he went he formed liaisons, and several
						illegitimate children were openly recognized by him as his own. But when Olympias, the
						Queen, laid herself open to a suspicion of having violated her marriage vows in his
						absence, he repudiated her, charging her with gross infidelity, and intimating that he
						had very strong doubts of being the father of Alexander. Olympias thereupon went back to
						her native state, Epirus, accompanied by Alexander, who was highly incensed at the
						treatment shown to his mother and himself.
					Philip contracted a second marriage with Cleopatra, a niece of Attalus, one of his
						generals; and it is said that at the wedding feast Attalus, half intoxicated, expressed
						the wish and hope that Cleopatra might give the Macedonians a lawful heir to the
						kingdom. This remark, overheard by Alexander, so enraged him that, throwing a full cup
						at Attalus's head, he shouted to him: "What, you scoundrel! am I then a bastard?"
						Whereupon Philip, taking Attalus's part, rose from his seat, and rushing with his drawn
						sword upon Alexander would have run his son through, if he had not, being himself more
						than half drunk with wine, slipped and fallen on the floor; at which sight Alexander
						scornfully said: "See there the man who is making great preparations to invade Asia at
						the head of a powerful army, and who falls to the  ground
						like a helpless child in going from one seat to another."
					It is said that after this debauch both Olympias and Alexander retired from Philip's
						capital, the one going to Epirus, and the other to Illyria. By the counsels and efforts
						of Demaratus, the Corinthian, an old friend of the royal family, Philip was, however,
						induced to send for Alexander, and the son returned to his father's court. Soon
						afterwards, Cleopatra gave birth to a son; and the fears of Alexander, who remained in
						communication with his mother and was filled with jealous rage by her, revived.
					It is more than likely — although absolute proof of it has never been furnished
						— that Olympias, in her revengeful jealousy, planned the assassination of the King
						who had so cruelly offended her pride as a woman, and who, she supposed, was also
						plotting to exclude her own son from the throne and place upon it the son of her young
						rival. An opportunity for this act of revenge soon presented itself. A young Macedonian,
						named Pausanias, had been mortally offended by Attalus and Queen Cleopatra. He appealed
						to the King for reparation of the wrong done to him; but this being refused, he resolved
						to revenge himself by taking the King's life. All historians seem to agree that
						Pausanias was encouraged and incited to this act of revenge by Olympias; but whether or
						not Alexander was cognizant of the murderous plot, and approved it, has never been
						satisfactorily explained, and remains one of the unsolved problems of history.
					The occasion for the murderous act of Pausanias was the wedding of Alexander's sister
						with her uncle  Alexander, King of Epirus. Philip considered
						this marriage between his daughter and the brother of his first wife, Olympias, an act
						of consummate statesmanship, inasmuch as it transferred an enemy and an ally of Olympias
						to his own side and made a friend of him. He therefore resolved to make the nuptials of
						this ill-matched couple as brilliant as possible. Grand Olympian games and spectacular
						festivities were arranged, and an incredible display of luxury and pomp, unheard of in
						those days, was planned to show to the wondering eyes of Greece the court of the new
						master of the civilized world in matchless splendor and grandeur. All the cities of
						Greece had sent delegations to these brilliant festivities; most of them came with
						costly wedding presents, among which golden crowns were conspicuous. Poets sent nuptial
						hymns and poems celebrating the beauty of the bride and the genius of the father in the
						most extravagant terms; and a noted dramatist of that age, Neoptolemus, composed a
						tragedy for the occasion, in which Philip, under a fictitious name, was represented as
						the conqueror of Asia and the triumphant vanquisher of the great Darius.
					It was at the theatre, in which this tragedy was to be performed, that Philip met his
						doom. Accompanied by a brilliant cortège of all that were renowned at his court for
						birth, talent, and wealth, he proceeded to the theatre. On approaching the entrance, he
						bade the noblemen surrounding him to advance, and his body-guard to fall back, so that
						he might be personally more conspicuous before the enraptured eyes of his subjects. The
						procession was led by priests in white robes, each carrying a statue of one of the
						twelve principal gods; and a thirteenth statue, even more richly draped and ornamented
						than the  others, with the insignia of divinity upon it, was
						that of Philip himself.
					It was the supreme moment of his pride and happiness; but it was also his last. The
						noblemen and courtiers had already disappeared in the building. The body-guard, obedient
						to the King's orders, remained behind. Just at the moment when the King stepped forward,
						alone, under the gateway of the theatre, a man sprang from a side corridor, thrust a
						sharp short sword into his side, and hurried off as the royal victim reeled and fell. In
						the tremendous confusion which arose, the assassin came very near making his escape. He
						ran toward a swift horse which was kept in readiness for him by friends who evidently
						knew of the murder and were in the plot; and, dazed as the people were who witnessed the
						assassination, he would probably have escaped, had not his sandal caught in a vine-stock
						and caused him to fall, which gave some of his pursuers time to lay their hands on him
						before he could get up. In their rage, they killed him with their spears and tore him to
						pieces.
					The surroundings and execution of this plot bear a strong resemblance to the
						assassination of Abraham Lincoln. In both cases there was an individual murderer, the
						scene was a theatre, the act was done with incredible audacity in the presence of a
						large concourse of people, and the murderer was crippled by a misstep after the fatal
						blow.
					The assassination of Philip of Macedon was not only one of the boldest and most
						dramatic in history, but it was also one of the earliest in point of time.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER II TIBERIUS GRACCHUS
					
					
					
					
						TIBERIUS GRACCHUS
					
					
					CHAPTER II ASSASSINATION OF TIBERIUS GRACCHUS (133 B.
						C.)
					IN the history of ancient Rome there occurs one political
						assassination which stands out as an event of special significance, not only on account
						of the great celebrity of the victim, but also owing to the fact that it is the first
						occasion on record in which the conflicting economical interests of different classes in
						a republic were settled by a resort to arms, instead of being adjudicated on principles
						of equity and justice, or simply by public authority.
					This great historical event was the murder of Tiberius Gracchus, which was soon
						followed by the forced suicide of his brother, Caius Gracchus, — the immediate
						result of their attempt to enforce an agrarian law passed as an act of justice to the
						poorer classes of Roman citizens. The law was violently opposed by the rich, who
						organized an armed revolution against its originators and were powerful enough to do
						away with them.
					There is in the whole conflict about that agrarian law (the so-called Sempronian law) a
						modern feature which makes it especially interesting to Americans at a time when party
						issues turn largely on economical questions, and when the antagonism between capital and
						labor (or  the rich and the poor) threatens to enter the
						acute stage. It will be noticed that at that early age (more than two thousand years
						ago) capital already had a power and commanded a political influence against which right
						and justice, allied to poverty, battled in vain. History, both ancient and modern, has
						been written largely in conformity with the ideas and prejudices of the ruling classes,
						and in praise of them, while their enemies and opponents have generally been unjustly
						criticised and denounced as disturbers of public order and peace, or even as anarchists
						and rebels against public authority. The two illustrious brothers, the Gracchi, have
						shared this unjust treatment of historians, and in the estimation of many, pass to-day
						as dangerous and seditious characters whose death alone could have saved Rome from
						greater calamities. An impartial investigation of their case will, in our opinion,
						furnish sufficient proof to reverse this historical judgment.
					The two Gracchi were the sons of Sempronius Gracchus, the famous Roman tribune, who won
						distinction by his great independence and ability in the administration of his office,
						and of the equally famous Cornelia, daughter of Cornelius Scipio Africanus, the renowned
						vanquisher of Hannibal. The brothers, so closely united and so much alike in political
						sentiments, designs, and efforts, were of different character, temperament, and
						appearance. Tiberius, who was nine years older than his brother, was gentle and mild in
						conduct; and his countenance, his eyes, and his gestures were of peculiar and winning
						gentleness. His brother Caius was animated, vehement, and high-tempered. His eloquence
						was distinguished by the same characteristics, while that of Tiberius was tactful,  persuasive, and conciliatory. Tiberius would have made an
						ideal preacher; Caius seemed to be predestined for the part of a popular advocate and
						orator.
					Tiberius had seen military service and won distinction both by his bravery and prudence
						in Spain as aid to his brother-in-law, Scipio Æmilianus, who was the commander-in-chief.
						It was, therefore, not his illustrious birth alone, but individual merit also, which
						caused him to be elected tribune of the people in the year 133 B. C. As such he introduced a bill for the re-apportionment of the public
						lands and their distribution among the poorer citizens of Rome. Various explanations
						have been given for this action of Tiberius Gracchus. It has been said that he was
						instigated by others to introduce a measure which could not fail to arouse against him
						the strongest hostility of the rich proprietors of some of these lands. But from a
						statement in writing left by his brother Caius, it appears that the idea of the bill
						originated with Tiberius himself, and that its introduction sprang much more from a
						noble and generous impulse than from political ambition.
					Even to-day the traveller who traverses the silent and depopulated desert of the Roman
						Campagna, which is owned by a limited number of large proprietors and is left in an
						almost uncultivated state, is struck forcibly with the thought that the unwise and
						unjust distribution of the land has had much to do with the desolate and unproductive
						aspect of this district, which under judicious and scientific cultivation might yield
						rich harvests and contribute materially to the welfare of the inhabitants of Tuscany.
						The same thought struck Tiberius Gracchus as, on his departure for Spain, he travelled
						through  Tuscany and found it almost a desert, or, at best,
						only rudely cultivated in some parts by barbarian and imported slaves. It was at that
						time that he first conceived the idea of bringing about a change — an idea which
						continued to haunt his mind until he was in a position to realize it. And in doing so he
						found a precedent for legislative action.
					There already existed a law at Rome — the so-called Licinian law — which
						limited the number of acres to be possessed by any one citizen to five hundred. But this
						Licinian law had been a dead letter for many years, and there were many rich citizens in
						Rome who counted the number of their acres by the thousand or even ten thousand. It was
						this violation of the Licinian law, and the open injustice done to the poor by this
						violation, which Tiberius Gracchus wanted to correct. He therefore introduced a new
						agrarian law which aimed to revive the Licinian law, but at the same time greatly
						modified and attenuated its provisions. The change in the law which Tiberius Gracchus
						proposed was in one respect an act of injustice, because it put a premium on the
						violation of the law as it had existed, instead of punishing that violation by imposing
						an adequate fine. Under the new law a citizen might hold 500 acres of the public lands
						in his own name, and in addition, 250 acres for each son still under the paternal roof
						and authority. Moreover, the new law provided that, whenever a citizen should be
						compelled to give up land which he held in excess of the share which the law allowed
						him, he should be reimbursed for this loss, at the appraised value, from the public
						treasury. Tiberius Gracchus also favored the immediate distribution of the confiscated
						lands among the poor as their absolute  property, and
						proposed that, whenever a Roman colony was founded on conquered territory, a similar
						distribution of the newly acquired land should be made.
					The new law was enthusiastically applauded by the Roman people, even before it had been
						legally adopted; but the Senate most violently opposed it, because many Senators would
						have been deprived by its passage of most valuable lands. In order to defeat it they
						prevailed upon one of the ten tribunes to object to the third reading of the law. The
						unanimous support of the tribunes was necessary for its passage. When the day for the
						public vote on the law had come, an immense multitude of people was assembled at the
						Forum. The ten tribunes entered and took their seats on the platform. Tiberius Gracchus
						arose and ordered the clerk to read his law, but was immediately interrupted by
						Octavius, who ordered him to stop. The interruption caused an immense sensation and
						commotion among the spectators. Tiberius, after having vainly tried to persuade Octavius
						to withdraw his objection, adjourned the meeting to a later day. During this interval he
						used all his power of persuasion to overcome the resistance of Octavius, but in vain. It
						was then that Tiberius Gracchus, in his intense desire to pass a public measure which he
						considered highly beneficial to the people and almost indispensable to the public
						welfare, resolved to resort to an expedient which was really unconstitutional and which
						is the only public act of his that gives the least foundation to the charge of sedition
						so generally preferred against him. He came to the conclusion that the only way to
						overcome the veto of Octavius was to depose him from his office by a popular vote. This
						was a clear violation of the Constitution, and he  carried
						out his intention in spite of the loud protests of the Senate.
					The scene on the Forum in which Octavius was deposed must have been very pathetic and
						impressive; and while it signified an immediate victory for Tiberius Gracchus, it
						nevertheless incensed a great many Roman citizens and turned them against him. It is
						safe to say that this scene sealed his doom and furnished the principal reason for his
						assassination. Plutarch, a reliable and impartial authority, describes the scene as
						follows: "When the people were met together again, Tiberius
								placed himself in the rostra and endeavored a second time to persuade Octavius. But
								all being to no purpose, he referred the whole matter to the people, calling on them
								to vote at once whether Octavius should be deposed or not; and when seventeen of the
								thirty-five tribes had already voted against him, and there wanted only the vote of
								one tribe more for his final deprivation, Tiberius put a short stop to the
								proceedings, and once more renewed his importunities; he embraced and kissed him
								before all the assembly, begging with all the earnestness imaginable that he would
								neither suffer himself to incur the dishonor, nor him to be reputed the author and
								promoter of so odious a measure. Octavius did seem a little softened and moved with
								these entreaties; his eyes filled with tears and he continued silent for a
								considerable time. But presently looking toward the rich men and proprietors of
								estates, who stood gathered in a body together, partly for shame, and partly for
								fear of disgracing himself with them, he boldly bade Tiberius use any severity he
								pleased. The law for his deposition being thus voted, Tiberius ordered one of his
								servants, whom he had made a freeman, to remove Octavius from the rostra, employing
								his own domestic freed servants instead of the public officers. And it made the
								action seem all the sadder that Octavius was dragged out in such an ignominious
								manner. The people immediately assaulted him, while the rich men ran in to his
								assistance. Octavius, with some difficulty, was snatched away, and safely conveyed
								out of the crowd; though a trusty servant of his, who had  placed himself in front of his master that he might assist his escape, in
								keeping off the multitude, had his eyes struck out, much to the displeasure of
								Tiberius, who ran with all haste, when he perceived the disturbance, to appease the
								rioters."
					The law was then passed, and commissioners were immediately appointed to make a survey
						of the lands and see that they were equally divided.
					The forcible ejection of Octavius and the subsequent passage of the new agrarian law
						opened a chasm between Tiberius Gracchus and the patricians, which nothing but his death
						could close up. He had made himself immensely popular with the poor, and other laws
						which he introduced increased that popularity. But the more the poor idolized him, the
						more the rich hated and abhorred him; and a large number of the better and more
						thoughtful class of plebeians resented his bold violation of the Constitution in
						removing Octavius from office.
					Such were the conditions when the time for the expiration of his official term as
						tribune approached, and he as well as his friends saw the necessity for his reelection
						as a measure for protecting his life. He therefore appeared as a candidate for
						reelection; and when on the first day of the election no choice had resulted from the
						vote, the next day was appointed for the final decision. Tiberius knew that not only his
						political career, but his very life depended on the result, and he therefore left no
						stone unturned to rally his friends to the rescue. But unfortunately, it being harvest
						time, many of his adherents were absent from the city, and could not be reached in time
						for the struggle.
					On the day following, the Senate convened at an early hour, while the people assembled
						at the Capitol to proceed  with the vote. However, great
						confusion prevailed, and a large number of outsiders tried to force their way in and
						establish themselves among the voters. And even the appearance of Tiberius Gracchus,
						although he was received with loud acclamations, failed to restore order in the
						assemblage. Moreover, he showed by the depression in his countenance and conduct that he
						had lost confidence in the success of his cause. Several evil omens which he had
						encountered on his way to the Capitol disturbed his mind. At daybreak a soothsayer, who
						prognosticated good or bad success by the pecking of fowls, informed him that all his
						efforts to induce the fowls to eat had failed. Tiberius then remembered that, a short
						time before, two serpents had been found in his helmet. On stepping out of the house he
						stumbled on the threshold and hurt his great toe so badly that it bled profusely. As he
						walked through the streets he saw on his left hand two ravens fighting on the roof of a
						house, and suddenly a stone, detached from the roof, fell at his feet. The friends of
						Gracchus, who surrounded him, all stopped, and he himself hesitated as to whether he
						should proceed or return to his house. However, a philosopher from Cuma, one of his
						intimates, who was credited with inspiring Gracchus with his democratic ideas and who
						was free from the superstition of the Romans, persuaded him to continue on his way to
						the Capitol.
					There the voting of the tribes was proceeding with great noise and confusion. All at
						once Gracchus noticed that one of his friends, Lucius Flaccus, a Senator, had mounted an
						elevation from which he could be easily seen, but where he was too far off to be heard,
						and was indicating by motions of his hand that he wished to communicate some  important news. Tiberius told the crowd to let Flaccus pass.
						With great difficulty the Senator reached Tiberius and informed him that at the session
						of the Senate, after the Consul had refused to have him arrested, a resolution had been
						passed to kill him, and that the Senators had armed a large number of their clients and
						slaves to carry out this purpose. Tiberius immediately informed the friends who
						surrounded him of the action of the Senate, and signified to those at a greater distance
						the danger in which he was placed, by raising his hands to his head, — and it was
						this motion, entirely innocent in itself, which hastened his ruin. His enemies construed
						it as a desire on his part to wear a crown, and carried this ridiculous news to the
						Senate chamber. It caused a perfect explosion of maledictions and threats among the
						Senators; and Scipio Nasica, the most violent of all, immediately made a motion that the
						Consul be instructed to save the Republic and to exterminate the would-be tyrant. The
						Consul replied that he would resist any factious and criminal attempt against the
						Republic, but that he would not put to death a Roman citizen without trial. On this
						Scipio Nasica turned to the Senators, exclaiming: "Since the Consul betrays the city,
						let those who want to defend the laws follow me!" and followed by a large number of
						Senators and their clients, he rushed toward the place where Tiberius Gracchus,
						surrounded by his friends, was observing the progress of the election. Immediately a
						riot and fight ensued. The Senators, who were armed with clubs, canes, stones, or
						whatever weapon they could lay their hands on, rushed upon the crowd of voters,
						overthrew, beat, and killed them, stamping them under their feet and quickly and
						irresistibly advancing toward  the spot where they beheld
						the man who was the object of their rage and bloodthirstiness. Tiberius, unarmed and
						forsaken by his friends, turned round to seek safety in flight, but, stumbling over
						those who had been knocked down, fell to the ground. It was at that moment, while
						Tiberius was trying to get on his feet again, that one of his own colleagues, a tribune
						of the people, dealt him a powerful and fatal blow, striking him on the head with the
						leg of a stool. Others rushed up and struck him again and again, but it was only a
						lifeless corpse which suffered from their abuse. Three hundred of his friends had fallen
						with him. It was the first Roman blood which had been shed in civil war, and this first
						conflict deprived Rome of one of its most illustrious citizens.
					It is unnecessary to go into any details regarding the death of Caius Gracchus, who
						took up and continued the work of his brother. To the measures in favor of the poor
						which had been advocated by Tiberius, he added others, — for instance, regular
						distributions of corn among the poor at half price, the imposition of new taxes upon
						articles of luxury imported from foreign countries, and employment on public works for
						mechanics and laborers who could not find employment on private contract. It will be
						seen that these measures, as well as some other projects of minor importance which Caius
						Gracchus advocated and caused to be enacted as laws, form part of the platform of modern
						labor parties, and that the Gracchi can fitly be designated as the founders of these
						parties. They both fell victims to the attempt to carry out their theories. At first, it
						would seem, Caius Gracchus at the request of his mother, was inclined to abandon the
						projects of Tiberius; but one night, says Cicero in  his
						book De Divinatione, he heard Tiberius saying to him: "Why hesitate,
						Caius? Thy destiny shall be the same as mine — to fight for the people, and to die
						for them." It is said that this prophecy determined him in his course, and that his
						death was the consequence. In 121 B. C., during a
						public riot and conflict organized by his enemies for his destruction, he committed
						suicide, dying not by his own hand, but by commanding his slave to stab him, — an
						order which was promptly obeyed. The assassination of the one and the forced suicide of
						the other immortalized the two brothers.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER III JULIUS CÆSAR
					
					
					CHAPTER III ASSASSINATION OF JULIUS CÆSAR (44 B. C.)
					AMERICANS are not great students of history, especially ancient
						history. Very likely the assassination of Julius Cæsar, one of the most important events
						in the history of ancient Rome, would also be among the "things not generally known"
						among Americans, had not Shakespeare's great tragedy made them familiar with it. It is
						true, the aims of the dramatist and of the historian are wide-apart. The dramatist
						places the hero in the centre of the plot, and causes every part of it to contribute to
						the catastrophe which overwhelms him under the decree of fate. He is the victim of his
						own guilt. The historian makes the great man but one of the principal factors in the
						evolution of events, and if a Cæsar or a Napoleon succumbs in the struggle, it is by
						force of external circumstances against which his genius is powerless to contend,
						although his ambition or his passion may have been the dominant cause of arraying those
						circumstances against him. By his matchless genius and incomparable art, Shakespeare
						has, to a certain degree, in his "Julius Cæsar," solved the difficult problem of
						combining the task of the dramatic poet with that of the historian, and has placed
						before the spectator  not only Cæsar himself with his
						world-wide and imperialistic ambition as the central figure of the play, but also Rome
						with its republican recollections and aspirations in antagonism to Cæsar's ambition. The
						delineation of the character of the foremost man of the ancient world by the greatest
						dramatist of modern times, and his skilful grouping of the great republicans struggling
						for the maintenance of republican institutions, have been so indelibly engraved upon the
						minds of modern readers that the assassination of Julius Cæsar, which took place at Rome
						44 B. C., is nearly as familiar to them as the
						assassination of Abraham Lincoln. And if we, in this series of Famous Assassinations in
						History, devote a chapter to it, it is simply for the reason that the series would be
						incomplete without it. Moreover, it may be both interesting and useful to call to the
						mind of the reader the circumstances and surroundings which led to the downfall of
						Cæsar. The conspiracy and assassination removed from the scene of action the master-mind
						of the age, without saving the republican institutions; and it is only by explaining the
						causes that we can do justice to the noble intentions of the conspirators, while
						lamenting the assassination of Cæsar as a public misfortune for Rome, inasmuch as it
						removed the strong hand that could have prevented the anarchy and civil war which broke
						out among his successors, immediately after his disappearance from the public stage.
					Cæsar was at the height of his power. His achievements had eclipsed the military glory
						of Pompey, and by his wonderful career he might truly be looked upon as the "man of
						destiny." On his return from Gaul, when the Senate had rejected his request for a
						prolongation of  his command, and had ordered him to
						disband his army and to give up the administration of his province, his popularity was
						so great that his homeward journey, escorted as he was by his victorious army, was but a
						continuous triumphal march. Not only Rome, but all Italy welcomed him home as its
						greatest man, and was ready to heap its greatest, nay even divine honors upon him.
					The Senate and its chosen commander-in-chief, Pompey, had fled on the approach of
						Cæsar. In the decisive battle of Pharsalus Cæsar defeated Pompey, and by this victory
						became the sole ruler of the Roman Republic. Pompey was assassinated on landing in
						Egypt, as a fugitive, and Cæsar returned to Rome, where he was received with the
						tumultuous acclamations of the people, and conducted to the Capitol as the savior of the
						country. The Senate, which had just made war upon him and outlawed him as an enemy of
						the fatherland, appointed him dictator for ten years with absolute and supreme power,
						gave him a body-guard of seventy-two lictors to proclaim his majesty and inviolability,
						and ordered his statue to be placed beside that of Jupiter on the Capitol. A public
						thanksgiving festival, continuing for forty days, was proclaimed, and four brilliant
						triumphs for his victories in Gaul, Egypt, Pontus, and Africa, were accorded to him.
					Never before in the history of Rome had such honors, which seemed to pass the human
						limit, been conferred on any Roman citizen. It was evident that of the Republic nothing
						but the name remained, and that Cæsar, the dictator, was in fact the absolute monarch of
						the immense Empire. Once more the friends of liberty made 
						an effort to shake off the yoke which Cæsar had imposed on the Republic. They flocked to
						the standards of the sons of Pompey, but the bloody and hard-fought battle of Munda
						sealed their fate; and Cæsar, again victorious, remained the absolute master of the
						civilized world, — not without an enemy, but certainly without a rival.
					On his return to Rome new honors and new ovations awaited him. The dignity and pride of
						Roman citizenship seemed to have been lost entirely in the crouching servility with
						which the most distinguished and most highly stationed citizens prostrated themselves at
						the feet of the all-powerful ruler. Resistance to Cæsar had apparently disappeared. All
						bowed to his surpassing genius and ability, and to these qualities he added acts of
						clemency, kindness, and gentleness, which won him the hearts even of those who, from
						political principle, had opposed him. But while thus openly the more than imperial power
						of Cæsar was generally recognized, and while the Senate and the tribunes had been
						degraded to the position of mere tools to his autocratic will, there still remained in
						the hearts of a number of high-minded patriots the hope and anxious desire to save the
						republican form of government from the grasping ambition of the conqueror, who was
						evidently not satisfied with being Imperator in fact, but wanted to be also Imperator in
						name. At least the repeated attempts of the most intimate friends and most trusted
						lieutenants of Cæsar to induce him to accept the crown at the hands of a subservient
						people, and his rather hesitating conduct in refusing these proposals, seemed to confirm
						this suspicion.
					These enthusiastic Republicans cautiously disguised their hostility to the Imperator
						under the mask of devoted  friendship. Their hope was,
						perhaps, that Cæsar's imperial regime would be but temporary and that, like Sulla, he
						would sooner or later get tired of his dictatorship, and resign his imperial honors. But
						Cæsar did not think of abdicating the honors he had won; on the contrary, every act and
						every public utterance of his indicated that he wished to prolong and augment them
						rather than to abandon them. In public he was anxious to show his preëminence. He
						appeared dressed in the costume of the kings of Alba, and with royal insignia. One day,
						when the entire Senate waited upon him in front of the temple of Venus, he remained
						seated while he was addressed, during the entire ceremony. His statue at the Capitol was
						placed beside those of the ancient kings of Rome, as though he were to continue their
						line. New titles of honor, not to say worship, were added to those which had been
						conferred upon him at the first moment of his brilliant victories, and his lieutenants
						and followers welcomed and adopted them as something that was due to his super-human
						wisdom and greatness. He was called not only "Father of the Country," but "Demi-God,"
						the "Invincible God," "Jupiter Julius," — as though Jupiter himself had taken
						mortal form and shape in him.
					This public adoration irritated the Republicans we have mentioned, to the highest
						degree. They secretly charged Cæsar with encouraging or instigating this worship of
						himself, because they knew that his friends would not have proposed it unless confident
						that he would be pleased by it. Brutus and Cassius were at the head of these
						Republicans. Brutus, a stern Republican, a Roman in the noblest acceptation of the word,
						was reputed to be Cæsar's son, the offspring of an adulterous love-affair, and was  openly favored and distinguished by him. Cassius, a
						distinguished general, was much more prompted by jealousy and envy than by civic virtue
						and republican principle. When these two men and their friends became thoroughly
						convinced that Cæsar's ambition would stop at nothing, and that the new imperialistic
						régime was to be permanent, they came to the conclusion that nothing but Cæsar's death
						could prevent these calamities. They therefore resolved to assassinate him.
					The ides of March (the fifteenth day of the month) in the year 44 B.
							C., was selected as the day of the assassination. The conspiracy
						had been formed with the greatest secrecy, but it came near failing at the eleventh
						hour. Cæsar's wife had had dreams and presentiments of bad omen, and she persuaded him
						not to go to the Senate on that day. Very reluctantly he consented to remain at home.
						But Decimus Brutus, one of the conspirators, who was afraid that the postponement of the
						assassination might lead to its discovery, went to Cæsar's residence, ridiculed the
						dreams of a timid woman, and said he could not believe that they would influence the
						mind of the great Cæsar. Then Cæsar, half ashamed at having yielded to his wife's
						entreaties, accompanied him. On his way to the Senate a paper was handed to Cæsar, which
						gave all the particulars of the conspiracy, and warned him not to go to the Senate
						session on the fifteenth of March, because it was the day set for his assassination. But
						Cæsar kept the paper in his hand without reading it. Under various pretexts, all the
						particular friends of Cæsar had been kept from attending the session of the Senate, so
						that when he arrived, he was surrounded only by enemies or by those who were not
						considered his  friends. The conspirators acted promptly.
						Cæsar was defenceless, and in a few minutes he lay prostrate, — a lifeless corpse,
						showing thirty-five wounds, many of which were absolutely fatal. The most celebrated of
						all political assassinations had been successful; and by a peculiar irony of fate, the
						dying Cæsar fell at the feet of the statue of Pompey, his great rival, whom he had
						vanquished at Pharsalus. His death did not, as the conspirators had hoped, prevent the
						establishment of the Empire; it but delayed it for a few years.
					Cæsar has had many worshippers and admirers, and comparatively few calumniators and
						belittlers. Unquestionably he was one of the most extraordinary geniuses that ever
						lived, equally great as a general and as a statesman, as an orator and as a historian.
						In the whole range of history there is but one man — Napoleon — who, in the
						vastness of his conceptions and the masterly perfection of their execution, can be
						justly compared with him. All other men whom national vanity has occasionally placed by
						Cæsar's side only suffer from the comparison; their immense inferiority appears on even
						superficial investigation. He was in fact the foremost man the world had seen to his
						day, and, but for his equally great rival in modern times, would still occupy the
						pinnacle of human greatness alone. Very likely, if he had lived, Rome would have been
						the happier.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IV TIBERIUS, CALIGULA, CLAUDIUS, NERO
					
					
					
					
						CALIGULA
					
					
					CHAPTER IV ASSASSINATIONS OF TIBERIUS, CALIGULA, CLAUDIUS,
						NERO (A. D. 37-68.)
					AT the time of the assassination of Julius Cæsar, the Roman people,
						and especially the higher classes, had reached a degree of perversity and degeneracy
						which appears to the modern reader almost incredible. They had become utterly unfit for
						self-government. The most atrocious public and private vices in both sexes had taken the
						place of the civic virtues and the private honor for which the ancient Roman had been
						famous the world over. In public life, corruption, venality, and bribery were general; a
						public office-holder was synonymous with a robber of the public treasury. Nepotism
						prevailed to an alarming degree, and the ablest men were unceremoniously pushed aside
						for the incapable descendants of the nobility. In times like those, only the very
						strongest hand and the sternest character and mind can restrain the masses from falling
						into anarchy and civil war, and impose on society moderation and the rule of law.
					The assassination of Cæsar had a most demoralizing effect on the Roman people. The hand
						of the master who might have controlled the unruly masses and restrained the degenerate
						nobility lay palsied in death; the giant  intellect, which
						had embraced the civilized world in its dream of establishing a universal monarchy,
						thought no more; and the results were chaos, anarchy, and civil war. The absence of the
						master mind was lamentably felt; his heirs were unable to control the wild elements
						which the assassins had set free; and for many years, rapine, bloodshed, murder, and
						spoliation ruled supreme throughout the vast extent of the Roman Republic, until
						finally, in the year 30 B. C., Octavianus
						Augustus, Cæsar's nephew, succeeded in establishing that imperium of which Cæsar had
						dreamed, and for which his genius and his victories had paved the way.
					The imperial era, beginning with a display of magnificence and splendor, both in
						military achievements and literary production, soon degenerated into an era of crime,
						which, at least in the highest classes of society, has never been equalled in history.
						Its worst feature was, perhaps, the utter degradation and depravity of the women even of
						the highest classes, and their readiness to sacrifice everything — chastity,
						shame, name, and reputation — to the gratification of their passions. Soon the
						women excelled the men in assassinating, by poison or dagger, their victims or rivals.
						Augustus, the first Emperor, showed on the throne much less cruelty than he had
						manifested as a triumvir; but Livia Drusilla, his third wife, was the first of those
						female monsters on the throne of the Cæsars — Livia, Agrippina, Messalina, Domitia
						— who never shrank from murder, if by blood or poison they could rid themselves of
						a rival or of an obstacle to their criminal ambition. Livia, who wished Tiberius, her
						son by a former marriage, to be the successor of Augustus on the imperial throne, caused
						Marcellus (the 
						
							CLAUDIUS
						
						 husband of Julia, daughter of Augustus), and also Julia's
						two sons, to be poisoned; and by these crimes secured the succession for Tiberius. She
						is also suspected of having poisoned Augustus himself.
					Tiberius, the second of the Roman Emperors, lives immortal in history rather by his
						crimes than by his valorous deeds. So does Caligula, the third, and Claudius, the
						fourth, and Nero, the fifth Emperor, — who were all assassinated after
						comparatively short reigns, but who had exhausted all forms of cruelty and crime; while
						their wives, Messalina, Agrippina, and Poppæa will live in history forever as the
						unrivalled types of female depravity. Above all, Messalina, the wife of Claudius, who
						ruled from the year 41 to the year 54 of the Christian era, became notorious for every
						species of vice. In her libidinous and voluptuous excesses, as well as in the demoniacal
						conception of her murderous plots against her enemies, she was easily first and
						foremost, — the real empress of the vicious and fallen women of Rome: she became
						their open rival in the houses of ill-fame in her capital, she contended with them for
						the palm of obscenity and prostitution, and vanquished them all.
					Unless the great historians of Rome had recorded these excesses as facts abundantly
						substantiated by irrefutable testimony, the reports would have been relegated to the
						domain of fable, because they are too revolting to be believed without sufficient
						authority. Can the human mind conceive, for instance, an act of greater criminal
						insolence than that which the Empress Messalina committed by marrying, publicly and
						under the very eyes of the capital, a young Roman aristocrat, Caius Silius, for whom she
						was inflamed with an adulterous passion, while  her
						husband, the Emperor, was but a few miles away at Ostia? And yet Tacitus, a stern and
						truthful historian, records this as an undeniable fact, adding that future generations
						will be loath to believe it.
					When, in the year 68 A. D., Nero expired by the
						dagger of a freedman, courage having failed him to commit suicide, the family of Cæsar
						the Great became extinct, even in its adopted members. Only one hundred and twelve years
						had elapsed since the greatest of the Romans had fallen by the daggers of the Republican
						conspirators; but that short period had sufficed to subvert the Republic and to erect a
						despotic Empire on its ruins, to flood the vast territory of Rome, which embraced the
						entire civilized world, with streams of blood, to place imbeciles and assassins on the
						throne of the Cæsars, and to adorn the brows of courtesans and prostitutes, their
						partners in crime and depravity, with the imperial diadem. Never before in human history
						had human depravity and human lust displayed themselves more shamelessly; never before
						had the beast in man shown its innate cruelty so boldly and so openly as during the
						reigns of these five Roman Emperors. It is almost a consolation for the sorrowing mind
						to read that Tiberius was choked to death; that Caligula was beaten down and stabbed;
						that Claudius was killed by a dish of poisonous mushrooms; and that Nero, the last of
						Cæsar's dynasty, was helped to his untimely death by the poniard of a freedman. Quick
						assassination was all too light a punishment for these monsters of iniquity who had so
						often feasted their eyes on the tortures of their innocent victims.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER V HYPATIA
					
					
					CHAPTER V ASSASSINATION OF HYPATIA (A. D. 415.)
					NEVER, perhaps, did the wonderful genius of Alexander the Great
						appear to better advantage than when he selected Alexandria as a commercial centre and
						distributing point for the products of three continents, and as an intellectual focus
						from which Hellenic culture should be transmitted to those countries of Asia and Africa
						which his victories had opened to Greek civilization. The rapidity with which the city
						— to which Alexander had given his own name — grew to the dimensions of a
						great capital and a world-emporium, proved the sagacity and ingenious foresight of its
						founder, and was unrivalled among all the cities of the ancient world. It became the
						greatest seaport of the world, surpassing in the grandeur and magnificence of its
						buildings every other city except Rome itself; and when, through the genius of the
						Ptolemies, the successors of Alexander as rulers of Egypt, the great library was added
						to its monuments and treasures of art, it became also the intellectual capital of the
						world, rivalling and in some respects eclipsing the city of the Cæsars. It is true, long
						before Alexandria had reached its greatest prosperity, the creative power of Hellenic
						genius in the higher spheres of poetry  and philosophy had
						passed its zenith. In the so-called Alexandrian age of literature the most beautiful and
						most poetical inspirations were the idyls of Theocritus. But Alexandria was the first
						city in the ancient world which became the seat of a many-sided, methodical scholarship,
						and of systematic, zealous studies of the exact sciences, — a university in the
						modern sense. It also became the great library city of the world.
					It is true, the great library of inestimable value collected by Ptolemy Philadelphus
						(who also purchased the large library of Aristoteles) had been ruthlessly destroyed in
						the Alexandrian war of Julius Cæsar. But Ptolemy Physcon collected a second valuable
						library, which was augmented by the splendid library of King Eumenes of Pergamus, and
						formed by far the grandest collection of books to be found in the world. Mark Antony
						gave this splendid library to Queen Cleopatra. It comprised the intellectual treasures
						of the ancient world, and was placed in a wing of the Serapeum, — in that gigantic
						and magnificent building which was the grandest temple of ancient Egypt and the pride of
						Alexandria. The great city of the Ptolemies, with a population of nearly a million
						souls, had also become a sort of neutral territory upon which all religions could meet
						on equal terms. The cosmopolitan character of this great commercial centre, in which
						Christians, Jews, and pagans of all countries competed for the acquisition of wealth,
						made it natural for all these different citizens to live in harmony and mutual
						toleration. The time came, however, when Christianity was proclaimed the official state
						religion under Theodosius the Great, upon whose instigation or order the Roman Senate
						(not by a unanimous, but by a simple majority vote)  passed
						a resolution declaring that the Christian religion should be the only true religion for
						the Roman Empire. This official declaration became the signal for a brutal persecution
						of the old religion throughout the Empire, and especially in its eastern provinces. Very
						prominent in this work of persecution and destruction was Theophilus, Archbishop of
						Alexandria, who was famous far and wide as one of the great lights of the Church and as
						a man of exceptional piety, although many of his actions are utterly inexcusable from a
						moral point of view. Theophilus was in constant warfare with the pagans and Jews of
						Alexandria, who quite often joined hands in fighting him. But, as a rule, they were
						defeated by the pugnacious prelate, who, on such occasions, always found at his command
						a formidable army composed of the mob of the city and of the monks of the desert of
						Nitria, which was near the city. The main object of Theophilus's attacks was the great
						Serapeum, in which immense treasures of gold, silver, and sacred vessels were stored
						away, and which contained also the great collection of books, — a perfect armory
						of pagan philosophy, religion, and poetry, — which was especially obnoxious to
						him. By shrewdly misrepresenting the spirit of revolt among the Jews and pagans of the
						city, he succeeded in getting an edict from the Emperor authorizing him to destroy this
						temple of ancient wisdom and culture, — and, for the second time, the magnificent
						library of Alexandria was partly destroyed, partly scattered to the winds.
					The audacity of Theophilus had inflicted terrible defeats on the non-Christian
						population of Alexandria, and had utterly disheartened it. On the other hand, the
						Christian inhabitants showed by their increasing arrogance 
						that they were conscious of the supremacy of their church and of the exclusive
						protection to which their religion entitled them. However, in spite of this cruel
						discrimination there still remained at Alexandria a large and intelligent element true
						to the old religion, or rather to the old philosophy.
					Theophilus died in the year 412 A.D., and was
						succeeded by his nephew Kyrillos, better known as St. Cyril, who continued the
						vindictive policy against the Jews and pagans which his uncle had inaugurated. It was
						not long before Cyril had fanaticized the mob against the Jews to such an extent that
						the latter, driven to despair, took up arms against their aggressors, who had undertaken
						a regular crusade against their lives and property. Pitched battles and massacres took
						place in the streets of Alexandria. Hundreds of the unfortunate Jews were slain, and
						very likely the Jewish population would have been entirely exterminated or expelled from
						the city, had not Orestes, the imperial governor, interfered in their behalf, and
						defeated the infuriated mob and the monks of Nitria, who as usual had taken a hand in
						the fight. But it was a long and stubbornly contested battle. Although Cyril personally
						did not show himself, it was nevertheless well known that he directed the attacks
						against the Jews from his hiding-place. Moreover all his most intimate friends actively
						participated in the riot and strenuously resisted the efforts of the governor to restore
						peace.
					One of these friends personally assaulted and seriously wounded the governor. After the
						revolt had been quelled, this man was put on trial and sentenced to death. In vain Cyril
						appealed for mercy and tried to save the life  of the
						accused man. Orestes was implacable, and the condemned man was executed. The disdain
						with which he had been treated by the governor, enraged the prelate and stimulated him
						to revenge. A large procession of priests and citizens took the body of the criminal
						from the gibbet and carried it to the principal church of Alexandria, where the
						Archbishop read high mass and delivered a sermon full of admiration and eulogy for the
						victim, filling the hearts of the congregation with hatred and contempt for the
						authorities, and invoking the punishment of Heaven upon their heads. But even this
						public demonstration did not satisfy the Archbishop; and with consummate cruelty he hit
						upon a plan for deeply wounding the governor without attacking him personally.
					At that time there lived at Alexandria a young lady of great talent and renown. Her
						name was Hypatia. She was the daughter of Theon, a celebrated mathematician who lived at
						Alexandria, and whose genius for mathematics she seemed to have inherited. She first
						became his pupil, but soon surpassed him in ability and reputation. She also applied
						herself with great zeal and rare penetration to the study of the philosophy of Plato,
						whom she greatly admired and much preferred to Aristotle. Since Alexandria had no
						professors superior to herself in attainments and learning, Hypatia went to Greece and
						for several years attended the lectures of the most famous professors of Athens. She
						then returned to Alexandria, and was immediately invited by the authorities to the chair
						of philosophy in the University. Hypatia accepted this honor and filled the position
						with brilliant success. It was not only her profound and extensive learning,  embracing the entire compass of the exact sciences, but also
						the charm of her persuasive and mellifluous eloquence which filled her hearers with
						admiration.
					Her reputation as a public lecturer soon equalled her renown as a mathematician and
						philosopher, and a number of the most distinguished men of Alexandria and other cities
						were among her regular disciples, listening with delight to her dissertations. One of
						her most enthusiastic students was Synesius, afterwards Bishop of Ptolemais, who always
						held her in affectionate reverence, although she had steadily refused to profess the
						Christian religion. Orestes, the governor, was also among the number of her admirers and
						was frequently seen at her lectures, which were attended by Christians as well as by
						pagans. To the great qualities of her mind were added rare physical beauty and a suavity
						of manners which won the hearts of all those who became acquainted with her. Several of
						Alexandria's most prominent citizens desired to marry her, but she refused all proposals
						because she wanted to live only for the sciences to which she had devoted her life. In
						spite of her great popularity and the steadily increasing number of admirers, Hypatia's
						reputation was spotless; she had many friends, but never had a lover. While this eminent
						woman's celebrity as a thinker — which entirely eclipsed his own — would
						have been sufficient to fill the heart of Cyril with envy and jealousy, there was an
						additional reason for his hatred and hostility. Orestes, the governor, was a frequent
						visitor at her house and was known to consult her frequently on important public
						questions. The Archbishop, perhaps justly, attributed to Hypatia's influence the
						governor's evident leaning toward paganism and his open admiration  for the philosophical doctrines of the Greek philosophers. Seeking for a
						victim on whom to vent his spite against Orestes, he therefore selected Hypatia as the
						one whose destruction would hurt him most deeply, while at the same time it would
						deliver himself and the church from their most dangerous opponent. It was comparatively
						easy for him to inflame the minds of the ignorant masses with rage against the woman who
						was represented to them as the implacable enemy of their religion, and whose pernicious
						teachings had led so many others from the path of virtue and salvation.
					Everything was carefully but secretly prepared for the fatal blow, which was struck in
						the month of March, 415. It was a beautiful sunny day, and Hypatia got ready to proceed
						to the University, where she was to lecture that forenoon. A carriage was waiting for
						her at the door of her residence. When she entered the carriage she was surprised at the
						unusual number of people filling the street, and at the great number of monks passing
						through their ranks and apparently haranguing them. She could not account for this
						strange gathering, for it was not a Christian holiday, nor was any civil procession to
						come off that morning.
					All at once she noticed that this great assemblage of people began to move in the
						direction of her own house. As it came nearer she heard wild exclamations and threats,
						without comprehending, however, that she was the object of this hostile demonstration.
						At the head of the procession marched Peter, the reader, one of the most fanatical of
						the priests of the city; he had played a very prominent part in the previous riots, and
						was evidently the leader in this new movement. With 
						growing astonishment Hypatia saw them coming, but in the consciousness of her innocence
						she had no fear. She was soon to be cruelly disabused.
					As soon as the rioters were within a few hundred feet of her residence and saw her
						seated in her carriage ready to start, the leaders and those in the front rank rushed
						toward her. Peter, the reader, was the first to reach her and to lay hands on her. As
						she recoiled from his touch in terror, others climbed upon the wheels of the carriage
						and dragged her down into the street. She resisted and called for help, but her cries
						died away unheard in the tumult of the roaring and jeering multitude who surrounded the
						carriage and with ever-increasing violence uttered threats against her.
					Popular excitement is a flame which feeds itself by the electric current emanating from
						thousands of impassioned and excited minds. It is ready on slight provocation to burst
						forth in all-devouring violence. But a few minutes had passed from the moment the
						procession reached Hypatia's carriage until the infuriated mob, holding the victim
						firmly in their grasp, had torn the garments from her body and hurried her with wild
						cheers and laughter to the Cæsarium, the great Christian church. Paralyzed with fear,
						unable to utter anything but screams and cries for help, she was dragged, in a state of
						perfect nudity, through the streets, and neither her helplessness nor her beauty
						softened the hearts of her tormentors and murderers. She was doomed to die, to be
						sacrificed at a Christian altar, atoning for her unbelief and her pernicious teachings
						with her life. One of her own friends, like herself adhering to the ancient cult and to
						Platonic philosophy, fitly compared Hypatia's murder to the  sacrifice of a Greek goddess by drunken and infuriated barbarians. But the crowning
						infamy of this assassination, as brutal as any that history has recorded, was that the
						victim was dragged to the church of Christ, — Christ, the incarnation of love and
						mercy, — and slaughtered there amidst the yells and curses of the so-called
						believers.
					Hundreds of women had swelled the mob, and like the men they were brandishing flints,
						shells, and broken pottery, with which to cut and lacerate their victim that they might
						feast their eyes on her agony.
					Charles Kingsley has given in his famous novel, "Hypatia," a heart-rending description
						of the last moments of the illustrious woman-philosopher. The description may not be
						accurate in every little detail, but Mr. Kingsley sees the scene with the eye and with
						the imagination of a poet, and his description is poetically true. Our readers will
						thank us for quoting his words in rendering this final scene: — "Whither were they dragging her? . . . On into the church itself!
								Into the cool dim shadow, with its fretted pillars, and lowering domes, and candles,
								and incense, and blazing altar, and great pictures looking from the walls athwart
								the gorgeous gloom; and right in front, above the altar, the colossal Christ
								watching unmoved from off the wall, his right hand raised to give a blessing —
								or a curse?
							"On, up the nave, fresh shreds of her dress strewing the holy pavement — up
								the chancel steps themselves — right underneath the great, still Christ: and
								there even those hell-hounds paused. . . . She shook herself free from her
								tormentors, and springing back, rose for one moment to her full height, naked,
								snow-white against the dusky mass around — shame and indignation in those
								wide, clear eyes, but not a stain of fear. With one hand she clasped her golden
								locks around her; the other long white arm was stretched upward toward the great
								still Christ, appealing —  and who dare say in
								vain? — from man to God. Her lips were open to speak; but the words that
								should have come from them reached God's ear alone; for in an instant Peter struck
								her down, the dark mass closed over her again . . . and then wail on wail, long,
								wild, ear-piercing, ran along the vaulted roofs. . . . What in the name of the God
								of mercy were they doing? Tearing her piece-meal? Yes, and worse than that! . . . It
								was over. The shrieks had died away into moans, the moans to silence. . . . A new
								cry rose through the dome: 'To the Cinaron! Burn the bones to ashes! Scatter them
								into the sea!'"
					In the whole annals of crime not a more heart-rending and more brutal scene can be
						found than the murder of Hypatia. The assassination of the beautiful young Princess de
						Lamballe, the friend of Marie Antoinette, during the worst days of the French
						Revolution, bears some resemblance to it; but, after all, political fanaticism is never
						equal in its intensity and cruelty to religious fanaticism. Moreover, the fate of
						Hypatia shows that not all the martyrs were on the side of Christianity in the early
						ages of the Christian church. It should be stated, however, that a general cry of horror
						resounded through the world when the terrible news of Hypatia's death crossed the seas
						and was echoed from land to land, and that the Christian Church, by its most illustrious
						representatives, was loud in its denunciation of the murder.
					Upon the fame and name of St. Cyril the murder of Hypatia has left a lasting stain; for
						the plan and execution were generally attributed to him. Even Catholic Church
						historians, both ancient and modern, criticise him severely for his imprudent and
						ill-advised instigations against Hypatia and her followers, although they try to protect
						his memory against the reproach of having intentionally caused her death.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VI THOMAS À BECKET
					
					
					
					
						THOMAS À BECKET
					
					
					CHAPTER VI ASSASSINATION OF THOMAS À BECKET (December 29,
						1170)
					ONE of the most remarkable careers and one of the most famous
						assassinations in the middle ages were the career and the assassination of Thomas à
						Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury. His life (at least after he had been elevated to the
						Primacy of England) and his death show him as the great representative of the Church of
						Rome, standing up for the defence of its rights and dying in their defence; and they
						show also how necessary, in those dark ages, was a superhuman power, to hold the
						arrogance and brute force of warriors and princes in check, and bring into subjection
						their unbridled passions and their insolent usurpations. Even if Thomas à Becket
						miserably perished in his bold resistance to kingly assumption, his death was a
						wholesome lesson to the tyrants on European thrones, and raised him higher in the
						estimation of the world than a victory over King Henry the Second would have done.
					Thomas Becket, or, as he is oftener called, Thomas à Becket, rose to his eminent
						station in State and Church from comparatively low birth. He was born in 1119, the son
						of a London merchant and an Oriental mother. This lady had followed the merchant to
						England after his  return from the Holy Land, where he had
						been a crusader. The merchant rapidly acquired wealth, and was able to give his son, who
						was distinguished by brilliant talents, a splendid education. After having studied for
						some time at Oxford, the young man was permitted to complete his studies at the
						University of Paris, which at that time attracted students from all parts of Europe by
						the reputation of its professors and the superiority of its methods of instruction. From
						Paris Thomas went to Bologna, in order to study theology; by his travels and the
						application and zeal with which he pursued his studies, he acquired an exceptional
						reputation for the extent, variety, and depth of his knowledge. On his return from Italy
						Archbishop Theobald of Canterbury was charmed with the attainments and learning of the
						young man, and recommended him to the King for the appointment of Chancellor. The King
						appointed him and made him also the tutor of his son. In the position of Chancellor he
						ingratiated himself with the King, and his counsels in matters of State and of
						importance to the crown proved so valuable that the King soon distinguished him above
						all other courtiers and officials, and treated him more as a friend than as a
						subject.
					Having inherited immense wealth from his father, and having, moreover, been endowed by
						the munificence of the King with a number of offices and benefices from which he derived
						large revenues, the Chancellor made a great display of splendor and wealth. His
						household eclipsed almost that of the King himself, and looked more like the court of a
						prince than the household of a citizen. However, he neglected no opportunity to show his
						loyalty and devotion to the King. In 1159 he accompanied the  King to Toulouse, with a retinue of seven hundred knights and twelve hundred mounted
						men, all of whom he had equipped at his own expense. The King also intrusted him with a
						confidential mission to Paris, where he was to negotiate the marriage of the King's
						eldest son with the eldest daughter of the King of France. The Chancellor succeeded in
						concluding a family alliance between the two courts, and conducted the young princess
						personally to England.
					In 1162 Theobald, Archbishop of Canterbury, died, and King Henry the Second immediately
						declared that Thomas à Becket should be his successor. When the King's plan to make him
						Archbishop was mentioned to Becket, he protested against it, and it would seem,
						sincerely. He even went so far as to tell the King, when the latter urged him to work
						for his election, that he was making a mistake in advocating his elevation to the See of
						Canterbury, using these words: "If I should be raised to that office, you would soon
						hate me as much as you now love me; for you will meddle in the affairs of the Church
						more than I can consent to, and people will not be wanting to embroil us." But the King
						laughed at these warnings. He supposed that Becket, as Archbishop, would be as
						complaisant and willing a tool to assist him in curtailing the prerogatives of the
						Church and transferring them to the crown, as he had been on a former occasion. He
						therefore continued to use his influence in favor of Becket's election, and succeeded in
						placing him in the Archbishop's See. At first the Pope objected to his election, but he
						finally ratified it in order to please the kings of England and France, who had both
						appealed to him in Becket's behalf.
					
					No sooner had Becket been installed as Archbishop of Canterbury — which dignity
						carried with it that of Primate of England — than he entirely changed his mode of
						living. No more luxury, no more display of wealth, no more horses or magnificent
						costumes for him! On the contrary, the new Archbishop ostentatiously chose the coarsest
						and plainest garments. Instead of the fine lace shirt of former days he wore a coarse
						haircloth, dirty in the extreme, and his outer garments were frequently ragged. His food
						was of the plainest quality, consisting of bread, water, and skimmed milk. He affected
						austerity in every way, frequently flogged himself for impure thoughts or nominal sins
						which he might have committed, and every day he knelt and washed the feet of thirteen
						beggars. He resigned his office as Chancellor in order to devote all his time and zeal
						to his new office and the affairs of the Church.
					The King did not like the change in the Archbishop's ways, and protested against his
						resignation, but Becket would not reconsider it. The King rightly guessed that there
						might be a hidden meaning and a secret ambition in the Archbishop's sudden conversion to
						Christian humility, which so strangely contrasted with his past conduct. The storm
						between the two mighty men, each self-willed and irascible, was brewing, and when it
						finally broke out, it was fierce and relentless. It never ended until the prelate lay
						prostrate as a victim of assassins before the altar of the church which he tried to
						protect from the King's usurpation.
					It was not long before the conflict broke out. It then appeared that the change which
						had taken place in Becket was not confined to the outer man only, but had also  affected his relation to the Church and the State. From a
						King's counsellor and servant he had suddenly turned to be the counsellor and servant of
						the Church, and he carried over into his new station the impulsiveness and stubbornness
						which had always distinguished him in the service of the King. It is difficult to say
						which of the two, in this struggle for ascendency, was right, or rather which of the two
						was the more to blame. For while the King was aggressive, arrogant, domineering, in the
						consciousness of his power, the Archbishop was imperious, insolent, and inconsistent,
						inasmuch as he now boldly condemned what he had formerly counselled. But it seemed to be
						a trait of Becket's character, that he always devoted himself unconditionally to the
						master he served at the time, and that from the moment he abandoned the service of the
						King for that of the Church it was quite natural for him to defend the interests and
						rights of the latter against the usurpations of the former.
					At that time a priest who had committed any crime could be tried by an ecclesiastical
						court only; consequently very few criminals of this class were convicted and adequately
						punished; in most cases the accused, even if found guilty, were only reprimanded and
						degraded. This abuse was carried to such excess that during the first years of the reign
						of Henry the Second no less than one hundred murders committed by priests had not been
						punished. A priest had seduced the daughter of a gentleman living in Worcestershire,
						and, confronted by the angry father of the girl, assassinated him. Public indignation
						was aroused by this atrocity to such an extent that the King ordered the arrest of the
						guilty priest and his trial before a civil tribunal. Becket protested against  this order, claiming that it was an infringement of the
						prerogatives of the Church. He ordered an ecclesiastical court to investigate the
						charges, and the result was as usual, that the punishment awarded was only degradation.
						The King was furious. He made up his mind to beat the Archbishop at his own game and to
						punish him for his presumption. He therefore submitted the question of ecclesiastical
						immunities and of church prerogatives to a council of jurists and ordered them to
						investigate whether these prerogatives were founded on a solid historical basis. The
						jurists knew what sort of decision the King wanted, and they gave it. Thereupon the King
						convened a general council of the high nobility and also of the Church at Clarendon, and
						there, among other restrictions placed upon the Church, it was enacted that members of
						the clergy indicted for a crime should be tried by civil tribunals, exactly like other
						subjects.
					Becket, seeing that all the barons and many prelates had submitted to the decree of the
						council, was compelled to yield, and swore to obey it; but his submission was caused
						only by his powerlessness. But when this so-called Constitution of Clarendon was sent to
						the Pope for ratification, he rejected it haughtily and condemned it in the most
						energetic manner. Thereupon Becket, basing his action on the condemnation of the Pope,
						openly retracted the consent which he had given to the Clarendon decree, and subjected
						himself to great austerities and macerations proportionate to the greatness of the sin
						he had committed in yielding to the royal demands. He even refused to perform any
						functions connected with his episcopal rank until the Pope had acquitted him of his
						great wrong against the Church. This action made the 
						rupture between the King and the Archbishop irreparable. Henry swore to have his revenge
						on a priest who was not only an ingrate but a perjurer. He arraigned him before a
						parliament convened at Northampton in 1165 as a rebel, as having violated his oath of
						allegiance. Becket was convicted, his personal estate was confiscated, the revenues of
						his archbishopric were seized, and Becket himself, abandoned even by his clergy, fled to
						France, whose King, in spite of the protests of Henry, offered him a refuge.
					Becket's spirit was far from being broken. From his retreat in France he wrote to the
						bishops of England that the Pope had annulled the Constitution of Clarendon, and at the
						same time he excommunicated a number of those, bishops as well as other high officials,
						who had assisted in violating the sacred rights of the Church. The King answered by
						exiling all his relatives from England, and forbidding his subjects to correspond with
						him, or to send him money; he even forbade prayers in behalf of the Archbishop to be
						offered in church.
					But the conditions between the Church and the court created by this conflict were such
						that the King found it expedient to make overtures of reconciliation to Becket, first
						through the bishops and church officials of England, and afterwards personally. In a
						conference which he held for that purpose with the King of France, he said to the
						latter: "There have been several kings of England, some more and others less powerful
						than myself; there have been also several Archbishops of Canterbury, in my opinion as
						respectable and as sainted as Thomas à Becket; let him show to me the same deference
						which the greatest of his predecessors have shown to the least powerful of  my predecessors, and there will be no controversy between
						us." King Henry also offered to take the clergy of France as umpires in the questions at
						issue; but when Becket stubbornly refused to be reconciled to the King of England, the
						King of France lost his patience and withdrew the protection which up to that day he had
						accorded to him.
					These and other changes unfavorable to him finally induced Becket to lend to the King's
						proposals of reconciliation a more willing ear, and at last an interview took place
						between them which resulted in their reconciliation — apparently at least. The
						interview was much more cordial than might have been supposed from the exceedingly
						strained relations that had existed between them for years. The Archbishop approached
						the King as became a subject, and the King met him with the humility shown at that time
						to princes of the Church; when they parted, Becket bent his knee to the King, who held
						the stirrup of his horse as the Archbishop mounted. The interview had resulted in
						settling their differences. Both had made concessions, but the larger part of these had
						been made by the King. All the Archbishop's personal property had also been restored to
						him; he thereupon agreed to return to England and resume the functions of his office. He
						had been absent seven years.
					The people at large, and especially the poor, greeted him with enthusiasm; but the
						barons kept away, and some of them showed open hostility to the Archbishop, or
						mysteriously hinted at a speedy ending of his newly regained honors. His arrival in
						England had been preceded by a messenger from the Pope carrying writs of excommunication
						for three English bishops who had been  especially hostile
						to Becket. These bishops immediately went to Normandy, where Henry the Second had
						remained, and laid their complaints before him, laying all the blame on Becket, whom
						they charged with inflaming the people of England against their King and sowing discord
						in their hearts. When these matters were laid before him, and also a statement that
						Becket had excommunicated two barons whom he considered his special enemies, the King
						got into a rage and exclaimed: "What? Is there among the cowards whom I feed at my table
						not one brave enough to deliver me from this firebrand of a priest?" These words could
						have but one meaning. Four of the barons took it upon themselves to deliver the King
						from the obnoxious priest. The King afterwards declared that he had never intended to
						suggest the assassination of Becket; but what other construction could be given to his
						words? The assassination itself was one of the most dramatic in history. The would-be
						murderers travelled in such haste that a messenger whom the King sent after them to warn
						them not to kill Becket could not overtake them. Arriving at Canterbury on December 29,
						1170, they, with twelve other noblemen, went to the Archbishop's residence, and
						expostulated with him concerning the excommunication of certain priests and barons, and
						when he refused to revoke the excommunications, the barons left him with threats. They
						returned toward evening. The bell of the church was ringing for vespers, and the
						Archbishop had gone there. The priests wanted to close and barricade the doors, but he
						objected. "The doors of the house of God should not be barricaded like a fortress!" said
						he. Just then the assassins came in, brandishing their swords and calling  for the traitor. The priests surrounding the Archbishop fled
						in terror; only his cross-bearer stayed with him. It was so dark that neither the
						intruders nor the priest could be seen distinctly. Another voice called: "Where is the
						Archbishop?" "I am here," answered Becket. "I am no traitor, but only a priest of the
						Lord!" They were afraid to kill him in the holy precincts. Once more they asked him to
						absolve those he had excommunicated. He refused, because they had not repented. "Then
						you shall die!" they cried. "I am ready, in the name of the Saviour," he answered; "but
						I forbid you, by the Lord Almighty, to touch any of these present, priests or laymen."
						They heeded him not, but rushed upon him, and with three or four thrusts from their
						swords, one of them splitting his skull, laid him prostrate at the foot of the
						altar.
					The murderers hurried back to Normandy to get their reward. The news of the murder,
						when it reached the ears of the King, struck terror into his heart. He knew he was, and
						would be held, responsible for Becket's death. Fear seized him, that he would feel the
						Pope's wrath, that he would be excommunicated, that England and his possessions in
						France would be placed under an interdict, that the Saxon population of England, which
						already revered Becket as a saint, might rise in open rebellion against him. He
						therefore made haste to disclaim publicly any complicity in the murder, and sent an
						ambassador to the Pope to assure him of his entire innocence and of his profound grief
						at the bloody deed. The Pope at first refused to receive the ambassador, and it was only
						by means of many prayers, promises, and humble supplications that he finally absolved
						the King of intentional  complicity in the heinous crime.
						The King actually purchased this absolution by pledging himself to support, during three
						years, two hundred well-equipped horsemen for the protection of the Holy Sepulchre.
					But even this act of papal absolution was not deemed sufficient by the King to protect
						him from the evil consequences of the assassination. To remove this danger the King two
						years afterwards undertook a pilgrimage to the tomb of Becket, who had in the meantime
						been buried in the Cathedral with royal honors. As soon as the steeple of the Cathedral
						appeared on the horizon, the King dismounted, and proceeded on his way barefooted, his
						bleeding feet leaving a spot of blood at every step. On his arrival at the tomb he
						prostrated himself, and subjected himself to the humiliation of a severe flagellation at
						the hands of the monks, each of whom applied to his bare back three strokes from a
						knotted rope.
					Having undergone this public chastisement, the King remained praying and fasting the
						following night, prostrated on the tombstone. Next morning he returned to London, where,
						immediately after his arrival, he fell seriously ill from the effects of his
						pilgrimage.
					The Pope canonized the martyr who had so heroically died in the defence of the
						prerogatives of the Church.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VII GESSLER
					
					
					
					
						GESSLER
					
					
					CHAPTER VII ASSASSINATION OF GESSLER (A. D. 1307.)
					THE assassination of Julius Cæsar and of the first Roman Emperors led
						to greater demoralization of the people, and thereafter to anarchy, bloodshed, civil
						war, and ultimately to an atrocious despotism; but at an interval of twelve hundred and
						forty years after the death of Nero there occurred a political assassination, growing
						out of personal revenge, which freed a whole people from oppression and placed the
						murderer among the heroes of mankind and the liberators of nations. We speak of William
						Tell, the national hero of Switzerland, who in 1307 deliberately murdered Gessler, the
						Austrian governor.
					This governor, who resided at the castle of Kuessnacht, had committed the greatest
						outrages and acts of despotism against the inhabitants of his gubernatorial district,
						embracing the so-called three Waldstädte (Forest Cantons), — Uri, Schwyz, and
						Unterwalden. Until then these Forest Cantons had enjoyed a republican government, and
						had given to the German Empire a merely nominal recognition, by acknowledging the German
						Emperor as their suzerain. There is a great resemblance in the relations between these
						Swiss Cantons and the German Empire to  the relations which
						existed, before the South African war, between the two Boer Republics and the crown of
						England. Rudolph of Hapsburg, himself a Swiss by birth, who had been elected German
						Emperor, had pursued a liberal policy toward the Cantons and in special charters had
						guaranteed to them their inherited rights and liberties. But his son Albrecht the First,
						who succeeded Rudolph on the imperial throne, resolved to do away with these
						prerogatives, deprive the Swiss Cantons of their independence, and make them subject to
						the crown of Austria. Theretofore the German Emperors had been represented in a few
						cities of Switzerland by bailiffs, who exerted the same authority in the Cantons as our
						federal judges in United States Territories; but Albrecht changed their duties and
						authority entirely, investing them with many additional powers, so that they became
						practically governors of their districts, appointed by the Emperor and administering
						their office as imperial officials.
					Against this change the inhabitants of the Cantons entered their solemn protests; they
						sent delegations to Albrecht to remonstrate with him; but he gave evasive answers,
						increased the soldiery protecting the governors, shut his ears to all complaints about
						their arrogance and growing usurpation, and secretly encouraged them "to do all in their
						power to break the stubborn resistance of these uncouth mountaineers and boors, and make
						them obedient subjects of the Austrian crown." To the strong men of the Cantons, who had
						never bowed their necks under the yoke of a foreign despot, the tyranny of these
						Austrian governors became intolerable; their leading men made up their minds to throw it
						off by all  means, and to maintain their independence at
						any cost. Even the members of the nobility scattered through the Cantons were indignant
						at the arbitrary and haughty ways of the imperial bailiffs, who treated them with the
						same arrogance as they treated the common people; they therefore made common cause with
						the latter, so that practically the imperial officials were isolated in a hostile
						country, without friends or party.
					The public discontent culminated in a secret conspiracy, of which Walter Fuerst of Uri,
						Werner Stauffacher of Schwyz, and Arnold Melchthal of Unterwalden, were the originators.
						These three men, each a representative and influential citizen of his own Canton, met at
						the house of Walter Fuerst and agreed to meet for further consultation on the Ruetli, an
						elevated plateau, hidden in the woods, near the lake of Uri, on certain nights, each
						undertaking to bring along ten men tried and true, who had promised to act with them,
						for life and death, for the deliverance of their country. They also pledged themselves
						by oath to keep this league a secret from all but the initiated, who like themselves had
						sworn to cooperate for the deliverance of the country, until the time had come for
						united action on one and the same day. This was done in the fall of 1307. A later
						consultation of the conspirators on the Ruetli took place some weeks afterwards, and was
						attended by the three leaders and thirty others. They were all full of enthusiasm and
						hope of victory. They all pledged the almost unanimous support of the inhabitants of the
						three Cantons, and finally agreed that the people should rise in rebellion on New Year's
						Day, 1308. The humane feature of this proposed revolution appears from their joint
						agreement, affirmed under oath,  that, in expelling the
						Austrian governors and their followers from their castles and their country, they would
						not kill them except in self-defence, but would treat them with leniency and charity. Is
						it not as if we heard Oom Krueger and his friends of the Transvaal and Orange Free State
						counsel on measures for their independence? They placed their full confidence in the
						justice of their cause, the assistance of God, and their own bravery.
					The day for the execution of their plot was anticipated by an unforeseen event.
						Gessler, the Governor of Uri and Schwyz, had made himself especially odious by all sorts
						of petty acts of tyranny. Among these was an order that the ducal hat of Austria was to
						be placed on the top of a long pole to be erected on the market space of Altorf and that
						nobody should pass by it without uncovering his head and showing it respect as if the
						Duke of Austria (Albrecht, Emperor of Germany) himself were there. The citizens
						generally complied with the order. But one day William Tell and his little son passed by
						the hat without minding Gessler's order. William Tell was the son-in-law of Walter
						Fuerst, one of the three leaders of the Ruetli conspiracy, and, like Walter Fuerst
						himself, he was looked upon with suspicion by the Austrian authorities. The openness
						with which he ignored Gessler's order was immediately construed as an act of defiance
						and rebellion. He was taken before Gessler, and the cruel bailiff imposed upon him a
						punishment which, he thought, would wound him to the heart.
					"Tell," said he to him, "by your act of disobedience you have forfeited your life. But
						I will be merciful to you," and pointing to Tell's crossbow, he continued: "You have the
						reputation of being the best archer of  our Canton, if not
						of all Switzerland. I have never seen a test of your skill yet; very well, let your
						skill be tried now, and if it is as great as your reputation it will save your life.
						There is an apple. Place it upon your boy's head, and at a distance of thirty steps
						shoot it with an arrow. But take good aim! For, if you hit the boy, your life will pay
						for it!"
					William Tell complied with the cruel order, and with his usual masterly skill brought
						down the apple from the boy's head. Gessler was enraged at the result, and, before
						dismissing Tell, he asked him with an insidious smile: "Now tell me, William Tell, why
						did you take two arrows from your quiver before you took aim at the apple on your boy's
						head? Tell me sincerely, and whatever your answer may be, your life shall not be
						imperilled."
					Carried away by his wrath, Tell contemptuously replied: "If I had missed my aim and hit
						my boy, the second arrow was for you, and, by God Almighty, it would not have gone
						astray!"
					"That's what I thought," cried Gessler, and turning to his escort he ordered them to
						put Tell in chains and take him to the boat on the lake. "Your life," said he to Tell,
						"is not in peril; but I will take you to my castle in Kuessnacht; there in one of the
						darkest dungeons underground you shall be imprisoned, and may find time to repent the
						rebellious words which you have uttered!"
					In the immediate neighborhood of Kuessnacht, on a mountain top overlooking the town,
						was the fortified castle where Gessler resided. It was on the way to that residence that
						Tell did the act by which he  satisfied his personal
						revenge and also freed his country from the bloody tyranny of the despot. While Gessler
						and his prisoner were crossing the lake, a storm arose, which endangered the boat. The
						fury of the tempest filled the hearts of the boatmen with dismay and terror, and
						tremblingly they turned to Gessler, saying: "The boldest and most skilful boatman in the
						Canton is Tell. He may be able to save the boat, but we cannot! Set him free and he may
						bring us safe to port."
					Gessler ordered the chains to be removed from Tell's limbs and ordered him to take the
						helm, promising him life, liberty, and a full pardon if he should bring them safe into
						port. Tell took the helm, and the boat, obedient to its master's hand, sped through the
						storm-tossed waves like a seabird dancing on the surface. But turning round a rock-bound
						bluff close to the shore, Tell suddenly took up his cross-bow lying on the bench near
						by, and with mighty leap jumped on the rock, hurling the boat far back into the hissing
						and tempestuous flood.
					Gessler also escaped from the watery grave, but only to meet his doom on land even
						before he had reached his home. Tell was lying in ambush on the road from the lake to
						Kuessnacht. It was the road which Gessler and his party had to take on their return to
						the castle, if they should succeed in effecting a landing on the shore. After some time
						Gessler, accompanied by a few friends, came in sight. No sooner had the party entered
						the defile than Gessler, shot through the heart by Tell's unerring arrow, fell from his
						horse.
					Tell's shot was the signal for the general uprising of the people of Switzerland. Years
						of struggle and warfare against Austria's nobility and armed forces followed  Tell's heroic act, but the entire independence of
						Switzerland was finally secured. Switzerland is to this day a free and independent
						republic, and Tell's name shines with imperishable lustre not only as its great national
						hero, but also among the immortal patriots and liberators of mankind.
					We are well aware that recent historical criticism has expressed doubt as to Tell's
						great act of deliverance, and even as to his existence, and that in some histories the
						tale is simply relegated to the domain of legend and tradition. But there is no real
						justification for this decision. It is founded only on a statement in the chronicle of
						Saxo Grammaticus recording a feat of archery in Scandinavia similar to that of William
						Tell, and performed hundreds of years before Tell's day.
					As Johannes von Mueller, the great historian, judiciously says: "It shows but scanty
						knowledge of history to deny the truth of a historical event simply because another
						similar event occurred in another century and country." But truth or fiction, history or
						legend, the heroic act and name of Tell will live on, immortal and inspiring, as they
						have lived during the last six hundred years. Poets and novelists have immortalized the
						great national hero of Switzerland in song and story. Frederick Schiller, Germany's
						greatest dramatist, has made him the central hero of his greatest drama, and has given
						his name to that great hymn of liberty and patriotism, which stirred up the German
						nation to its glorious struggle against Napoleon the First. It is one of the few truly
						patriotic assassinations recorded in history.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VIII IÑEZ DE CASTRO
					
					
					
					
						IÑEZ DE CASTRO
					
					
					CHAPTER VIII ASSASSINATION OF IÑEZ DE CASTRO (A. D.
						1355.)
					AS one of the most cruel and heart-rending tragedies of the middle
						ages, the love-story and the assassination of Iñez de Castro has lived in song and story
						for five hundred and fifty years, and still awakens echoes of pity and sorrow whenever
						read or heard.
					Constancia, the wife of Pedro, son of Alfonso the Fourth of Portugal, and
						heir-presumptive to the crown of that kingdom, died in 1344, and left to her husband a
						son of tender age, named Ferdinand. Pedro thereupon desired to marry the countess Iñez
						de Castro, a young lady of great beauty and loveliness, and, like himself, sprung in
						direct lineage, but on her mother's side, from the royal house of Castile. Iñez de
						Castro was of an illustrious family, it is true, but her rank was not deemed sufficient
						to entitle her to become the wife of the Crown Prince; therefore when Dom Pedro
						mentioned to his father his intention to marry her, the King positively refused his
						consent. Dom Pedro, however, instead of obeying his father, secured permission from the
						Pope, and secretly married her, bestowing upon her the full rank and all the rights of a
						legitimate wife.
					In the meantime the King and his advisers urged Dom  Pedro
						to get married again, and proposed a number of young princesses of renowned beauty and
						ancestry for his choice. But Pedro, without disclosing the secret of his marriage with
						Iñez de Castro (rumors of which were nevertheless whispered and busily circulated at the
						court of the King), persistently rejected all these proposals, giving no other reason
						for his refusal than his personal disinclination to marry. While Pedro's father
						reluctantly accepted his son's emphatic declaration, the most trusted advisers and
						counsellors of the King, Diego Lopez Pacheco, Pedro Coello, and Alvaro Calvarez, did
						not, because they were afraid lest the influence of the beautiful and accomplished Iñez
						de Castro — no matter whether she was legally married to Pedro or not —
						would be dangerous and possibly fatal to their own preëminence at the court, as soon as
						Pedro should succeed his father on the throne. They shrewdly worked upon the King's mind
						by insinuating that if the rumor of Pedro's secret marriage should prove to be true, the
						ultimate succession of Ferdinand, Pedro's son by his first wife, to whom the King was
						very much attached, might be endangered, and that possibly the son of Iñez de Castro
						would become Pedro's successor on the throne.
					The King summoned Pedro to a private interview, and asked him concerning his relations
						with Iñez de Castro, informing him at the same time of the rumor of his secret marriage.
						Pedro denied the truth of this rumor, admitting, however, that Iñez de Castro, while not
						his wedded wife, was so dear to his heart that on her account he would not consent to
						form a new matrimonial alliance, no matter how illustrious by birth or beauty the
						princess proposed to him might be. The emphasis with which 
						Pedro made this assertion satisfied his father that the rumor of a secret marriage was
						true; and when the King, at the next cabinet council, repeated to his confidants the
						result of his interview with the Crown Prince, they predicted that the greatest
						calamities would arise, after the King's death, from the Crown Prince's infatuation for
						Iñez, which they ascribed rather to unnatural evil influences than to the surpassing
						beauty and loveliness of the young woman. The King, a man of very irascible temperament,
						became excited and indignant; he declared again and again that, if there were no other
						means of separating Pedro and Iñez, the young woman would have to die. The council then
						broke up.
					It was but a short time afterwards that Dom Pedro left the court for a few days to go
						out hunting with some friends. But warned by his mother, who had heard of the King's
						evil designs upon Iñez de Castro, he had taken her and her two children to Coimbra,
						where he left them in a convent to await his return. On the day after his departure,
						King Alfonso suddenly appeared at the convent and demanded to see Iñez de Castro.
						Pedro's wife immediately made her appearance, accompanied by her two children. As she
						looked upon the King, whose mien was grim and menacing, and who was surrounded by a
						number of his knights in full armor, a presentiment of some terrible calamity which was
						to befall her and her two children entered her breast, and from an impulse of both fear,
						and of hope to save her children, she threw herself at the King's feet, imploring him to
						forgive her and to take pity on her innocent children. Alfonso's heart melted with pity
						at the sight of so much beauty and innocence. He raised her from her kneeling position
						and  told her to be of good cheer, and that no harm would
						befall her. And then turning round, he left the convent, followed by his attendants, who
						were not a little surprised at this peaceful ending of a visit which had promised to be
						a tragedy.
					But while Iñez already congratulated herself on her lucky escape from a terrible death,
						and even on her good fortune in having softened the King's heart toward herself and her
						two children, she was nevertheless doomed to ruin. The three counsellors so hostile to
						her had not accompanied the King on his visit to the convent; they were waiting for the
						return of their sovereign at some distance from Coimbra, and were greatly disappointed
						when they learned from his own lips that, instead of having slain with his own hands, as
						he had promised to do, the woman who had seduced his son and enthralled him either by
						her beauty or by the employment of supernatural means, he had changed his mind
						concerning her, and now spoke feelingly and affectionately of her and her sweet
						children. The counsellors concealed with great difficulty the irritation and disgust
						with which the King's weakness filled them; they immediately proceeded to counteract the
						favorable impression which Iñez had made, uttering the foulest insinuations and
						aspersions upon her character. The very change which she had succeeded in effecting in
						the King's sentiments toward her was made the means of renewing and corroborating the
						charge that evil spirits were assisting her in bewitching the royal family for her own
						selfish purposes. "Since she has so easily captured your majesty," said one of them
						cunningly, "who can hope to resist her and her ambitious designs? Poor Ferdinand!"
					
					The artful mention of the name of the young prince, whose right of succession was
						endangered by the recognition of Iñez de Castro, was sufficient to elicit from the King
						the promise that his son's mistress should never be received at the court. Having
						obtained this concession, the three counsellors found it comparatively easy to persuade
						him that the original purpose for which they had come to Coimbra — the death of
						Iñez — was the only salvation for the throne and the dynasty, and that it was his
						duty as a monarch to remove her as soon as possible in order to avert greater
						calamities. They told him that it was perhaps right that he had not soiled his royal
						hands with the blood of one who was unworthy of the high distinction of dying by his
						sword, but that it was a duty he owed to the state and to the legitimate heir to the
						throne to order her death at the earliest moment. Alfonso was weak and foolish enough to
						believe them and to sanction the murder of the fair and innocent wife of his son. That
						very night Iñez de Castro fell a victim to the daggers of two assassins.
					The assassination provoked terror throughout Portugal and Spain, and general were the
						denunciations of the King and the counsellors who had advised him to commit the crime.
						But in this case what followed the murder has, even more than the atrocity of the crime
						itself, made it famous in song and story. The murder of Iñez de Castro occurred in
						1355.
					A rumor of the tragedy reached Dom Pedro while he was taking dinner at the small tavern
						of a village, some thirty leagues from Coimbra. The Crown Prince was travelling
						incognito, and neither the host nor the guests of the tavern, except his own companions,
						knew him and  how deeply he was interested in the terrible
						news which a cattle dealer had just reported as the latest sensation in the city. Dom
						Pedro hurried back to Coimbra and to the convent. The rumor was only too true. His
						idolized wife was dead. Three horrible wounds, each of which would have been sufficient
						to cause death, disfigured her beautiful corpse; but her countenance shone with angelic
						radiance and sweetness, and the agony of death seemed to have left no trace on it. When
						Dom Pedro learned from the nuns how the assassins had demanded entrance in the name of
						the King and had burst open the bedroom of Iñez and butchered her without mercy, he
						knelt down by the coffin and swore bloody vengeance against all those who had taken a
						hand in this inhuman and atrocious crime. He called upon Heaven to assist him in
						bringing the assassins and their instigators to justice, and laying his hands upon the
						breast of his murdered wife, he swore that he would not desist from the pursuit of the
						guilty persons, even if he had to seek them on the throne. The meaning of these words
						could not be misconstrued, for it was generally understood that, while the three
						counsellors had proposed the murder, the King had given his consent to it. When Dom
						Pedro's threat was repeated to him, the King, highly incensed, loudly proclaimed that
						Iñez de Castro's death was a just punishment for her criminal liaison with the Crown
						Prince, in open violation of the King's order, and assumed the full responsibility for
						the murder. The Crown Prince, so rudely repelled by his father and deeply wounded by the
						disgrace heaped upon his virtuous wife, refused to return to the court; on the contrary,
						he called his friends, and the friends of Iñez de Castro, her brothers and cousins,  to arms. The cruel and unjustifiable homicide he justly
						ascribed to the calumnies and intrigues of a set of rapacious cut-throats who were ready
						to sacrifice everything to their own personal interests, and who had deceived the King.
						In a very short time Dom Pedro found himself at the head of an army, with which he
						invaded those provinces in which the castles and mansions of the counsellors were
						situated. With merciless severity their lands were laid waste, their castles razed to
						the ground, their families and friends killed, and everything was done to make their
						very names and memories odious to their fellow-men.
					By that time the King had also been informed by high dignitaries of the Church that the
						union between his son and Iñez de Castro had been consecrated, that the Pope himself had
						granted them permission to get married, and that strict secrecy had been observed simply
						out of high regard for the King, in the hope that he would never hear of it and would
						consequently not feel irritated by it. This information had a powerful effect on the
						King's mind. He began to see what a great crime he had committed in sanctioning the
						murder of a virtuous and innocent young wife, whose only fault had possibly been her
						yielding, against the King's outspoken wishes, to the Prince's ardent wooing. And when
						the Queen, Dom Pedro's mother, added her supplications and tears in behalf of her son,
						whom the murder of his wife had made nearly insane from grief, the King became more and
						more willing to be reconciled to him. He not only gave his acts of rebellion, but even
						made amends, as much as he could, for the cruel wrong he had done him.
					Under such circumstances it was comparatively easy  for
						the Archbishop of Braga, whom the Pope had authorized to impart to the King the
						information concerning Dom Pedro's marriage, to effect a reconciliation between father
						and son. Thereupon the son returned to the court, where he was received with the highest
						honors, after he had solemnly promised not to take revenge on the counsellors who had
						been instrumental in causing the death of his wife, and who had already been so severely
						punished by the devastation of their lands and the destruction of their castles. To
						consent to this condition was the cruelest sacrifice on the part of Dom Pedro, but he
						finally yielded to the tears and prayers of his mother — very likely, however, as
						we shall see, with a mental reservation.
					Two years later, King Alfonso the Fourth died, and Dom Pedro ascended the throne of
						Portugal. The old King's death was also the signal for the flight of his three
						counsellors, Pacheco, Coello, and Gonsalvez, whose absence was first noticed at the
						King's obsequies. They had sought refuge in Castile, because they felt instinctively
						that it would not be safe for them to remain in Portugal, and that the ill-concealed
						hatred of Dom Pedro might break forth at any moment and punish them terribly for the
						part they had taken in Iñez de Castro's death. In fact Pedro had never forgiven the
						assassins of his wife. On the contrary, his heart had never ceased to yearn for the day
						when he could not only take full and bloody revenge on her persecutors and murderers,
						but also restore the honor of her name and memory, which had been sullied by the
						calumnies of those scoundrels.
					Castile was at that time ruled by Pedro the Cruel, one of the worst and most
						bloodthirsty tyrants that ever sat upon a Spanish throne. Some of his victims  had made their escape into Portugal and had found protection
						at the court of Alfonso, Dom Pedro's father. But when the counsellors of Alfonso arrived
						at his court, Pedro the Cruel formed the diabolical plan of delivering them up to Pedro
						of Portugal, provided the latter would deliver, in exchange for them, the Castilians who
						had found an asylum in his kingdom. No more agreeable proposition could have been made
						to the King of Portugal, and the exchange was readily made. Two of the counsellors,
						Coello and Gonsalvez, were transported in chains to Portugal, and executed with inhuman
						cruelty. They were put to the torture in the hope of extorting from them the names of
						other accessories to the crime; thereupon they were burned at the stake, and their
						hearts were torn out; and thereafter their ashes were scattered to the winds. Pacheco,
						however, escaped this terrible fate. Being absent from the court of Castile when his two
						colleagues were arrested, he fled to Aragon.
					After having in this manner satisfied his vengeance on the assassins, King Pedro
						assembled the high nobility and the great dignitaries of his kingdom at Cataneda, and in
						their presence swore that, after the death of his first wife, Constancia, he had legally
						married Iñez de Castro; that the Pope of Rome had given him special permission to do so,
						and that the marriage ceremony had been performed by the Archbishop La Guarda, in the
						presence of two witnesses, whom he mentioned by name. He ordered these facts to be
						entered upon the archives of the state and to be proclaimed publicly in every city,
						town, and village of the kingdom. The children of Iñez de Castro were declared
						legitimate and entitled to all the  rights and prerogatives
						of princes of the blood, including succession to the throne of Portugal. Proceeding
						thence to Coimbra, the King ordered the vault in which the remains of Iñez had been
						deposited to be opened, her corpse, which had been embalmed, to be dressed in a royal
						robe and placed upon a throne, and her head to be adorned with a royal crown. He
						compelled his attendants, composed of the highest men of the monarchy, to pass by the
						throne and bow their knees and kiss the edge of the Queen's robe, — in fact, to
						show the same reverence and respect to the dead Queen as they might have shown to the
						living Queen on the day of her coronation. As soon as this ghastly ceremony was over,
						the corpse was placed in a magnificent metal coffin and escorted by the King and a most
						brilliant cortège of knights and noblemen to Alcobaza, a royal residence about seventeen
						miles from Coimbra, and placed in a royal vault. A magnificent monument, which
						represented Iñez de Castro in her incomparable beauty and loveliness, was shortly after
						erected near the vault. It was the last tribute which the love and admiration of her
						husband could render to her memory.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IX RIZZIO AND DARNLEY
					
					
					
					
						DAVID RIZZIO
					
					
					CHAPTER IX ASSASSINATIONS OF RIZZIO AND DARNLEY (March 9,
						1566; February 9, 1567)
					AMONG the female rulers of Europe there is one who on account of her
						matchless beauty, her genius, her adventurous life, but especially her tragic death, has
						enlisted the attention and admiration of authors and poets even to a higher degree than
						Catherine the Second of Russia or Elizabeth of England, who perhaps surpassed her in
						political genius. More regretted and admired for her misfortunes and accomplishments
						than condemned for her sins and crimes, Mary Stuart, the beautiful Queen of Scots, lives
						in the recollections of posterity as a vision of incomparable grace, beauty, and
						loveliness, hallowed by the genius of great poets and redeemed by a tragic and cruel
						death. To no historical memory poetry and tradition have been more kind and more
						idealizing than to Mary Stuart; and yet she deserves a place in this gallery of
						assassinations not as a victim, but as a murderess.
					After reading the descriptions in prose and verse of her personal charms, of her
						matchless beauty and grace, of her elegance and wit, of her poetical inspiration and
						musical accomplishments, it is almost impossible for the stern historian to maintain the
						self-possession of an  impartial judge and record the
						misdeeds of which this bewitching creature was unquestionably guilty. She seemed to
						combine in her incomparable personality all the physical and mental perfections woman is
						capable of. We will say, however, that the crimes which have justly been laid to her
						charge were, in part at least, excusable either on the ground of the surrounding
						circumstances or of great provocations. Murder itself, in the rude country and in the
						equally rude and violent times in which it was committed, had not that horrid
						significance which stigmatizes it in a more refined and cultured state of
						civilization.
					Mary Stuart was the only daughter of King James the Fifth of Scotland by his second
						wife, Marie de Lorraine. She was the niece of the famous princes of the house of Guise
						— Duke Francis of Guise and the Cardinal de Lorraine — who were rivals in
						authority and power with the kings of France, and who on several occasions rose superior
						to them. James the Fifth died young, with his daughter yet in her cradle. Quite young
						she was betrothed to the Dauphin of France, who became afterwards King Francis the
						Second, and she was married to him when a mere child. Her renown for beauty and genius
						resounded from one end of Europe to the other. With remarkable facility she learned
						French, Italian, Greek, Latin, history, theology, music, painting, dancing, and she
						excelled in writing poetry. Some of her short poems are still famous in French
						literature. But her life as Queen of France was but a short dream of splendor and
						delight. The weak and emaciated Francis the Second died after a reign of eleven months,
						and the crown went to his young brother, Charles the Ninth.
					Mary Stuart retired for a while to a convent at Rheims, 
						but soon, upon the death of her mother at Edinburgh, she proceeded to Scotland, where a
						throne awaited her. Quite a number of enthusiastic adorers among the high nobility of
						France followed her to her new home, because they could not bear the thought of
						separating from a princess so charming and beautiful, — a princess who kindled in
						the hearts of all men who were brought into contact with her, desires and frequently a
						passion which became fatal to them. Unquestionably Mary Stuart was one of the most
						dangerous coquettes who ever lived, and at the brilliant and voluptuous court of the
						Valois in France, almost under the personal direction of the famous Diana de Poitiers,
						she had cultivated the art of using her extraordinary charms and accomplishments for the
						seduction of men to her best advantage. One of the most conspicuous of these followers
						from France was Du Chatelard, the scion of one of the noblest houses of the French
						monarchy. He bears the sad distinction of having been the first victim to Mary Stuart's
						intrigues, and of having paid for the mad and uncontrollable passion which he had
						conceived for her with his life. Chatelard himself was a young man of high
						accomplishments. He was a poet and musician, and by his sweet voice he easily won the
						favor of the young Queen. She imprudently gave him so many proofs of her favor and
						openly admitted him to such a close intimacy that young Chatelard not without reason
						believed that she returned the love which he had conceived for her. And Mary was not in
						the least afraid to show her fondness for him. It is authentically reported, for
						instance, that in bidding him goodnight in the presence of the court "she kissed him
						below the chin, looking at him in a way that set his whole 
						soul afire." No wonder that the young man in the transport of his passion committed acts
						of indiscretion and madness, which in a short time led to his execution, without visibly
						affecting the beautiful coquette who had encouraged his passion. One night the ladies of
						the palace discovered him hidden behind the curtains of the Queen's bed, but his
						audacity was ascribed to his thoughtlessness and vanity. He was expelled from the palace
						for a while, but was soon afterwards forgiven and received again into the Queen's
						intimacy. This act of pardon turned the young man's head again. He made no secret of his
						glowing admiration for the Queen, and addressed amorous verses to her, which were
						repeated by her attendants. One evening he was again discovered in the Queen's bedroom,
						where he had secreted himself under the Queen's bed. This second time he was put on
						trial, and was condemned to death for having conspired against the Queen's life. In vain
						he protested his undying love for Mary Stuart, but the judges were inexorable, and Mary
						herself, who had been trifling with his heart so long, and who with a single stroke of
						the pen could have pardoned and saved him, coolly handed him over to the executioner. A
						scaffold was erected before the windows of Holyrood Palace, where Mary resided, and Du
						Chatelard, the grand-nephew of the famous Chevalier Bayard, suffered death with a
						heroism worthy of his great ancestor. His last words were, as he cast a sorrowful look
						upon the windows behind which the Queen stood with her attendants: "Farewell, thou who
						art so beautiful and so cruel, who killest me, and whom I cannot cease to love!"
					The death of Chatelard was the first of a series caused 
						by the mad passion which Mary Stuart kindled in the hearts of her adorers. Another
						attendant who had followed Queen Mary from France to Scotland, and whose tragic fate is
						even more generally known than that of Du Chatelard, was David Rizzio, an Italian
						musician, who for some time had been attached to the court of Francis the Second of
						France. Rizzio was of low birth, but had some talent as a composer of songs and as a
						singer, and had been brought from Italy by the French Ambassador at Piedmont, from whose
						service he passed into that of one of the enthusiastic noblemen who had escorted the
						young Queen to Scotland. The Queen's attention was soon attracted to the Italian
						composer and singer, and she begged Rizzio of the nobleman, so that he might enter her
						own service and by his art make her forget the lonesome hours and the homesickness for
						France which she felt would be the inevitable result of her residence in Scotland. By a
						congeniality of taste the poor and low-born Italian artist and the beautiful young Queen
						were thrown together a great deal, and gradually the love for the art ripened into a
						preference for the artist. He soon became the declared favorite and private secretary of
						the Queen, who made him practically the omnipotent counsellor and minister of her
						policy.
					The scandal of this singular preference, which was at once announced as a vulgar love
						affair, spread rapidly over all Scotland, and gave rise to loud complaints by the
						Protestants, headed by John Knox, who preached against the "woman of Babylon" and her
						low-bred paramour. The Queen was blind to the consequences of her infatuation for this
						lute player, a mere servant, who moreover, by his Italian nationality and Catholic
						religion,  defied the narrow prejudices of the Scotch
						people. In spite of her beauty, youth, and loveliness the Queen became very unpopular,
						not only with the nobility, but with the great mass of the people.
					At that very time Mary Stuart was induced, mainly through the influence of Queen
						Elizabeth of England, to contract a marriage with Henry Darnley, a young Scot of the
						almost royal house of Lennox, of great physical, although somewhat effeminate, beauty,
						but of very inferior mind. On seeing this young Adonis, Mary Stuart fell immediately and
						very desperately in love with him, while it was noticed that Darnley showed much greater
						coldness than men generally manifested in their gallantry toward her. Darnley,
						descending from a daughter of Henry the Eighth, had perhaps as good a title to the crown
						of England as Mary Stuart, and by a marriage of these two claimants, it was expected
						that their interests would be consolidated and consequently strengthened. The interest
						which Queen Elizabeth of England had to promote this marriage was her hope of lowering
						Queen Mary's standing and authority in the eyes of her many Catholic adherents in
						England by this marriage with an English subject, — an intention in which
						Elizabeth was largely successful. In spite of the strong opposition of a number of the
						most prominent Scotch nobles and most notably of Lord Murray, Mary's half-brother, the
						marriage was consummated on the twenty-ninth of July, 1565. On the other hand, David
						Rizzio, Mary's Italian secretary and confidant, had very warmly advocated and promoted
						the marriage, and Darnley openly paid court to him, expecting great results from his
						influence over the Queen. Why Rizzio should have so eagerly encouraged the 
							LORD DARNLEY
						
						
						 marriage is involved in doubt. Very likely the scandalous
						stories circulated about the Queen's relations to Rizzio were mere inventions; and
						Rizzio, who moreover was deformed and ugly, far from being the Queen's lover, was only
						ambitious; he hoped to have even a greater share of political authority under a nominal
						king, whom he recognized as an intellectual nonentity, but whose personal beauty
						diverted the young Queen's thoughts from the cares of government.
					During the first months after the wedding Rizzio's expectations were fully realized.
						The young Queen in the transport of her passion for Darnley paid no attention to
						government affairs; her whole mind and soul seemed to be enwrapped in her love for her
						young husband; apparently she cared for nothing else but to caress him and to shower her
						favors upon him. She conferred upon him the title of king, without, however, giving him
						the attributes of royal power, which she reserved for herself. If Darnley had been a man
						of greater mental calibre he could very easily have made himself king in fact as well as
						in name; but he was a weakling in every respect. After the first few weeks had passed
						away in the closest intimacy with her consort, Mary's extreme fondness, not to say
						idolatry, of him, entirely disappeared, and in a very short time her conduct toward him
						assumed a degree of estrangement and coldness which contrasted strangely with the
						cordiality which had preceded them. Mary's full confidence and intimacy turned once more
						toward Rizzio, whose ascendency over her mind seemed to be greater than ever before.
						More than anybody else Darnley was dissatisfied with this turn of affairs. He saw that
						the chance of empire had slipped away from  him, and he
						found that it was impossible for him to recover his former standing with the Queen. In
						vain he tried to be admitted to a direction of the government affairs and to perform
						some of the duties which seemed to pertain to his exalted station in the state; but
						Queen Mary obstinately refused to accede to these demands. Darnley, who ascribed this
						refusal, in part at least, to Rizzio's influence, then joined the party of political
						malcontents who, either from motives of personal ambition or of religious antipathy,
						were anxious to bring about the overthrow of the Italian favorite and place a national
						and, if possible, a Protestant ministry in power. To carry out this plan they won
						Darnley over to their side, and filled his mind with dark insinuations and jealousy
						against Rizzio. It seems they also promised him a co-regency with the Queen, and full
						royal authority equal to hers in case the much-hated Italian should be removed.
					These prospects were sufficient to inflame Darnley's ambition and make him a willing
						tool in the hands of Rizzio's enemies. He did not shrink even from murder, and committed
						it openly and defiantly. As soon as the conviction had been established in his mind that
						Rizzio stood in the way of his ambition, he resolved upon his assassination, which was
						not only to lead to his own aggrandizement, but also to punish Mary for having preferred
						the Italian to him. He did not wait long to carry his plan into execution; and the
						brutality and reckless ferocity with which the murder was committed were even more
						atrocious and repulsive than the crime itself. Only a brute and cowardly knave could
						have planned it.
					The murder was committed on the evening of Sunday, the ninth of March, 1566, in the
						Queen's private  dining-room in the palace of Holyrood,
						adjoining her bedroom. The Queen was there with the Countess of Argyle, one or two other
						ladies, and Rizzio, her secretary. The best of feeling and humor prevailed in the little
						party. There was not the least indication or suspicion of impending trouble or danger.
						Nevertheless an armed force of five hundred adherents of the conspirators, under the
						lead of one of Darnley's lieutenants, had been posted on the outside so as to surround
						the palace entirely. The greatest caution had been observed to avoid all noise, and the
						first intimation that something was wrong was conveyed to the little party in the
						dining-room by the sudden appearance of Darnley. With great familiarity he throws his
						arm around the Queen's waist. He is almost immediately followed by Ruthven, one of his
						friends, who is clad in full armor and is ghastly pale from excitement and fear. The
						Queen haughtily commands him to leave the room; but before he can answer, her bedroom is
						filled with men bearing torches and brandishing their swords, nearly all under the
						influence of liquor, and calling with loud and threatening voices for Rizzio. The
						Italian knows immediately what this scene means. He jumps from his seat and takes refuge
						behind the Queen, clutching her gown with the grasp of despair and imploring her to save
						his life. Mary Stuart at this moment stands erect in the consciousness of her outraged
						dignity, her eyes sparkling with indignation and wrath, and trying to protect Rizzio
						against the crowd of aggressors who are pushing up to her, upsetting the table on which
						she leans her hand, and trying to push her aside in order to get at Rizzio. For a few
						moments she succeeds in keeping them at bay; but then it is Darnley who comes to their
							 rescue. He seizes the Queen, tries to push her away, and
						takes hold of Rizzio's hand in order to make him loose his grasp of Mary's gown. In this
						struggle Mary has partly uncovered the Italian, and one of the conspirators, espying the
						opportunity, plunges a dagger over Mary's shoulder into Rizzio's breast. It is a signal
						for a general assault on the unfortunate victim. Like madmen they rush upon him from all
						sides; they drag him from behind the Queen, who is herself in danger of being slain;
						they beat him, they kick him, they plunge their swords, their knives, their daggers into
						his bleeding and mutilated body, they pull him by the hair, lifeless and maimed as he
						is, through the dining-room, through the bedroom, to the outer door of the antechamber,
						and only desist when they see that it is nothing but a corpse which they are
						maltreating.
					The dead silence which suddenly follows gives notice to Mary that the horrid crime has
						been fully committed, that her favorite lies prostrate and silenced forever at the
						threshold of her bedroom. What wonder that in that terrible hour thoughts of revenge and
						hatred against Darnley, the leader of this gang of savages and murderers, arise in her
						brain, never to leave it again?
					
					The assassination of Rizzio had opened a chasm between Mary Stuart and Darnley which
						nothing but his own blood could fill up. From the very first moment it became evident
						— and the Queen made no secret of it — that Mary Stuart intended to resent
						the foul murder of one who, if he had not been her lover, had enjoyed her confidence and
						her friendship, and whom not even her personal intercession had been able to save from a
						most  cruel and entirely undeserved death. Immediately
						after the murder, when Ruthven came back to her presence, with the blood-stained dagger
						still in his hand, and demanded wine, she answered: "It shall be dear blood to some of
						you!" Nor would she permit the blood of Rizzio to be washed off the floor; she wished
						that it should forever remain as a mark of the murder which had been committed there,
						and she ordered a partition to be built between the grand staircase and the door of the
						antechamber leading to her bedroom, in order to protect the blood-stained floor from
						being desecrated by the feet of visitors. In this condition the Palace has remained for
						centuries and the stains caused by Rizzio's blood have withstood the lapse of hundreds
						of years.
					The halcyon days which Mary had tried to create for herself at Holyrood — the
						days and hours which she had hoped would console her by poetry, music, and song for her
						absence from France — had come to a sudden and cruel end. The conspirators were
						not satisfied with having slain Rizzio; his murder was only the unavoidable means to
						accomplish a certain purpose, — to get control of the government. They kept the
						Queen in close captivity and would not permit any of her friends, not even her ladies,
						to see or confer with her. It was then that Mary resorted to her great power of
						duplicity. Carefully concealing the profound horror and disgust with which the sight of
						Darnley filled her, she convinced him easily that her interests and his were identical,
						that his strength lay in his exalted station as consort of the Queen, and that their
						continued estrangement and enmity would only lead to the elevation of her half-brother,
						Lord Murray, or some other great nobleman. Darnley was only too  easily persuaded; he fell readily into the trap which the deceitful Queen
						had set for him. In his overweening vanity, and convinced of his own invincibility, he
						ascribed the passionate appeals and the affectionate solicitations of the Queen for his
						support to a renewal of her former love and passion for him. Carried away by her
						tenderness and loveliness, he promised to release her from her captivity and to abduct
						her to Dunbar castle, where she would be secure from any plots of her enemies. Darnley
						induced a number of his personal friends and adherents to join him in this undertaking,
						and a few nights later the flight from Holyrood to Dunbar was effected with complete
						success.
					Darnley, after having thus separated his cause from that of the enemies of the Queen,
						— who were seriously debating whether she should be imprisoned for life, exiled
						from the country, or put to death, — went a step further. He openly denounced the
						assassination of Rizzio as an inexcusable crime, and disclaimed all previous knowledge
						of and complicity in it. Nobody believed him, — neither the Queen, who had seen
						his active participation in the murder when he could easily have prevented it; nor the
						conspirators, who knew that he had planned all the details, had helped in its execution,
						and had promised to protect those who would take a hand in it. But Darnley's lying
						declaration served the political aims of the Queen well. From Dunbar she issued an
						appeal to the loyal people and nobles of Scotland, imploring their assistance against
						the rebels who had driven her from Edinburgh and had insulted and threatened her in her
						own palace, and using the presence and the declaration of the King to contradict the
						stories and accusations circulated  by the conspirators
						and "rebels" against her scandalous private life. Eight thousand loyal Scots responded
						to this appeal of their Queen, and at the head of this enthusiastic army Queen Mary and
						her husband returned to Edinburgh and once more took possession of Holyrood.
					It was not long before the Queen threw off the mask of affection for Darnley, which she
						had assumed for political purposes, and openly again showed that aversion which she
						really felt for him. Not even the birth of her son, who afterwards as James the Sixth
						ruled over Scotland and as James the First over England, changed the strained relations
						between husband and wife. There seems to be no doubt that the new cause of these
						strained relations, which grew more apparent from day to day, was a criminal and
						adulterous love affair which had quite suddenly sprung up between the Queen and one of
						the noblemen of her court, the Earl of Bothwell.
					The new favorite was a scion of one of the noblest and most renowned families of
						Scotland, but his personal history was far from being honorable. The mere fact that a
						man with such antecedents could appear at court and be received in the very highest
						society is a sad comment on the moral tone prevailing at that court and in that society.
						Bothwell was at that time no longer a young man. When quite young he had one day
						disappeared from the castle of his fathers and, on reaching the coast of the North Sea,
						had joined a gang of adventurers who, as pirates, infested those waters and were a
						terror to the merchant vessels of all the nations of Europe. By natural ability,
						unbounded courage and daring the young Scotchman had rapidly risen to a commanding
						position among the wild corsairs; his name was repeated with  fear and awe from the coasts of Denmark to the west coast of Ireland. In one
						of the desperate engagements with warships of the Hanseatic League he had lost one eye,
						but had saved his life and his freedom. Many years of his life he had passed in this
						wild and adventurous career. Then the news of the death of his father reached him, and
						one morning he reappeared in his ancestral home to take possession of his vast domain.
						The turbulent condition of Scotland, the civil war between Protestants and Catholics,
						the struggles for supremacy between the crown and the nobility, were congenial to his
						adventurous and reckless spirit. He had been among the first to greet Mary Stuart on her
						arrival from France and had shown her, from the first day he saw her, an enthusiastic,
						almost worshipful devotion. He was a passionate adorer of female beauty, and the
						romantic halo of his past life which surrounded his brow had secured for him triumphs in
						love-affairs with some of the fairest women of the court. He was among those who
						escorted Mary from Holyrood to Dunbar, and again he was one of those who led her back in
						triumph from Dunbar to Edinburgh. During this return march Bothwell distinguished
						himself by the skill of his military dispositions, by his boldness and intrepidity, and
						attracted the personal notice of the Queen.
					At Holyrood the acquaintance between the Queen and the daring general quickly ripened
						into love and intimacy, although the Queen took great care at first to conceal the new
						passion which had taken possession of her inflammable heart, even from her closest
						friends. But while these efforts on the part of the Queen may have been successful in
						deceiving her intimate friends, there were always eyes turned upon her which were not so
						easily deceived, —  and these eyes were those of the
						ambassadors of England, France, and Spain accredited at her court. They watched her
						conduct very attentively, and almost simultaneously reported to their sovereigns the
						nascent favor with which the Queen looked upon Bothwell, and the growing coldness which
						became noticeable between her and Darnley. It was only a serious accident, which befell
						Bothwell soon afterwards and which imperilled his life for several days, that revealed
						the new passion of the Queen to the whole court and placed the new favorite at the head
						of the government, with similar honors and similar powers to those previously showered
						on Rizzio.
					
					We are neither writing a personal history of Queen Mary, nor a political history of her
						reign; we are merely writing a history of the assassinations of which she was, so to
						speak, the central figure that gave them world-wide celebrity. We have therefore
						carefully excluded from our narration all political and biographical facts which were
						either not directly connected with these assassinations or had not a psychological
						bearing upon them.
					We have reached the period when Mary — blinded by passion and infatuated with
						love for a man utterly unworthy of her, or to speak more correctly, of the exalted
						position she occupied in the world — surrendered not only herself, but also the
						dignity of the crown and the honor and the interests of the realm to the Earl of
						Bothwell, known to the entire court as a profligate and libertine of the worst sort and
						as a most unscrupulous and reckless adventurer. It was this infatuation for Bothwell and
						the shameless liaison she formed with him from which all of Queen Mary's sufferings and
							 disasters now flowed in rapid succession. Not even her
						incomparable beauty and loveliness could save her from the contempt attached to this
						disgraceful liaison, of which she made soon no more a secret than she had formerly made
						of her preference for Rizzio. But while in her infatuation for the Italian singer the
						artistic taste of the Queen was rather successfully used by her admirers as an excuse
						for her enthusiastic preference for him, there was absolutely no excuse for her liaison
						with Bothwell. And Bothwell did all he could do to strengthen the unfavorable impression
						of Mary's conduct by the haughty and overbearing rudeness with which he treated the
						greatest lords and the highest dignitaries of the kingdom, including the King himself,
						for whom he openly showed the greatest contempt.
					Outraged by the insults which he had to endure day after day and from which the Queen
						herself did not seem to be willing to protect him, Darnley suddenly left the court and
						went to Glasgow, where he took up his residence in the house of his father, the Earl of
						Lennox. The King's sudden departure caused more unfavorable comment than the Queen had
						anticipated. It greatly disconcerted her, because she was afraid that from Glasgow
						Darnley might issue an appeal to the Scotch people, and especially to the dissatisfied
						nobility, laying before them his complaints and calling upon them to overthrow the
						disgraceful rule of an adulterous wife and her paramour.
					Soon the news came from Glasgow that Darnley had fallen seriously ill, that he was
						suffering from the smallpox and was expected to die. The Queen took advantage of this
						serious illness and once more resorted to her power of dissimulation, which had served
						her so well after  Rizzio's death. She intended now to
						employ it not only to temporarily deceive and beguile her husband, but to decoy him into
						an ambush and put him to death. Incredible as the enormity and ferocity of the crime may
						appear, especially on the part of a young and beautiful woman distinguished by so many
						mental advantages, there seems not to be the least doubt that Mary, in going to Glasgow
						and appearing at the bedside of her sick husband as a loving wife, had this horrid crime
						in view and successfully paved the way for its execution. She again played with
						consummate art the part of a loving and trembling wife, and deceived Darnley so fully
						that he promised to follow her to Edinburgh as soon as the progress of his convalescence
						would make it possible for him to undertake the journey. Thus fully assured of Darnley's
						forgiveness, she returned to Holyrood and perfected there, together with Bothwell, the
						arrangements for his murder.
					When Darnley arrived at Edinburgh, a short time afterwards, he was not, as he ought to
						have been, taken to the royal palace, where he could have been cared for better than
						anywhere else, but to a private residence in an isolated location in one of the suburbs
						of the city, whose salubrious location, it was alleged, would facilitate the King's
						rapid recovery. Darnley himself was greatly surprised at these arrangements, especially
						when he learned that the Queen would not take up her residence with him, but would
						remain at the Palace. Apprehensions of some impending danger haunted his mind, and he
						became melancholy and despondent. However, the Queen by her appearance and the excess of
						her tenderness soon dispelled his vague fears and convinced him  that only care for his enfeebled condition and the hope of quickening his
						convalescence had prompted her to select his residence, from which he would be promptly
						removed after his complete recovery. In order to reassure him fully, she remained
						several nights with him, occupying a room immediately beneath his own, and manifesting
						toward him the greatest affection and solicitude. One of her pages slept in the same
						room with him, and five or six servants, whom Bothwell had appointed, formed the entire
						household.
					Late in the evening of February 9, 1567, the Queen left the house and went back to
						Holyrood to pass the night there, because one of the musicians attached to the royal
						chapel was to be married that night, and she had promised to be at the wedding. It was
						while the wedding-festivities were going on at Holyrood and while the Queen was dancing
						with some of the courtiers in the most careless and unaffected manner possible, that a
						terrific explosion took place which was heard and felt in all parts of the city and at
						Holyrood. Soon the rumor spread that the house of the King had been blown to atoms and
						that all the inmates were buried under the ruins. This rumor was only partly true. The
						morning light of the tenth of February revealed the fact that the house had been blown
						up by means of an underground mine; but the corpse of the King was not found among the
						ruins. On the contrary, it was found, together with the corpse of the page, in an
						orchard adjoining the house, and neither the King nor the page showed any marks of
						gunpowder; but the bloated condition of their faces and the marks of finger-nails on
						their necks showed that both had been choked to death and had been left lying on the
						ground where the assassins  had killed them. It was then
						surmised that both the King and the page, having been disturbed in their sleep by the
						approach of the assassins, had tried to make their escape through the orchard, but had
						been overtaken in their flight and slain. The explosion had unquestionably been intended
						to destroy all vestiges of the crime by burying both the assassins and their victims
						under the ruins, but it had either taken place too soon, before the murderers could have
						carried the King and the page back to the house, or the assassins had hurried away
						immediately after committing the deed. At all events, Darnley was dead.
					The evidences of premeditated murder were so plain that from the very first not the
						least doubt was manifested as to the character of the calamity. Neither was there the
						least uncertainty in the public mind as to the author or authors of the terrible
						catastrophe and the assassinations attending it. The public voice immediately named
						Bothwell as the murderer and added, in a whisper, the name of the Queen as his
						accomplice. In those times murders were committed so often that the murderers in a
						majority of cases escaped unpunished. But in this case the rank of the victim was so
						exalted, and moreover the circumstances surrounding the crime were so damaging to the
						authority of the crown, that public opinion demanding an investigation of the death of
						the King could not be disregarded. The Queen, who, if innocent, should have been the
						first to insist on a thorough investigation of the crime by which her husband was
						killed, affected an absolute indifference in the matter. She utterly disregarded the
						damaging rumors which openly charged Bothwell with the murder, and by this indifference
						confirmed the  suspicion of her silent active (or at best,
						passive) participation in the crime. The Queen even openly defied public opinion by
						leaving Bothwell in the undisturbed possession of the honors and dignities she had
						conferred upon him, and by adding new ones, showing the continued favor the Earl
						enjoyed, in spite of the public clamor raised against him. "But Banquo's ghost would not
						go down!" The excitement and the indignation of the people rose to the highest point. On
						her appearance in the streets, the Queen was insulted by the women. She found it
						necessary for her safety to leave Holyrood and seek refuge in the fortified castle.
						Bothwell had the audacity to demand a public trial, because the Earl of Lennox,
						Darnley's father, had openly accused him of the murder; and the cowardly judges,
						overawed by the power of the accused, by the royal troops, by the authority of the
						Queen, acquitted him, while the whole people considered and declared him guilty.
					We have reached the end of this atrocious murder. Posterity holds Queen Mary guilty of
						the crime of having murdered her young husband. Her abduction by Bothwell and her
						marriage to him, although apparently forced upon her, had been planned by the two
						murderers even before the assassination. Mary's long imprisonment and final execution at
						the bidding of a cruel and jealous rival has often been deplored by biographer,
						historian, and dramatist, — but were they more than a just atonement for crimes as
						atrocious as they were unprecedented?
				
				
				
					CHAPTER X WILLIAM OF ORANGE
					
					
					
					
						WILLIAM OF ORANGE
					
					
					CHAPTER X ASSASSINATION OF WILLIAM OF ORANGE (July 10,
						1584)
					IT was said by one of the wild revolutionists of France, in
						extenuation of his incessant demands for the execution of a larger number of the
						nobility, that the tree of liberty, to grow vigorously, should be watered with plenty of
						blood. Alas! The history of the republics of the world, not only since the great French
						Revolution of 1789, but at all times, both ancient and modern, proves the justice of
						this assertion, but none furnishes a more convincing proof of it than the history of the
						Dutch Republic in its heroic struggle against the gigantic power of Spain and other
						monarchical nations. At the very threshold of that history stands the luminous figure of
						the great Prince of Orange, William the Silent, — warrior, statesman, orator, and
						patriot; whose assassination, closely following upon the murders of the night of St.
						Bartholomew, is but the first of the crimes committed against the illustrious men of the
						Dutch Republic — Olden Barnevelt, the brothers De Witt, and others.
					I The assassination of William of Orange is of a semi-political and semi-religious
						character. The revolt of the Netherlands against Spanish rule, of which the Prince of
						Orange was the principal figure, originated in religious 
						conflicts between the Netherlanders — most of whom were Calvinists or Lutherans
						— and the bigoted King of Spain, Philip the Second, who was more Catholic than the
						Pope himself. It was one of the fixed ideas of Philip the Second, a perfect monomania,
						that in the immense empire over which he ruled, none but faithful believers in the
						Catholic faith should be tolerated, and that all heretics or dissidents should be
						exterminated with fire and sword. In the Pyrenean peninsula — for Portugal was at
						this time annexed to Spain — this idea was most radically carried out, and year
						after year the Inquisition, which flourished there as the first institution of the
						state, handed over thousands of victims, convicted or suspected of heresy, to a most
						cruel death at the stake for the purpose of purifying the spiritual atmosphere of the
						country. But when an effort was being made on the part of the King to introduce the same
						system of spiritual purification into the Netherlands, which he had inherited from his
						father, the Emperor Charles the Fifth, and whose population was mostly of Germanic race,
						that effort met with a most stubborn and almost insuperable resistance.
					Already, under Charles the Fifth, all attempts to smother the Protestant Reformation
						— which had entered the Netherlands both from Germany and France and which had
						immediately found many adherents — had failed. The Emperor, himself a Netherlander
						and familiar with the character of the people, had deemed it prudent to abolish the
						Inquisition (at least in name) and not to interfere too strongly with those personal
						rights of the inhabitants which their municipal or provincial statutes guaranteed to
						them. Moreover the Emperor had a very  affable and popular
						way of dealing with the people, and he could do a great many things which no other ruler
						might have presumed to do. When Charles the Fifth abdicated in 1555, the grief of the
						people of the Netherlands was not only general, but sincere; they seemed to feel
						instinctively that the change which was to occur in the government was full of impending
						dangers and calamities for them. The personality of the new ruler fully justified these
						apprehensions. Philip the Second came to the Netherlands from England, where he had
						resided a short time as consort of Queen Mary, and his reputation for bigotry,
						fanaticism, and cruelty had preceded his arrival. Many of the acts of bloodshed and
						cruelty which were committed under that reign were more or less justly imputed to his
						influence, and his new subjects trembled at the prospects of similar scenes of
						persecution and despotism. No wonder that on the twenty-fifth of October, 1555, when the
						act of abdication was consummated at Brussels, and when the infirm Emperor, leaning upon
						the shoulder of Prince William of Orange, appeared before the representatives and high
						dignitaries of all the provinces constituting the Netherlands, and ceded the government
						to his son, who stood on his right side, a shudder passed through the high assembly.
						Many eyes passed apprehensively from the open and kindly countenance of the Emperor,
						then bathed in tears, to the sinister and cruel features of King Philip. What a contrast
						also between the majestic form and noble countenance of William of Orange and the small,
						feeble, narrow-chested son of Charles, who with distrustful eyes looked down upon this
						assemblage of nobles as if they were strangers or enemies, and whom not even  the glitter of royalty could invest with dignity, although
						his features showed uncommon pride and haughtiness! The hopes of the people of the Low
						Countries rested upon the one; their fears were centred on the other.
					Unquestionably it had been the Emperor's intention to place William of Orange by the
						side of his son as chief adviser and protector; but the characters of the two were so
						different — the one broad, humane, manly; the other narrow, bigoted, timid —
						that it soon became manifest that a hearty coöperation of the two men for the welfare of
						the state was impossible. Moreover the aspirations and tendencies in regard to the
						government of the provinces which the two men entertained were absolutely conflicting,
						the Prince being in favor of liberal institutions and scrupulous observance of the
						guaranteed rights of the provinces, while the King was illiberal and despotic, without
						regard for the local customs and rights of the Netherlanders, anxious to concentrate all
						powers in his hands and to subordinate the whole government to his autocratic will.
					These conflicting tendencies and these antipathies grew and became intensified as the
						months and years passed by; consequently, when Philip in 1559 left Brussels for Spain,
						he did not appoint the Prince of Orange Governor-General of the Netherlands, to which
						position he was clearly entitled, but conferred that honor with the title of regent upon
						his half-sister, Margaret, Duchess of Parma, who shared his own fanatical ideas. As her
						chief adviser he appointed Cardinal Granvella, a man of great sagacity and talent, but
						filled with animosity against the enemies of the Catholic Church, and in full though
						secret accord with the King concerning the  necessity of
						wiping out the privileges of the "arrogant burghers of the Low Countries." William of
						Orange was appointed Stadtholder of Holland and Zealand, and a member of the Council of
						State, a sort of cabinet for the Regent Duchess in which Cardinal Granvella was the
						leading spirit. Several other prominent noblemen of the Dutch provinces, Count Egmont,
						the conqueror of Gravelines, and Count Hoorn, were also members of the Council of State;
						but they were in a minority, and the Spanish or Cardinalistic party ruled its decisions
						absolutely. All of these decisions were hostile to the guaranteed rights of the
						Provinces; they interfered with freedom of conscience; they reintroduced the Spanish
						Inquisition under the disguise of creating new episcopal sees and attaching two
						inquisitors to each; and by establishing Spanish garrisons in the fortified towns they
						violated the constitutional right of the provinces that no foreign troops should be
						stationed there. The protests of the Prince of Orange and of Counts Egmont and Hoorn
						were of no avail, so these three distinguished members refused to attend the sessions of
						the Council of State.
					In the meantime a spirit of public dissatisfaction and disorder manifested itself which
						showed to the sagacious Regent that the measures enacted and enforced by Cardinal
						Granvella would lead to a revolt against the Spanish régime. The people of Brussels
						showed their hatred and contempt for the Cardinal in many ways. In public processions
						they carried banners with insulting inscriptions or offensive caricatures and cartoons
						exhibiting him in ridiculous positions. Alarmed at these manifestations of public
						hostility, the Duchess Regent applied to the King, 
						imploring him to remove Granvella from his post as President of the Council of State.
						The King reluctantly complied with the request, but Granvella's removal did not change
						the spirit of the Council; and it was only too evident that its decisions were
						emanations from the King's own mind. When Count Egmont, who had gone to Madrid on a
						special mission to plead for the personal and political rights of the Netherlanders,
						urged upon the King to give them greater religious liberty and to annul some of the
						stringent laws of the Council of State, Philip got into a rage and exclaimed: "No, no, I
						would rather die a thousand deaths and lose every square foot of my empire than permit
						the least change in our religion!" And he added that the decrees of the Council of
						Trent, which had recently been held, and which had affirmed anew the immutable doctrines
						of the Catholic Church, should be rigidly enforced in all his states. New instructions
						to that effect were sent to the Netherlands, followed by new convictions and new
						executions.
					It was at this perilous and critical time that William of Orange openly accepted the
						Lutheran faith. Shortly before, he had been married to Princess Anne of Saxony, a
						daughter of the famous Maurice, Elector of Saxony, and a fervent Lutheran. William's
						conversion to Protestantism has been often ascribed to the influence of his wife, but it
						should be remembered that William was born a prince of Nassau in Germany and the son of
						Lutheran parents, and that his Catholicism dated only from the time of his later
						education at the court of Charles the Fifth, where he was placed as a page at the early
						age of nine years. William had never forgotten the lessons of Protestantism which he had
						imbibed in his early  childhood, and while professing the
						Catholic faith in later years, he had retained that respect and that affection for the
						principles of the Reformation which so peculiarly qualified him to act as umpire and
						leader in a contest in which religion played so conspicuous a part.
					Up to that time the nobility had taken much less interest in the religious quarrels
						than the lower classes of the people; but the steadily increasing number of convictions
						and executions for heresy aroused their fears that the Spanish monarch intended to
						abolish their time-honored privileges and wished to substitute a Spanish autocracy for
						their liberal self-government. Against this intention they loudly protested, Catholics
						as well as Protestants, and bound themselves to stand together in their resistance to
						further acts of aggression. They presented petitions and protests to the Duchess Regent
						who received them in a conciliatory spirit, and forwarded them to the King, recommending
						at the same time greater leniency and moderation. But Philip the Second, getting tired
						of the many complaints and remonstrances reaching him from Brussels, and determined to
						stamp out heresy at whatever cost, sent the Duke of Alva, the sternest and most cruel of
						all his commanders, at the head of a considerable army to the Netherlands, with full
						powers to restore order and to reëstablish the authority of the Catholic Church. From
						the well-known character of the commander-in-chief it could not be doubted that the
						King's severe orders would be carried out in the most cruel and unrelenting spirit, and
						that neither age nor sex nor rank would be spared. That Alva's mission would be
						successful, the King did not doubt for a minute. But it was on his part a case of
						misplaced judgment, because his narrow mind could not 
						measure the difference between the Jews and Moriscoes, and the Netherlanders: against
						the former the policy of violence and compulsion had been successful; against the latter
						that same policy was doomed to ignominious failure. The rumor that he would come as a
						bloody avenger preceded Alva's arrival, and filled the hearts of the Netherlanders with
						terror. A regular panic ensued, and an emigration en masse was
						organized; it looked as though the northern provinces were to be depopulated entirely by
						this exodus of men, women and children, mostly belonging to the mercantile and working
						classes, and taking their merchandise and their household goods with them.
					The sending of an army composed entirely of Spaniards and Italians into the Netherlands
						was so flagrant a violation of the constitutional rights of the provinces, which the
						King had sworn to maintain, that the Prince of Orange thought the time for open
						resistance had come, and he conferred with Egmont, Hoorn, and other prominent men
						concerning its organization. But finding it impossible to organize united resistance
						against Alva's army, William of Orange, with his profound insight and with his distrust
						in the Spanish King's intentions, deemed it prudent to leave the Netherlands and
						withdraw to his estates in Germany instead of imperilling his head by remaining at
						Brussels. It was in vain that he tried to persuade Egmont, to whom he was greatly
						attached, to accompany him and to place his valuable life beyond the reach of the
						Spanish "avenger." Egmont's openhearted and confiding character refused to believe the
						sinister forebodings of the penetrating genius of his friend; he relied on his immense
						popularity among the Netherlanders and on the great services he had rendered, on the  battle-field, to the House of Hapsburg. He therefore
						remained at Brussels, and even welcomed Alva on his arrival at the capital. The Spanish
						commander conducted himself as the regent de facto without paying much
						attention to the Duchess, who still held that position nominally. One of his first
						official acts was the appointment of a special tribunal, which he named the Council of
						Troubles, composed exclusively of Spaniards, to try charges of heresy and treason. The
						people, however, found another, and more appropriate name for it. On account of the
						indecent haste and rapidity with which persons were tried, convicted, and executed by
						this Council, they named it "The Bloedraad" (The Council of Blood). The number of
						victims was so great that gallows and scaffolds had to be erected in all the cities and
						towns of the Netherlands, and that the executioners were kept busy in beheading and
						quartering the heretics and "traitors." Counts Egmont and Hoorn had been arrested, soon
						after Alva's arrival, on the charge of treason; they were also tried before the Court of
						Troubles and convicted on trumped-up charges. They were beheaded, together with eighteen
						members of the nobility, at the public square of Brussels.
					This infamous act stirred up William of Orange to immediate action. What he had
						foreseen and predicted had come to pass. Evidently it was Alva's intention to kill off
						the leaders in order to get control of the great mass of the people without much
						difficulty or resistance. William of Orange himself was charged with treason and
						summoned to appear before the judges of the Court of Troubles. But since his appearance
						at Brussels would have been equivalent to his conviction, he refused to  recognize the jurisdiction of the court, claiming that as a
						knight of the Golden Fleece he had the right to be tried by the King personally and by
						no other judges than his peers. At the same time he published an address to the King in
						which he defended his public actions in a masterly manner, convincing every unbiased
						mind not only of his patriotic devotion to his country, but also of his loyalty to his
						sovereign in all his legitimate and constitutional acts of government. The Duke of Alva
						took no further notice of this defence; but when the day for William's appearance at
						court had passed, he was sentenced to death, and his property, personal and real, was
						confiscated as that of a rebel and traitor.
					In the meantime the Prince of Orange had not been idle in Germany. He had appealed to
						his co-religionists for assistance, pointing out to the Protestant princes that the
						cause of Protestantism itself was the issue of the war in the Netherlands, and that the
						complete victory of the Spanish army over the Netherlanders would be followed by an
						overthrow of the Protestant churches, both Lutheran and Calvinistic, in Europe. He
						succeeded in collecting a considerable army, which he divided into two corps, placing
						the one under the command of his brother Lewis, Count of Nassau, and invading Brabant
						with the other. The Count of Nassau was defeated in battle and driven out of Frisia with
						heavy loss, while Alva avoided giving battle to the Prince of Orange. By skilful
						manœuvres the Spanish general tired out the patience of the German troops, and when the
						severe cold of winter set in, the Prince, finding himself without means of paying his
						soldiers and getting no support from the inhabitants (who were overawed by the Spanish
						authorities), had to  disband his army and to return,
						temporarily, to Germany. Alva triumphed and pompously reported to the Spanish King that
						both the rebellion and heresy had been stamped out in the Netherlands, and that his
						presence was hardly required there any longer. In his overweening vanity he went even so
						far as to order a bronze monument to be erected in his own honor, in which he was
						represented as a conqueror, standing with one foot on a Dutch nobleman in full armor and
						with the other on a man of the people, kneeling and with a Lutheran prayer-book in his
						hands.
					It is not my intention to go into the details of the cruel war in the Netherlands,
						— cruel even beyond human imagination, — to recount the sufferings, the
						tortures, the atrocities, the martyrdom imposed upon the unfortunate victims of
						political and religious persecution, conceived by human fiends educated in the school of
						the Spanish Inquisition and warmly applauded by him whom both his cotemporaries and
						posterity have justly named "the demon of the South." Such a war had never been seen
						between nations claiming to be civilized; and never has patriotic devotion in defence of
						home and country, of liberty and creed, been carried to a higher degree than by those
						brave Netherlanders in the sixteenth century. The world should never forget the immense
						service which they rendered to mankind by victoriously maintaining the principles of
						religious liberty, which, without their heroic perseverance, would very likely have
						perished under the incubus of Spanish despotism and the Spanish Inquisition. That they
						did not succumb and perish must be considered one of the marvellous enigmas of history,
						in which the finger of God is plainly visible. Immortal 
						glory and renown should be accorded to the gallant leader who, under the most
						discouraging and desperate circumstances, never lost hope and confidence in the
						righteousness and final triumph of his cause, and who, undaunted by personal danger and
						persecution, never wavered in his loyalty to principle, and held high the banner of
						popular sovereignty and individual liberty, until the pistol shot of a hired assassin
						interrupted his glorious career.
					If to-day, after the lapse of three centuries, we look back upon that career, our
						admiration for William of Orange grows steadily. We follow him from his first appearance
						on the public stage of the Netherlands, as a friend and confidant of Charles the Fifth,
						as a loyal adviser of the Duchess Regent, as a loyal subject pleading with Philip the
						Second and warning him to respect the rights of citizenship and religion of the
						Netherlanders, — pleading and warning in vain; we behold him unsheathing his sword
						for the defence and, when they appeared to be lost, for the recovery of those rights,
						toiling, struggling, fighting for the people, always subordinating his own interests to
						those of the nation and to the sublime cause of which he was the acknowledged champion,
						we recognize him as the first in the field, the first in the council-room, filling his
						countrymen with an enthusiasm and a confidence which alone could sustain them in
						undergoing sufferings and hardships unequalled in history. Thus he stands before us
						fully realizing and even surpassing the eulogy which Goethe wrote for the monument of
						another national hero, perhaps worthy, but certainly not so worthy of it as William the
						Silent: — 
						
								"In advance or retreat,
								In success or defeat,
								Ever conscious and great,
								Ever watchful to see,
								From foreign dominion he made us free!"
							
					In translating Goethe's inscription on the famous Blücher monument at Rostock we were
						strongly impressed with the fact that it was even better adapted for a monument of the
						great Prince of Orange than for that of the indomitable, but rather reckless, "Marshal
						Vorwärts."
					The King of Spain had from the first day of his accession known the powerful influence
						which the Prince of Orange exerted in the Netherlands. The Prince stood without a rival
						at the head of the nobility, and his eminent talents enhanced the authority which his
						illustrious birth had secured for him. The King was also informed by his special
						representatives — the Duchess Regent, Granvella, the Duke of Alva, Don John of
						Austria, and others — that this authority was steadily increasing, that the great
						mass of the people idolized the Prince, that his wish was a law for the burghers, and
						that practically the revolt, its failure or success, depended on him. The exalted
						character of the Prince precluded the very idea of winning him over to the other side by
						means of high distinctions or honors, much less by pecuniary bribes or corruption, and
						nothing remained therefore for the King to do, if he wanted to get rid of the dangerous
						popular leader, who held a number of the provinces entirely under his sway, than to
						place him beyond the pale of the law and to offer a high reward for his head. This
						method of removing rivals or enemies was not unusual in those days; and  it should cause no surprise that the monarch who is, and
						very likely justly, suspected of having ordered the murder of his half-brother, Don Juan
						d'Austria, and also that of his own son, Don Carlos, was perfectly willing to adopt this
						method of getting rid of the Prince of Orange, who in his eyes was not only a rebel, but
						also a heretic, and as such deserved death a hundredfold. The price he put on the
						Prince's head — twenty-five thousand ducats — showed sufficiently the
						importance he attached to his life, and how willing he was to tempt assassins by the
						enormous sum of the reward.
					The King, who evidently had experience in such matters, had not miscalculated the
						temptation, for several attempts were made on the Prince's life in consequence; but they
						always failed, and it would almost seem as if that life was under the special protection
						of Providence that it might carry out the plans predestined for it. In 1582, Juan
						Jaureguy, a young man in the employ of a Spanish merchant of Antwerp, and a religious
						fanatic, fired a pistol shot at the Prince which came very near killing him. The ball
						entered the head under the right ear, passed through the roof of the mouth, breaking
						several teeth, and came out under the left jaw-bone. For a while the Prince's life was
						despaired of, but he finally rallied and recovered. His would-be assassin was
						immediately killed, and his accomplices, of whom there were several, were publicly
						strangled and quartered. In order to deter others from making attempts on the Prince's
						life, the ghastly remains of these accomplices, one of them a Dominican monk, were
						nailed to the gates of Antwerp. The joy at the Prince's recovery was general, and
						thanksgiving days, with divine service in the churches and  public halls, were held in a number of the provinces. Unfortunately neither these
						public demonstrations of gratitude and delight, nor the terrible warnings addressed to
						assassins were sufficient to protect a life so valuable to his country and to the
						world.
					Another assassin was more successful than Jaureguy. The scene of the murder, which took
						place on the tenth day of July, 1584, was the city of Delft in Holland. Shortly after
						the noon hour of that day a common-looking man, who had found access to the Prince's
						residence for the purpose of securing a passport, approached the Prince as he came from
						the dining-hall and fired three shots at him, one passing through the stomach and
						causing his death after a very short while. The assassin was a man still young, less
						than thirty years of age. He was a Frenchman, Balthasar Gérard by name, who had come
						from his home in Franche-Comté or Burgundy to carry out his hellish design, which was
						inspired by religious fanaticism and encouraged by Jesuits of the College of Trèves.
						Through these he was introduced to the Duke of Parma, then Governor-General of the
						Netherlands, who promised him the royal reward in case of success, and other royal
						favors besides. Gérard had made his preparations for the murder with considerable
						circumspection; these preparations were very similar to those which Booth made for his
						escape after the murder of Abraham Lincoln, and just like Booth, Gérard stumbled and
						fell in making his escape and hurt himself, and this led to his arrest.
					After having undergone the most terrible tortures, his joints having been wrenched and
						his body nearly roasted alive, he was executed in the most cruel manner  imaginable. His right hand was burnt off with red-hot
						irons; the flesh was torn from half a dozen different parts of his body, which was then
						broken on the wheel. Gérard was still alive; his vitality was wonderful. The
						executioners then disembowelled and quartered him; tore out his heart and flung it in
						his face. It was then only that the unfortunate man breathed his last. His head was then
						cut off and placed on a pike of a gate in the rear of the Prince's residence, and the
						four parts of his body were fastened to the four gates of the city. This cruel
						mutilation and dismemberment of the assassin's body was hardly sufficient to satisfy the
						vengeance of the people; the certainty that the King of Spain stooped even to murder of
						the basest sort to recover his sovereignty over the Netherlands exalted their desire for
						absolute and lasting national independence to a sort of religious dogma which made all
						hope of peace illusory.
					When the assassin's hand cut short the life of the Prince of Orange, he had not
						completed the great work for which he had toiled, fought, suffered and died. But part of
						that work had been done, and it had been done so well and so thoroughly that the
						Republic stood on a firm foundation ready to receive the other provinces which were
						still in the power of Spain as a fitting superstructure. For this reason history
						recognizes William the Silent as the founder of the Dutch Republic and of the
						independence of the United Provinces.
					To Americans the character of William the Silent is of special interest because it
						bears, in many respects, a striking resemblance to that of George Washington. Both were
						the principal figures in wars for the independence of their countries; both were
						soldiers and statesmen of a  high order. If Washington was
						very likely the greater general, William the Silent was very likely the greater
						statesman, and the success of the American cause would have been as impossible without
						Washington as the failure of the Dutch struggle would have been certain without William
						of Orange. Both were sterling patriots and subordinated their own interests to those of
						the nations they represented; but in this respect Washington was, perhaps, superior to
						William, who had an eye on the possibilities which might arise after a successful issue
						of the war. It should be remembered, however, that William of Orange was a prince and
						sovereign before he was made the head of the Netherlanders rising in revolt against
						Spain, and that, as a sovereign, it was natural for him to look after the interests of
						his family and dynasty. As far as mental and moral qualifications are concerned, both
						men were distinguished by that perfect equilibrium of powers of the mind and powers of
						the soul, which is but rarely found in men of the highest rank. Neither of these
						statesmen had the capacity of immediately conceiving and executing plans of a decisive
						character. Their minds, although full of resources, worked slowly in elaborating such
						plans; they weighed and hesitated before taking action; but as soon as their minds had
						been made up and a plan had been resolved upon, they acted without wavering, and held on
						to it until success or failure resulted from it. The great respect in which Washington
						has been always held by British historians and statesmen is, perhaps, the noblest
						tribute that can be paid to his character and abilities. The fact that Philip the Second
						relied less on his splendid armies, led by some of the ablest generals of Europe, and on
						his powerful navy, than  on the death of William the
						Silent is, perhaps, the greatest eulogy which can be given to the great founder of the
						Dutch Republic. Unquestionably the Spanish monarch considered the twenty-five thousand
						gold pieces which he offered for the assassination of William of Orange, although an
						enormous sum for those times, but a very cheap equivalent for the life of a man who had
						been the very life and soul, the inspiring genius of the rebellious Dutch provinces. If
						monuments of foreign statesmen and rulers are to be erected on American soil, no fitter
						and no worthier man can be found for that honor than William the Silent.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XI IVAN THE TERRIBLE
					
					
					
					
						IVAN THE TERRIBLE
					
					
					CHAPTER XI ASSASSINATIONS BY IVAN THE TERRIBLE
						(1560-1584)
					RUSSIAN history abounds in instances of famous assassinations.
						Sometimes these murders were committed by the rulers of Russia, at other times these
						rulers themselves were the victims. Ivan the Fourth, whose very surname, "the Terrible,"
						sufficiently indicates his character, was one of the most cruel and inhuman monarchs who
						ever ruled over a nation, either in ancient or modern times. It is therefore not one
						famous assassination which we wish to describe, but a series of monstrous crimes,
						unparalleled in history as the acts of one individual.
					Ivan was only three years old when his father died. A regency was formed, composed of
						his mother and a council of boyars, belonging to different factions, who were constantly
						at war with one another. At no time had Russia been more poorly governed. As Ivan grew
						up, he was despised and maltreated by the haughty nobility; his favorites were abused.
						In order to divert his mind from nobler occupations and keep him in profound ignorance
						of public affairs, he was amused and entertained with coarse and brutal games which
						developed his innate cruelty and ferocity, and made him, at an early  age, the terror of those who were subordinated to him. He
						delighted in torturing and slowly killing domestic animals, and also in crippling and
						killing old men and old women whom he encountered in the streets while riding fast
						horses or driving a carriage like a madman, without looking either right or left. He was
						a mere boy yet — hardly fourteen — when the boyars began to fear him and
						predicted a reign of terror when he should assume the reins of government.
					At seventeen, he dissolved the regency and declared his intention to reign for himself.
						He also wanted to get married, and sent out messengers to the different provinces of the
						Empire to pick out the most beautiful young girls and send them to the capital, that he
						might choose a wife from among their number. Many noblemen hid their handsome daughters,
						or sent them far away from home on hearing of the Czar's intention. His reputation for
						excessive cruelty had reached already the remotest parts of the Empire, and nearly every
						boyar trembled at the mere idea of becoming his father-in-law. But the messenger
						succeeded nevertheless in bringing together several hundred young girls of extraordinary
						beauty, and sent them to the capital. Ivan then chose from their number Anastasia
						Romanowna, a young girl of great beauty and great brilliancy of mind. He fell
						desperately in love with her, and through the superiority of her mind she gained a great
						influence over him, and succeeded even in keeping his cruelty in check.
					Ivan was a man of natural ability. He had some striking qualities, and might have been
						a great ruler if his education had been entrusted to competent and wise teachers. At an
						early age he learned the art of  dissembling to
						perfection, and possessed the rare faculty of keeping his plans and intentions secret
						even from his closest friends. It was only after the conquest of Kasan that he threw off
						the mask. Until then he had been exceedingly friendly and kind to a number of the
						powerful noblemen, who considered themselves almost his peers in rank and birth. But
						when that conquest had added to his power and authority, he suddenly said to his boyars:
						"At last I am free! God has made me the master over all. Beware!" Again it was his wife,
						Anastasia Romanowna, who with rare political sagacity prevented him from too openly
						showing hostility and impatience at their pretentious conduct. He was very young, and
						could afford to wait. But in 1560, when Ivan was only twenty-nine years old, Anastasia,
						his best friend and his ablest counsellor, died, and he found no loving hand to restrain
						his passions and keep his cruelty and ferocity in check. Nevertheless, for some time
						after her death the softening influence of his wife (whom he had really loved) over his
						cruel nature made itself felt, and for the next four years he proceeded rather
						cautiously. He considered all the boyars his enemies and traitors; and he commenced
						murdering them, one at a time.
					In 1564 he threw off all restraint. He suddenly disappeared with all his soldiers and
						servants, and rumors were circulated that he intended to abdicate the crown and to
						retire from public life. The abject fear in which the people had lived for thirty years
						had fully demoralized them. Boyars, clergymen, and the great mass of the people went
						nearly crazy at the idea that their "dear little father" would no longer rule over them.
						At last  they discovered his place of retirement, and the
						manifestations of public delight at this discovery were almost boundless. Delegation
						after delegation waited upon him and implored him on their knees that he might return to
						his capital and continue to govern them. At last Ivan consented to return, but he
						consented conditionally. He demanded — and they all cheerfully agreed to the
						demand — that he should have full and absolute power to punish all his enemies and
						all traitors by banishment or death and confiscation of their property, without being
						interfered with, even by the clergy. It was a regular coup d'état.
						From this act dates the absolute rule of the emperors of Russia, and Ivan the Fourth
						thenceforth took the official title of "Czar of all the Russias," which his successors
						have retained to the present day.
					Ivan had carefully matured his plan. He took possession of a certain number of cities
						and country districts, expelled the proprietors from them, declared them territory
						forfeited to the government, and distributed them among certain of his own adherents
						upon whose fidelity he could count. These adherents generally were taken from the lowest
						classes of the people, knew no other law than the will of their master, and obeyed him
						blindly. While confiscating all these estates without mercy or hesitation, on the most
						trivial or far-fetched pretexts, he was shrewd enough to respect constitutional rights
						in other parts of the Empire. His plan was to increase the imperial private domains
						gradually to enormous proportions by dispossessing year after year the legitimate
						proprietors of the soil, and by this method to destroy the power of the nobility. In
						order to accomplish this  purpose he did not hesitate to
						employ the most cruel and disreputable means for the conviction and punishment of his
						intended victims.
					One of his favorite ways for entrapping and punishing a rich boyar was to order one of
						the servants employed in the imperial household to steal jewelry or other valuables, and
						then to seek refuge in the boyar's residence. Of course, the fugitive was closely
						pursued by the Czar's guards, drawn from his hiding-place, and then massacred together
						with the boyar and his family, who, the Czar pretended to believe, were the thief's
						accomplices and deserved death as well as the offender. But much oftener the terrible
						Czar rushed down, with a numerous suite of his followers, upon the residence of a
						wealthy boyar, put all the men, the children and the old women of the domain to the
						sword, carried off the young women and girls, and abandoned them on the highways after
						he and his gang had satisfied their desires on them. On the trumped up charge that Grand
						Duke Wladimir, his own cousin, as well as the Grand Duke's wife and grown daughters had
						participated in a conspiracy against the Czar's life, he forced him to commit suicide by
						drinking poison, while the Grand Duchess and her beautiful young daughters, and all
						their ladies of honor and female servants, were divested of their garments, exposed in a
						state of complete nudity on the market space of the town adjacent to their domain, and
						afterwards butchered in cold blood. Wladimir's immense wealth and all his real estate
						were confiscated by the crown. In this manner Ivan succeeded in overpowering the boyars,
						one after another, in a very short time, and acquiring immense wealth. He visited the
							 different provinces and departments in succession, and
						wherever he appeared he left a track of desolation, rapine, and murder. From the capital
						of each province he organized marauding tours in all directions, placing each under the
						command of an officer on whose devotion to himself and ferocity to others he could
						count. But the most terrible expeditions were those which he commanded himself. It can
						truthfully be said that wherever Ivan "visited," he destroyed everything in sight,
						— not only the human inhabitants, but also the farm and domestic animals, even
						dogs and cats. He took also a pleasure in draining ponds and creeks, so as to cause the
						fish to die, and after having killed or mutilated all things living, he ordered the
						buildings to be set on fire, and left the scene of his cruelty and lust amidst the wild
						huzzas of his comrades. No civilized, or half-civilized country had ever witnessed such
						atrocities on the part of its own ruler.
					If Ivan was not travelling and marauding he resided generally in the Alexandrowna
						Convent, which he had strongly fortified. This convent, situated in the neighborhood of
						Moscow, and surrounded by dense forests, was not only the scene of his bestial orgies
						and excesses, and of his more than beastly cruelty, but also of his hypocritical zeal
						for religion and divine service. The convent, although transformed into a palace,
						remained still a convent. Ivan's most abject and infamous favorites were acting as
						monks, while Ivan himself performed the functions of the pontiff. He also acted as a
						bell-ringer for the church. Quite early in the morning, at four o'clock, mass was read
						and public service was held in the church, lasting till seven o'clock. Regularly every
							 evening, from seven to eight o'clock, there was again
						divine service. The time intervening between the dinner and the last church service was
						employed by him in going to the torture rooms of the palace where his victims —
						and there was always a number of them — were subjected to the most excruciating
						pain, and in many cases tortured to death. To be invited to these scenes of horror was a
						mark of imperial favor.
					Ivan was never in better humor or happier than after having witnessed the tortures or
						the execution of a man whom he had sacrificed to his greed for wealth or to his
						vindictiveness. It is reported that one day when one hundred and twenty persons were to
						be executed — either strangled, hung, beheaded, or quartered — at Moscow,
						and when the inhabitants of the streets near the place of the execution had fled in
						horror from the neighborhood, the Czar sent out his soldiery and compelled thousands of
						citizens to be spectators of the wholesale butchery. He sat there himself on an elevated
						stage applauding the torturers and executioners when, in his opinion, they had done
						their task well and had prolonged the agony of the victim as much as possible. When the
						cruel spectacle was over, he rose to his feet and addressed the spectators as follows:
						"My loyal subjects! You have seen torture and death! Some of you are horror-struck at
						what you have witnessed! My punishment is severe, but it is just. All these men and
						women were traitors to their Czar, and deserved to die. Answer me, was I right in
						punishing them?" And the tremendous audience, almost frightened to death, as with one
						voice replied: "Glory and long life to the Czar! Death to the traitors!" The sight of
						blood, of suffering and of death seemed to have  an
						intoxicating effect on this unparalleled monster, and he never tired of it to the day of
						his death.
					The high dignitaries of the Church fared no better at Ivan's hands. Whenever they stood
						in the way of his ambition, or whenever they presumed to criticise him for his crimes,
						he treated them with the same cruelty and inflicted the same punishments upon them as
						upon the boyars. In that way he imposed silence on the clergy, and caused them even to
						sanction his worst misdeeds. But one day, after an especially atrocious marauding
						expedition of the Czar, the Metropolitan of Moscow mustered sufficient courage to
						reprimand him publicly. On the twenty-second of March, 1568, Ivan entered the cathedral,
						expecting the blessing of the high-priest. The latter did not stir, but kept his eyes
						fixed upon a picture representing Christ in all his glory. "Holy Father," said one of
						the boyars to the Metropolitan, "the Czar is here; bless him!" "I do not recognize the
						Czar!" replied the Metropolitan. "Since this world was created and the sun was placed in
						the skies, it has never been known that a Czar has committed such atrocities and crimes
						in his own state as ours has. Here in this church we offer our prayers to God, and
						beyond its walls the blood of innocent Christians is shed in torrents." Then turning to
						Ivan, he said in a loud voice: "The very stones under thy feet will rise against thee
						and cry out against thy crimes and atrocities! God has bidden me tell you and warn you,
						even if I should suffer death for my boldness!" And death was his punishment, although
						not at the very moment. As a rebel, he was sentenced to imprisonment for life at Twer.
						But it happened so that Ivan, the year after, passed through Twer on one  his marauding expeditions. It was then that he remembered
						Philip, the Metropolitan, who had accosted him so boldly. He sent half a dozen of his
						soldiers to the prison, and they strangled the Metropolitan without previous notice.
						This assassination paved the way for many others among the clergy, until Ivan had so
						intimidated them that thenceforth not even a whisper was heard among them against his
						cruelties.
					It then became apparent how readily the example of an infamous ruler is followed by his
						courtiers and attendants. The boyars and officers accompanying him on his expeditions of
						murder and pillage tried to surpass him in iniquity; in their very appearance they
						showed their true character, adorning themselves with symbols of their ferocity. When
						they started on their marauding tour, they attached a bleeding dog's-head and a broom to
						the neck and saddle of each horse, signifying by these decorations that they would bite
						like savage dogs and sweep off the ground all they could find. Whomsoever they found on
						the highways they would arrest and hang as traitors to the Czar, and in the villages and
						towns on their route they would commit the most horrid excesses, sparing neither sex nor
						age. If the inhabitants had fled at their approach, they reported them to the Czar as
						his enemies who were plotting against his life, and he issued decrees of vengeance
						declaring their property confiscated and their lives forfeited. In this way they kept
						the inhabitants at home waiting in terror for the arrival of their tormentors.
					After having decimated and terrorized the nobility and the clergy, Ivan turned his
						attention principally to the  merchants and wealthy
						citizens. The commercial centres, in which a great amount of capital had accumulated,
						were the special objects of his greed, especially if they showed a spirit of
						independence. Prominent among these was Novgorod, the ancient and wealthy city, proud of
						her free institutions and her honored name. It was this pride and her great wealth which
						pointed out Novgorod as a victim for Ivan's wrath and cupidity, and the manner in which
						he planned and executed his evil designs on the city shows his diabolical genius at its
						height. Never has tyrant or despot conceived a more sinister and treacherous plot for
						the ruin of a great city and for the assassination of its inhabitants. The horrors of
						St. Bartholomew's night pale in comparison.
					A Polish vagabond, on the personal command of Ivan, wrote a petition, with the forged
						signatures of the Archbishop of Novgorod and a large number of leading and wealthy
						citizens and addressed to the King of Poland, in which the latter was supplicated to
						assume the sovereignty over Novgorod and the province in which it was situated, and to
						assist the citizens in their desire of shaking off the yoke of Ivan. By Ivan's direction
						this petition was concealed in the great cathedral, behind a picture of the Holy Virgin.
						The Polish vagabond, after having executed the task dictated to him, came to Moscow and
						charged the city of Novgorod with treasonable designs against the Czar. Upon this
						information the Czar immediately sent messengers with the Polish vagabond to Novgorod,
						where, as a matter of course, the forged petition was found hidden behind the picture of
						the Holy Virgin in the cathedral. This was considered proof sufficient to condemn the
						whole city. No further  investigation was deemed
						necessary. Ivan kept quiet, but the inhabitants knew what was in store for them. They
						trembled and waited. They had not to wait a long time. Two weeks after the discovery, on
						the twenty-first day of January, 1570, the first detachments of an imperial army,
						commanded by some of Ivan's most trusted and most cruel lieutenants, entered the city.
						They immediately proceeded to seal the doors of all the churches and chapels, and took
						possession of the residences of the wealthy inhabitants, where they established their
						headquarters. All traffic was suspended. No citizen was permitted to leave the city, nor
						could goods of any kind be shipped from it. A dead silence and fear hung over the city.
						Nobody knew what the Czar intended to do, but that he would do something horrible,
						everybody felt, and also that there was no escape from him.
					At last he came. He took up his residence in the Archbishop's palace. He treated the
						priests and the Archbishop himself like servants; he drank and feasted with his boyars,
						while the priests had to wait upon him at table. And then suddenly, when he rose, he
						uttered a loud shout of triumph, and this was the signal for his lieutenants to order a
						general pillage throughout the city. Without any control by their superiors, the
						soldiers committed plunder, murder, violence, and outrages of all kinds. The treasures
						accumulated in the churches and large business houses Ivan had reserved for himself, and
						his orders were strictly observed; nobody touched what he had designated for his share.
						The palace of the Archbishop became the scene of the most beastly orgies and excesses.
						The wives and daughters of the  noblest families were
						dragged before Ivan, and after having picked out the most beautiful for his own use, he
						turned the others over to his lieutenants and companions. Many of the unfortunate women
						committed suicide, many others died from the effects of the terrible abuse to which they
						had been subjected. The Czar knew no pity. "Such scenes of horror, iniquity, and
						inhumanity," says a foreign eye-witness, "had not been seen in the world since the
						destruction of Jerusalem."
					The work of devastation, pillage, murder, violence, and incendiarism lasted five weeks.
						At last the Czar thought it was time to stop the bloody carnival. The measure was full
						to overflowing, — not only the measure of misery, affliction, distress, and death
						for the unfortunate and innocent inhabitants of Novgorod, but also the measure of lust
						and cruelty for himself. The constant indulgence in voluptuous excesses told upon his
						constitution; he was worn out and surfeited with animal gratification; his eyes had a
						vague, almost lifeless expression; his herculean frame commenced to tremble, his legs to
						totter. No less than twenty-seven thousand persons, men, women, and children, had
						perished; there was not a family which did not lament one or more dead among its
						members. The corpses were thrown into the river, and at some points they had been thrown
						in in such numbers that the river was impeded in its current. On the first day of the
						sixth week, Ivan called citizens living in all the different streets of the city
						together and addressed them as follows: "Men of Novgorod, and all of you who are still
						alive, pray to God and thank him for your escape from peril; thank your Czar too, for it
						is to his  mercy and his fear of God that you owe your
						safety; and thank also his soldiers, whose humane treatment saved you from death. Pray
						to God that he may give us power and strength to vanquish all our enemies! Much blood
						has been shed for the punishment of traitors. These traitors are responsible to God for
						all that has happened here during the last five weeks. May God have mercy on them. And
						now stop your crying and weeping! Live and be happy, and may your city grow and
						prosper!"
					Cæsar Borgia could not have done better than this brutal monster of the North. He was
						the genius of cruelty and hypocrisy personified in one man.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XII HENRY THE FOURTH OF FRANCE
					
					
					
					
						HENRY IV.
					
					
					CHAPTER XII ASSASSINATION OF HENRY THE FOURTH OF FRANCE (May
						14, 1610)
					RELIGIOUS wars — that is to say, civil wars for religious
						causes — had desolated France for half a century, and tranquillity and apparent
						harmony had finally been restored only by the genius of one man — Henry the
						Fourth. He it was who issued the Edict of Nantes, conferring equal religious and
						political rights upon the professors of both religions, the Protestant and the
						Catholic.
					A short time after Martin Luther had inaugurated the great movement of religious reform
						in Germany, a similar movement had also been organized in France; but it was only since
						1536 and through the influential and energetic agitation of John Calvin that it had
						assumed large dimensions and acquired a really national importance. After the disastrous
						battle of Pavia and after his release from Spanish captivity, King Francis the First had
						ordered a cruel persecution against the Protestants for political reasons, but it had
						utterly failed to put a stop to this movement. On the contrary, a great many noblemen
						had joined the new church and the originally purely religious movement had gradually
						assumed a pronounced political character. But this change of tendency only  added fuel to the flame of intolerance and persecution. Not
						only were hundreds of professors of the new church most cruelly executed on the gallows
						or burnt alive for heresy, but among the Waldenses in Provence and in the valleys
						bordering on Savoy a wholesale massacre was inaugurated, which aimed at nothing less
						than their entire extirpation. On account of their peaceful and industrial habits, these
						people had for a long time enjoyed toleration in spite of their dissenting religious
						opinions. No less than twenty flourishing villages were destroyed and burned to the
						ground, and their entire population, men, women and children, were butchered in the most
						barbarous manner. But it seemed as if the very horror which such acts of inhumanity
						inspired, and the heroic constancy and bravery with which these unfortunate victims of
						religious fanaticism had sealed their convictions with their blood, had rather increased
						than diminished the ranks of the Protestants. The French translation of the Bible, which
						was secretly circulated throughout the kingdom, proved also a powerful means of
						propagandism for the principles of reform among the better educated and thinking
						classes.
					Francis the First died in 1547 and was succeeded by his son, Henry the Second, who
						considered the Protestant movement merely a political question, and treated it as such.
						In Germany he supported the Protestant princes in their fight against Charles the Fifth,
						but at home, in France, he persecuted the adherents of Calvin even more persistently and
						cruelly than his father had done. Hundreds of excellent citizens were sent to the
						gallows or to the stake for heresy, and even the possession or sale of a French Bible
						was deemed a sufficient crime to warrant  the death
						punishment. Henry the Second died after a reign of twelve years, in 1559, from a wound
						received in a tournament and inflicted accidentally by the captain of his own
						body-guard. His successor, Francis the Second, the husband of Mary, Queen of Scotland,
						was entirely under the control of his wife's uncles, the Duke of Guise and the Cardinal
						of Lorraine. For the Protestants matters grew worse and worse. Francis the Second, who
						was merely a boy, died after a reign of less than two years, and was succeeded by his
						brother Charles the Ninth, of bloody St. Bartholomew Night's memory. He was succeeded by
						Henry the Third, who after an inglorious reign, in which torrents of blood had flowed
						without quenching the fire of religious fanaticism, was assassinated in 1589 by Jacques
						Clément, a young Dominican monk, who had become exasperated at the concessions which the
						King had made to the Protestant Church. Before expiring, King Henry the Third recognized
						the young King of Navarre as his successor, who then ascended the throne of France under
						the name of Henry the Fourth.
					The wars which devastated France during the preceding three reigns were waged almost
						without interruption; they were of a semi-religious and semi-political character. These
						wars must be largely ascribed to the pernicious influence of Catherine de Médicis, the
						wife of Henry the Second, and the mother of his three sons, Francis the Second, Charles
						the Ninth and Henry the Third. Her name stands in history as a synonym for an astute,
						unscrupulous, cruel, and intriguing ruler and politician. At the time of Henry the
						Third's assassination, he was investing the city of Paris, which was in the hands of his
							 enemies, the League, under the command of the Duke of
						Mayenne, who himself was aspiring to the throne. It was therefore not an easy matter for
						the new King to assume the reins of government, the half of his kingdom being in arms
						against him, and the royal army itself, in whose ranks he was fighting, being hostile to
						the religion he (as a Protestant) professed.
					But Henry the Fourth was equal to the difficult task. In fact, he was one of the most
						remarkable men who ever sat on a European throne. His career up to that day had been
						extremely stormy; his escape from death and perils innumerable was wonderful and stamped
						him as a man of destiny. It is reported of him that when he was present one day as a
						very young man at a brilliant reception at the French court, where nearly all the
						prominent men of the French capital were assembled, he strongly impressed the foreign
						ambassadors with the brilliancy of his wit and the sagacity of his observations. One of
						them said: "In this whole assemblage of dukes, princes and great dignitaries, I see but
						one man fit to rule either as king or emperor," and pointing to Henry of Navarre he
						continued: "It is that young man with the eye of an eagle!"
					Henry the Fourth was born in 1553, the son of Antony of Bourbon. His mother was Jeanne
						d'Albret, only child of Henry the Second, King of Navarre, and of his wife, Queen
						Margaret of Navarre, who has won a lasting place in literature by her famous collection
						of novels, known as the "Heptameron." Much of the genius and esprit
						which distinguished the grandmother was inherited both by her daughter and her grandson.
						Jeanne d'Albret was not only an excellent woman and mother, but she was also an  enthusiastic admirer and supporter of the Calvinistic
						doctrine, and brought up her son in that faith. On account of her religion both Philip
						the Second of Spain and Catherine de Médicis, Queen of France, hated her intensely, and
						it seems that at an early day a sort of rivalry arose between Catherine and the mother
						of the boy concerning his education. Catherine maintained that, inasmuch as Henry was a
						royal prince and might be called upon some day to ascend the throne of France, it was
						absolutely necessary to educate him in the Catholic faith in order to make him worthy to
						rule over a Catholic country and occupy a throne whose occupant had for centuries been
						honored with the noble title of the "eldest son of the Church."
					In this contest over the boy the mother remained victorious, and, true to her religious
						convictions, she surrounded him with Protestant professors. But Catherine de Médicis was
						not a woman to abandon a scheme which she had formed and in which politics played a
						large part. She therefore concocted a plan for the abduction of young Henry, which would
						have succeeded and would have placed him under the immediate control of Philip the
						Second of Spain, had it not been betrayed to Henry's mother, the Queen of Navarre. Henry
						was thereupon hurried off to La Rochelle, the headquarters of the Protestant army, where
						he was soon placed in nominal command of all the Protestant forces, although the famous
						Admiral Coligny was its real leader.
					We may fitly pass without comment the stormy years preceding Henry's elevation to the
						throne of France. In order to reconcile the Protestant and the Catholic branches of the
						reigning dynasty, Catherine de Médicis was  successful in
						her plan of a marriage between Henry of Navarre and her own daughter Marguerite,
						although the Pope hesitated a long time in giving his permission to this family
						alliance, which was in every respect a very unfortunate one. As far as Catherine de
						Médicis was concerned, her principal intention in planning it was the hope of continuing
						under Henry the Fourth's reign (if he ever should become king) the absolute rule which
						she had so successfully maintained under the reign of her sons. Far from using her
						influence and authority to secure, if possible, the happiness of the young couple, she
						held out to both all possible temptations to lead them astray, and openly advanced
						Henry's liaisons with other beautiful ladies of the court. It is also pretty well
						established by historical evidence that Catherine, in order to withdraw Henry from the
						beneficial influence of his mother, caused her death by poison in the very year of his
						marriage. At the massacre of St. Bartholomew's night, Henry escaped death by abjuring
						Protestantism, King Charles the Ninth having left him the choice between going to mass
						and suffering death. Henry preferred the former and professed Catholicism as his
						religion until 1576, when he suddenly and secretly left the court, and, retracting his
						forced abjuration, placed himself once more at the head of the Protestant party.
					In 1584 the death of the Duke of Anjou made Henry the legitimate heir to the crown of
						France, and five years later, the death of Henry the Third made him King. But only the
						southern provinces and the Protestants recognized him as their king. The Catholics
						vehemently protested against this heretical king, and refused obedience to him. The
						League, which kept an army of 30,000 men  in the field
						against him, and which was supported by the King of Spain, not only refused to recognize
						him, but proclaimed an aged uncle of his, the Cardinal de Bourbon, King of France, and
						Spain adhered to this decision. The civil war between the contending factions continued
						with greater fury and obstinacy than ever, and it was in this campaign, in which Henry
						always fought against tremendous odds, that he displayed his wonderful ability and tact
						as a political and military leader. Finally his second conversion to Catholicism on the
						twenty-third of July, 1593, which was simply a political measure and not at all dictated
						by religious motives, decided the succession to the throne in his favor, although it
						took years of warfare and diplomatic negotiation to secure his recognition by Spain and
						the leaders of the League.
					Henry the Fourth's greatest political achievement, by which he manifested his
						far-seeing ability as a statesman, was the Edict of Nantes, promulgated on the
						thirteenth of April, 1598. It guaranteed freedom of conscience and equality before the
						law to Catholics and Protestants; and it was the first great manifesto of religious
						toleration issued by any ruler. But noble and high-minded as it was, even if inspired
						only by political motives, the fanatics of the Catholic Church would not forgive him.
						Unquestionably it was the Edict of Nantes which caused his assassination, — an act
						of revenge with which the Church paid back the injury it supposed it had received at his
						hands.
					Henry, with the assistance of his great minister, the Duke of Sully, devoted the first
						few years, after peace had been restored, to building up the prosperity of the country,
						which had been distracted by war for nearly  forty years.
						In this he admirably succeeded. With wonderful rapidity the monarchy recovered from the
						disasters and calamities of the religious and civil wars. Without Henry's success, late
						as it came, this national improvement would have been impossible, and France would have
						sunk into the same condition of intellectual lethargy and material decay from which
						Spain has suffered for three centuries. But Henry's ambition went much beyond the
						borders of his kingdom. The house of Hapsburg, a branch of which ruled Spain, appeared
						to him too dangerous for the security and greatness of France. He supported the German
						Protestant princes in their opposition to Austria, which wanted to take possession of
						Juliers-Cleves, two German principalities, and sent an army of ten thousand men to their
						assistance. Henry wanted to join personally this army on the nineteenth of May, 1610. On
						the thirteenth of May he published a decree appointing the Queen, Mary de Médicis,
						Regent of the kingdom, and her coronation was celebrated on the same day with great
						pomp.
					On the fourteenth of May, the day after the coronation, the King was assassinated by
						Francis Ravaillac in the Ferronière Street at Paris, where his carriage had stopped a
						few minutes. It was this short delay which gave Ravaillac a chance: he climbed upon the
						hind-wheel of the carriage and stabbed the King twice with a long poniard, with deadly
						effect. It was thus that the greatest King France has produced died at the hands of a
						miserable fanatic, at a moment too when, according to the statement of Sully, who knew
						him better than any other man, he had formed a plan of establishing a great European
						confederation, founded on the civil equality of Catholics 
						and Protestants and on an equilibrium of power among the great nations of Europe.
						Ravaillac was executed with revolting barbarity on the twenty-seventh of May, but not
						even the repeated application of the torture elicited the least information as to the
						motives or the accomplices which he may have had in his crime. Henry's death was a cruel
						loss not only for France, but for the whole world.
					The assassination of Henry the Fourth ended in France the era of famous political
						murders, which during the religious wars had taken off Coligny, Henry of Guise, and the
						two kings, Henry the Third and Henry the Fourth, all during one generation. But of these
						only the assassination of Henry the Fourth has made a lasting and profound impression on
						his contemporaries as well as on posterity. It has enhanced his reputation and glory by
						enshrining his name among the great martyrs of history. It was one of the most patriotic
						and high-minded thoughts of Voltaire to make Henry the Fourth the hero of his epic poem
						"La Henriade," which although not ranking with the great poems of Milton, Tasso, and
						Virgil, in poetic merit, is still a noble hymn of liberty and a glorification of
						religious toleration, as well as of Henry, its representative. It is uncertain whether
						the profound horror which the assassination of Henry caused throughout the world, or the
						terrible punishment inflicted on Ravaillac, caused assassins to desist from their
						nefarious work, but certain it is that no new assassination of a king or any member of
						the royal family of France took place from the death of Henry the Fourth to the
						assassination of the Duc de Berry, the presumptive heir of Charles the Tenth, in 1820.
						Not that no attempts  on the life of any or all of the
						French monarchs since the days of Henry the Fourth were made; but all such attempts had
						failed, and instead of killing the rulers, had only led to the cruel and horrible
						execution of the conspirators.
					Most remarkable among these was the assault of Damiens on King Louis the Fifteenth, one
						of the most dissolute and worthless monarchs, — one who in the gratification of
						his lusts was utterly oblivious of common decency and shame. Louis the Fifteenth came
						nearer reviving the atrocious immorality of Claudius, Caligula, Caracalla, Heliogabalus
						in the palace of the Cæsars of ancient Rome, than any other modern monarch had done. It
						was the age of Madame de Pompadour and the monstrosities of the "deer park." The French
						nation blushed at the excesses of the court, which paved the way for the great
						Revolution, already dimly foreseen by some ingenious observers, as one of the
						necessities of the future. It was at this time, when public indignation, not to say
						public disgust, had reached its culminating point, that an attempt on the life of the
						King was made.
					It was on the fifth of January, 1757, at six o'clock in the evening, on a cold and dark
						day, that he stepped out of the doorway of the palace of Versailles and went up to a
						carriage waiting for him to take him to Trianon. All at once he felt that somebody had
						run against him, and at the same time that he was bleeding from a wound in the side. He
						uttered a cry of pain and alarm, and when the torch-bearers drew near and surrounded
						him, the King noticed a man who alone among all those present had kept his hat on. "This
						man has assaulted and wounded me!" exclaimed the King, pointing to the man whose  head remained covered. "Arrest him, but do not harm him!"
						It makes almost a painful impression to find that an embodiment of vice and debauchery
						like Louis the Fifteenth should at such a moment have been inspired with feelings of
						mercy toward his assassin, and should have used almost the identical words which fell
						from the lips of the pure and high-minded President McKinley after Czolgosz had fatally
						wounded him! But history records them, and we must give even the devil his due.
					"The attempt on the King's life caused a tremendous sensation in Paris, where
						immediately the most exaggerated reports concerning the fatal wounding of the King and
						the discovery of a widespread conspiracy to assassinate him were circulated. Damiens was
						treated with the greatest severity. As though the crime which he had tried to commit had
						been really committed, and as though the stab he had given to the King had had fatal
						effect, the criminal was treated as a regicide, and the terrible machinery of the law
						provided for in such cases, and in France not employed since the trial of Ravaillac, was
						put in operation. Even during his transportation from Versailles to Paris measures of
						precaution were used, as if a state prisoner of the most dangerous character and of the
						greatest importance were to be guarded. Regiments of soldiers surrounded his carriage,
						and six sergeants with drawn swords marched on each side. Strict orders had been issued
						to the citizens of Paris not to go out on the streets or appear at the front windows of
						their houses. Everything had been done to create the impression of a conspiracy against
						the government which counted many influential men among its  members and of which the assassin was merely the tool, while those who were directing
						him and using his arm against the King, had to be sought in the highest classes of the
						aristocracy, and especially among the enemies of Madame de Pompadour. Great efforts were
						made to get a full confession from Damiens. Who was he? How had he formed the plan to
						assassinate the King? Who had instigated him to commit the act? Who were his
						accomplices? These were the questions to be solved by the French police authorities, and
						for whose solution they did not hesitate to apply the most cruel measures known to them.
						But the result of their painstaking investigation was far from realizing their
						expectations. It was found that Damiens belonged to the lower classes of the people. He
						had learned the trade of a locksmith, but had preferred to enter the service of rich
						lords and ladies as a domestic. Being of a very restless and quarrelsome disposition, he
						had changed his positions as often as Gil Blas had changed his masters. He had been in
						the houses of parliamentarians, clergymen, noblemen, orthodox Catholics, Jansenists,
						Molinists, Protestants, free thinkers. Often he had served at the table of the great
						lords and ladies of the kingdom and had listened to the conversation of the guests; and
						invariably the subject of the conversation had turned on the disgraceful conduct of the
						King, on his excesses, on the shameful orgies of the court, on the mysteries of the
						"deer park," where not only the virtue of young girls of the people was ruthlessly
						sacrificed, but also the money extorted from the sweat of the people criminally
						squandered. Wherever he had gone he had heard the same story, and it had made a deep
						impression upon him. Damiens had always been of an eccentric  turn of mind; he had even had spells of religious exaltation, and for three
						years he had seriously meditated on the possibility of rescuing the King from his sinful
						excesses and debauches.
					He finally had come to the conclusion that the only possibility of turning the King's
						mind away from his vicious habits and arousing his soul to sentiments of honor and duty
						might come through fear, by placing him in the immediate presence of death. This thought
						preyed so incessantly and so strongly on his mind that he resolved to become the
						instrument of the King's redemption, by attacking and wounding, but not killing him. The
						attempt on the King's life was therefore the result of a psychological process which
						was, perhaps, based on wrong and extravagant premises, but which, if all the
						circumstances are taken into consideration, was rather meritorious than criminal in its
						aim. The assassin had acted strictly in accord with his preconceived theory. He had in
						his possession a knife with two blades, one of which was very long, sharp and pointed
						like a dagger, while the other was quite short and sharp. It seemed to be impossible to
						inflict a mortal wound with the short blade, and Damiens had used it in wounding the
						King. He had no accomplices. At first, very likely to mitigate his punishment, he had
						hinted at the existence of a widespread conspiracy, contemplating the assassination of
						the King, the Dauphin, and others, but he soon retracted these statements, and even the
						most severe application of the torture could not elicit from him any other declaration
						than this: that he had no accomplices, that nobody, not even his wife and his young
						daughter, had known anything of his intention; that he did not intend to kill the  King, though he could easily have done so; that he had only
						intended to wound him for the purpose of frightening and warning him; that his act had
						been inspired by the wish of saving France and the dynasty.
					But all these statements, which could not be controverted by conflicting evidence, made
						no impression upon judges who had fully made up their minds beforehand, and who looked
						upon the man that wanted to touch even the King's finger with the same horror as upon a
						regicide who might have stabbed him through the heart and killed him. The sentence
						passed upon Damiens was therefore in conformity with their preconceived opinion, and
						cruel in the extreme. It was based upon the sentence carried out against Ravaillac for
						having killed the greatest of kings and one of the benefactors of mankind. Though
						Damiens was an eccentric ponderer, a foolish dreamer, who had but slightly wounded a
						heartless voluptuary that had deserved death a hundred times, his sentence was terrible
						beyond description, and was actually carried out in the presence of an immense
						multitude. At first his right hand, in which was placed the knife with which he had
						struck the King, was burned to the bone. Thereupon his arms, his legs, his breast, his
						back and his feet were lacerated with burning tongs; molten lead, boiling oil, burning
						sulphur, rosin, and wax were poured into the open wounds; and finally, while he was
						still suffering unimaginable pain, four strong horses, hitched to his arms and legs,
						tried for half an hour with all their might to tear out his limbs. After that time only
						one arm remained in the body, and it took another five minutes' work to pull it out of
						its socket. The body of the unfortunate man had been pulled to almost double its  length and width, and its power of resistance amazed all
						the spectators. When at last the cruel execution was over, the bleeding trunk and the
						arms and legs were thrown upon a pile of wood near the scaffold and destroyed by fire.
						The spectacle had struck terror into the hearts of the beholders.
					But even with this terrible act of revenge the criminal justice of France was not
						satisfied; it reached out for the innocent family of the criminal. His father, his wife,
						and his daughter were banished from France for life, not to return there on penalty of
						death, while his brothers, sisters, and other relatives had to change their names. The
						house in which he was born was burned to the ground, and any other trace which he might
						have left was carefully obliterated. The crime of Damiens was not one of the famous
						assassinations in history, but it caused such a sensation in Europe, and it was punished
						so cruelly, that we thought his attempt on the life of Louis the Fifteenth might very
						properly be recorded in this book.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIII WALLENSTEIN
					
					
					
					
						WALLENSTEIN
					
					
					CHAPTER XIII ASSASSINATION OF WALLENSTEIN (February 24,
						1634)
					IN a previous chapter we have seen how a King of England got rid of a
						contentious Archbishop of the Church of Rome by assassination when the latter stood in
						the way of his usurpation. In a similar manner, also by assassination, an Emperor of
						Germany freed himself from a general who had twice saved him from ruin, but who had
						grown too powerful for his security, and whose loyalty he (perhaps justly) mistrusted.
						Although nearly three hundred years have passed away since Wallenstein's assassination
						at Eger, Bohemia, the most searching investigations of historians have been unable to
						establish beyond a reasonable doubt the certainty or extent of his treasonable
						intentions, although there are strong indications that they existed, and that the crown
						of Bohemia, as a sovereign state, was to be the price which he exacted for his
						treason.
					The religious war, which had broken out between the Emperor of Germany, as
						representative of the Catholic Church, and the Protestant princes of North Germany in
						1618, had been waged with great cruelty and varying success for several years. Neither
						party had won such decisive advantages that the end of the terrible struggle,  which partook as much of the character of a civil war as of
						a religious war, could be predicted with any degree of certainty. The most unfortunate
						feature of this strife was that not only the different German princes were fighting
						against each other, but that also foreign princes, upon the invitation of the Germans,
						participated in the struggle and gave their support to either the Catholic or the
						Protestant side. The German princes themselves had formed two different alliances: the
						Catholics had formed the League, while the Protestants were members of the Protestant
						Union; and both parties had powerful armies in the field commanded by experienced and
						able generals, the Catholics by Tilly, the Protestants by Mansfeld and the Duke of
						Brunswick. The greatest of these generals was perhaps Tilly, but he was extremely cruel
						and vindictive, fully as much from religious hatred for the enemies of his church as
						from natural disposition. His conquest and pillage of Magdeburg has given to his name a
						deplorable immortality. The Emperor of Germany, Ferdinand the Second, was rather
						nominally than actually the war-lord of the Catholic party; for the Catholic League,
						which had placed the army in the field, had elected Maximilian of Bavaria as its supreme
						chief. Thus, while the Catholic armies were called the Imperialists, and while the
						victories which they achieved were supposed to redound to the Emperor's glory, Ferdinand
						could not repress a feeling of humiliation at the thought that he owed these victories
						and the advantages which resulted from them more to the generosity and loyalty of the
						Catholic League than to his own power and resources. Once or twice Protestant soldiers
						had even threatened him in his own imperial  palace, and
						he had owed his safety from capture or death only to the timely intervention of some
						Spanish and Croatian horsemen who dispersed the aggressors.
					In November, 1620, Tilly had, at the head of a powerful army, won a decisive victory
						over the army of the Protestant Union by the battle of White Mountain; then, having
						restored Bohemia and Moravia to the rule of the Emperor, the victorious general quickly
						marched to the Palatinate, where the cause of the Protestants was at that time supreme.
						But he was defeated there by the Protestant army under Mansfeld and the Margrave of
						Baden; and at that time Protestantism might have been triumphantly established in
						western and northern Germany at least, had not the two victorious Protestant generals
						made the mistake of separating their armies, — a mistake which proved fatal to
						both of them. Tilly was not slow to see the advantage which he gained by this
						dismemberment of the army which had so signally defeated him at Wiesloch; he rallied his
						forces and defeated first the Margrave of Baden at Wimpfen, and shortly afterwards
						Mansfeld and the Duke of Brunswick at Höchst. Then the Protestant armies crossed the
						frontier of the Netherlands in the hope of receiving assistance from England.
					In the meantime the German Emperor, emboldened by the successes of Tilly, strained
						every nerve to reëstablish Catholicism and stamp out Protestantism in the Empire. The
						excessive zeal which he displayed in accomplishing this purpose, and the terrible work
						of destruction which Tilly and his lieutenants were carrying on in all those districts
						of the Empire which were unfortunate enough to fall under their sway, were, however,  the means of setting Protestantism on its feet again, of
						reviving the waning hopes of the German Protestant princes, and of arousing a powerful
						interest in their behalf among their neighbors. The most important accession which the
						cause of Protestantism had at that time was that of King Christian the Fourth of
						Denmark, who joined the Protestants with a large army and took supreme command in
						northern Germany.
					Such were the conditions in Germany at the moment when the man who is the subject of
						this chapter appeared on the stage as principal actor in the terrible war of thirty
						years. This man, one of the most remarkable men of the seventeenth century, and one of
						the most eminent generals in German history was Wallenstein. For seven years he was the
						greatest man of the war, eclipsing the fame of Tilly himself, filling the minds of
						enemies and friends, and finally that of the Emperor himself, with vague fears and
						apprehensions of his treason and unbridled ambition. But in the flower of his age his
						life was cut short by the hands of assassins.
					The Empire seemed to be hopelessly divided between Catholicism and Protestantism, and
						civil war with all its terrors and horrors laid waste its fairest provinces. The Emperor
						had lost much of his authority, while Maximilian of Bavaria, commander-in-chief of the
						armies of the Catholic League, wielded a power which was supreme wherever the so-called
						Imperialists held possession of country or town. It was a humiliating position for the
						Emperor, but he was utterly powerless to extricate himself from it. Suddenly a deliverer
						came to him in the person of Albert, Lord Wallenstein, a Bohemian nobleman, who had
						married the daughter of Count  Harrach, the Emperor's
						special favorite. He was immensely rich, and had won great military distinction in the
						Bohemian wars. It was this Lord Wallenstein who on a morning in June, 1625, presented
						himself before the Emperor Ferdinand of Germany with a proposition which, at first,
						appeared so extravagant and incredible to the Emperor himself and to his counsellors
						that they doubted the sanity or sincerity of the man who made it. But he insisted on the
						feasibility of his plan with so much eloquence and enthusiasm that they finally
						consented to it. Wallenstein proposed to the Emperor to enroll, entirely at his own
						personal expense, an army to fight for the cause of the Emperor and to protect his
						hereditary states, provided he should have the power to make that army at least fifty
						thousand strong, to appoint all the officers, and take supreme command himself, without
						being interfered with by other generals, no matter how highly stationed they might be.
						The immense wealth of Wallenstein guaranteed the financial success of the plan; moreover
						he received permission to make his army self-sustaining by pillage, marauding, and
						forced contributions in all those districts which it might temporarily occupy.
					When the new plan and the appointment of Wallenstein to the command of a large army
						— larger than any other in the field — became known, the world, and
						especially Germany, was struck with amazement, and there were but few who believed that
						it could be carried out. But those who doubted did not know the tremendous energy, the
						boundless resources, and the towering ambition of the man. The plan was carried out to
						its fullest extent: within a few months a large and 
						well-equipped army was ready to take the field, and Wallenstein, whose name was
						comparatively unknown in the history of war, suddenly assumed an importance which
						eclipsed that of the renowned generals of the Catholic League and of the Protestant
						Union. The suddenness of his elevation, the apparent mystery surrounding him, and the
						rumors of the royal rewards in store for him, made the imperialistic generals very
						jealous. It may be truthfully said that from the very moment Wallenstein took command of
						his army, he had not only to face the Protestant armies in the field, but also to guard
						against his Catholic rivals, who used their high connections at the imperial court to
						undermine his position and blacken his character in a most unscrupulous manner. The
						achievements of Wallenstein fully realized the high expectations of the Emperor. He
						displayed consummate generalship in the field, and had a magnetic power of attraction
						which caused his whole army, both officers and men, to idolize him. At the same time his
						army increased rapidly and wonderfully. It soon reached the one hundred thousand mark
						and still they were coming, while the armies of the League were decreasing at a fearful
						rate from camp diseases and the ravages of war. The Emperor made him Duke of Friedland,
						and "the Friedlanders" became soon a terror to friend and foe. In his march of victory,
						which extended from Hungary and Transylvania to the Baltic Sea, he swept the Protestant
						armies from the face of the earth. Where the Friedlanders had passed, no human dwelling,
						no human being remained to tell of the cruelty and devastation which had struck the
						country, and which fell with the same crushing weight on Catholics and Protestants. The
						army was to  be self-sustaining and was therefore given
						full liberty of pillage and marauding wherever it went. Coming to the extreme north of
						Germany, he invaded Mecklenburg, whose dukes had furnished men and money to the King of
						Denmark in his campaign against the imperialists. The King of Denmark had after a
						decisive defeat left Germany and returned to his own kingdom, and on Wallenstein's
						approach the Duke of Mecklenburg also hastily decamped and left his country to the mercy
						of the conqueror. Wallenstein took possession of it and was rewarded with the title of
						Duke of Mecklenburg and the rank of a sovereign prince of the Empire. The royal crown of
						Bohemia, which rumor and secret whisperings designated as the reward in store for him
						after the conclusion of peace, was now not so far off as on the day he took the command
						of his army. But the higher he rose, the greater became the envy and hatred of his
						rivals, especially of the sovereign princes whose countries and cities had suffered from
						the passing of his army.
					From Mecklenburg Wallenstein turned to Pomerania, where Stralsund, one of the greatest
						fortresses of the Empire, impeded his further progress. Wallenstein invested it with his
						army, and made several assaults, which were successfully repulsed. The brave inhabitants
						had sworn to hold out to the last and rather perish in the defence of their hearths and
						homes and families than surrender their city to a conqueror who showed no mercy to the
						vanquished. Wallenstein, on the other hand, was determined to enter the city as a
						conqueror. Hearing that the inhabitants would defend the city unto death, he swore that
						he would take it, even if it were bound  with chains to
						Heaven, and he laid a regular siege to it. But all his efforts were in vain. The Swedes
						succeeded in giving succor to the beleaguered city from the seaward side, reinforcing it
						with troops, ammunition, and provisions. Finally, after a delay of two months and a loss
						of twelve thousand men, Wallenstein abandoned the project of taking the city, raised the
						siege, and returned to Mecklenburg. There the conquest of the strongly fortified city of
						Rostock consoled him to a certain extent for his failure at Stralsund.
					Emboldened by the great successes of Wallenstein and the almost complete overthrow of
						the Protestant armies, the Emperor rather rashly undertook to reinstate the Catholic
						Church in all its former privileges and to compel the Protestant states to restore all
						the property and real estate which had been confiscated and estranged from that church
						during the preceding eighty years. To carry out this imperial plan the so-called
						Restitution Edict was promulgated, — a very unwise measure, which spread
						consternation and alarm throughout the Empire, and fanned the dying embers of the
						religious war into a new flame. Not only Protestants, but many Catholics protested
						against the edict, and Wallenstein himself criticised it sharply. But the Emperor would
						not recede from the resolution he had taken.
					Wallenstein's influence was already rapidly declining; his overthrow was near at hand.
						In 1630 the imperial diet of Regensburg was held. All the sovereign princes of Germany,
						and especially all the Electors of the Empire were present, and they made jointly a
						terrible onslaught on Wallenstein, whom they all hated or envied. They united their
						complaints against him and demanded his  immediate and
						peremptory dismissal from the service, as a punishment for the outrages committed by his
						army and for the extortions and exorbitant levies which he had made from friend and foe
						for his own self-aggrandizement. For a long time the Emperor resisted these demands and
						stood up for the great general to whom he owed so much; but he was anxious to secure the
						votes of the Electors for his son, the King of Hungary, as heir to the imperial crown,
						and the dismissal of Wallenstein was to be the price for these votes. He therefore
						issued the decree, deposing Wallenstein from his office of generalissimo of the army. It
						is said that he trembled in affixing his signature to the document, and that for weeks
						afterwards he lived in extreme fear of the wrath of the powerful chieftain. But
						Wallenstein took his disgrace very coolly. The news came to him at a moment when he was
						with Seni, a famous astrologer, in whom he placed implicit confidence. Seni had just
						predicted to him, from a configuration of the stars, that he would experience a
						tremendous disappointment, but that this disappointment would be followed soon by his
						complete reinstatement in all the honors which he might be deprived of. Wallenstein took
						the decree of deposition as the confirmation of Seni's prediction. Without showing much
						irritation, and only with an expression of regret that the Emperor had been ill-advised
						and had yielded to bad counsels, he left the army and withdrew to Prague, the capital of
						Bohemia, to live there in royal splendor and luxury.
					When Wallenstein's soldiers were informed of the dismissal of their chief, whom they
						idolized and regarded with an affection mingled with awe and terror, there  was danger of an open revolt against the Emperor's decree;
						but Wallenstein himself and some of his generals quieted their rage and suppressed all
						manifestations of rebellion. Thousands of soldiers and a great number of officers
						refused to remain in the Emperor's service, declaring that they had enlisted only in
						order to serve under Wallenstein and under no other commander. More than one half of the
						entire army left the service, and most of the officers, at their own request,
						accompanied the deposed general to his new place of residence, Prague. The disgrace of
						the general, or rather the act of removal which, in the eyes of the German princes, was
						intended to disgrace him, turned out to be a triumph, greater than a victory in the
						field, and made his position in Germany even more conspicuous. Moreover, everybody
						seemed to feel that the hour of his reinstatement would soon come. And Wallenstein, on
						his part, neglected nothing to confirm this opinion, which flattered his vanity, and
						which he firmly believed would be realized, because "it was written in the stars."
					It was perhaps as a challenge to his princely enemies at the imperial court and in
						defiance of the Emperor himself that he established his household on a footing more
						becoming a reigning monarch than a private citizen. He had a secret desire to accustom
						the people of Bohemia to look upon him as the man who might, within a short time, be
						called upon to rule over them as king. Otherwise it is hardly reasonable to suppose that
						he would have paraded such wealth and magnificence as could not but confirm the charges
						preferred against him by his influential enemies, — namely, gigantic extortions
						and robberies of public and private moneys, and plans to 
						satisfy an insatiable ambition. His palace had six public entrances, and he caused a
						hundred houses to be torn down to enlarge the vacant place surrounding it. By day and by
						night it was guarded by sentinels, and during the night the public streets leading to it
						were barred with chains, that the rest of the Duke might not be disturbed. In the hall
						leading to the antechamber of his private apartments fifty halberdiers were constantly
						on guard, while sixty pages, all from the best families of Germany, four chamberlains,
						six barons, and a master of ceremonies belonging to one of the most illustrious houses
						of the Empire, were always ready to receive the orders of the great man. Whenever he
						travelled, his own carriage was drawn by eight full-blooded horses; his attendants
						followed in fifty carriages, each drawn by six horses, while as many baggage wagons,
						each drawn by four horses, transported the baggage for the ducal procession, and sixty
						richly mounted cavaliers formed the regular escort of "His Highness."
					As if Providence wished to advance the pretensions of Wallenstein, the Emperor's
						affairs took a turn for the worse soon after his removal from the command of the army.
						Incensed at the intolerance of the German Emperor and his Restitution Edict, which was
						to be enforced in its full severity, Gustavus Adolphus, the great and high-minded King
						of Sweden, came to the assistance of the Protestant princes of northern Germany. He came
						not unsupported; behind him, and as his secret ally, stood the King of France, or rather
						Richelieu. This great French statesman, although a cardinal of the Catholic Church, saw
						the time had come to curtail the power of Austria, and therefore utilized the military
						genius of  Gustavus Adolphus to effectually cripple the
						Emperor's power, and to raise France to a predominant position in Europe. Richelieu
						equipped and subsidized the Swedish armies and, by doing so, enabled the Swedish King,
						whose country was comparatively poor and whose resources were consequently limited, to
						take the field in Germany with a strong force.
					On the twenty-fourth of June, 1630, Gustavus Adolphus landed his army in Pomerania.
						That date marks the turning-point in the fortunes of the Thirty Years' War. The Swedish
						King's piety, and the strict discipline which he maintained in his army, stood in such
						glaring contrast to the excesses and outrages committed by the armies of Tilly and
						Wallenstein that the King was welcomed by the sovereigns of northern Germany as a savior
						and liberator. It is not our purpose to describe the glorious and victorious career of
						Gustavus Adolphus in the Empire. Suffice it to say that the conditions of victory and
						defeat, of triumph and despondency, were entirely reversed, that the imperial armies
						were unable to stem the tide of victory which had set in for the Protestant cause since
						the Swedish King's appearance on German soil, that his progress southward was rapid and
						incessant, that the Catholic princes were either vanquished or fugitives from their
						states, and that the Emperor himself was trembling in his palace at Vienna, as report
						after report informed him of the uninterrupted onward march of the royal hero. Who can
						help? Who can oppose and prevent this steady march of conquest? To the terrified mind of
						the Emperor only one man presents himself. It is Wallenstein. But Wallenstein has been
						mortally offended by him. How can the Emperor humiliate 
						himself before a subject and assuage his wrath? The danger is increasing.
					Gustavus is still on the Rhine, but he prepares an invasion of Würtemberg, many of
						whose inhabitants will gladly welcome him. The advance of his army, under General Horn,
						is in Franconia and driving the Imperialists before him. No time is to be lost. The
						Emperor sends a friendly message to Wallenstein; but the message is haughtily rejected,
						and the messengers are treated with arrogance, not to say contempt. He sends back word
						to the Emperor that he does not care to repair the faults of others; that he is not on
						friendly terms with the allies of the Emperor; that he is tired and sick of war; that he
						is in need of rest, etc. The Emperor sends new messengers, holds out new rewards. He
						insists and appeals. At last, in December, 1631, Wallenstein promises to raise a new
						army, equip it and place it in the field by the first of March, 1632; but he positively
						refuses to command it. The magic power of his name renews the prodigy of six years
						before. On the first of March the hereditary states of Austria — Bohemia, Silesia,
						and Moravia — had furnished him a splendid army of forty thousand men. But it was
						a body without a soul; it lacked a leader able to command it and lead it to victory. The
						most urgent demands, prayers, supplications of the Emperor at last decide Wallenstein to
						take the command of this army, which is crazed with enthusiasm when he finally accepts.
						But he accepts only on conditions most humiliating to the Emperor. He will be
						generalissimo of the armies of Austria and Spain; he will appoint all his subordinate
						officers; the Emperor will not be permitted to join the army, and will in no way
						interfere with its direction or  movements; Wallenstein
						will receive one of the hereditary states of Austria as a reward; he will be
						war-governor of all the territory occupied by his army; he will have the right to levy
						contributions, and all confiscated property will belong to him; he alone can grant
						amnesty; he will remain Duke of Mecklenburg, even if another crown be given to him; all
						his expenditures will be paid back to him at the conclusion of peace; and in case of
						defeat, he will have the right to retire upon Vienna, and remain there. These
						conditions, readily granted by the Emperor, made Wallenstein practically the Dictator of
						the Empire.
					It was at Nuremberg, one of the most ancient and prosperous cities of Bavaria, that the
						two great captains met face to face for the first time. Gustavus Adolphus had many
						friends in the city, which he wanted to protect against the Imperialists and from which
						he had received many reinforcements and supplies. His army had taken quarters in the
						immediate neighborhood. When Wallenstein approached, the King expected an immediate
						attack, but in this expectation he was disappointed. Whether he was afraid to endanger
						his party and his own reputation by the chances of a battle, or whether he thought that
						to check the victorious progress of the King was equivalent to a victory and would
						dishearten his allies, or whether the hope of starving the army of the King by cutting
						off his communications and supplies prompted his action, Wallenstein massed his army in
						front of Nuremberg, erected breastworks and strongly fortified them, and observed every
						movement of his great antagonist. It was evident that he wished to avoid giving battle.
						In this way they remained for eleven weeks  opposed to one
						another, neither daring to become the aggressor or to leave his fortified position. It
						was the King who moved first. Provisions both in his camp and in the city were getting
						very scarce, and a contagious camp disease had broken out among his troops and spread to
						the city, decimating the ranks of his army. He therefore resolved to attack the position
						of Wallenstein and take it by storm. A terrible battle ensued. The Swedes and the
						Protestant army showed wonderful bravery, but the heavy artillery of Wallenstein mowed
						them down in long lines, and they were unable to stand the incessant volleys of shot and
						shell which poured into their ranks all day long. The assault was repulsed with terrible
						loss to the Swedish army, and Wallenstein had the glory of having inflicted the first
						defeat on Gustavus Adolphus. This defeat was the more painful to the King because he had
						lost from ten to twelve thousand of his best soldiers and some of his ablest commanders
						in the vain attempt to take Wallenstein's position. But the defeat had no other bad
						results for Gustavus Adolphus, for Wallenstein permitted him to retreat from Nuremberg
						without molesting, attacking or pursuing him, although his army was greatly superior in
						numbers to the King's army, and although his loss during the battle of the preceding day
						was much smaller; in fact Wallenstein's loss in killed and wounded was estimated at no
						more than one thousand.
					This neglect of Wallenstein to annihilate the King's army, when everything seemed to
						favor such an attempt, is among the strongest evidences of his treacherous sentiments.
						It caused consternation at Vienna, and his enemies charged him openly with treason. But
						the  Emperor had no right to interfere! Finally
						Wallenstein also left his fortified camp, but instead of following Gustavus Adolphus to
						Thuringia, he went in an easterly direction and invaded Saxony, where he captured a
						detachment of two thousand five hundred Swedes and with them Count Thurn, a German
						nobleman, who for some reason or other had left the Emperor's service and had entered
						the Swedish King's. This Count Thurn was especially odious to the Emperor, and when the
						news of his capture reached Vienna, there was general rejoicing. The Count would
						unquestionably have been executed, but to the utter dismay of the court Wallenstein set
						him free and permitted him to return to the King, — as his enemies asserted, with
						secret overtures from the Imperialist commander. It is possible, although by no means
						certain, that Wallenstein, remembering how ungratefully he had been treated before, and
						thinking that the same ingratitude might be shown to him again as soon as his services
						were no longer needed, may have tried to open negotiations with the Swedish King to
						secure from him personal recognition and advantages which he was afraid would be
						withheld from him after the King's final overthrow. His fears were certainly not
						unreasonable, for the Emperor was surrounded by, and lent a willing ear to, the bitter
						enemies of Wallenstein, and to the very men who had brought about his first disgrace and
						dismissal. The King, on the other hand, if he received such overtures from Wallenstein,
						either distrusted him or did not see fit to act upon them favorably, possibly because
						Wallenstein's terms were too extravagant.
					As soon as Gustavus Adolphus had learned of Wallenstein's invasion of Saxony he turned
						round, and in forced  marches hurried also to Saxony in
						order to protect that unfortunate country from the ravages of the Friedlanders. The
						Elector of Saxony, while secretly favoring the German Emperor, had appealed to the King
						of Sweden for protection, and Gustavus Adolphus had granted his request. He marched so
						rapidly that Wallenstein, when informed of his approach, at first refused to believe the
						truth of the report, but nevertheless prepared to give him a warm reception. Having
						sent, a few days before, his most renowned cavalry general, Pappenheim, in another
						direction, he now sent messengers after him to recall him. The two great captains met at
						Lützen on the sixth of November. A terrible battle ensued, in which Gustavus Adolphus
						was killed. But Wallenstein was defeated; at least he left the battle-field in the
						possession of the enemy and retreated to Bohemia.
					This retrograde movement and his retreat from the battle-field were unfavorably
						commented on at Vienna and declared unnecessary. Insinuations of treason were again
						whispered into the Emperor's ear, and his suspicion was aroused to such a degree that
						Wallenstein's removal from the army was resolved upon, although this intention was kept
						secret for a while. The Emperor surrounded himself with Spanish soldiers to be safe from
						an attack of the Friedlanders. He also succeeded by bribes and promises in estranging a
						number of Wallenstein's prominent lieutenants from him and in securing them for his own
						service. To some extent Wallenstein was kept informed of these secret steps of the
						Emperor, and he tried to counteract them and to protect himself. He renewed his
						negotiations with the Swedes and the Protestant princes, who had found in Bernard, Duke
						of  Saxe-Weimar, a worthy successor of King Gustavus
						Adolphus as a military leader; and it is said that an agreement had been made by the two
						leaders of the opposing armies that Wallenstein's forces should join the Protestant
						army, and that they jointly should impose conditions of peace upon the Emperor. It goes
						without saying that a sovereignty for Wallenstein — most likely that of Bohemia
						— was included in the terms of peace.
					Before this agreement could be carried out, events occurred which not only precipitated
						the downfall, but cut short the life of the over-ambitious military chieftain. It was of
						the greatest importance to Wallenstein to find out how far he would be able to rely on
						his army commanders and on their regiments in carrying out his treasonable projects. He
						first revealed these to three of them, — Terzky, Kinsky, and Illo, — the
						first two related to him by marriage, and the last an avowed and bitter enemy of the
						Emperor, who had refused to raise him to the rank of count. It was Illo who undertook to
						find out how the generals and colonels would feel and act; he called them together one
						evening and very cautiously proceeded to inflame their minds against the Emperor and
						glorify the services of Wallenstein, who, he said, was the only one who could have saved
						the Emperor from ruin, and who was now to be sacrificed again to the envy and jealousy
						of his enemies. This announcement caused loud protests and great indignation among those
						present. "But," concluded Illo, "the Duke is not willing to undergo this new
						humiliation, which is a shameful reward for his long and glorious services; no, he will
						not wait until it pleases the Emperor to kick him out, but he will go voluntarily and
						resign his command;  but what pains him deeply is the
						thought that, in doing so, he must leave his devoted friends and comrades, and cannot
						reward them as he intended." It may well be thought that these remarks kindled revolt in
						the hearts of the soldiers, and that they swore they would not let the Duke leave the
						army. The next morning they sent a delegation to their commander-in-chief, imploring him
						to desist from his intention of leaving the army, and assuring him that they would stand
						by him, no matter what might happen. It was only when a second delegation of the highest
						and most popular officers waited upon him, that the Duke gave way to their entreaties
						and promised to remain at the head of the army. But he attached one condition to this
						promise: he exacted from all the commanders a written pledge that they would all,
						jointly and singly, stand by him as their chief, and would consider his removal from the
						command of the army a public calamity. They all agreed to this condition, and a paper
						embodying this declaration was gotten up to be signed by all of them.
					Illo took it upon himself to secure all the signatures, and in order to make short work
						of it, invited the commanders to an evening party at his headquarters, where he read the
						paper to them; but, in order to preclude all suspicion in the minds of the signers,
						Wallenstein had inserted a clause which bound the signers to the agreement only as long
						as Wallenstein used the army in the service of the Emperor. After Illo had read the
						paper containing the saving clause, he dexterously withdrew it and substituted for it
						another copy without the clause, and unknowingly the commanders signed it. Moreover,
						most of them were half or entirely intoxicated and could 
						not have discovered the deception; but one or two had remained sober, and when they read
						the paper again before signing it, they found that it was different from the one which
						had been read to them. They indignantly charged Illo with having practised a fraud on
						them, and the company broke up in confusion and anger. This half-failure seems to have
						opened Wallenstein's eyes to the real situation in which he found himself. Many of his
						commanders were too devoted Catholics to make common cause with the enemies of their
						Church, and while they were willing to stand by Wallenstein to the last as the defender
						of their faith, they refused to follow him into the Protestant camp and as a deserter
						from the Emperor's service. It also opened the Emperor's eyes to the necessity of prompt
						action, unless he would permit Wallenstein to concoct some plan by which he might lead
						the whole army into the camp of the Protestants. He therefore secretly commissioned
						General Gallas, one of Wallenstein's subordinates, to take command of the army as soon
						as the time had come for openly deposing the Duke of Friedland. It was a game of
						duplicity and deception on both sides. The Emperor tried to cheat Wallenstein out of his
						command and reward, and Wallenstein tried to cheat the Emperor out of the army.
					Until then Wallenstein had been at Pilsen; but after the demonstration of the
						commanders, he deemed it advisable for his own plans and interests to transfer his
						headquarters to the strongly fortified city of Eger, which was commanded by Gordon, whom
						he considered one of his most reliable friends. The larger part of the army remained at
						Pilsen, while Wallenstein himself, escorted by a number of picked regiments under the
						command of  his most trusted lieutenants, went to Eger.
						But there he was to meet his doom. The thunderclouds of imperial wrath had been
						gathering more and more threateningly above his head. Wallenstein saw them not and
						feared them not. Had not the stars prophesied his coming elevation? Even when the
						Emperor published a proclamation, which was secretly distributed in the army, declaring
						him a rebel and offering a reward for his surrender, dead or alive, he would not believe
						it; he laughed at it when it was shown him. Under ordinary circumstances he would have
						had the courage to treat any imperial edict with contempt, for with his army his name
						was a much greater power and authority than that of the Emperor; but a complication had
						arisen which in the minds of his soldiers paralyzed his efforts and reëstablished the
						Emperor's supremacy. This complication was the increasing strength of the Protestant
						armies. The Duke's army, lawless, cruel, and violating every rule of morality, was
						nevertheless composed of men who stood in slavish fear of the Church and of the priest,
						and as soon as Wallenstein turned against these two, the soldiers turned against him.
						They were willing to follow him to death in a Catholic cause, when death would open to
						them the gates of Paradise, but they refused to follow him to death when death would
						deliver them to the everlasting torments of hell.
					With this invisible moral power the great commander had not reckoned. Among the very
						men whom he had picked out as his escort to Eger were his murderers. And they did not
						wait long, for fear that others might anticipate them in their bloody work, and capture
						not only the imperial reward, but also the benedictions of the  Church. These men were Gordon, the commander of the Eger garrison, and
						Leslie (both Scotchmen), Deveroux and Butler (both Irishmen). They had always been
						enthusiastic friends and admirers of Wallenstein, but they were also fanatical
						Catholics, and when they had to choose between their commander and the Church, their
						devotion to the latter prevailed. Deveroux was the leading spirit in the plot. He had
						received private instructions from Gallas and Piccolomini and won over the others. They
						also secured the assistance of a number of soldiers in their regiments, and solemnly
						pledged themselves to surrender Wallenstein's person, dead or alive, to Gallas, who was
						to take command of the imperial army. But in order to prevent interference with their
						dark design, Gordon, the commander of the garrison, invited them all to the citadel for
						an evening entertainment. At this entertainment, while eating supper, Illo, Terzky,
						Kinsky and Newman, were murdered. It was on a Saturday evening, February 25, 1634, the
						day after they had arrived with Wallenstein at Eger. Wallenstein himself was not
						present. He had retired early that night, after having once more consulted the stars
						with his Italian astrologer, who discovered unfavorable signs in the constellations. But
						it seems Wallenstein paid no attention to these warnings, and fell soundly asleep soon
						afterwards. Toward midnight, or perhaps shortly after midnight, he was aroused from his
						sleep by a loud noise. Coming from the citadel, where Wallenstein's lieutenants had been
						slain, Butler, with a number of his dragoons, and Deveroux, with a number of his
						halberdiers, marched up to Wallenstein's residence. Since both Butler and Deveroux were
						well known to the guards in the hall,  they were
						immediately admitted, but when they reached the anteroom to the Duke's apartments, the
						sentinel wanted to stop them. He was cut down, not, however, before he had called for
						help, and cried out: "Murderers! Rebels!" It was this tumult that aroused Wallenstein.
						He jumped out of bed and hurried to the window to ask the sentinel posted at the
						entrance what was the matter. At that moment the door leading to the anteroom was burst
						open, and Deveroux, a halberd in his hands, and followed by half a dozen of his men,
						entered the bedroom, where he found himself face to face with Wallenstein. "Are you the
						scoundrel," said he, "who wants to rob his Imperial Majesty of his crown? You must die
						now!" And without having given any answer, Wallenstein received a stab of the halberd
						which lacerated the intestines and caused almost immediate death. Like Cæsar, he might
						have exclaimed, "Et tu, Brute!" for he had always especially befriended and
						distinguished this man Deveroux, who had come to him poor and friendless, and who owed
						to him everything. One of the halberdiers wished to throw Wallenstein's corpse out of
						the window, but Deveroux would not permit it; he rolled the body up in a table cover and
						had it transported to the citadel, where the Duke's murdered friends were lying in the
						yard, waiting for their burial. Wallenstein's body was placed by their side. It was then
						resolved to send the bodies of the dead generals to one of Illo's country-seats, which
						was in the neighborhood. In placing them in their coffins, it was found that
						Wallenstein's coffin was too small, and in order to force him into it his legs had to be
						broken.
					Thus died one of the most remarkable men of the 
						seventeenth century, — the greatest of the German generals of the terrible Thirty
						Years' War. As a strategist, he may not have been fully the equal of Gustavus Adolphus,
						but he had a magnetic power over his men which even that great commander did not
						possess, and which would have made him invincible, had not superstition and religious
						awe counteracted it. The German Emperor, hearing of his assassination, appeared to be
						overwhelmed with grief, and ordered three thousand masses to be read for the salvation
						of his soul; but he tried in vain to deceive the world by this hypocritical sorrow for a
						murder which he had planned and for which he rewarded the assassins. To this very day
						the treason of Wallenstein remains shrouded in doubt; and very likely it will remain
						forever an unsolved problem.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIV JOHN AND CORNELIUS DE WITT
					
					
					
					
						JOHN DE WITT
					
					
					CHAPTER XIV ASSASSINATION OF THE BROTHERS JOHN AND CORNELIUS DE
						WITT (August 20, 1672)
					NEVER, perhaps, was the old saying, "Republics are ungrateful," more
						strikingly verified than in the case of the two brothers De Witt, who, after having
						rendered many great services to the Dutch Republic, were foully murdered by an
						infuriated mob in the streets of the Hague, August 20, 1672. John and Cornelius de Witt
						were the sons of a distinguished citizen of the city of Dordrecht, who had represented
						that city in the general assemblies of Holland and Friesland and was known as an
						eloquent and incorruptible defender of popular rights. He had placed himself at the head
						of the anti-Orange party because he considered the ambition and power of the princes of
						Orange a standing danger to the Republic. Grown up under the direction of such a father,
						the two sons had naturally imbibed his strong democratic principles, and their undoubted
						patriotism was strongly tinged with hostility to the house of Orange. The two De Witts
						have often been compared to the Gracchi, and, like those illustrious Romans, they worked
						and died for their democratic principles. Both were highly talented and, while  quite young, rose to the highest honors and dignities among
						their countrymen, — Cornelius, the elder of the two, by his eminent legal ability
						and his skill as a military and naval director and commissary, and John, by his eminence
						as an administrator and statesman. It is difficult to decide which of the two was
						intellectually the superior. A medal struck in their honor bore the inscription, "Hic
						armis maximus, ille toga." It should not be inferred, however, from this inscription,
						that Cornelius, to whom the word "armis" applied, was at any time commander-in-chief of
						the Dutch army and navy, since he held only the office of government inspector of the
						navy, in which capacity he greatly distinguished himself.
					John was, at the age of twenty-five, elected pensionary of the city of Dordrecht, and
						two years later, in 1652, Grand Pensionary of Holland, one of the highest offices in the
						United Provinces. His political influence was very great, and he used it to the best of
						his ability against the house of Orange. William the Second, Prince of Orange, had died
						on the second of October, 1650, leaving only a widow and a posthumous son as his heirs.
						On these circumstances, so unfavorable to the illustrious house which had played for so
						many years a conspicuous part in the history of the Netherlands, John de Witt built his
						hopes of dealing a deathblow to its political pretensions and of abolishing forever the
						office of stadtholder. It was, however, no easy task to accomplish this object. The
						province of Zealand was full of friends and partisans of the late stadtholder, who
						vigorously opposed any attempt in the direction contemplated by De Witt; and the other
						provinces, either from loyalty to the house of Orange, or from a secret jealousy of the
						supremacy of  the states of Holland, which always wanted
						to control the policy of the Republic, either openly rejected the plans of De Witt or
						modified and attenuated them as exaggerated.
					At the moment when John de Witt took the reins of government, the states were at war
						with England, and the war had taken a very unfavorable turn for them. The Dutch admirals
						had suffered several terrible defeats. Tromp, one of their most celebrated naval heroes,
						had been killed in battle, and an English fleet was cruising along the coast of Holland,
						blockading its ports, and paralyzing its commerce. But De Witt repaired these disasters
						with such rapidity, and restored to the Dutch navy such a formidable strength by his
						administrative genius, that Cromwell was willing to enter into negotiations for peace,
						which he had haughtily rejected before. A treaty of peace, submitted by the Grand
						Pensionary of Holland and signed at Westminster on the fifteenth of April, 1654,
						reëstablished virtually the conditions which had existed between the two nations before
						the war. However, the Dutch Republic was compelled to recognize the superiority of the
						English flag in the channel, and bound itself to give the Stuart dynasty no support, and
						that no Prince of Orange should be elected again either Stadtholder or Captain-General.
						This last section of the treaty was signed, at first by the province of Holland only,
						and was kept secret for a long time. In getting this provision of exclusion of the house
						of Orange passed (which, by the way, was as welcome to De Witt as to Cromwell) by the
						other provinces also, the Grand Pensionary practised a good deal of duplicity, and laid
						himself open to serious charges of official deception which later on contributed to his
						downfall.
					
					In the meantime another complication had arisen and taxed the statesmanship of the
						Dutch government and the patriotism of the Netherlanders to the utmost. In France Louis
						the Fourteenth had taken the reins of government into his own hands, and manifested an
						ambition for conquest which endangered the security of all his neighbors. Although the
						wife of Louis, at the time of her marriage, had solemnly renounced all her rights of
						succession to the Spanish throne and any Spanish provinces, the King nevertheless after
						the death of his wife's father, Philip the Fourth, claimed the Spanish Netherlands as
						justly belonging to his wife, and defended this claim not so much by argument as by an
						invasion and armed occupation of the disputed territory. No state was more deeply
						interested in the outcome of this dispute than the Netherlands. With growing fear they
						beheld the rapid progress which the armies of the French King under the command of great
						generals were making, and they thought that their own independence might suffer from the
						immediate neighborhood of so powerful and aggressive a monarch. With great skill the
						Dutch government secretly formed an alliance with Sweden and England by which these
						three powers agreed that the Spanish Netherlands should remain under Spanish dominion
						and that Louis the Fourteenth should be prevented from annexing them to the French
						monarchy. This Triple Alliance was too powerful to be defied by the French King, and he
						made peace with Spain, evacuating Franche-Comté, which he had already conquered, but
						retaining possession of a number of important cities in the Netherlands, — such as
						Charleroi, Douai, Lille, Tournay and Oudenarde, which by the genius of  Vauban were converted into almost impregnable fortresses.
						Dutch statesmanship was the obstacle which had placed itself in the King's way and
						frustrated his ambitious designs. Personal irritation and offended vanity were added to
						his chagrin at the failure of his plans.
					A boastful medal was struck in the Netherlands commemorating the diplomatic victory
						which their government had achieved over the power of France. On this medal a Dutch
						statesman was represented as Joshua bidding the sun (the symbol of Louis the Fourteenth)
						to stand still. For this arrogance the Republic was to be punished, and with matchless
						skill and cunning the French government went to work to prepare for its overthrow. The
						general political situation of Europe was highly favorable to the consummation of the
						French designs. The Emperor of Germany, a weak and pusillanimous sovereign, had his
						hands full in the eastern provinces of the Empire, in which the Turks had advanced
						victorious up to the very gates of Vienna; he was therefore powerless to oppose French
						aggression in the Netherlands. Moreover special negotiations had been opened with some
						of the sovereign princes of northern Germany by which the French monarch secured the
						right to march his armies through their territory on their way to the United Netherlands
						without touching Spanish territory. With equal success the French diplomats dissolved
						the Triple Alliance, and made both Sweden and England, former allies of the Dutch
						Republic, subservient to the French monarch. Sweden received an annual subsidy of
						600,000 dollars from the French treasury, and England a subsidy of 350,000 pounds
						sterling and also the promise of the province of Zealand as its share of the
						dismemberment of  the United Netherlands. Princess
						Henrietta of France, wife of the Duke of Orleans and sister of Charles the Second of
						England, was sent by the wily French King to England to negotiate this infamous treaty.
						She succeeded in accomplishing her object mainly through the influence which one of the
						ladies of her suite, Mademoiselle de Querouet, gained over the mind of the English King,
						who made her his mistress and bestowed on her the title of Duchess of Portsmouth.
					Having thus fortified himself on all sides and deprived the United Netherlands of the
						possibility of taking the field against him with any chance of success, Louis declared
						war upon them. The result could not be doubtful. Moreover the domestic discord and the
						active struggle between the political factions added much to the gravity of the
						situation, and partly paralyzed the efforts of the government to arouse the provinces to
						a full comprehension of the danger. John de Witt was the chief executive of the
						government, and upon him rested largely the responsibility of the situation. The
						Orangist party turned its main attacks against him, and spared neither criticism nor
						calumny to undermine his standing and authority. It charged him directly with having,
						either through incompetency or something worse, neglected to place the country in a
						suitable state of defence, and then having provoked a war with a powerful enemy. These
						charges against De Witt were largely unjust, and were preferred only to punish him for
						his opposition to reinstating the house of Orange in the stadtholdership and in the
						chief command of all the military forces of the Republic.
					John de Witt had made two radical errors in his  estimate
						of the political situation. He knew that Louis the Fourteenth felt irritated at the
						Dutch Republic's action in preventing his acquisition of the Spanish Netherlands; but he
						did not know that the French King would resent that action, and make gigantic
						preparations for crushing the Dutch Republic. Never before had such tremendous efforts
						been made by a great nation to destroy a weak neighbor. The war was to be short and
						decisive, and the insolent "traders" — that was the name the haughty French King
						gave to the citizens of the Netherlands — were to be punished radically. The
						second error which De Witt committed was his underestimation of the venality and
						corruption existing in the government circles of his former allies, England and Sweden.
						He learned at an early day that French diplomacy had induced them to recede from the
						Triple Alliance; but he did not realize at the time that French gold and French promises
						had persuaded these two powers to make common cause with him for the dismemberment of
						the Republic, and to furnish troops for that purpose. When finally the full reality of
						the King's revengeful plan was revealed to him, he not only aroused the people of the
						Netherlands to a realization of the terrible danger which threatened them, but he also,
						with his usual energy, went to work to find assistance against the overwhelming odds
						among the other European powers, and his experienced statesmanship served him well in
						bringing into play all the different motives, both personal and political, by which he
						could hope to influence their decisions.
					Unfortunately the allies he could enlist in his cause were too weak to constitute an
						adequate counterpoise to the enormous power of his opponent. In stating the  general political situation of Europe preceding the attack
						of Louis the Fourteenth on the Dutch Republic, we have already mentioned the causes
						which prevented the other powers from active interference in behalf of the Netherlands.
						The aggressive Turk, also influenced by French money, kept the Emperor of Germany busy
						in his eastern provinces, and left him little time to care for other things than his own
						protection. Moreover Louis the Fourteenth had, by munificent presents and liberal
						payments, won the secret support of the Emperor's prime minister, Lobkowitz, who did all
						in his power to overcome his master's fears concerning the intentions of the French
						King, and frustrated the efforts of the King's enemies to draw him over to their side.
						De Witt had to contend with these difficulties in securing little more than the moral
						support of the Emperor; but when the rapid progress of the French arms had revealed to
						him the danger which threatened the Empire, he consented reluctantly and hesitatingly to
						a sort of active intervention for the protection of the German territory.
					One ally of the Dutch Republic should not be forgotten here — Frederick William,
						the great Elector of Brandenburg, whose political genius enabled him to see the
						disastrous consequences which the growing power of the King of France would have not
						only for the German Empire, but also for his own possessions on the Rhine. He,
						therefore, concluded an alliance with the Dutch Republic, promising an army of twenty
						thousand men in defence of German soil against the aggression of the French King, and
						used besides his influence over the German Emperor in persuading him to join the
						alliance. The Elector of Brandenburg was for one reason a 
						particularly valuable ally, because his army was needed to keep in check the Swedes, who
						were to take the field in northern Germany as soon as the German Emperor would show a
						disposition to coöperate with the Dutch Republic. The decisive victory of Fehrbellin, in
						which the great Elector routed a Swedish army much superior in numbers to his own,
						showed how gloriously he performed his part of the programme.
					It was at this time that the Prince of Orange, although only twenty years old, appeared
						to the Dutch people as a savior from these threatened calamities. The young Prince,
						after the death of his mother, in 1661, passed under the guardianship of John de Witt,
						who had him instructed in political science and in the study of modern languages. It
						would seem that, with the foresight of genius, he foresaw the prominent part which
						Prince William would sooner or later play in the history of the Republic, and that, in
						spite of his personal antipathy to the house of Orange, he was patriotic enough to
						educate him well for his coming career. The precarious condition of his health, which
						seemed to disqualify the Prince for the hardships and exposures of military life, had no
						influence whatever on his ambition to equal the great achievements of his ancestors. An
						opportunity for reaching the goal of his ambition was given him when the States-General,
						in obedience to the urgent demand of the people, appointed him Captain-General of the
						Republic. Although the powers of the new commander-in-chief were limited by several
						provisions, yet the Republican party, under the leadership of De Witt, demanded more and
						better guarantees for curbing the ambition of the Prince. It demanded and obtained from
						the  States-General an order that the Captain-General
						should be obliged to swear to maintain the Perpetual Edict suppressing the
						stadtholdership and prohibiting its reëstablishment. John de Witt also strongly opposed
						the life-appointment of the Prince of Orange until he should have completed his
						twenty-second year, while the Orangists and the Prince himself made his life-appointment
						a condition for his acceptance. A compromise was finally reached, and Prince William of
						Orange, known in history as William the Third, was solemnly inaugurated in his new
						office of commander-in-chief. On him was imposed the difficult task to oppose the armies
						of Louis the Fourteenth, commanded by Condé, Turenne, Luxembourg and Vauban. Entire
						harmony and good-will seemed to exist between the Grand Pensionary and the Prince after
						the latter's appointment to the command of the army. They corresponded in a very cordial
						tone, and De Witt showed the greatest eagerness to satisfy the wishes of the Prince for
						the thorough defence of the country. It is not our purpose to mention in detail the
						indefatigable exertions of John de Witt to place the country in a suitable state of
						defence. But these exertions and the measures they resulted in were not sufficient to
						avert the calamities of the war and to prevent a conquest which everybody had foreseen.
						The Netherlanders had enjoyed peace for twenty-four years, and this long rest had
						unaccustomed the country to war. The constant quarrels between the different parties had
						weakened the unity of the Republic, and when the time for united and patriotic action
						came, the nation was but ill prepared for it.
					On the sixth of April, 1672, France issued a declaration 
						of war which had been long expected. Louis the Fourteenth celebrated beforehand the
						conquest he was about to undertake, although some of his most experienced generals,
						Condé for instance, did not share his confidence. However, the rapidity with which the
						French, after having crossed the Yssel, took cities and fortresses almost without firing
						a gun, seemed fully to justify Louis the Fourteenth in his anticipation of an easy and
						brilliant victory. One short month had sufficed to place at the mercy of the French
						monarch the flourishing and prosperous Republic, which four years before had interrupted
						him in his march of victory. No man suffered more both as a patriot and as a public
						official, from the disastrous turn in public affairs than John de Witt. He had done all
						that a sagacious statesman and a noble-minded patriot could do to prevent, and failing
						in this attempt, sought to repair the disasters which overwhelmed the Republic. But the
						ungrateful people failed to stand by him and reward his exertions for the public
						welfare. And not only the honor of having saved the independence of his country in this
						unequal conflict was denied to him, but his life itself was lost, as a sacrifice to
						popular hatred and fanaticism.
					Under these exasperating circumstances — each new day bringing information of a
						new calamity, of the surrender of a fortress, of the capitulation of a garrison, of the
						precipitate retreat of the army — it was not only natural, it was a matter of duty
						and patriotism for John de Witt, the head of the government, to enter into negotiations
						with the conqueror in order to check his rapid advance and get from him better terms of
						peace than might be expected after he had captured the last  bulwarks of Dutch independence. It was by no means De Witt's plan to open
						negotiations for the surrender of Dutch independence; but he hoped that the French King
						would consent to suspend hostilities during the progress of the negotiations, and that
						this intermission would give the Republic time to strengthen its bulwarks. In case of an
						unfavorable result, he would resume armed resistance with greater chances of success
						than before. John de Witt had frequently, during the months preceding the outbreak of
						the war, insisted on making adequate preparations to meet an attack of the French King,
						whose restless ambition for military glory and territorial expansion was well known. He
						had also pointed out (if all other means should fail) the necessity of again, as in the
						war with Spain, resorting to those means of defence which nature had placed in the
						possession of the Dutch, by opening the sluices and cutting the dykes, in order to let
						the sea overflow the bottom lands of the country, and thus protecting Holland, and above
						all Amsterdam, from foreign occupation. This last measure of defence, terrible and
						destructive as it was necessarily, was really the anchor of hope upon which the minds of
						Dutch patriots rested their expectations of final triumph.
					The Dutch navy was in excellent condition. It was still mistress of the seas, and it
						had lately, under the able command of De Ruyter one of the greatest naval heroes that
						ever lived, won two great victories over the fleets of France and England, which secured
						the Republic against the landing of foreign troops from the sea side. The Republic had
						spared no efforts to keep the navy in splendid condition, and more than any other man
						Cornelius de Witt had contributed to its efficiency. He was  an intimate friend of Admiral de Ruyter, and during the naval battle of Solbay,
						although seriously ill, he sat by his side, as the official delegate of the
						States-General, assisting him with his counsels, and by his very presence inspiring
						sailors and commanders with patriotic devotion. The greatness of his services to the
						Republic had been formally recognized after that battle by a unanimous vote of thanks of
						the States-General.
					It would seem almost a matter of impossibility that with such a record of patriotism,
						integrity and devotion to the public welfare, the voice of calumny should have been
						successfully raised against the two illustrious brothers; but it was done nevertheless
						by the Orange party, which did not forgive their opposition to the elevation of Prince
						William. The young Prince had, during the short campaign, won no martial laurels by
						victories in battles or by the capture of fortresses; but he had shown eminent qualities
						which promised glorious results if an opportunity were given for unfolding them. He was
						wise and circumspect beyond his years, self-collected and cool amid the most pressing
						dangers, inexhaustible in resources, and while thoroughly loyal to the Republic, yet
						proud of his ancestors and the pre-eminent part they had played in the history of their
						country.
					As soon as the report became public that the Grand Pensionary had taken steps for
						negotiations with the French King, the Orange party denounced them as acts of treason,
						and loudly demanded that Prince William should be placed in supreme authority. It also
						asserted that the failure of the campaign so far was due to the restrictions foolishly
						and criminally imposed on  the Prince, who might have
						saved the Republic if he had been permitted to follow the inspirations of his own genius
						and had not been fettered by instructions from men that had been his life-long enemies
						and who preferred the rule of a foreign monarch to the stadtholdership of a Prince of
						Orange. In this manner the public mind was filled with hatred toward the De Witts, while
						gradually the young Prince of Orange became the idol of the nation. Recollections of the
						glorious achievements of his forefathers, of their perseverance and patience, of their
						intrepidity and resoluteness, and of their final triumphs in situations as perilous as
						theirs, were awakened in the hearts of the burghers, and made them inclined to a
						restoration of the stadtholdership in behalf of the Prince. It was to be expected that
						sooner or later public excitement, aggravated from hour to hour by the unfavorable
						reports from the seat of war, would manifest itself in a violent explosion and fall with
						destructive force upon the very heads which were most entitled to public gratitude and
						veneration.
					Two attempts on the lives of the two brothers in the summer of 1672 — an attack
						on John de Witt which came very near killing him and prostrated him for weeks on a sick
						bed, and the other on Cornelius, who escaped from it almost unhurt — were the
						first serious manifestations of the public ill-will. It was only too evident that the
						Orange party was at the bottom of these outbursts of hostility, and that Prince William
						himself was not a stranger to the intrigues. On the second of July, 1672, the Prince of
						Orange was elected Stadtholder of Holland and Zealand for life. These were the only two
						provinces not occupied by the French armies, and the Prince's 
							CORNELIUS DE WITT
						
						 election was therefore equivalent to his appointment as
						Stadtholder of the Republic. In effect it placed the De Witts at his mercy.
					In vain the Grand Pensionary handed in his resignation the fourth of August. The Orange
						party was not satisfied with permitting him to retire from the public service; it formed
						a sinister conspiracy which engulfed the two illustrious men in ruin and death. A
						worthless scoundrel, a certain Tichelaar who on several occasions had been accused of
						felonies, openly charged Cornelius de Witt with having tried to bribe him to assassinate
						the Prince Stadtholder, — a proposition which he had indignantly rejected in spite
						of the tempting rewards offered to him. Incredible as it may appear, the accusation,
						contradicted both by the noble character of Cornelius de Witt and by the bad reputation
						of the informer, was eagerly acted upon by the authorities of Holland. Cornelius was
						arrested and imprisoned at the Hague, where for four days he was subjected to the infamy
						of the torture. It was hoped that in his agony he would make a confession of guilt
						which, true or not, would justify his partisan judges in passing a sentence of death on
						him. But Cornelius remained firm in his disdainful denial of the odious accusation, and
						the repetition of the torture on four different days did not change his testimony. Under
						these circumstances his base judges, instruments of the Stadtholder and his party, did
						not dare to pronounce the death sentence against him; but they found him guilty
						nevertheless, deprived him of all his public dignities, and exiled him for life from the
						territory of the Republic.
					It may appear strange that the Orange party  persecuted
						Cornelius de Witt, who was the brother of the Grand Pensionary, with such venomous
						hatred; but an occurrence which had shortly preceded his arrest will explain the
						ill-will of the leaders of the Orange party. Like the other cities of Holland, the city
						of Dordrecht had, by a vote of its Common Council, revoked the Perpetual Edict.
						Cornelius de Witt had but a few weeks before returned from the battle of Solbay, where
						he had so greatly distinguished himself, and was confined to his bed by serious illness.
						Being one of the highest city officials, his signature was required on the act of
						revocation, and the Orange leaders demanded that the document should be forthwith
						presented to him. City officials, followed by an excited and hostile mob, took it to his
						residence and requested him to sign it. He refused. In vain his family, his friends, and
						his servants implored him to affix his signature, telling him that a mob of thousands of
						excited people surrounded the house and threatened to demolish it and kill the
						inhabitants if his name should not appear on the paper. Finally the supplications and
						tears of his wife and children, imploring him not to sacrifice their lives by his
						obstinacy, induced him to affix his signature, but he added the two initials V. C. to
						it; and when the officials asked him what those two letters meant, he answered, "They
						stand for the words 'Vi coactus'" (yielding to violence). This declaration caused an
						outburst of indignation in the crowd, and but for the speedy erasure of the obnoxious
						initials by his wife, and the energetic efforts of his friends to protect him, Cornelius
						de Witt would very likely on that day have paid for his boldness with his life. It was
						ascertained that Tichelaar, who shortly afterwards accused  him of having planned the assassination of the Prince of Orange, had been one of the
						mob surrounding the house and vociferously demanding the punishment of the rebellious
						magistrate. The infamous charge of Tichelaar against the great patriot had
						unquestionably sprung from the scene at Cornelius de Witt's residence. The Orange
						leaders saw that it would not be safe for them or their master to let republicans like
						the two De Witts remain among them, and their death was resolved upon.
					The twentieth of August, 1672, was the fatal day which was to seal the doom of the two
						illustrious brothers. Cornelius, crushed by the sentence of perpetual banishment
						pronounced against him, remained in his cell at the Buitenhof, the terrible prison of
						the Hague. On the morning of that day John de Witt was called to the Buitenhof, where
						his brother wished to see him. Although warned by his friends not to go, the brave
						ex-Pensionary did not hesitate to comply with the summons. It was a false message.
						Reaching the prison, he found himself entrapped and at the mercy of the mob, which had
						assembled before the prison howling and shouting, "Hurrah for Orange! Death to the
						traitors!" It was but a short time after his arrival, and after a hurried and pathetic
						interview with his brother, that the rabble, instigated by the calumnies of the Orange
						men, burst open the doors of the prison, and with axes and sledge-hammers and clubs
						forced their way up to the cell where Cornelius was imprisoned. At the sight of the two
						brothers the fury of the mob knew no bounds. Like tigers they jumped upon them, threw
						them down, clubbed and slew them amid cries of beastly exultation. "There goes the
						Perpetual Edict!" one of the butchers  is said to have
						exclaimed as a powerful blow with the butt-end of his musket prostrated John de Witt
						senseless at his feet. Another murderer came up, and noticing symptoms of returning
						consciousness in the countenance of the Pensionary, he fired his pistol at him, blowing
						out his brains. Cornelius was killed by a tremendous blow with an iron bar which
						fractured his skull; he died instantly. But death alone did not satisfy the slayers.
						With unheard-of brutality they kicked, beat and abused, in every possible manner, the
						lifeless bodies, and finally, after having stripped off their clothes, dragged the
						mangled and disfigured remains from the jail to a gibbet which had been erected by
						volunteer executioners, and hung them by the feet. The popular frenzy went so far that
						the murderers cut and tore the flesh in pieces from the bodies of "the great traitors,
						John and Cornelius de Witt," and sold them in the streets of the city for a few cents
						each.
					Thus suffered and died on the twentieth of August, 1672, two of the purest and most
						high-minded patriots that any nation has produced, — murdered by their own people,
						whom they had served faithfully and successfully for many years. Their death is a dark
						blot on the annals of the Dutch Republic; and it is an indelible stain on the otherwise
						great and fair name of William the Third of Orange, Stadtholder of the Dutch Republic
						and afterwards King of England. History has forgotten many crimes, but it will not
						forget the assassination of the brothers De Witt.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XV ALEXIS, SON OF PETER THE GREAT
					
					
					
					
						ALEXIS
					
					
					CHAPTER XV ASSASSINATION OF ALEXIS, SON OF PETER THE GREAT
						(June 26, 1718)
					THE sudden death of Alexis, son of Peter the Great by his first wife
						Eudoxia, has always been and is still shrouded in mystery; but the prevailing opinion of
						historians is that the unfortunate young man was assassinated by direct order of his
						father, and all the surrounding circumstances point to this conclusion. We think we are
						therefore justified in placing it here among the famous assassinations in history. It is
						the darkest chapter in the history of Peter the Great, a monarch whose achievements as a
						civil administrator, reformer, and general entitle him to a high rank among the really
						great rulers of Europe; but these achievements should not be made a cloak or excuse for
						a crime from which not only modern civilization, but human nature itself, shrinks back
						in horror.
					It is not necessary here to go into the details of the marvellous activity and energy
						of Peter's life. More than any other ruler of ancient or modern times he stands before
						the world as a model national reformer, introducing, by the force of an indomitable
						will, the most sweeping changes and reforms into the social,  economical, political, industrial, and commercial life of the nation over
						which he rules, breaking with all the traditions of the past, and lifting his nation by
						a supreme effort from comparative barbarism into semi-culture, and starting it on the
						road to political greatness and commercial importance, on which it has made such
						astounding progress during the last two hundred years. The personal genius and
						initiative of Peter the Great have contributed more to the development of Russia's
						resources, and he has done more to raise her to her present position in Europe than all
						other causes combined. It is sad for the philanthropist and historian to admit that
						these great qualities were obscured by vices and habits that were, perhaps, the tribute
						which even the greatest of mortals has to pay to his age and to his nation.
					As a very young man Peter had married Eudoxia Laputkin, the daughter of a powerful and
						influential family. It was not a love marriage, but he had hoped to gain from this
						alliance a strengthening of his pretensions to the throne. Eudoxia was very handsome,
						but, while she pleased Peter, she had not the power to win his exclusive affection. She
						bore him a son, Alexis, but even the birth of an heir — generally so anxiously
						expected by autocrats — could not firmly establish intimate relations between
						Peter and Eudoxia while he permitted the boy to remain entirely under the care of the
						mother and her relatives. Unfortunately the Laputkin family was strongly attached to
						ancient Russian traditions and usages. It was entirely under the influence of the
						priests and clung to the prejudices and prerogatives of the Russian aristocracy. Alexis
						was brought up in these  opinions and absorbed them from
						his infancy. In fact no two minds, and no two temperaments could have been more at
						variance than those of the father and of the son; and, as the boy grew up, the
						antagonism between Peter and Alexis became greater and more pronounced.
					Whether from incompatibility of temper or some other cause, Peter discarded Eudoxia and
						had her shut up in a convent in 1698; he then took the boy out of her hands and
						entrusted his education to teachers in sympathy with his own ideas. But they found it
						impossible — and even Peter himself, in spite of rigorous measures and cruelty
						— to eradicate from the mind of the boy the conservative and old-Russian
						principles which his mother and the Laputkins had, as it would seem, planted deep within
						it. When Peter divorced Eudoxia and shut her up in a convent, the antipathy of the boy
						turned into hatred, and he clung only the more stubbornly to his mother and her family.
						As he grew older, he became intemperate and dissipated; but, more than these vices, the
						sluggishness of his mind and the open hostility with which he looked upon the great
						reforms in which Peter was engaged and in which he took great pride, irritated his
						father to such a degree that the Czar formed the plan of excluding him from the
						succession.
					In order to break his bad habits and possibly to bring about a salutary change in his
						rude and uncouth conduct, Alexis was married quite young to a Princess of
						Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, a lovely and refined young woman of great personal beauty; but
						Alexis treated her very coldly and cruelly. The fact that his father had selected his
						bride was sufficient cause for him to treat  her with
						contempt and aversion. She bore her misfortune with great resignation; but died of a
						broken heart, after having given her husband two children, a daughter and a son. The
						latter afterwards ascended the throne as Peter the Second.
					The death of his wife made but little impression on Alexis, who had been living for a
						long time in open adultery with his mistress, an illiterate serf from Finland. When this
						matrimonial attempt to reform Alexis had failed, the Czar, more than ever incensed at
						his obstinacy;, gave him the choice between changing his ways and being sent to a
						convent. The Czar was the more inclined to shut him up in a solitary place of
						confinement because Catherine, his second wife, had just given birth to a son, and Peter
						might hope to have a male heir, even with Alexis out of the way. The birth of this
						half-brother filled the mind of Alexis with vague fears. But being assured by his
						friends, and especially by the Laputkins and the priests, that he might easily, at the
						proper time, get out of the convent, since the cowl would not be nailed to his head, he
						hypocritically declared in favor of the convent, and told his father that he had a
						greater vocation for spiritual things than for the government of an empire. The
						confinement was, however, not so very solitary as it might have appeared to the Czar; on
						the contrary, both Alexis and Eudoxia were the chief personages around whom the
						malcontents and all the opponents of reform clustered with hopeful expectation. Alexis
						treated his imprisonment so lightly that he imprudently spoke of what he was going to do
						as soon as he had ascended the throne. "I shall be the Czar," said he; "they cannot keep
						me out of the succession.  Let his foreigners intrigue
						against me; I shall beat them all, for the people are for me, and I'll set all things
						right again. We shall then be Russians once more!"
					In the meantime Peter the Great had started on a new European tour. Catherine, his
						wife, accompanied him. He went to Prussia, Denmark, Holland, England and France, and was
						received everywhere with the greatest honors and distinctions. At Amsterdam the
						unwelcome news reached him that Alexis had left his convent under a false pretence,
						saying that he would join the Czar on his travels; but he had proceeded to Vienna and
						placed himself under the protection of the German Emperor. The Czar immediately
						despatched two of his most intimate friends with instructions to bring him back, alive
						or dead. But when the two messengers reached Vienna, the Czarowitz had left that city
						already, and his whereabouts was unknown. But after a diligent search, it was discovered
						that he had gone to Naples and had found an asylum at the Castle of St. Angelo. The
						messengers hurried to Naples and succeeded in getting an interview with the Prince, in
						which they exhausted their eloquence to induce him to return with them to Russia. They
						read to him also a letter written by his father, who promised him that, upon his
						immediate return, his escapade would be forgiven and forgotten. The Prince was not
						willing to go, and consented only when the Viceroy of Naples joined his own request with
						the entreaties of the messengers. The Czar had returned already to St. Petersburg when
						Alexis arrived.
					The Prince hoped to be kindly received and to be treated like a repentant son; but in
						this expectation he  found himself badly deceived. He was
						immediately arrested and subjected to a very severe interrogatory, in the course of
						which he implicated a number of prominent persons in having planned and assisted him in
						his flight from Russia. And then a mock trial of the most infamous character was
						enacted. The young Prince had already renounced all his rights to the crown; but this
						renunciation did not assuage the vindictive spirit of his father. Those whom Alexis, in
						his confusion and in the agony of the torture, had implicated in the crime of which he
						was accused, were tried for high treason, convicted, and beheaded or broken on the
						wheel. The ex-Empress Eudoxia was transferred to a dungeon in another prison, after
						having been cruelly chastised by two nuns. Alexis himself, from whom the cruel
						application of the torture (during which the Czar was present) had extorted the
						confession of crimes which he had never committed, was convicted of high treason and
						sentenced to be beheaded. The Czar insisted on a verdict of capital punishment, and the
						one hundred and eighty-one judges composing the court obeyed the imperial brute; they
						rendered a unanimous verdict. Peter hypocritically said that he would pardon him. When
						the decision of the judges and his father's promise of clemency were communicated to
						Alexis, he was overcome with terror and excitement, and led back to prison. The next day
						it was reported that he had died of apoplexy, but that in his last moments an
						affectionate interview had taken place between him and his father. Another report stated
						that the Czar had withdrawn his pardon and ordered his son to be beheaded without delay.
						And still another report, almost too horrid to be true, says that Peter, with his own
						hands,  cut off the head of his son. There is no doubt
						that the young man was foully murdered. The story of his death by apoplexy was merely
						invented to whitewash the memory of one of the greatest, but also of one of the most
						brutal and cruel rulers that ever lived.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVI PETER THE THIRD OF RUSSIA
					
					
					
					
						PETER III.
					
					
					CHAPTER XVI ASSASSINATION OF PETER THE THIRD OF RUSSIA (July
						17, 1762)
					IN a previous chapter we have told the story, full of horror and
						crime, of the life of Ivan the Terrible of Russia. It was not one famous assassination
						which placed that life-story in this series of historical murders; it was an
						uninterrupted, long-continued succession of butcheries and assassinations which entitled
						it to this place. In the long line of historical characters extending through the ages
						there is not one who so fully deserves the designation of a wholesale assassin as Ivan
						the Terrible, the demon of the North. But strange to say, the Russians, who during his
						lifetime execrated him and fled from him as from contagion, to-day seem to have
						forgotten his iniquities, and place him among their great rulers. Let Karamsin, one of
						the few great historians Russia has produced, explain this seeming anomaly: "Such was
						the Czar! Such were his subjects! Their patience was boundless, for they regarded the
						commands of the Czar as the commands of God, and they considered every act of
						disobedience to the Czar's will as a rebellion against the will of God. They perished,
						but they saved for us, the Russians of the nineteenth century, the greatness and the  power of Russia, for the strength of an empire rests in the
						willingness of an empire to obey." Words like these make us comprehend — what
						otherwise would be utterly incomprehensible to us — that a monster like Ivan the
						Terrible was permitted to continue his career of crime and murder until it was
						terminated by death brought on by disease and not by violence.
					The history of Russia, after the death of Ivan the Terrible, is full of crimes and
						assassinations. Czars and heirs to the crown were ruthlessly murdered in order to make
						way for usurpers and pretenders, until these again fell victims to conspiracies. The
						most famous of these assassinations is that of Peter the Third, not only because it was
						carried out in the interest of his own wife, the Empress Catherine, but mainly perhaps
						because Russia, at that time, — 1762 — had already entered the list of great
						European powers. Peter the Third was the son of Charles Frederick, Duke of
						Holstein-Gottorp, and of the Grand-Duchess Anna of Russia, oldest daughter of Peter the
						Great. As such, young Peter had even a better right to the crown of Russia than the
						Empress Elizabeth, who was a younger daughter of Peter the Great; and it was Elizabeth
						herself who, in 1742, sent for Peter — then a boy at school in Germany — and
						declared him her heir and successor to the crown.
					Peter was then only fifteen years of age. His education until then had been designed to
						fit him for the throne of Denmark and Sweden, upon which his father had a just claim;
						but preferring the prospect of sitting on the throne of the Czars, he went to St.
						Petersburg. The Empress spared no pains to educate her nephew for the high and difficult
						task which was in store for him as  the future ruler of
						Russia. But it was in vain that she tried to make a Russian of him; he remained not only
						at heart, but also in his tastes, his manners, his conduct, his amusements and
						occupations a German; and what was worse, he liked to show publicly and privately how
						strongly attached he was to the land of his birth, and how profoundly he despised the
						people of Russia, over whom he was to rule. In a foreign-born crown-prince such a
						disposition would have been a serious political mistake under all circumstances, but it
						was especially so in this case, since Russia had been engaged, for years, in war with
						Frederick the Great of Prussia, and had made great sacrifices in men and treasures to
						conquer him and to cripple his growing power and influence in Europe.
					Elizabeth hated Frederick the Great with the passion of a woman offended in her vanity.
						He had said of her: "She is as ugly as a cat and as treacherous; the very thought of her
						makes me sick." The hatred of the Empress did not prevent the Crown Prince from openly
						expressing his unbounded admiration for the Prussian King. True, Peter was mentally too
						insignificant to comprehend the real greatness and genius of Frederick; but he admired
						the strict discipline, the rigid training, the incessant military exercises, the severe
						punishments for the slightest infraction of the rules and the least symptom of
						insubordination, — in short, all the outward and visible work in the preparation
						of a model army; and the Prussian army had become the model of Europe since the days of
						King Frederick William the First. He was anxious to introduce these Prussian features
						into the Russian army, expecting very likely that such externals  would be the principal means of making an army invincible. That it took the
						genius and the untiring energy of a Frederick to bring about this invincibility he
						failed to see. When Peter had grown up to manhood his military zeal increased and became
						a perfect passion. But he felt no desire to join the Russian army in the field and earn
						military distinction and honors; no, he preferred to stay at home and act the
						drillmaster of a regiment of Holsteiners, which the Empress had organized for his
						especial pleasure, and to whose equipment, drill and exercises the young Grand Duke
						devoted most of his leisure hours. The men were uniformed and armed exactly like
						Prussian grenadiers, and all the officers belonged to prominent German families. The
						organization of this regiment made the Grand Duke very unpopular among the members of
						the Russian nobility, and they lost no opportunity in blackening his character and
						belittling his mental qualifications.
					In 1745 Peter married the Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst, the daughter of a Prussian
						field-marshal. She was distinguished by great beauty and high mental attainments, and
						afterwards won world-wide renown under the name of Catherine the Second. She was
						originally named Sophia Augusta, but when the Empress Elizabeth selected her for the
						wife of her successor, she adopted the name of Catherine. Before his marriage, Peter had
						led a rather dissolute life, but for a couple of years after the wedding the young
						couple seemed to be quite happy. Peter himself was very good-looking and, although not a
						man of brilliant mind, was of average intelligence and culture. An attack of small-pox
						destroyed his good looks; and this circumstance combined with the volatile  character of his wife caused an estrangement, which seemed
						to grow from year to year, and finally degenerated into absolute hatred. From that time
						on husband and wife, although not formally divorced or even separated, lived each a life
						of unrestrained vice.
					No sooner had the courtiers noticed the growing coldness between them than they tried
						to ingratiate themselves with the young and beautiful but profligate Catherine, and some
						of them succeeded only too well. The first of her lovers was Count Soltikoff, one of the
						handsomest men of the Russian court, and first chamberlain of the Grand Duke. In his
						privileged position in the service of the Grand Duke he had so many opportunities of
						meeting the Grand Duchess, that soon the closest intimacy was established between them.
						But somehow or other a report of the liaison reached the ears of the Empress, and she
						sent Soltikoff on a diplomatic mission to Turkey in the hope of putting a stop to it.
						But the Grand Duchess easily consoled herself. No sooner had Soltikoff left the capital
						than Catherine formed a new liaison. Her next lover was the beautiful and chivalrous
						Prince Poniatowski, of the renowned Polish family; the scandal became so notorious and
						excited so much envy and jealousy among the Russian courtiers that it reached the ears
						of the Grand Duke, who applied to the Empress and demanded that his wife be punished for
						her shameful conduct. The Empress, who was guilty herself of many scandalous love
						affairs, did not reprimand the Grand Duchess, but sent Poniatowski back to Poland. A
						short time afterwards he returned, however, having been appointed Polish Ambassador at
						the court of St. Petersburg. The Grand Duke was indignant at his unlooked-for  return, and having one day surprised him in a very intimate
							tête-à-tête with Catherine, upbraided him and her in the presence of
						the whole court, threatening at the time to drive him like a dog from the palace, and to
						imprison her in a convent. At the same time the Grand Duke himself was very far from
						leading an exemplary life. He had picked out among the ladies of the court a young and
						beautiful girl, Countess Woronzow, and made her his mistress.
					The time came when the Empress Elizabeth was on her deathbed. She made then a last
						attempt to reconcile the Grand Duke and the Grand Duchess, in order to secure peace for
						Russia; but the estrangement and repugnance which they felt for each other was so great
						that this attempt failed utterly. In fact, the chasm widened immensely after the death
						of Elizabeth, and neither the husband nor the wife took care to conceal it. Moreover,
						immediately after Peter's accession to the throne, a radical change occurred in the
						policy of the government, — a change that was warmly approved by some, but most
						bitterly opposed by others. Two great political parties were formed, and although the
						opponents of the government were compelled to practise their agitation in secret, they
						nevertheless counted a number of the most influential men among their leaders. The new
						Emperor broke loose entirely from the traditional policy of Russia; he not only withdrew
						from the Franco-Austrian alliance, but he sent orders to the Russian generals in the
						field against Frederick the Great of Prussia to coöperate with him. Peter himself donned
						the uniform of a Prussian general, which grade Frederick the Great had conferred upon
						him at his special request; all exercises  and manœuvres
						of the Russian army were, by direction of the Czar, fashioned after those of the
						Prussian army, and Russian traditions and customs were disregarded.
					The indignation and discontent among the high nobility of Russia at these "reforms"
						— which they ridiculed and despised — knew no bounds. In these sentiments
						they were encouraged by the Czar's wife, who both from personal hostility and from the
						intuition of her far-sighted political genius, opposed them as anti-Russian and as the
						manifestations of a Teuto-maniac unfit to rule over the great Russian nation. Her
						husband became more and more aggressive in his threats. He spoke openly, among his
						intimates, of his intention to imprison Catherine in a convent and to marry his
						mistress, Elizabeth Woronzow, and branded the son whom Catherine had borne to him, as a
						bastard, who would be excluded from the succession. It was therefore in self-defence
						that Catherine surrounded herself with men of power and influence. She entered into
						close relations with high officers of the Russian army, who still adhered with loyal
						devotion to the traditions of Peter the Great and Elizabeth; and although far from being
						pious and religious herself, she surrounded herself with the high dignitaries of the
						Russian Church, whom Peter insulted by neglect. Catherine, on the other hand, manifested
						a great interest in religious ceremonies and a strict observance of the Greek Church
						service; and at all times prominent clergymen were guests at Peterhof, her
						residence.
					Peter the Third wished to realize on the throne of Russia the ideal of enlightened
						despotism, of which his idol, King Frederick the Second of Prussia, was so illustrious a
						model. One of his first acts was to recall the  political
						exiles from Siberia — among them the two field-marshals Münnich and Biron, who had
						been exiled by Elizabeth. It is assuredly one of the most lamentable spectacles to
						behold on the throne of a great Empire an ignorant, narrow-minded, whimsical, and
						fanatical ruler, introducing, under the name of "reforms," vital and extraordinary
						changes in the administration and government, utterly unsuited to the character and
						culture of his nation. Even with the best intentions he will fail and pass for a
						fool.
					Many of Peter's measures were humane and just, and might have been considered judicious
						if he had not, by the manner in which he introduced them, provoked a resistance which
						proved fatal to them. He had no knowledge of Russian character, and looked down upon
						public sentiment. Even as Czar he gave public expression of his contempt for Russia, and
						placed it in every respect below Germany. With incredible self-sufficiency he
						disregarded all counsels to be more prudent in his public utterances and to proceed more
						slowly in his efforts to Prussianize Russia's methods of administration and her system
						of civil and criminal jurisprudence. He abolished time-honored institutions; he attacked
						the privileges of the Church and the clergy; he ordered the churches and chapels to be
						deprived of their wealth and golden ornaments and images; he confiscated real estate
						belonging to the government, but occupied and taken possession of by the clergy; he
						reduced the exorbitant salaries of great noblemen in the provinces. By such acts he
						engendered protests, dissatisfaction, and threats in the very classes upon which the
						throne has to lean in despotic countries. To cap the climax, he dismissed  the Russian body-guards and surrounded himself exclusively
						with German troops. The Duke of Holstein-Gottorp, his own cousin, was placed in command
						of these German regiments, under whose protection the Emperor considered himself
						absolutely safe. The King of Prussia, who was well informed on all matters going on at
						the Russian court, and who more than anybody else in Europe had an interest at stake to
						prolong the reign of his admirer, warned him again and again against the intrigues of
						his wife and the "old-Russian party," but Peter was blinded by his prejudices and paid
						no attention to the warnings. He underrated his wife's talent for political combinations
						and intrigue, and was far from suspecting that from the very first day of his reign his
						fate was sealed and his days numbered.
					A great historian has called Catherine of Russia "the Messalina-Richelieu" of history,
						indicating by that combination that she was a monster of voluptuousness, insatiable in
						lust, and a prodigy of statecraft and political shrewdness. The name is wonderfully
						appropriate, for hardly ever has any female ruler, with the exception of the infamous
						Roman Empress, so shamelessly prostituted herself as Catherine the Second of Russia, and
						never has any woman, not even Elizabeth of England, possessed political genius to a
						higher degree. It was Peter the Great who introduced Russia into the list of European
						states, but it was Catherine the Second whose genius breathed into the gigantic empire
						its policy of grasping and ambitious expansion, which has placed her standards as
						tutelary guards already over the northern half of Asia, and which is yet far from being
						satisfied.
					While the Czar was amusing himself with new  reforms
						which were at best dead letters and created new enemies for him, his wife was untiring
						in her efforts to win new friends and new supporters for the great coup
							d'état which she was preparing as the crowning act of her ambition. She wanted to
						be Empress in her own name, in order that she might make Russia great and not be
						molested and embarrassed by a husband whom she hated and despised. Her own personal
						memoirs, written in French and published in London in 1858, whose authenticity has never
						been seriously doubted, shows that when only fifteen years old, she was possessed by
						this ambition, which she afterwards so fully realized. Among the influential persons
						whose active coöperation Catherine had secured for her ambitious plans was Princess
						Dashkow, a young woman of excellent education and great ability, and sister of Elizabeth
						Woronzow. Princess Dashkow, who, on account of the superiority of her mind had great
						influence over her sister, proved a powerful auxiliary to Catherine in this most
						critical period of her married life. Through her, Catherine gained Count Panin, one of
						the ablest men of Russia and governor of the young Grand-Duke Paul, Catherine's son, as
						her ally. She told Panin that she knew from her sister (the Czar's mistress) that Peter
						the Third was on the point of repudiating his wife, that he denied the legitimacy of the
						young Grand Duke, that he intended to exclude him from the succession, and to declare
						Ivan the Sixth his successor. This Prince had been dethroned by Elizabeth and was
						retained as a prisoner in the fortress of Schlüsselburg, but had fallen into idiocy.
						These confidential communications induced Panin, who trembled for his own position and
						possibly for his head, secretly  to join the army of
						malcontents, whose programme it was to dethrone Peter the Third, proclaim his son, Paul,
						a Emperor, and Catherine Regent of the Empire during Paul's minority. This programme was
						not exactly that of Catherine, who aspired to be the sovereign Empress of Russia, and
						not merely the Regent during her son's minority, but with consummate ability she
						welcomed Panin's overtures as steps leading to her own elevation.
					Whether Catherine had fully weighed and approved all the possibilities which might
						result from the revolution which she had planned and for which she had found so many
						instruments willing to help her, will very likely remain forever an unsolved problem.
						Was she willing to sanction the murder of her husband in order to step over his corpse
						to the throne? This has been an open question with native and foreign historians.
						Perhaps she honestly believed with Panin that she might get rid of Peter in some way
						without either killing him or imprisoning him for life. But it is absolutely certain
						that Catherine, in the summer of 1762, came to the conclusion that the time had come for
						striking a decisive blow; and it is equally certain that, although not cruel by nature,
						she never shrank back from any means to remove obstacles standing in the way of her
						ambition. By the agency of her generals, Suwarow, Potemkin, and Repnin, she sacrificed
						whole nations to her ambition, and swept them off the face of the earth without feeling
						any compunction at the barbarities committed. Does it look improbable therefore that she
						may have consented to the assassination of her husband, whom she detested, when all
						other means of silencing his claims to the throne appeared unsafe?
					
					A very important part, in fact the most important of all, in the conspiracy against the
						Czar, was taken by the Orloffs, and especially by Count Gregor Orloff, the favored lover
						of Catherine, who had the reputation of being the handsomest officer of the Russian
						army. The Empress was passionately in love with him, although pretty well founded rumors
						asserted that she bestowed her secret favors also on Gregor's brother, Alexis, a perfect
						giant in stature and of herculean strength. All the Orloffs — Gregor, Alexis,
						Ivan, and Feodor — held positions as officers in the imperial guards or in the
						artillery, and were among the warmest adherents of Catherine, whose elevation would
						raise them, as they well knew, to the highest position in the Empire, immediately by the
						side of the throne. They became active agitators for her in the army, and were really
						the principal actors in the terrible drama of Peter's assassination. Quite a bloody
						tradition attached to the Orloff family, and the part which they were to play in the
						revolution against Peter the Third lent new confirmation to it and recalled it to the
						minds of the Russian people. At the time when Peter the Great abolished the strelitzi,
						attended their horrid executions, even helped in them, one day the block of the
						executioner was so crowded with the heads of the victims that there was no room for
						others. Then one of the condemned coolly stepped forward and pushed several of the heads
						off the bench, as if it had been his business to do so. The Czar looked on in
						astonishment and turning to the man, who had already attracted his attention by his
						herculean frame and the classic beauty of his features, asked him: "What are you doing
						that for?" "To make room for my own  head!" was the cool
						reply. Peter the Great, who admired personal courage above everything else, was so well
						pleased with the reply, that he immediately pardoned the condemned and set him free.
						This pardoned officer was a young nobleman, named Orloff — the grandfather of the
						five Orloffs who played such a conspicuous part in the revolution of 1762, and one of
						whom murdered Peter the Third with his own hands.
					The outbreak of the revolution, as is usual in such cases, was caused by an unexpected
						and trifling occurrence. A young officer of the imperial guards, who had been won over
						to the party of Catherine, one evening while under the influence of liquor, talked about
						the impending revolution and was arrested by other officers who were not in the
						conspiracy. Gregor Orloff heard of the arrest and immediately hurried to Catherine, who
						was at Peterhof and had already retired for the night. But Orloff went directly to her
						bedroom, aroused her from sleep and told her that immediate action on her part was
						necessary, unless she wanted to imperil and very likely lose the game for whose success
						they had been working so patiently.
					Catherine's resolution was quickly taken. She immediately got up, dressed rapidly, and
						half an hour afterwards the carriage which had carried Orloff from St. Petersburg,
						returned thither with the Empress and her attendant. It was five o'clock in the morning
						of the twenty-ninth of June when they arrived at the capital. Two hours later Catherine
						was on horseback, dressed in the uniform of a general of the imperial guards, which
						Count Buturlin had furnished, on her way to the armory of the Preobrajenski guards,
						accompanied by Gregor  and Alexis Orloff, and an escort of
						high officers who were in the conspiracy. Princess Dashkow, also in an officer's
						uniform, had preceded her, and had announced to the officers of the guards that the
						Emperor, Peter the Third, had died suddenly, that the Empress would shortly appear among
						them in order to receive their homage and their oath of obedience as heiress to the
						throne and Regent of the Empire during the minority of her son. The officers consented
						immediately and influenced their soldiers without difficulty when they were reminded of
						the late Czar's unjust partiality for the German regiments, and of Catherine's
						unwavering kindness to them. Both officers and soldiers greeted Catherine, therefore,
						very enthusiastically when she arrived an hour later, and both swore allegiance and
						devotion to her. Catherine's bearing on this trying occasion, was full of courage and
						dash. She had never looked more beautiful, and the three regiments were perfectly
						charmed with their new ruler. She then proceeded with her escort to the Casan Church,
						where, in the meantime, the Archbishop of Novgorod and the entire clergy of the capital
						had been assembled and were waiting for her. The Archbishop administered the oath of
						office to her, and Catherine swore to respect the laws and institutions of the Empire
						and to protect the religion of the people, whereupon the entire clergy swore allegiance
						to her. A solemn Te Deum, sung by thousands of voices, terminated the grand ceremony,
						while the roar of artillery announced to the inhabitants of St. Petersburg the accession
						of a new ruler. Catherine had reached the goal of her ambition; she was now the
						sovereign ruler of Russia, not merely in name, but in fact. She returned to the  imperial palace, where an immense multitude greeted her
						with enthusiastic cheers. Many thousand roubles were scattered among the populace, which
						was moreover treated liberally with whiskey and other intoxicants, and cheered
						vociferously, until Catherine, who looked charmingly beautiful in her gaudy uniform,
						showed herself again and again on the balcony. Count Galitzin, vice-admiral of the
						Russian fleet, was on a visit at St. Petersburg on that day. Catherine sent for him, won
						him over to her side by amiability and promises, and sent him back to Kronstadt, the
						Russian naval port, to inspire the garrison and sailors of that stronghold with
						enthusiasm for the Empress, — so that the capital was protected on the seaward
						side against a possible attack by Peter the Third.
					But even after having acted so promptly and so energetically, and after having got
						possession of the capital and the principal part of the army and the navy, Catherine had
						still a great deal to do, and her penetrating genius did not underrate the danger of the
						situation in which she found herself. All her successes in the capital among officers
						had been secured by the fraudulent assertion that the Czar had died suddenly, and there
						was no certainty whether Peter's sudden appearance at the capital, or a
						well-authenticated report that he was still among the living and was hastening toward
						the capital, might cause a sudden change in public sentiment. Undaunted by these secret
						apprehensions, and impelled by the restless energy of her devouring ambition, she never
						wavered in her resolution, but pressed onward toward the consummation of her dangerous
						but tempting project, which seemed to be almost within her grasp. Through the  active agitation of her friends, and the strong and
						widespread hostility of the people and the army against Peter's ill-advised measures of
						"reform," she could, almost from the first announcement of her accession to the throne,
						command an army of fifteen thousand well-equipped men, who were ready to die for her
						against any pretender, Peter the Third included.
					The outbreak of the revolution was so sudden that Peter was taken entirely by surprise,
						and would not listen to the first reports when they reached him. He had gone on that
						very day to Oranienbaum, an imperial summer resort, about twenty miles from St.
						Petersburg, where he enjoyed himself with his Holstein guards, his favorites, and his
						mistress, Elizabeth Woronzow. There were altogether about two thousand soldiers with
						him; but there was also Field-marshal Münnich, Russia's most renowned soldier, and a man
						of great authority in the army. Moreover Münnich was a man of great personal courage,
						and if Peter had followed his counsels, he might have saved his crown and his life.
						Münnich's advice was to take immediate and bold measures, to meet aggression by
						aggression, and to oppose the immense prestige of the legitimate ruler to the
						revolutionary usurpation of an ambitious and adulterous wife. But neither Peter's
						personal character, nor his immediate surroundings would admit of the acceptance of such
						bold and aggressive action. He was like a helpless child, hesitating and vacillating,
						sending out orders, and revoking them the next hour; asking everybody's advice, and
						following nobody's. His mistress was bewailing his misfortune, cursing Catherine and her
						treachery, and falling into hysterics at the mere thought of a bloody struggle for
						supremacy between  Peter and his wife. It was easy to
						foresee the outcome of so much indecision, vacillation and cowardice on one side, and of
						so much determination, firmness and courage on the other.
					After nearly the whole day had been spent in fruitless attempts to come to a decision,
						Münnich finally, at about eight o'clock in the evening, succeeded in persuading Peter to
						go on board of a yacht and proceed to Kronstadt, where, he expected, the Emperor would
						be warmly welcomed. If this step had been taken earlier in the day, it would very likely
						have been successful. But it will be remembered that Catherine, after her return from
						the Casan church, had an interview with Count Galitzin, commander-in-chief of the naval
						forces at Kronstadt, and had secured his coöperation. The Emperor was therefore not
						permitted to enter the harbor, and when he himself appeared in the fore-part of the
						yacht and proclaimed his identity, he was simply told to return to where he came from,
						and that Russia had no longer an emperor, but an empress. Münnich then appealed to Peter
						not to be deterred by such words, but to get into one of the boats, in which he would
						accompany him, and to effect a landing. "They will not shoot you," the old field-marshal
						said, "this whole affair is a bold game some of the high officers are playing, but the
						soldiers are kept in ignorance, and when they meet their Emperor face to face they will
						throw down their arms." But when the women heard from Peter that he would undertake to
						effect a landing on the coast, they burst into tears and filled the ship with loud
						lamentations and cries, and the Czar's mistress threw herself at his feet imploring him
						not to expose his precious life to the bullets of the rebels,  and not to abandon her, helpless and heartbroken, to the revenge of his
						enemies. Peter was only too glad to take her despair as a pretext to recede from
						Münnich's proposition.
					Münnich was disgusted and wished the women were a thousand miles off; but he made still
						another proposition. He wanted to turn the imperial yacht toward Reval, where quite a
						number of Russian warships were assembled. Peter was to take command of this fleet, sail
						to Pomerania, land on Prussian soil, proceed as rapidly as possible to the large Russian
						army concentrated there, and return at the head of that army to St. Petersburg, which,
						as the old and bold field-marshal believed, would not even attempt to make resistance.
						"Within sixty days," said he to Peter, "your Empire will be at your feet again, your
						wife will be at your mercy, and your whole people will hail you as a conqueror and
						savior!" The plan was good and would very likely have succeeded if it had been promptly
						acted upon. There were nearly eighty thousand Russian soldiers — and they were the
							élite of the Russian army — in Pomerania, and if Peter had
						been supported by them, he could easily have quelled the rebellion and recovered the
						throne.
					But Peter was not the master of his own decisions. He obediently bowed to the will of
						his mistress and her lady friends, and they strongly protested against this new plan of
						the old fighter and "war-horse," who, they declared, had no heart and did not know what
						love meant. Countess Woronzow persuaded Peter that the proper thing for him to do was to
						return to Oranienbaum or Peterhof and make his peace with the Empress, who would be only
						too glad to make an arrangement with  him satisfactory to
						both. This suggestion corresponded too well with the pusillanimous and vacillating
						character of Peter to be rejected by him. So the whole party returned to Peterhof, and
						negotiations were at once opened with Catherine tending towards a reconciliation of the
						husband and wife. Peter addressed a letter to his wife in which he offered her the
						co-regency of the Empire, assuring her at the same time that the occurrences of the past
						week should be entirely forgotten and that love and harmony should in the future prevail
						in the imperial household. The letter was haughtily rejected by the Empress; no answer
						came to it but a verbal message that it was too late, and that no further communication
						from him would be received except an act of entire abdication. Peter thereupon
						surrendered unconditionally. He wrote a second letter to his wife, in which he very
						humbly asked permission both for himself and his mistress, Countess Woronzow, and a
						number of his attendants to return to Holstein, where they would live quietly in
						retirement from all public affairs. In order to carry out this wish, he asked for a
						pension enabling him to live in becoming style, and in exchange for these favors he
						recognized Catherine as Regent of the Empire during his son's minority.
					Major-General Michael Ismailoff, one of Peter's most intimate and most trusted friends,
						was the bearer of this valuable document, which seemed to satisfy Catherine, but was not
						equally satisfactory to Count Gregor Orloff, who hoped to secure the hand of the Empress
						when Peter had been put out of the way. Orloff's secret design was to assassinate Peter
						and then take his place by Catherine's side. The Orloffs therefore took hold of  General Ismailoff, after he had handed the Czar's letter to
						the Empress, and induced him by supplications and brilliant promises to come over to
						their side, and to assist them in making Peter a prisoner as the only means of restoring
						peace and avoiding civil war. At first Ismailoff resisted their offers, but at last he
						yielded. He returned to Peterhof and played the part of a traitor to perfection. He told
						Peter that he had delivered his letter to the Empress, and that she would, as a matter
						of course, grant the request he had made, but that she was overcome with sorrow at the
						turn things had taken, that she was perfectly willing to admit him to a co-regency and
						to be reconciled to him, and that she was anxious to meet him in a private interview at
						Oranienbaum in order to arrange matters to their mutual satisfaction.
					Peter fell easily into the trap. He immediately accepted the invitation and got ready
						to go to Oranienbaum. At first he proposed to go there under the escort of his
						Holsteiners, but Ismailoff persuaded him to let them stay at Peterhof, because it might
						look as though he distrusted the Empress and might offend her. Peter therefore went to
						Oranienbaum, accompanied only by Ismailoff, who encouraged him in his most extravagant
						expectations of a brilliant career still in store for him. But there was a sad and
						sudden awakening from this dream of greatness. On his arrival at Oranienbaum he found
						the courtyard filled with forty or fifty kibitkas; and Ismailoff, changing his conduct
						and tone suddenly, told him that he was a prisoner. Peter, without arms and without
						friends, resigned himself to his fate almost without a word of protest. He was led to
						one of the kibitkas, already occupied by two strong officers armed to the teeth, and
						then all  the kibitkas started at once in as many
						different directions as there were roads leading to Oranienbaum. This was done in order
						to deceive the spectators as to the direction which Peter's kibitka had taken. He was
						conveyed to Robzak, a country villa near the village of Kraskazelo, a short distance
						from Petersburg, but rather isolated and out of the way of the regular traffic. Moreover
						precautions were taken to surround the villa with soldiers. Peter was treated almost
						with cruelty in his solitary confinement. He was not permitted to communicate with
						anybody, and his friends were kept in profound ignorance as to his whereabouts. Many of
						them believed that he was either at Peterhof or at Petersburg. He addressed a pitiable
						letter to the Empress in which he humbly petitioned her to send him his negro servant,
						with whom he liked to play, his favorite dog, his violin, his Bible and a few novels.
						But the letter remained unanswered, and none of the things asked for were sent.
					In the forenoon of July seventeenth, Alexis Orloff, accompanied by several officers,
						arrived at Robzak. They had an order from the Empress admitting them to Peter's
						presence. Orloff and an officer named Tepelof — both men of herculean strength
						— entered the deposed Emperor's room, and found him in a despondent mood. They
						carried some delicacies, — among them bottles of old Burgundy wine, which was
						poisoned. They announced to Peter that his term of imprisonment would soon be ended, and
						that he would then be permitted to return to Holstein, his native country. Peter was
						overjoyed at this announcement, and invited the officers, whom he treated as his guests,
						to take dinner with him; they readily consented and produced the delicacies and the wine
						they had  brought. At the dinner-table Orloff presented a
						glass of Burgundy to Peter, who swallowed it rapidly; but the wine was so strongly
						poisoned that he felt the effect almost instantly. He jumped from his chair, screaming
						and howling with pain. "I am poisoned! I am poisoned!" he cried, "give me milk, give me
						oil!" The two assassins terrified with what they had done sent for milk and oil, which
						he swallowed eagerly. But after a few minutes they took courage again and resolved to
						complete their murderous work. Peter's cries had attracted two or three officers, who
						entered the room; but instead of protecting him, they assisted the conspirators. All at
						once Alexis Orloff rushed upon Peter, who had thrown himself upon his bed, writhing in
						pain, and tried to choke him. Peter himself was a man of herculean strength, and
						defended himself with the courage of despair. The iron grasp of Orloff's fingers did not
						release his throat, and the Czar's face became as black as a negro's. At last, by a
						terrible blow, he freed himself from Orloff, but while he tried to take breath, the four
						or five assassins rushed upon him all at the same time; they dragged him from the bed,
						and when he fell into an arm-chair, they threw a large napkin round his neck and
						strangled him until he was dead. He fell from the chair to the floor and expired in a
						few minutes. A number of officers had witnessed the terrible scene from a terrace which
						afforded a full view of the prisoner's room.
					The admirers of Catherine have often denied her active participation in the crime of
						Peter's assassination; but they have never succeeded in making the world believe in her
						innocence. In fact, how could she be innocent,  since the
						assassins were admitted to Peter's presence upon a direct order issued by her, with no
						other business for them to do than to kill him? And then her conduct after the horrible
						crime had been perpetrated is sufficient evidence of her guilt. She did not regret the
						murder, and she rewarded the murderers. Even in the announcement of Peter's sudden death
						she manifested a brutality which defied decency and common-sense. In a few words,
						without adding one word of sorrow at the death of one who, as she asserted, was the
						father of her son, she announced to the Russian people and to the foreign ambassadors at
						St. Petersburg that the dethroned Czar Peter the Third, had suddenly died from the
						effects of a hæmorrhoidal colic, to which he was subject, and which had caused a stroke
						of apoplexy. This cool declaration was to account for the horrible appearance of Peter's
						countenance, which looked almost black even in death, and which could not be concealed
						from the people. It had always been customary to exhibit to the public the corpse of a
						deceased Czar and to place him on a catafalque where the people could see him and pay
						their respect to him. This public exhibition could not be avoided without immensely
						strengthening the suspicion of foul play; and Catherine boldly underwent the ordeal. The
						black hue of the countenance could not be changed, but Peter's neck was entirely covered
						up with a very high and stiff stock, which concealed the finger-marks of his assassins.
						Among the spectators was the old field-marshal, Prince Trubetzkoi, well known for his
						rudeness and sincerity. He rapidly stepped up to the bier, where Peter lay in state, and
						exclaimed in a loud tone of voice: "Why, why, Peter Fedorowitch, what ridiculous kind of
							 necktie have they bundled around your neck? You never
						wore such a thing in your life; why should you wear it now when you are dead?" And he
						began to open the stock, and would have exposed Peter's throat to public view, if the
						guards, in spite of the high rank of the Prince, had not forcibly dragged him away.
					Unfortunately for the memory of Catherine the Second the assassination of her husband
						was not the only assassination caused by her usurpation of the Russian throne. It will
						be remembered that Peter had repeatedly threatened to disown, and consequently to
						exclude from the succession, Paul, the son whom Catherine had borne to him, and whom he
						openly branded as a bastard, and to this threat he added the declaration that he would
						name as his successor the young ex-Emperor Ivan the Sixth, who had been dethroned by the
						Empress Elizabeth, and who was still imprisoned at Schlüsselburg. This threat was fatal
						to the poor young Prince, who during his long seclusion had become half-idiotic and had
						lost the knowledge of his identity. But nevertheless the fear that he might be used by
						her enemies as a legitimate pretender, with better rights to the crown than her own,
						haunted Catherine's mind, and she did not rest until he had fallen a victim to the
						assassin's dagger.
					Strict orders had been issued to the commandant of the fortress of Schlüsselburg that
						on the first attempt to liberate Ivan he should be immediately put to death. And then a
						new infamy was committed which very likely sprang from Catherine's own diabolical
						genius. There was a young and poor lieutenant named Mirowitch, in the garrison of
						Schlüsselburg who was infatuated with admiration for the Empress and anxious to render
						her a  service. He was approached by one of his superior
						officers (probably an Orloff) and his attention was directed to Ivan. "If he were out of
						the way," he was told, "the Empress would never forget it, and would reward the service
						in an imperial manner." Mirowitch took the hint and resolved to merit the Empress's
						gratitude by assassinating Ivan. Under some pretext he really came to the door of the
						room in which Ivan was kept a prisoner. Two officers were on guard there, but when they
						heard Mirowitch's voice demanding admittance and threatening to break open the door,
						they rushed upon Ivan and put him to death. Then they opened the door, and finding
						Mirowitch before them, they showed him Ivan's corpse and arrested him. Mirowitch was put
						on trial. The crime he was charged with was an attempt to abduct the imprisoned Ivan and
						to proclaim him Emperor of Russia. Mirowitch did not defend himself. He only smiled. He
						knew who stood behind him and would protect him from injury. He was found guilty and
						sentenced to be beheaded. He laughed at the sentence and never lost courage. With a
						smile he ascended the scaffold and looked around, wondering why the imperial messenger
						with the pardon and the reward was not coming. The priest approached him and prayed for
						him. He listened with little attention, and still a smile hovered on his features. But
						suddenly the executioner took hold of him, held him in his iron grasp, and threw him
						down. It was the last moment and no messenger appeared yet; and then only Mirowitch
						realized his terrible fate. With a scream of mad rage he commenced wrestling with the
						executioner, and while uttering a cry of execration against Catherine, his severed head
						rolled upon the scaffold. The  assassination of two czars
						— one of them her own husband — was the bloody price which Catherine paid
						for the throne which she was to make great and renowned by a long and glorious reign.
						How easily great crimes are forgotten if committed by sovereigns of genius!
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVII GUSTAVUS THE THIRD OF SWEDEN
					
					
					
					
						GUSTAVUS III.
					
					
					CHAPTER XVII ASSASSINATION OF GUSTAVUS THE THIRD OF SWEDEN
						(March 17, 1792)
					ON the seventeenth of March, 1792, Gustavus the Third, King of
						Sweden, was assassinated by Ankarström, a Swedish nobleman, and this crime caused a
						sensation throughout Europe, although the horrors of the French Revolution and the
						wholesale executions by the guillotine had made the world familiar with murder and
						bloodshed. This assassination was of a political character, and private revenge or other
						considerations had nothing whatever to do with it. But in order to understand fully the
						causes leading up to the tragedy, it will be necessary to refer to the condition of
						public affairs in Sweden during the period preceding the reign of Gustavus.
					The continuous and costly wars of Charles the Twelfth had left Sweden in a terrible
						state of exhaustion and misery. A number of her most valuable provinces had been taken
						by Russia, and the domestic affairs of the country, its finances, industry and commerce
						were utterly ruined. Charles died during his invasion of Norway; it would really be more
						proper to say "was assassinated"; for, on the evening of the eleventh of  December, 1718, while leaning against a parapet and looking
						at the soldiers throwing up the breastworks, he was struck down by a bullet, which could
						not have come from the enemy, in front of the fortress of Frederickshall. In spite of
						the very severe winter weather, Charles had insisted on laying siege to the strong
						fortress, and he paid for his obstinacy with his life.
					When the news of his death reached Sweden, the nobility took advantage of it and of the
						unsettled question of the succession to the throne in order to recover those privileges
						and rights which it had lost through the genius and statesmanship of Charles the
						Eleventh, and which had not been restored to it during the reign of Charles the Twelfth.
						The Reichsrath was immediately reinstated in its old rights, and arrogated to itself the
						power of deciding the succession according to its own will and advantage. It coolly
						passed by the lawful heir, Charles Frederick of Holstein-Gottorp, the son of Charles the
						Twelfth's elder sister, and elected Frederick of Hesse-Cassel, who had married Charles
						the Twelfth's younger sister; not, however, without having compelled the royal couple to
						renounce, both for themselves and for their heirs, all absolute power, and also to make
						a solemn promise that the Reichsrath should be reinstated in all its former rights and
						prerogatives, which made that Assembly actually co-regent of the kingdom. The Reichsrath
						was declared sovereign; it had seventeen members, and each member had, in the decision
						of public questions, one vote, and the King only two. It decided all questions of
						domestic and foreign policy arbitrarily, and controlled not only the legislative, but
						also the executive action of the government. The King was a mere  figurehead, poorly salaried and of little influence. But this degradation of
						the crown was only one feature of the oligarchy established by the Reichsrath. It
						restored to the nobility all the domains and landed estates which had been appropriated
						by the crown during the preceding century, exempted them from taxation, conferred upon
						them the exclusive right of holding all the higher offices in the army, navy and civil
						service, and heaped all public burdens upon the lower classes of the people. The King,
						shorn of all power, was utterly helpless to prevent these wrongs. His timid protests
						were always met with a reminder that he had been elected to the throne only after having
						promised to reinstate and not to disturb the nobility in the enjoyment of their ancient
						rights. The Reichsrath also concluded treaties of peace with the powers upon which
						Charles the Twelfth had made war, and as the members negotiating these treaties looked
						out much more for their own advantage than for that of their country, Sweden was so
						badly crippled that it ceased being a great European power. That honor passed from
						Sweden to two other countries which up to that time had been considered Sweden's
						inferiors in power and influence, — Russia and Prussia.
					It was not long before the Reichsrath, whose members sold themselves to foreign rulers,
						was split up into different factions which fought bitterly for supremacy. One of these
						factions favored France and was regularly subsidized with French money, while the other
						faction was equally well subsidized with Russian money and followed blindly the dictates
						of the Czar and Czarina of Russia. The French faction was called "the party of the
						hats," and the Russian faction was known as "the party of the  caps." These two factions fought each other most bitterly, each charging the
						other with almost any crime committed against divine and human law; and both were right
						in the charge, because both were equally guilty. At the beginning of the war of the
						Austrian succession, France wanted to prevent Russia from siding with Austria, and
						thought a war between Sweden and Russia would be the right thing to accomplish that
						object. The French Ambassador at Stockholm therefore ordered the "party of the hats" in
						the Reichsrath to declare war upon Russia, and a resolution to that effect prevailed
						against the violent and menacing protests of the "party of the caps." In great haste a
						Swedish army was recruited to take the field against the Russians in Finland; but since
						all the money sent by the French government for the proper equipment of that army had
						disappeared in the pockets of the members of the Reichsrath, the army was so poorly
						equipped and its war-material was of such inferior quality that it could not hold the
						field against the well-armed and well-equipped Russians, and suffered defeat after
						defeat at their hands. The "caps" were jubilant over this discomfiture and humiliation
						of the "hats" and forced them into a treaty of peace with Russia, which was disgraceful
						to Sweden, but which would have been even more hurtful if the Russian Empress had not
						for personal reasons offered very mild terms of peace. But one of these terms was that
						Adolphus Frederick of Holstein-Gottorp, whose father had been so shamefully cheated out
						of the Swedish succession in 1718, should be declared heir to the Swedish throne. The
						Reichsrath cheerfully accepted this condition, made all other concessions which the
						Russian Empress demanded, and  ceded a part of Finland to
						the Russian crown. Peace between the two countries was restored by the treaty of Abo in
						1743.
					Conditions were not improved under the rule of the next King, — the said Adolphus
						Frederick of Holstein-Gottorp, who ascended the throne in 1751. The new King had married
						the younger sister of Frederick the Great of Prussia, but he had so little influence on
						the direction of the public policy of Sweden, both at home and abroad, that in the great
						European war which Frederick had to wage against the other powers, Sweden took sides
						against him by the dictation of the Reichsrath. In fact, the Reichsrath became more
						aggressive and arrogant from year to year. It interfered in the education of the royal
						princes. It presumed to attach the King's signature to public documents after he had
						refused twice to sign them. The "caps" made an effort to strengthen the King's authority
						by amending the constitution, but it failed, and resulted in a complete victory for the
						"hats." The "hats" had it all their own way for a while. Under orders from the French
						government, and also out of hatred and contempt for the King, they declared war on the
						King of Prussia, and Sweden was, without any cause or provocation, drawn into the
						terrible Seven Years' War, which resulted in the victory of Frederick the Great over all
						his enemies.
					This disastrous result of the war caused the temporary overthrow of the "hats." But the
						Russian faction, as soon as they had got control of the government, established a
						tyranny worse than that of their predecessors, so that the King, provoked to the utmost,
						threatened to resign and appeal to the people, unless a popular Diet  should be called to establish the rights of the crown on a
						firm and more dignified basis. Under the strong pressure of public indignation the Diet
						was called; it restored to the crown part of the rights and prerogatives annulled by the
						Reichsrath and dismissed a number of those officials most hostile and objectionable to
						the King; but a proposition of the young, ingenious and ambitious Crown Prince —
						to change the constitution thoroughly, to reëstablish autocratic government in Sweden in
						order to renew an era of glory and prosperity for the unfortunate country — failed
						through the irresoluteness of the King. In 1771 the King died, and the Crown Prince
						ascended the throne under the name of Gustavus the Third.
					The Crown Prince was at Paris, where he was paying the court a visit, when his father
						died. His presence in the French capital and his conversations with Choiseul, the able
						prime minister of Louis the Fifteenth, had strengthened and confirmed his own personal
						views about the necessity for a change in the government of Sweden and for a return to
						an absolutistic régime. He formally renewed the secret alliance between Sweden and
						France, receiving the promise of liberal subsidies from the French treasury in order to
						enable him to carry out his plans. He took with him to Sweden a large sum of money,
						which was, so to speak, the first instalment of the new subsidy. Moreover, Choiseul gave
						the young King, on his return trip to Sweden, an experienced and sagacious companion and
						adviser in the person of Count de Vergennes, who nominally was to take charge of the
						French embassy at Stockholm, but who in reality was to guide and assist Gustavus in his
						attempt to overthrow the constitution of the  monarchy and
						to restore the absolute régime of former days. The personality of
						Gustavus the Third was peculiarly fitted for the rôle which he was to
						play in the great drama of a political revolution. He was young, enthusiastic, talented,
						eloquent, bold and chivalrous; he was a poet of considerable ability, and his political
						ideal was Louis the Fourteenth of France, whose majestic declaration: "The state? I am
						the state!" struck a sympathetic chord in his heart. Choiseul had found it an easy task
						to change the vague aspirations and dreams in the young King's mind into a fixed
						determination to put an end to the oligarchic régime of the nobility
						and to reëstablish absolute monarchy in its pristine glory. The art of dissimulation, of
						which he was a consummate master, and which he had practised with great success as Crown
						Prince in order to throw his instructors, who were mere tools of the Reichsrath, off
						their guard, served him admirably in perfecting the initiatory steps, and finally, when
						the proper time had come, for the successful execution of his coup
							d'état.
					When Gustavus arrived at Stockholm, he found the Swedish Reichstag (the Diet) in
						session. It had recognized him, during his absence, as King, but the members were busily
						engaged in the discussion of a new constitution, which they insisted would be necessary
						for protecting the rights of the nobility against the usurpation of the King. The rights
						of the people and the prerogatives of the King were hardly thought of in this
						discussion, and the people were disgusted with the whole proceeding. So was the King,
						but he had shrewdness and self-control enough not to interfere with the work of the
						Diet; and when, after a hard-fought battle of  eight
						months' duration between the contending factions of the "hats" and the "caps," the new
						constitution was finally completed and submitted to him for his signature, he readily
						signed it, without reading it, explaining his extraordinary readiness with the words "I
						have confidence enough in the patriotism and wisdom of the Reichstag to believe that
						they all have worked for the welfare of the state, and that my own rights were safe in
						their hands."
					In order to make this rather strange indifference on his part appear quite natural, he
						had lived most of the time at his country-seat, at some distance from Stockholm,
						surrounded by a few literary friends and writing comedies and poems, without paying the
						least attention to the political work going on at the capital. He came but rarely to
						Stockholm, but whenever he went, he took good care to insinuate himself into the good
						graces of the people. His natural eloquence and the fact that he was born in Sweden and
						spoke the Swedish language correctly, as well as his pleasant and affable manners, made
						him immensely popular with the common people, while at the same time his friends lost no
						opportunity to incite the people, and also the soldiery, against the nobility, whom they
						charged with having caused all the miseries from which the State, and especially the
						rural population, were suffering. Poor crops and great financial distress added to the
						popular dissatisfaction, and the royalist party did not fail to attribute these public
						calamities to the aristocracy's injudicious administration; thus the people were
						thoroughly aroused for the impending battle between King and nobility.
					In the Reichsrath the faction of the "caps" had 
						succeeded in utterly defeating the faction of the "hats," and driving all their
						adherents out of the public offices. The official slaughter and persecution of the
						"hats" was carried on so recklessly and injudiciously by the "caps" that even the
						Russian ambassador protested against their imprudence, which, he was afraid, might lead
						to a revolution that would overthrow both factions and place absolute power in the hands
						of the monarch. But the "caps," in the intoxication of their victory, were too blind to
						see the danger; moreover, they felt absolutely safe because the King had sworn to obey
						and uphold the constitution, and the constitution deprived him of all power of action.
						Gustavus had so fully duped them that not even a suspicion of foul play arose in their
						minds. With masterly dissimulation and with marvellous strength of mind he waited in
						apparent indifference until the proper moment for action had come. His friends, however,
						had been very busy. They had won one hundred and fifty of the higher officers of the
						Stockholm garrison over to the King's cause, and this acquisition placed practically the
						entire military power of the capital under his orders.
					It had been arranged, however, that the first outbreak should not occur at Stockholm,
						but in another city. In compliance with this programme Captain Hellichius, a devoted
						friend of the King, and Commandant of the garrison of Christianstadt, on the twelfth of
						August, 1772, issued a manifesto, in which he fiercely denounced the pernicious
						administration of the Reichsrath, and called upon the inhabitants of Sweden to shake off
						the tyranny of the oligarchy which held both the King and the people in bondage. It had
						also been arranged that Prince Charles, the King's brother, Commander of the troops in
						Scania,  should immediately march, with the army under his
						command, toward Christianstadt, ostensibly for the purpose of suppressing the revolt,
						but really for the purpose of swelling the ranks of the malcontents. When this news
						reached Stockholm, some of the members of the Reichsrath suspected that the King was
						implicated, but he feigned absolute ignorance of the matter, and deceived his enemies so
						well that they left him alone. Prompt action on their part, in arresting and guarding
						the person of the King, would very likely have quelled the revolt at the very outset.
						But the King was so powerless that he preferred to wait for news from Christianstadt
						announcing the success of the movement before resorting to active measures which might
						have caused the failure of the whole plan.
					Only when the Reichsrath ordered the troops of the whole country to be concentrated at
						the capital, and also ordered Prince Charles to turn over his command to a general who
						was strictly in sympathy with the existing condition of things, the King thought the
						time for him to act had come, and he hesitated no longer. It was the nineteenth of
						August, 1772, and Gustavus knew that that day was to decide not only the success or
						failure of his intended coup d'état, but very likely also his life or
						death, his honor or disgrace. In taking the offensive so promptly, the King showed great
						personal bravery and courage, and made good his claim to be a God-given leader of men.
						At an early hour he went to the Assembly Room, where the Reichsrath was already in
						session. At a glance he saw that the prevailing sentiment was hostile to him. No sooner
						had he taken his seat than one of the members in a rather insolent tone asked  him whether he had not received a letter during the night
						from Christianstadt, and on receiving an affirmative answer, demanded that the King
						should communicate the letter to the Reichsrath. The King refused to deliver the letter,
						stating that it was private, and expressed indignation at the disrespectful request. A
						general murmur arose among the members, and voices were heard saying that it might be
						advisable to arrest the King. He hurriedly arose from his seat, and placing his hand on
						the hilt of his sword, as if ready to kill the first one who should stand in his way, he
						passed through the seats of the Senators with head erect and haughty mien.
					None dared oppose him, and he proceeded directly to the armory, where two regiments of
						the Royal Guard were drawn up in line under the command of officers devoted to him. He
						addressed them in an eloquent speech, promising to restore the kingdom to its previous
						proud position among the nations and make the army again a source of honor to the Swedes
						and of terror to its enemies, such as it had been in the great days of Gustavus
						Adolphus. The officers and the men cheered him enthusiastically, and declared they would
						follow him to death or wherever he would lead them. Not only the soldiers in the city,
						but thousands of armed citizens gathered around him shouting, "Down with the nobility!
						Down with the Reichsrath! Long live the King!" He mounted his horse and at the head of
						this enthusiastic army proceeded to the State House, where the Reichsrath was still in
						session, devising means to bring the King to terms. The troops were so placed as to make
						it impossible for the members of the Reichsrath to leave the building. The King, flushed
						with the excitement of victory,  with his flashing sword
						drawn, and surrounded by a few of the most popular officers and citizens, rode through
						the streets, harangued the people on the public squares, and carried them away by his
						eloquence and chivalrous appearance. It was a personal triumph, which he relished to its
						fullest extent, and which gave assurance of the complete success of his plans for
						constitutional reform.
					The revolution which Gustavus the Third had inaugurated so boldly at Stockholm proved a
						complete success. The common people flocked to him in great numbers; the women and girls
						offered him flowers and bouquets, and threw kisses to him; the men knelt down and, with
						tears of joy in their eyes, kissed his boots or his hands, blessing him as the savior of
						his country, and calling the blessings of Heaven down upon his head. Surrounded by
						thousands of enthusiastic adherents, he rode to the City Hall, where the municipal
						authorities were already assembled, and received from them the assurance of their
						unconditional allegiance and loyalty. The same ovation and enthusiastic demonstration
						greeted him at the palace of the Board of Admiralty. Not a shot was fired, not a sword
						was drawn, not a drop of human blood was shed to overcome opposition to the royal plan
						of changing the government and to end the rule of the nobility. Never before in history
						had a revolution been so quickly, so successfully accomplished; never before had a
						government in the full possession of all public powers been so suddenly and so
						successfully overthrown as in this instance. The coup d'état was a
						masterstroke of public policy which gave Gustavus a wonderful prestige throughout
						Europe. Even the English and Russian ambassadors, who were most interested in the
						contemplated change of  government, and who might have
						raised obstacles to the King's autocratic action, were disarmed entirely by a courteous
						invitation to the royal palace, where they were entertained in the most pleasant manner
						until the whole excitement was over and Gustavus the Third in complete possession of the
						government. On the day following, the war department and all the high state officials
						made haste to swear obedience to the King. The citizens of the capital were called
						together on the public square and the King addressed them again, this time in the full
						splendor of triumphant royalty and surrounded by all the high dignitaries of the
						kingdom, telling them, amid their enthusiastic shouts and applause, that he considered
						it his greatest glory to be the first citizen of a free nation. He then took out of his
						pocket the new constitution prepared by him and read it to them in his clear and
						melodious voice. Renewed shouts and boisterous applause rewarded him when he had
						concluded.
					But the part most difficult for him remained to be done, — to get the assent of
						the States. They were convened for the next day, August 21, and in ordering them to
						appear, the King had added that any member not appearing in his seat on that day would
						be treated as a traitor. During the night preceding the meeting of the States a strong
						detachment of soldiers and artillery was placed in a position commanding the State
						House. When the King appeared and sat down on the throne his eye looked upon a hall well
						filled. The most profound silence reigned when he got up and read the constitution in a
						clear and firm voice. He supplemented the reading with a very eloquent and patriotic
						speech, in which he referred to the degradation and contempt to which the monarchy had
							 been reduced by the incapacity, venality and corruption
						of the government and of the nobility. He painted this government and the disgrace it
						had brought upon Sweden in the darkest colors, and then added, in a voice trembling with
						emotion: "If there is any one among you who thinks that I am misstating facts or
						exaggerating the disgraceful condition of our public affairs, I challenge him to
						contradict me, and to state here in the presence of all in what respect I have
						misrepresented the administration of the Reichsrath. I vow to God Almighty that I shall
						devote all my energy to the task of restoring the welfare of my beloved country and the
						happiness of its inhabitants, and I know of no other way to accomplish these results
						than by the change of the constitution as I have read it to you." Then turning to the
						members individually, he asked whether they were in favor of sanctioning the proposed
						change. They all answered in the affirmative and swore the oath of allegiance. Thereupon
						the King drew from his pocket a hymn-book, and removing the crown from his head, he
						began to sing the "Te Deum Laudamus," in which they all joined him. Gustavus had won
						again in the most perilous stage of the dangerous game he was playing.
					The new constitution which had been adopted reinstated the King in all those rights and
						prerogatives which his ancestors had possessed up to the death of Charles the Twelfth.
						He was the commander of the army and navy; the revenues of the state were to be under
						his exclusive care; he disposed arbitrarily of all offices, civil and military; he alone
						had the right to negotiate treaties and alliances; he had unlimited power to conduct a
						war of defence, but for foreign wars he needed the consent of  the States; he alone had the right to convene the Congress, and the Congress
						was not to transact other business than was submitted to it by the crown; the Reichsrath
						was subordinate to the King; it became merely an advisory board, and its decisions were
						not of binding force. It was a constitution which the Emperor of Russia might have
						subscribed to.
					While Gustavus had, by his boldness and eloquence, secured the success of his coup d'état at Stockholm, his brothers travelled through the different
						provinces, promulgated the new constitution, and were everywhere welcomed
						enthusiastically. Gustavus himself made during the winter months of the same year the
						traditional tour of the old kings through the kingdom even to the farthest borders of
						Norway — the old riksgata — and exactly in the same manner as the old kings
						had done — on horseback. Wherever he went he was only escorted by the inhabitants
						of the neighborhood, whom he delighted by his affability, his nobility of soul and his
						eloquence. He seemed to have no enemies and needed no soldiers to protect him. These
						were the golden days of his reign. The two parties which had so bitterly fought for
						supremacy had been wiped out by his victory. The "hats" and the "caps" were heard of no
						more, and Sweden seemed to be in a fair way of entering upon a new era of greatness and
						prosperity.
					Tempting as the task may be for the historian to go into the details of the life of the
						extraordinary man who, endowed by nature with talents of a high order, rose to the
						heights of human glory and then abruptly fell by reason of his own folly, we must forego
						this pleasure and confine ourselves to a rapid sketch of the events  which led Gustavus the Third slowly to the terrible tragedy of his
						assassination. It would seem almost incredible that a prince so popular and so idolized
						by his people as Gustavus was on the morning of his coup d'état could
						in the course of a few years so utterly lose the confidence of his people and forfeit
						their love as to make the execution of the conspiracy against his life even possible.
						But it must be admitted that this loss of popularity and esteem was, in part at least,
						caused by grave faults of the King, which, with reckless audacity, he committed again
						and again, while the general loss of royal prestige and authority throughout Europe as a
						consequence of the French Revolution of 1789 had also a great deal to do with it.
					During the first years after the coup d'état general satisfaction
						seemed to prevail throughout the country; the common people felt relieved of many
						unnecessary burdens, while the nobility, who had been so utterly routed, kept silent in
						the consciousness of their weakness. Many measures of reform, calculated to promote the
						national prosperity, were initiated by the personal agency of the King. The currency,
						which was in a deplorable condition, was put on a sounder basis; many benevolent
						institutions — hospitals, orphan asylums, poor-houses, etc. — were
						established; the public highways were improved; large canals connecting with the
						seacoast the mines of the kingdom (which were among its most important industries) were
						constructed; trade and industry were assisted according to the prevailing theories of
						those times; free trade, both at home and with foreign countries, was established;
						privileges and franchises which oppressed the people at large for the benefit of the few
						were abolished;  both the criminal and the civil code of
						laws were revised and improved; strict impartiality in the application of laws and in
						the punishment of criminals was insisted upon; the torture, which up to that time had
						played an important part in criminal trials, was done away with, and a more humane
						treatment of convicts was introduced in prisons and penitentiaries. Gustavus was in this
						respect a disciple of Montesquieu and Beccaria. His great ambition was also to renew the
						ties of friendship and brotherhood between Finland and Sweden, and in order to do so, he
						personally visited Finland, and established there a number of valuable reforms which are
						gratefully remembered by that unfortunate country to the present day.
					But highly commendable and worthy of admiration as the young King's action was in these
						and many other respects, the defects of his character soon appeared, and gave his
						enemies an opportunity to undermine his work and his popularity. He lacked steadiness
						and firmness of purpose. He wanted to see and enjoy immediately the beneficent results
						of his reforms. Many of them were therefore abandoned before they had had time for full
						development; many very costly undertakings were discontinued because the King had either
						changed his mind or was tired of waiting. And then, he was extravagant in his personal
						expenses and in arranging grand court entertainments fashioned on the brilliant
						festivities of the French court at Versailles, which remained his model in all matters
						of court etiquette and royal display. Like Frederick the Great, to whom Gustavus the
						Third bears in many respects a striking resemblance, although he lacked the great
						Prussian's military genius and wise  frugality, he was
						fond of French literature and art, and made strenuous efforts to give them a supreme
						place in the educational institutions of the kingdom. The national genius of the Swedish
						people and language were consequently relegated to a secondary place. To make up for the
						unpopularity and protests which these efforts caused among the people, he devised a
						national costume for all the inhabitants; but in this attempt he failed entirely. The
						costume he had devised was copied from an ancient Spanish one, and utterly unsuitable
						for a northern country of short summers and severe winters. The King's ordinances
						introducing these Spanish garments were openly disobeyed and laughed at. People began to
						look on him as a dreamer, and lost their respect for him.
					But that which more than anything else hurt his popularity was the way in which he
						treated the liquor question. The mass of the Swedish people were strongly addicted to
						the excessive use of intoxicating liquors. The vice had assumed such proportions that
						measures of reform were urgently called for. But, with the usual impracticability of
						temperance reformers, Gustavus managed the matter so unskilfully that, instead of
						correcting the abuse, he made himself highly unpopular and aroused the most stubborn
						resistance to his reform policy. He had issued an edict prohibiting the manufacture and
						use of distilled liquors, but he found it impossible to enforce the edict: the peasants
						and farmers, who had been distilling their own whiskey, simply ignored it, while in a
						number of cities where distilleries were maintained for the manufacture and sale of the
						liquor, regular battles were fought between the police trying to suppress them, and the
						inhabitants enraged at the attempt to close them. 
						Gustavus then repealed the edict and introduced a new system, which he hoped would at
						once diminish the vice of drunkenness and replenish his treasury, which was in a chronic
						state of exhaustion. He made the right of manufacturing and selling alcoholic liquors a
						crown monopoly, and established agencies for the sale of these liquors in all large and
						small cities and towns of the kingdom. But the peasants were not satisfied with this
						arrangement either. The whiskey they were to buy at the agencies was much dearer than
						their own home-distilled beverage; moreover, the towns and cities, at that time only
						thinly scattered over Sweden, were often so remote from the farms, and the roads leading
						to them were often in such an impassable condition that the purchase of whiskey was a
						difficult matter for the rural population. The clandestine and illicit manufacture of
						the beverage was carried on therefore as it had been before. But the very name of the
						King became odious to the people. They contemptuously called him "a crank, a visionary
						and a poet." Writing poetry, in which Gustavus excelled, was in their eyes a symptom of
						folly and madness.
					The hostility of the nobles and their rebellious spirit, which had been overawed and
						silenced for some years by the great personal popularity of the King, reappeared and
						gained ground with the disaffection of the people, and especially of the rural
						population. For a King like Gustavus the Third, ambitious and high-spirited, military
						glory had a tempting attraction, and he had commenced soon after his successful coup d'état to prepare for winning it. The army was in a really
						deplorable condition at the time of his accession to the throne, being entirely  without artillery and deficient in equipment. Gustavus lost
						no time in remedying these defects. He modelled the Swedish army after the Prussian army
						as reorganized by Frederick the Great, which was then considered the finest and best
						equipped in Europe, and within two years he had made it, with its splendid personnel and
						its modern material, a formidable machine of war, which, under the leadership of a
						military genius, might have renewed the great days of Gustavus Adolphus or Charles the
						Twelfth. But it was the ambition of Gustavus the Third to command the army himself, and
						he was not a military genius. He declared war upon Russia, with the intention of
						recovering the lost provinces of Finland, and proceeded to Finland himself in order to
						take command of the invading army.
					It was there that the first misfortune overtook him. After a few engagements, —
						rather skirmishes than battles, — in which the Swedes were victorious, the King
						decided to invest or take by assault the small fortress of Frederickshamm. It would have
						been better for him if he had marched directly upon Petersburg, which was not in a
						condition to resist an immediate attack of a superior army. If he had done so, very
						likely the Esths, first cousins of the Finns, and anxious to shake off the yoke of
						Russia, would have joined him and would have placed him in possession of the Russian
						borderland; but Gustavus frittered away the time and by his inactivity enabled the
						commanders of his own regiments (generally appointed from the ranks of the high
						nobility) to organize a conspiracy against him and virtually drive him from the field.
						Very likely bribed with Russian gold, they jointly issued a manifesto that Gustavus had
							 violated the constitution of Sweden by declaring war
						upon Russia without the consent of the Reichsrath, and they were therefore not bound to
						obey him in this criminal undertaking. They also used their influence on the other
						officers and on the soldiers of their regiments, and made them rebellious against the
						King's commands. In vain Gustavus implored them not to abandon him and the cause of
						their country; but they were deaf to his prayers and to his threats, and he left the
						army as a humiliated and disgraced commander.
					Upon his return to Stockholm, he made a journey through Dalecarlia, the province in
						which his ancestor Gustavus Vasa had found the followers who raised him to the throne;
						he used his extraordinary eloquence so successfully that the people again rallied round
						him. They swore to stand by him in his struggle against Russia, and not to lay down arms
						until a peace honorable to Sweden could be secured. Gustavus then convened the Reichstag
						for the twenty-sixth of January, 1789, in order to get authority to continue the war and
						restore his kingly prerogatives, which by the revolt of the army had been so signally
						impaired. The nobility at last openly threw off the mask; but they were overpowered by
						the three other estates, who would rather strengthen the King's authority than return to
						their former condition of bondage under the régime of a corrupt and
						arrogant nobility. The Reichstag therefore fully sustained the King's action, taking the
						view that the offensive war against Russia was really a war of defence.
					Sufficient appropriations were made to carry on the war to a successful end, and thirty
						prominent members of the nobility were indicted for treason and lèse
							majesté,  and punished severely. At the same time
						an important revision of the constitution was made in the interest of the King, and, in
						spite of the violent protests of the nobility, his prerogatives were largely extended.
						The Reichsrath was entirely abolished, and the King authorized to declare war on other
						countries whenever war was deemed advisable to protect the interests of the country. He
						also obtained the absolute right to appoint all military and civil officers, while
						formerly many of these appointments had to be confirmed by the Reichsrath. After having
						thus secured the rights of the crown at home, Gustavus departed again for the seat of
						war, with new regiments and new commanders. Russia had also strengthened herself, and
						what might at first have been an easy undertaking, and might have led to a brilliant
						success, was now a very serious one, and one of very uncertain chances of success. It
						soon became evident that the results of the war would depend on the naval supremacy of
						either of the two powers, and all efforts were therefore directed on both sides toward
						strengthening their navies.
					Several big naval battles were fought, and in all of them the King, who personally
						commanded his fleet, performed wonders of valor. The last of these battles was that of
						Swenskasund on the ninth of July, 1790; and the King, who fought with the bravery of
						despair because the fleet of the Russians was considerably superior in numbers to his
						own, won a brilliant victory. No less than fifty-nine Russian warships, carrying
						altogether six hundred and forty-three guns, fell into the hands of the Swedes. But even
						more than this great material success was the prestige which Gustavus derived from the
							 victory. He was tired of the war, and he could now as a
						victorious hero offer terms of peace, honorable and advantageous to his country, instead
						of humbly accepting terms from Russia. On the fourteenth of August, 1790, a treaty of
						peace was concluded by which, while Sweden did not receive any territorial indemnity,
						she secured rights and trade privileges in the Baltic Sea which Russia until then had
						denied her. The honors of the war were therefore on Sweden's side, and the King
						personally, for his unquestioned heroism, was entitled to a liberal share of them.
					On the other hand, the results of the war were disastrous for the country, and the King
						was by his enemies, the nobility (who were more bitterly opposed to him than ever), held
						responsible for these disasters. The heavy expenditures for the war had necessitated
						extraordinary tax levies which were burdensome to the whole people, rich as well as
						poor, and these could not be abolished immediately on the termination of the war. The
						brilliant festivities, balls and entertainments, which greeted the King on his return to
						his capital, could not fully conceal the great distress and poverty of the people; but
						with that levity which was a conspicuous feature of his character and which gave him
						such a mental resemblance to Marie Antoinette, whom he greatly admired, he tried to
						forget in the intoxication of incessant amusements and pleasures the personal privations
						he had suffered during the war and the sorrows and wants of the nation. That this
						conduct, which he did not care to conceal from the public eye, irritated the people and
						filled many of those who had been his admirers with disgust and hatred may easily be
						imagined. But that by which he gave the  greatest blow to
						his popularity was his active and over-zealous sympathy in the misfortunes of Louis the
						Sixteenth and his Queen, Marie Antoinette, and his efforts to release them from
						captivity and save them from death.
					Gustavus showed his lack of political sagacity in estranging the very element upon
						which he had founded his autocratic power, — the great mass of the people. Their
						devotion had made it possible for him, not only to continue the war against Russia, but
						also to be more than a mere figure-head in the government of his kingdom. The support of
						the nobility he had lost beyond redemption. They hated him, and only hoped for
						opportunities to humiliate him. All efforts on his part to reconcile them failed. His
						true policy should have been to ingratiate himself still more with the people, relieve
						their burdens, make the laws and institutions more liberal, and carry out the promise he
						had made to them, that he wanted to be clothed with supreme power in order to make the
						nation more happy and the country more prosperous. But his character did not permit him
						to pursue this policy dictated by common-sense. The French Revolution had broken out,
						and the misfortunes of the French King and Queen enlisted his profound sympathy. He
						watched the progress of the revolution with eager interest, and when it became apparent
						that Louis could not master it, he formed the adventurous and fantastic plan of placing
						himself at the head of a large army, composed of contingents of all the European powers,
						and restoring absolute monarchy in France, as he had restored absolute monarchy in
						Sweden. In order to realize that dream which corresponded so well to his visionary,
						chivalrous, poetical temperament, he opened negotiations with  Russia, Prussia, Austria, and especially with the French émigrés. These men had assembled in Germany and other countries waiting for an
						opportunity to return to France under the standards of some friendly power coming to the
						rescue of Louis the Sixteenth and monarchical institutions. Gustavus had tried his best
						to assist the French King in his flight from Paris. It was a Swedish carriage, with
						Swedish attendants, which was to convey Louis the Sixteenth and the royal family beyond
						the borders of France, and which was so abruptly stopped at Varennes. After this attempt
						at flight had failed, Gustavus saw no other means of saving the monarchy — not
						only in France, but throughout Europe — than by making war upon the Jacobins,
						stamping out the Revolution in the blood of its adherents, and seating Louis the
						Sixteenth in the full glory of absolutism once more on the throne. The execution of this
						plan, he imagined, would immortalize him, and would make him in effect the dictator of
						Europe.
					The Reichstag of Gefle, which was opened January 25, 1792, had already greatly
						disappointed and incensed him, because it had unanimously rejected his demand for an
						appropriation of ten million dollars which he needed for his new undertaking. The utter
						disregard of his wishes and the contempt with which his urgent appeals were ignored by
						the lower order, which had so firmly stood by him in the Reichstag of 1789, showed also
						his great unpopularity; and the nobility thought that the time had come for striking a
						bold blow not only to get rid of him, but also to reinstate themselves in power. As we
						have seen, the moment was very opportune. The public debt was enormous; the distress was
						general; vague rumors  of another war, not against an
						enemy, but against the rights of the people, were in the air. Then the conspiracy was
						formed. There were five principal conspirators; and they all belonged to the highest
						nobility. While some of them had personal grievances, not one of them would have thought
						of raising his hand against the King, unless a much more important object had been in
						view. These five were Ankarström, who had already been among the rebellious officers in
						Finland, Count Ribbing, Count Horn, Count Liliehorn and Baron Pechlin.
					The mainspring of the conspiracy was the hope of overthrowing the autocratic system of
						government, and reinstating the nobility in all its prerogatives. At first the
						conspirators did not want to resort to murder, but they hoped to be able to abduct the
						King, compel him to resign, and then to extort from his successor the recognition of
						those rights and privileges of which Gustavus the Third had deprived them. Having made
						two or three attempts in that direction, they changed their plan, and concluded that the
						easiest and safest way to accomplish their aim would be to assassinate the King.
					Ankarström volunteered to shoot the King at one of the popular masked balls, which he
						was in the habit of visiting, and at which he freely mingled with the other visitors.
						Twice he failed to recognize Gustavus. But the last masquerade of the season at
						Stockholm was to come off on Friday, March 16, 1792, and Ankarström resolved to make a
						last effort to strike his victim. And he did, although Gustavus was warned that very
						evening by one of the conspirators (Count Liliehorn) that it would be dangerous for him
						to go to the ball, for an attempt would be made on his life. The ball was to come  off at the Grand Opera House, and an immense crowd was
						expected. Four of the conspirators — Pechlin, Ankarström, Horn and Ribbing —
						took supper together, and afterwards went to the theatre. They wore black dominoes of a
						uniform pattern, to be able to recognize each other easily. On the other hand, Gustavus
						had taken supper with one of his closest friends, Count Essen, in a little private room
						arranged for his use at the theatre itself. During this supper, at ten o'clock in the
						evening, an anonymous letter was handed to him, written in French and with a lead
						pencil. The author revealed the whole plot, which, as he asserted, he had learned only
						during the afternoon. He implored the King not to go to the ball, and to change his
						conduct and his policy if he wanted to escape assassination. He confessed having opposed
						the King's autocratic measures and his coup d'état, which he
						considered illegal and unconstitutional. But, being a man of honor, as he said, the very
						idea of murder was horrid to him, and he therefore again implored the King to keep away
						from the ball. This note came from Count Liliehorn. Gustavus read it twice very
						attentively; but he did not say a word about its contents. He quietly completed his
						supper and then, accompanied by Count Essen, he proceeded to his box, where he was
						plainly to be seen by all. It was then only that he showed the note to his companion,
						who also implored him not to go on the floor among the dancers. Gustavus said he would
						hereafter put on a coat of mail before going to such places of amusement, but he
						insisted on going on the floor. They thereupon left the box, put on light dominoes and
						descended to the floor, which was crowded with a throng of brilliant, gay and grotesque
						masks.
					
					The King had taken Essen's arm, and while passing through the stage scenery said to
						him: "Now let us see whether they'll dare attack me!" Although he wore a face-mask, the
						dancers whispered to each other: "There is the King!" Gustavus made the tour of the
						ball-room without stopping; then he stepped into the green-room in order to rest a
						moment; but on leaving, he found himself surrounded by a group of black dominoes, one of
						whom (it was Count Horn) laid his hand on the King's shoulder, saying: "Good-evening, my
						beautiful masquerader!" These words were the signal. At the same moment Ankarström fired
						a shot from his pistol, which had been wrapped up in raw wool in order to weaken the
						detonation, and the shot was heard by but a few persons. Gustavus exclaimed in a loud
						voice: "I am wounded! Arrest the assassin!" At the same time loud cries: "Fire! Fire!
						Leave the hall!" resounded from different parts of the building, and a great confusion
						followed. In the panic there was a general rush toward the doors, and all the
						conspirators would have escaped, but for the presence of mind of Count Armfeld, who
						ordered the doors to be closed, and assuring the tumultuous crowd that there was no
						fire, but that a great crime had been committed, ordered all the dancers and visitors to
						take off their masks. The conspirators nevertheless managed to escape immediate
						discovery by their very audacity, although they attracted attention and suspicion. As he
						passed through the door, Ankarström with a haughty smile said to the officer: "I hope
						you do not suspect me?" "On the contrary," replied the officer, "I am sure you are the
						assassin!" but before he could stop him, Ankarström had passed out. He was, however,
						arrested  the next morning, and also Liliehorn, who had
						sent the anonymous note to the King. Counts Horn and Ribbing were arrested a few days
						later, and Baron Pechlin some time afterwards.
					Gustavus the Third was the only one who had kept his presence of mind during the
						tremendous confusion. Essen, covered with the King's blood, had rather carried than
						conducted him first to one of the private boxes and thence to a small adjoining parlor
						with a sofa, where he could lie down. The King was the one who directed what measures
						were to be taken in the grave situation. He ordered the gates of the city to be closed
						and the Duke of Sodermanland to be sent for. As soon as the surgeons had applied the
						necessary bandages, he was conveyed to the royal palace, and issued, with perfect
						self-command, orders for the appointment of those officials who during his illness
						should conduct the affairs of the kingdom. The King himself ascribed the assault to the
						influence of the Jacobins of Paris, and the murderers eagerly circulated this rumor, in
						order to mislead public opinion. However, after Ankarström had been arrested and made a
						confession, there could no longer be any doubt as to the motives which were at the
						bottom of the conspiracy. Public opinion took the cue immediately.
					From the very moment of the assassination the people of Stockholm seemed to be
						delirious with grief. During the thirteen days of his agony all the King's mistakes and
						faults, which quite recently had been magnified into crimes and atrocities, were
						forgotten; there was but one voice of sympathy and affection for him and of condemnation
						for his assassins. All the good and chivalrous qualities of Gustavus reappeared during
						the illness  preceding his death. When the public
						indignation threatened the families of the conspirators, he immediately began to plead
						eloquently for them and wished them to be protected. When delegations of the
						municipalities of Stockholm and other cities were admitted to his presence to assure him
						of the unfaltering loyalty of their cities to him and the royal family, he shed tears of
						gratitude, and told them that such proofs of loyalty were not too dearly purchased at
						the price of a serious and possibly fatal wound. When old Count Brahe, one of the
						leaders of the opposition in the Reichstag, knelt down at his bedside and swore to him
						that he was a stranger to the conspiracy and condemned it with horror, Gustavus raised
						him to his feet and embraced him, weak as he was, and told him with tearful eyes that he
						blessed his wound, because it had reconciled him with a friend so valued and
						noble-hearted. When his brother showed him a list of all those who had been ferreted out
						as accessories to the crime, he refused to look at it, and implored his brother to
						destroy it so that no further bloodshed might result. When some one in his presence
						swore bloody vengeance on the conspirators, he interfered in their behalf, adding: "If
						Ankarström is to die, then let there be mercy at least for the others! One victim is
						enough!" At first it looked as though he would get well. His conversation, fluent and
						logical, at times even brilliant and eloquent, was taken as proof that his vitality had
						not been exhausted, and that his excellent constitution would carry him safely through
						this terrible ordeal. But late on the twelfth day after the assault, he grew worse, and
						began to sink rapidly. The change came so suddenly that even the physicians were
						surprised, and suspected foul play.  But nothing has ever
						come to light to give confirmation to that suspicion.
					Thus ended, most sadly and prematurely, one of the most brilliant careers of the
						eighteenth century, — that of a man of splendid attainments, who lacked perhaps
						depth, and certainly application, to become one of the greatest men of his age and
						century; a man of noble, chivalrous character, who had placed his ideals of human
						greatness unfortunately in the splendid and brilliant outside of things instead of their
						solid, substantial and imperishable worth.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVIII JEAN PAUL MARAT
					
					
					
					
						JEAN PAUL MARAT
					
					
					CHAPTER XVIII ASSASSINATION OF JEAN PAUL MARAT (July 13,
						1793)
					IN the letter of farewell which Charlotte Corday, from her prison
						cell as a doomed murderess, addressed to her father, she used the phrase (the French
						words are a well-known verse from a famous tragedy): "'T is not
								the scaffold, but the crime, that brings disgrace"; for she still adhered to
						the belief that in killing Marat she had not committed a crime, but an act of patriotic
						devotion for which posterity would honor her, and history would place her name among the
						benefactors of mankind. In this belief she was more than half right, for in the long
						list of political crimes and assassinations there is not one which has been so willingly
						condoned by the world, so eloquently defended by historians, so enthusiastically
						immortalized by poets, and so leniently criticised even by moralists as that of
						Charlotte Corday. In her defence the law of heredity has been invoked, for it has been
						maintained that Charlotte Corday, who was a great-grandniece of the great Corneille, had
						inherited those sublime patriotic and republican sentiments which the great tragic poet
						so often and so eloquently expresses in his dramatic poems. In fact everything has been
						done  to surround her crime with the halo of martyrdom,
						and to secure for her the glory of a national heroine.
					It was in the middle of the year 1793. The French Revolution had reached that
						turning-point when the Revolutionists had almost exhausted their fury against the
						Royalists, and engaged in factional fights among themselves, always ending in the
						execution of the members of the vanquished party. The National Assembly —
						transformed into the National Convention — was under the absolute control of the
						Jacobins, and Marat, Danton and Robespierre were the absolute rulers of Paris and
						consequently of France. The King had been guillotined, the Queen and the other members
						of the royal family were imprisoned, and their execution was only a question of time. An
						insane craving for blood seemed to have taken possession of the men who were guiding the
						destinies of France. Danton, by far the most gifted of these Jacobins, had forever
						sullied his name as the author of the "September Massacres"; but far more odious was
						Marat, "the friend of the people," the blood-thirsty demon of the Revolution, who quite
						seriously demanded, in the paper of which he was the editor and publisher, that two
						hundred thousand persons should be guillotined to purify the aristocratic atmosphere of
						France.
					The powerful party of the Girondists, who were distinguished by a certain degree of
						moderation and had been a sort of counterpoise in the Convention to the Jacobins, had
						not only been defeated, but had been actually driven out of the Convention and been
						branded as traitors and enemies to the Republic. With Marat, Robespierre and Danton in
						the absolute and unrestrained  possession of power, the
						destruction and execution of the Girondists was therefore only a question of time,
						— of months, weeks, perhaps only of days, — and most of them fled from
						Paris, seeking refuge in those parts of France which were known to be strongly attached
						to the moderate views of the defeated party. Normandy was one of these provinces, and in
						its ancient towns and villages quite a number of the proscribed leaders of the Girondist
						party — Buzot, Pétion, Barbaroux, Louvet and others — appeared with the
						outspoken intention of arousing the population and inducing them to march against Paris.
						There had been great excitement before their arrival. The enemies of the Terrorists were
						in a large majority, and had been active in organizing, equipping, and drilling an army,
						and General Wimpfen, the commandant at Cherbourg, was bold and imprudent enough to
						announce that he would march upon Paris with an army of sixty thousand men.
					At that time there lived at Caen in Normandy a young girl of noble descent, very
						beautiful and ingenious, but poor. Her name was Charlotte Corday, or rather Marie Anna
						Charlotte Corday; she lived at Caen in the house of her aunt, Madame de Bretteville.
						Charlotte was the daughter of Monsieur de Corday d'Armans, and a great-grandniece of
						Pierre Corneille, the greatest of the tragic poets of France. The statement that she was
						the great-granddaughter of the poet is erroneous. She was the great-granddaughter of
						Marie Corneille, the only sister of Pierre Corneille, whose daughter married Adrian
						Corday, Baron of Cauvigny. This lineage makes the claim of heredity for Charlotte's
						sublime character, which is so often insisted on, rather fanciful, especially since no
						other  members of the great poet's family have manifested
						these characteristics. Charlotte had a sister and two brothers, who had left their
						father's house after he married his second wife. Her two brothers went to Germany to
						take service in the army of the Prince of Condé in his campaign against the French
						Revolutionists.
					Charlotte had been placed in a convent at Caen when only twelve years of age, and being
						naturally contemplative, the retirement and silence of the convent made her even more
						so. She abandoned herself entirely to those vague dreams and exaltations which so often
						fill the minds and souls of young girls on the threshold of womanhood. Especially the
						proud, exalted, grandiose heroines, whom her great-granduncle had immortalized in his
						tragedies, Cinna, Horace, Polyeucte, Le Cid, made a profound impression upon her, and
						she learned the most beautiful passages by heart. Her very education seemed to prepare
						her for the great historic rôle which she was to play some ten or
						twelve years later. At the age of seventeen or eighteen she left the convent and was
						kindly received in the house of Madame de Bretteville. Her mind was filled with the
						exalted sentiments of Corneille and Plutarch, whom she read and reread with great
						delight. Her soul was restless at the sight of the increasing agitation against the
						corruption of the aristocratic classes and of the profound misery and degradation of the
						poor. The house of Madame de Bretteville was one of those sombre, sad-looking, narrow
						residences which are still found occasionally in the silent and sleepy streets of old
						Norman towns, and well adapted to the stern and dreamy character of Charlotte. In the
						rear of the house there was a garden, surrounded by high walls,  and this garden became the favorite spot of Charlotte in her readings and
						studies. Her extraordinary beauty, which consisted as much in the classical cast of her
						features, her dazzling complexion, her magnificent eyes, as in the intellectual
						expression of her countenance and her queenlike bearing, had fully unfolded itself in
						the quietude of her home.
					Those who have found in books the greatest joys and pleasures of their lives know what
						an immense enthusiasm, what an ardent and insatiable curiosity fills the soul when
						circumstances permit them to explore the vast field of human thought and inspiration and
						to dive into its treasury. Madame de Bretteville's library was well filled with
						translations of the great classics of Greece and Rome, and also with the works of
						Voltaire, Rousseau, Montesquieu and other modern writers. These became the favorite
						study of Charlotte. One of her greatest favorites was Raynal, whose famous History of
						the two Indies had just appeared and filled Europe with admiration. Very likely that
						which appealed so strongly to Charlotte's heart was the sympathy which the author felt
						for the oppressed races, and especially for the black slaves. With untiring zeal and
						passion she devoured everything in her aunt's library, — novels, history,
						philosophy, — and these studies finally led her to politics, which engaged at that
						time the minds of the foremost writers of France and became the favorite subject of
						public and private discussion. In this way two parallel currents of ideas had formed
						themselves in Charlotte's mind, — on the one hand, a powerful desire for greater
						liberty and the elevation of the oppressed and degraded; on the other hand, a profound
						admiration for those who  devote and sacrifice themselves
						to the great cause of humanity, and a vague but ardent desire to adorn her name with the
						halo of heroism and immortality. Left entirely to the instincts and aspirations of her
						own nature, the young royalist (for her entire family was strictly royalistic) had
						become a republican, but a republican in the sense of Plutarch and Tacitus, nourished by
						the sentiments of Corneille and Rousseau. Nothing in her appearance indicated her
						enthusiastic and soul-devouring ambition to make herself the deliverer of her country
						from the terrible calamities which had recently befallen it. Her political studies had
						filled her, republican though she was, with extreme disgust and hatred for the
						Terrorists, and especially for Marat, who seemed to be their inspiring genius. This was
						the general situation and also the personal frame of mind of Charlotte Corday at the
						time the Girondists who had escaped from Paris came to Caen to organize armed resistance
						to the terrorism of the "Mountain."
					Charlotte Corday had zealously followed the reports in the newspapers she could get
						hold of concerning the situation at Paris, and her heart beat warmly for the cause of
						the Girondists. Like all others in the city she lived in, she believed that Marat was
						the secret spring that kept the entire machinery of the Revolution in motion, that he
						was the head and soul of the anarchists and murderers, that he was the centre of all
						conspiracies, the originator of all crimes, and that, with him out of the way, peace and
						liberty would soon regain the ascendency, and a freer, nobler, greater France would
						arise from the ruins. With such convictions in her mind she attended the meetings of the
						Girondists, where appeals were made  to the citizens of
						Caen and all Normandy to enroll themselves in the service of their country, of liberty,
						of humanity, against the tyrants at Paris. The impression which these meetings made upon
						her soul can hardly be described. For the first time she saw and heard the men she had
						read so much about, and whose patriotic utterances had so often found a loud echo in her
						own heart; they were there, young, beautiful, enthusiastic, made doubly interesting by
						the ban of proscription which had exiled them from Paris; they were there with their
						inspiring eloquence and patriotic appeals, and in the tumultuous audience there was no
						one more fully enchanted and carried away than the young girl, the disciple of Plutarch
						and Rousseau. The words: "Country!" "Duty!" "Public Welfare!" repeated again and again
						by the orators, were deeply engraved upon her impressionable heart. An extraordinary
						exaltation took possession of Charlotte's soul; she aspired to a part as grand as that
						of these orators; she longed for a chance to devote herself to the holy cause of liberty
						and to suffer for it.
					These projects and aspirations remained mere vague dreams, until an event occurred
						which gave them definite shape. On the seventh of July the volunteers who were to march
						on Paris assembled on a large plain in the immediate vicinity of Caen. The plain was
						large enough to hold one hundred thousand men; but only thirty volunteers appeared.
						General disappointment was visible among the spectators; but no one was more deeply
						affected than Charlotte Corday, who was also present. It seems that from that very
						sorrow there sprang up within her mind a project both heroic and terrible, — to
							 assassinate Marat, whose words had been most
						influential in expelling and proscribing the Girondists. To Charlotte's mind the cause
						of the Girondists was identical with that of liberty, country, and justice. And how
						often in the past had a pure and blameless life sacrificed for a great cause appeased
						the wrath of Destiny! She went home and requested an interview with the Girondist
						deputies.
					Charlotte Corday was then twenty-four years old, but looked much younger. She was tall,
						and of beautiful proportions; her complexion was of dazzling whiteness, her hair was
						blond, her luminous eyes of charming sweetness, her nose finely cut, and her chin
						indicated firmness and determination. Her face was a perfect oval, and the total
						impression was that of perfect beauty. Both her smile and her voice were of angelic
						sweetness. Charlotte made a profound impression upon the deputies; but they were not
						inclined to take her seriously. One day Pétion came in while she was in conversation
						with Barbaroux. "Ah, ah," said he, "there is the beautiful young aristocrat paying a
						visit to the Republicans." "You judge me wrongly," she replied, "but some day you will
						know who I am."
					The question has often been asked whether the Girondists put the dagger in Charlotte
						Corday's hand to assassinate Marat. The enemies of the Girondists persistently asserted
						this, but there is no evidence to that effect. Possibly in her two conversations with
						Barbaroux her determination to assassinate Marat, and not Danton or Robespierre, became
						confirmed by the intensity of hatred and contempt manifested for him by the famous
						Girondist leader. At all events, after these interviews she made  her preparations to go to Paris with great circumspection, and great
						tranquillity of mind. A little dressing-case, a night-gown and a volume of Plutarch's
						Lives, with some money, was all her baggage. But before going to Paris she proceeded to
						Argentan to bid her family farewell. Her father and her sister were living there, and
						she told them that she intended to go to England, and would remain there until the storm
						of the Revolution had blown over. She bade them farewell without showing an excess of
						emotion, but also without faintness, and then departed for Paris in the public
						stage-coach.
					During the journey, which at that period lasted two days, she appeared serene and
						happy; no preoccupation seemed to disturb the tranquillity of her mind. Her
						fellow-travellers all fell in love with her and treated her with distinguished courtesy.
						One of them offered to marry her. Charlotte smiled, but refused politely. Moreover they
						were all radical revolutionists, and swore by Danton, Robespierre and Marat.
					At Caen nobody had any idea of her plan. She had told her aunt she would go to Argentan
						and thence to England. She had always concealed her political views so carefully that
						nobody could have suspected her.
					She arrived at Paris on the forenoon of the eleventh of July, and put up at the
						Providence Hotel. Tired out by the long and tedious journey, she went to bed early in
						the afternoon and slept well till the next morning. No conscientious scruples disturbed
						her. Her mind was fully made up, and she did not for a minute hesitate to execute her
						project. The next morning she went to the Palais Royal, purchased a strong and sharp
						steel knife,  and carefully hid it in her bosom. She then
						asked herself when and where she was to use her weapon. She would have preferred to give
						her act a certain solemnity. At Caen, while brooding over her purpose, she had conceived
						the plan to assassinate Marat on the Champ de Mars, on the fourteenth of July, during
						the celebration of the anniversary of the destruction of the Bastile and the overthrow
						of the monarchy. She hoped to slay this king of anarchy, surrounded as he would then be
						by thousands of his murderous followers; but when the celebration was postponed, she
						planned to assassinate him at one of the sessions of the Convention, the scene of his
						crimes and proscriptions. When she learned that Marat was ill and did not attend the
						sessions of the Convention, there seemed no way left for her except to go to his
						residence and meet him there. She addressed a letter to him asking for a private
						interview. The letter remained unanswered. She sent a second letter, more urgent than
						the first, in which she requested an immediate interview for the purpose of
						communicating to him a secret of great importance. Moreover she represented herself as
						unhappy, as a victim of political persecution and appealed to his protection. After this
						appeal she hoped to be admitted.
					At about seven o'clock in the evening of July 13 she left her hotel, took a cab and
						proceeded to the residence of Marat, a dismal old building, No. 20 in the Rue des
						Cordeliers. There Marat lived, and there also he had the office and the press and
						composing-rooms of his newspaper, "The Friend of the People." Marat's living apartments,
						which were furnished with a certain elegance strangely contrasting with the general  appearance of the building, were situated on the second
						floor and were shared by his mistress, or rather his wife, who loved him passionately,
						and who watched over him with the fidelity of a dog. Knowing the great peril to which
						the idol of her heart might be exposed from foreign visitors, she subjected each of
						them, before admitting him, to a careful scrutiny and painstaking examination.
					When Charlotte Corday had ascended the stairway leading to Marat's office, she suddenly
						found herself in the presence of Catherine Evrard — she continued to call herself
						by that name, although afterwards it appeared that she had been married to Marat.
						Catherine was surprised at the strange visitor, who, with a firm and melodious voice,
						inquired for the citizen Marat and desired to see him. With great attention Catherine
						scanned the young woman, who was dressed with great modesty and looked like a lady from
						the provinces, and demanded the object of her visit, and as Charlotte either refused to
						give her that information or failed to impress her favorably, she declined to admit her
						to Marat's room, who, she said, was just taking a bath and could not be seen. At this
						moment Marat's voice was heard from a room whose door was not tightly closed, and he
						told Catherine to admit the young stranger. He thought it was the young woman who had
						written to him, and who had announced her visit for that evening. Thus invited,
						Charlotte entered the room, much against the wish of Catherine. It was a small and dark
						room. A bath-tub stood in the centre, and Marat was taking a bath, covered up to the
						neck, except his right arm and shoulder, for he was in the act of writing an editorial
						for his newspaper. A board had been placed across the tub,  and in this way a table had been formed to hold his manuscript. As she stepped up to
						him he began to ask her concerning the important news from Normandy she had promised in
						her letter. He also inquired about the Girondists who had gone there, and wanted to know
						what they were doing. She told him. "It is all right," he said, while marking down their
						names. "Within a week they will all be guillotined." If anything had been needed to
						confirm her resolution and to stir her up to speedy action, it was this announcement.
						She quickly drew the dagger from her bosom and plunged it into Marat's breast up to the
						handle. This thrust, aimed from above, and executed with wonderful force and firmness,
						pierced the lungs, and severed the main arteries, from which a stream of blood rushed
						forth.
					"Ah, this to me, my dear friend?" exclaimed the wounded man. It was all he could say. A
						moment later he was dead.
					The assassination of Marat created a rage, a frenzy among the lowest classes of the
						population of Paris which it is impossible to describe. That the courageous young woman
						who had slain the demon of blood was not torn to pieces is a wonder. Charlotte, in
						thinking of the fate which might befall her after her task was performed, had not
						forgotten the possibility or even probability of falling a victim to the fury of the
						people, but even this terrible prospect did not deter her. She received what may be
						called a fair trial and she had the benefit of an official defender. Since she did not
						deny the act of assassination and readily admitted that it was an act of premeditation
						and careful preparation, any painstaking investigation might have been deemed
						unnecessary but  for the hope which the Terrorists
						entertained, of connecting the Girondist party, and especially the Girondists assembled
						at Caen, with her crime, — a hope in which they were utterly disappointed. She was
						therefore arraigned before the Revolutionary Tribunal and subjected to a rigorous
						examination as to her accomplices.
					"Who filled your mind with so much hatred for Marat?" asked the judge.
					"I did not need the hatred of others," she replied; "my own was sufficient."
					"But somebody must have instigated you to commit this deed?"
					"We do but poorly what others tell us to do."
					"What did you hate him for?"
					"For the enormity of his crimes."
					"What do you mean by his crimes?"
					"His crimes against France and humanity."
					"Why did you kill him? "
					"In order to give back peace to my country."
					"Do you believe you have killed all the Marats of France?"
					"His death may frighten the others."
					"Do you regret and repent your deed?"
					"I rejoice that it was successful."
					Only once during this trial her heart failed her. It was when Catherine Evrard, Marat's
						mistress, took the stand to testify against her, and in a voice choked with tears told
						the story of her visit to Marat's house. Looking at the woman who through her deed had
						lost him whom she loved, the tears burst from her own eyes, and she exclaimed: "No more!
						No more! I implore you. It is I who killed him; I do not deny it!"
					
					Again she was deeply moved when the dagger with which she killed Marat was presented to
						her. "Do you recognize this instrument?" She turned away her face and exclaimed: "I do!
						I do!" The public prosecutor called attention to the fact that she had plunged the
						dagger into the breast of her victim from above, that it was a difficult thrust, and
						that she must have practised it before she acquired so much skill.
					She listened attentively to what he said, and exclaimed with unfeigned indignation,
						"Shame! Shame! The wretch wants to brand me as an assassin!"
					Her words caused a sensation. The audience and even the judges were struck with
						admiration, so much energy and patriotic devotion were expressed in her answers. She
						stood before them like an antique heroine, not trembling for her life, but provoking
						death and inviting it by her justification of the crime she had committed to save her
						country. The trial resulted in her conviction. She received her sentence of death
						without showing any emotion; was it not the crown of immortality to which she had
						aspired? Her official defender, Chauveau Lagarde, — the same who three months
						later so nobly defended Marie Antoinette, — might have saved her by pleading
						insanity, but he comprehended her nobility of soul and would not offend her by such a
						plea. "She refuses to be defended," he said; "she pleads guilty and is beyond the fear
						of death!" After the death sentence had been pronounced, she stepped up to her defender,
						and with a smile of angelic sweetness thanked him for his noble-minded, graceful and
						kind defence. "You understood me," she said, "and your esteem consoles me for the
						contempt of the ignorant masses."
					
					One thing remarkable about this trial was the respect, not to say the admiration, with
						which this young woman, who had killed their idol, was looked upon by the spectators.
						They seemed to feel instinctively that a divine inspiration, a heaven-born principle of
						humanity and patriotism, had prompted her to commit an act which human law condemned and
						punished, but which posterity would forgive, if not glorify.
					From the very hour of her conviction, she became a national heroine. The wild Maratists
						clamored against her, but there were thousands and thousands even among the
						Revolutionists who sympathized with her and admired her. Brutus ceased to be the patron
						saint of patriotic assassins; his place in the hearts of enemies of tyranny and
						despotism was taken by the young girl who had so heroically thrown life and beauty away
						to redeem her country. Poets and authors immediately celebrated her in song and prose;
						it may be said that her immortality commenced even before her beautiful head fell under
						the knife of the guillotine. She died on the evening of the nineteenth of July.
					When she was taken to the place of execution in the costume of the condemned victims
						— a scarlet shirt — the sun was setting. His last rays sent a farewell
						greeting to the young heroine, who seemed to be bathed in a halo of glory, as she
						ascended the steps of the scaffold with firm step and serene countenance. A shudder
						passed through the multitude as her head fell into the basket.
					She was not insane; she was an exalted, enthusiastic dreamer, who looked upon her crime
						as an act of justice demanded by the necessities of the times, — an act  inspired by a higher Power which had guided her in her
						design and helped her in its execution. Thinking of Jeanne d'Arc, who had saved France
						and immortalized herself by her self-sacrificing devotion, she felt convinced that God
						often chooses woman as his instrument for interposition in the history of nations. If
						she deceived herself in the nature of the act by which she hoped to restore the
						happiness of France and to terminate the era of bloody hecatombs sacrificed to the fury
						of sanguinary monsters, is it the duty of the historian to judge her severely? Should he
						not rather, while pointing out the error of her judgment, be willing to bestow on her
						the laurel-wreath of a patriotic heroine, which has been accorded to her by poets, by
						her grateful countrymen, and by the whole world?
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIX PAUL THE FIRST OF RUSSIA
					
					
					
					
						PAUL I.
					
					
					CHAPTER XIX ASSASSINATION OF PAUL THE FIRST OF RUSSIA (March
						24, 1801)
					THOSE who have followed the preceding chapters will remember that
						Catherine the Second of Russia got possession of the throne by the murder of her
						husband, fortified that possession by the murder of another Czar imprisoned in the
						fortress of Schlüsselburg (the weak-minded Ivan the Sixth), and finally, haunted by the
						constant fear of being dethroned by some new pretender, sacrificed all those whose
						claims might become dangerous to her security. History, which is filled with the crimes
						of remorseless rulers, furnishes, however, abundant proof that such crimes, although
						successful at first, are frequently visited upon their authors or their authors'
						children, and that blood cruelly and unjustly shed will blossom forth in a new crop of
						crime and bloodshed. It was so in the case of the murders committed by Catherine the
						Second; and while she, very likely, personally suffered from a mental agony which made
						her life on the throne miserable in the extreme, it was her son who finally paid the
						penalty.
					The life of this unfortunate son had been full of disappointment and sorrow, almost
						from the moment of his birth. Born as the son of Peter the Third, he was almost  openly repudiated by his reputed father as a bastard. Quite
						often Peter the Third had declared in the presence of gentlemen and ladies of the court
						that the little Grand-Duke Paul was not his son, but either Alexis or Gregor Orloff's,
						and that he had no right to the succession. Catherine, however, insisted that Paul was
						Peter's son, and as the boy grew up, his many peculiarities of mind showed such a
						remarkable similarity to those of Peter the Third, that the legitimacy of his birth
						could hardly be doubted. It was really the manifestation of these peculiarities that
						filled the mind of the mother with that insuperable aversion, not to say hatred, for the
						son, which would have been incomprehensible but for the remorseful recollections which
						the traits of the father necessarily awakened in her mind. The boy could not fail to
						notice this aversion and hostility on the part of his mother, especially since the
						courtiers, modelling their conduct toward him on the sentiments of the Czarina, treated
						him with the same coldness and contempt. His whole education was carefully arranged on a
						premeditated plan to keep him as much as possible in ignorance of those very things
						which might be useful to him as a ruler, while his character was rendered distrustful
						and suspicious to such a degree that he became a misanthropist of the blackest hue. Not
						a day passed but he discovered espionage, treachery, ingratitude and intentional
						hostility among those whom the Empress had placed near his person as his tutors,
						teachers and confidants. They shamelessly deceived him, betrayed him, and lied about
						him. They cautiously instilled into his mind the story of the assassination of his
						father and of his mother's knowledge of the crime, and when the young man,  horror-struck at this disclosure, clenched his fists and
						gnashed his teeth, they reported to their imperial mistress that the young Grand Duke
						had manifested dangerous symptoms of impatience and independence, which would require
						even greater care and watchfulness on the part of his tutors and a more severe isolation
						of the young prince. Their only intention was, of course, to show their indefatigable
						zeal in the task entrusted to them and to make themselves absolutely indispensable to
						their imperial employer or her favorites; but the effect on his mind was most
						disastrous. Burdened with the suspicion that his own mother was a murderess, and with
						the evidence afforded by thousands of little occurrences of her hatred toward himself,
						and of the treachery of his attendants, in constant fear of impending assassination,
						— is it not almost wonderful that his mind, not naturally strong, did not
						absolutely give way?
					When Paul had grown up to manhood, he was married to a lovely young German princess;
						but since his mother had selected this wife for him, he regarded her with constant
						suspicion. She died without having succeeded in overcoming his distrust. A second
						marriage, which he was compelled to contract, had no happier results, although his wife
						bore him four sons. By special order of the Empress these sons were taken away from him
						and educated under the special supervision of Catherine herself, while Paul was ordered
						to proceed to Gatschina, a country-seat near St. Petersburg, where he amused himself
						with drilling a battalion of soldiers and arranging sham battles, just as Peter the
						Third, his father, had done before his elevation to the throne. But rarely was he
						permitted to receive his children, and when they came  to
						see him, he was always afraid that some secret danger might surprise him.
					In this manner thirty-five years had elapsed since the death of Peter the Third. During
						these thirty-five years the name of Peter had hardly ever been heard at the court, or at
						least not in the presence of the Empress. Then Catherine herself falls a prey to the
						grim destroyer; and Paul inherits the crown. His mother's body is laid out in state on a
						catafalque, by whose side stands another coffin, magnificently ornamented and with an
						imperial crown on its top. It is the coffin of Peter the Third, whose remains had been
						deposited in a vault of the Alexander Nevski Monastery. It was one of Paul's first
						official acts to proceed to this convent, to open the vault and the coffin containing
						his father's mortal remains. One of the gloves of Peter the Third was still well
						preserved. Paul took it out of the coffin, knelt down in the presence of the whole court
						and reverently kissed it. Then he ordered the coffin to be carried to the imperial
						palace where the body of his mother lay in state, and an imperial crown to be placed on
						it. It was, perhaps, the most unique coronation which ever took place in history. But
						Paul wanted not only to honor his father's memory; he wanted also to punish and to hand
						over to public contempt his murderer. He therefore ordered Alexis Orloff, who had
						planned the assassination of Peter the Third, to act as chief mourner at the funeral.
						Orloff obeyed; but immediately after the obsequies, during which he was the target of
						the contemptuous eyes of the whole people, he was thrown into a kibitka and sent into
						exile. Such was the opening of Paul's reign.
					In his physical make-up Paul bore not the slightest 
						resemblance to Peter the Third, and this circumstance seemed to give confirmation to the
						circulating rumors that he was not Peter's son. But if, as a great historian has pointed
						out, Catherine's intense hatred of her son could have left any doubt in that respect,
						Paul's personal acts of government, almost from the very first day after the funeral of
						his mother, absolutely removed it. (For, intellectually and morally, never a son bore a
						greater resemblance to his father than Paul the First did to Peter the Third.) Paul had
						good qualities, and with proper education and assistance, he would very likely have made
						a good ruler; but without both, his well-meant but ill-timed plans of reform failed to
						do the people any good, while they created untold enemies for him. Exactly like Peter
						the Third, he had prepared a number of plans of reform, which he immediately promulgated
						without consulting with any one about their opportuneness or advisability. Like Peter's
						reform plans, Paul's turned mostly on trivialities, — on the style of hats or
						coats or military uniforms, — and by strenuously trying to enforce these edicts he
						made himself odious. He hated anything that might remind him of the French Revolution,
						and would not permit a Frenchman to enter the Russian Empire without a passport signed
						by one of the French Bourbon princes (then living in exile); like his father he idolized
						the Prussians and wanted Prussian military regulations, uniforms and equipment
						introduced into the Russian army; in these efforts he was strongly opposed by the
						Russian officers and soldiers. They made fun of the imperial ordinances and (admitting
						then that he was Peter's son) said that he had inherited Peter's Prussomania and
						insanity. Citizens and peasants were equally indignant at 
						Paul's arbitrary interference with their personal rights and liberties. He also tried to
						introduce church reforms, which irritated the clergy and caused angry protests
						throughout the Empire. In attempting to introduce these "reforms" he sometimes
						manifested symptoms of real insanity. He declared war upon round hats, which he
						considered revolutionary and hostile to the government. He carried this war to such an
						extent that he ordered the police and even the soldiery to confiscate the obnoxious hats
						and arrest the owners, even while the latter were promenading in the streets, and
						without any regard to the weather. In this manner it was not long before he had
						estranged the good feelings of the aristocracy, the army, the clergy and the people at
						large. They began to regard him as a trifler and maniac, who was imbued with an
						excessive idea of his own authority, who defied national sentiment and prejudice, and
						who would not counsel with anybody because he distrusted everybody.
					In his foreign policy he was selfish and vacillating. He subordinated the national
						interests of Russia entirely to his own personal whims and prejudices. He formed
						alliances and cancelled them without cause, and thus made enemies of all foreign powers.
						The most prominent statesmen and generals became convinced that Russia, which under
						Catherine's rule had won a commanding position among the powers of Europe, would lose
						all prestige if forced into a state of political isolation by the foolish policy of Paul
						the First.
					Plots and conspiracies were formed, of which the most prominent court officials in
						immediate attendance on the Emperor became members. Some of these men he hated  because they had been favorites and counsellors of his
						mother; others he had in his sudden fits of passion abused and insulted. Most prominent
						among these were Count Pahlen, the brothers Zubow, and Count Talizin, commander of the
						Imperial Guards. They added their personal grievances to the public dissatisfaction, and
						joined hands in bringing about Paul's dethronement. They commenced working on the Grand
						Dukes, Paul's sons, and especially upon the oldest of them, Alexander, whom Count Pahlen
						convinced that the Emperor held in readiness an order for the arrest of the Grand Dukes,
						with the exception of Nicholas, his third son, whom he had designated for the succession
						to the crown. Alexander was of a sentimental turn of mind. For a while he resisted the
						tempting offers of the conspirators, but when the reports of his impending arrest and
						transfer to Schlüsselburg were confirmed by others, he finally consented to the arrest
						of the Emperor and to the demand for his forced abdication. This he did with tears and
						heart-rending supplications not to harm his father and to treat him with becoming
						respect. Having received this consent, the conspirators proceeded to work with great
						promptness and energy. The time was propitious for the immediate execution of their
						conspiracy; for they knew very well that what originally had been planned only as
						dethronement by abdication might easily lead to the assassination of the Czar, and they
						had taken precautions and measures tending towards such a result.
					It was during the Masnaliza, the Russian Carnival, that the conspirators resolved to
						carry their plot into execution. The whole population was in a state of frenzy,
						drunkenness, and wild excesses. The  conspirators knew
						that during these days they could meet and make all necessary arrangements without
						attracting the least attention. Paul the First resided in the palace of St. Michael,
						which he claimed to have built on a direct order of St. Michael himself. He had entirely
						isolated himself; his most faithful servant, Count Rostopchin, and his wife, whom he had
						really loved, had been banished from his apartments. It was this Rostopchin who twelve
						years afterwards burned the city of Moscow. He distrusted them as well as all others.
						His only confidante (and, as is asserted, his mistress at the same time) was an ugly old
						cook, who prepared his meals in a kitchen adjoining his bedroom, that he might be secure
						against poison. The Empress Maria, distinguished by the gentleness and tenderness of her
						sentiments, who had given him innumerable proofs of her affection and devotion, was in
						his eyes a traitress who he supposed was plotting with his enemies against his life. He
						had therefore ordered the doors leading from his own apartments to hers to be walled
						up.
					The assassination itself presents some points of resemblance to that of Wallenstein,
						Duke of Friedland. On the evening of March 23, 1801, General Talizin, chief of the
						Imperial Guards, gave a brilliant party, to which only gentlemen of great intrepidity
						and resoluteness, all of whom were known to be personal enemies of the Emperor, had been
						invited. When the guests were heated with wine and in a condition of semi-intoxication,
						Count Pahlen entered the salon in which the guests were assembled; he
						referred in a few impressive words to the despotism and tyranny of the Emperor, to the
						widespread spirit of rebellion, to the dissatisfaction prevailing among  officers, people, and clergy, to the public disorders and
						disturbances breaking out on all sides, and closed his inflammatory harangue by
						appealing to his hearers to make an end of these intolerable conditions. He knew his
						speech would be enthusiastically received, and for several minutes there was perfect
						bedlam among the guests. Some of them hurled chairs above their heads, others grasped
						their knives or swords, and swore that they would kill the insane fool who had already
						too long disgraced the imperial throne.
					The plan according to which the conspirators proceeded had been carefully projected.
						Pahlen, who was Governor-General of St. Petersburg, left the palace in the general
						confusion, but returned soon with a detachment of cavalry and guarded the one side of
						the Winter Palace. Talizin marched up from the other side with a regiment of grenadiers.
						When these soldiers marched through the botanical garden of the palace, their loud and
						heavy steps frightened away many thousand crows, which were sleeping upon the high
						lime-trees of the garden. The loud croaking of this immense army of black birds ought to
						have aroused Paul from his sleep and warned him of his impending danger. But he slept
						on.
					After the palace was fully surrounded, the conspirators crossed the ditch on the ice. A
						battalion of soldiers, who were not in the secret, and who were on guard on the
						outposts, offered some resistance, but were easily overpowered and disarmed. Not a shot
						had been fired. After having passed the gates of the palace, the conspirators were
						joined by Colonel Marin, the Commandant of the palace, who conducted the riotous throng,
						among whom were hardly any sober persons, over winding-stairs up to  the door of the Emperor's bedroom. On the threshold of the door the guard
						was asleep, and when aroused and trying to resist, was very rudely handled and barely
						escaped alive. He ran down the stairs and called the guards to arms. They demanded to be
						taken to the Emperor's rooms, but Marin interfered. He made them present arms, and in
						this position no Russian soldier dares move a limb or speak a word.
					The crowd entered the bedroom. Prince Zubow and General Benningsen — the latter a
						Hanoverian by birth, but of great authority in the army on account of his energy and
						reckless audacity — stepped up to the bed of the Czar, brandishing their swords.
						"Sire," said Benningsen, "you are my prisoner!" The Emperor stared at them in speechless
						surprise. "Sire," continued Benningsen, "it is a question of life or death for you!
						Yield to circumstances and sign this act of abdication!" The room was becoming filled up
						with drunken conspirators, all of whom wanted to see what was going on, and tried to get
						in. In a moment of confusion caused by this pushing and crowding in, which others tried
						to prevent, the Emperor sprang from his bed and took refuge behind the screen of a
						stove, where he staggered over some obstacle and fell to the ground. "Sire," exclaimed
						Benningsen once more, "submit to the inevitable! Your life is at stake!" At this moment
						a new noise was heard from the anteroom, and Benningsen, who so far had been the only
						protector of Paul's life, turned to the door, to see whether the new-comers were friends
						or enemies. Paul was, for the moment, alone with his assailants. His courage returned.
						He ran up to a table upon which lay several pistols. He reached for them, but some of
						the  conspirators had watched the motion of his hand; one
						of them almost severed it from his arm by a stroke of his sword. Agonized with pain the
						Czar rushed upon his enemies. A short struggle, a heavy fall, and it was all over.
					The murder of Peter the Third was brought about by the use of a napkin; his son, Paul
						the First, was strangled with an officer's sash. There is another point of resemblance
						in the assassination of the two Czars, father and son. Alexis Orloff and Nicholas Zubow,
						the murderers of the two Czars, had both taken dinner with their victims on the day of
						the murder.
					When the death of their father was reported to the Grand Dukes, Alexander especially,
						the heir to the crown, was almost overcome with emotion and terror. The details of the
						murder were carefully concealed from him; on the contrary, he was made to believe that a
						fit of apoplexy brought on by the excitement of the scene had caused the Czar's death.
						After much lamentation he was finally persuaded to address a proclamation to the Russian
						people in which apoplexy was given as the cause of the sudden and unexpected death of
						Czar Paul the First during the night of the twenty-third of March. Quite early next day
						this proclamation was promulgated throughout the city of Petersburg by military heralds.
						But the people were not deceived by these official lies. Everybody knew in what manner
						Paul the First had died. The news of the murder in all its details had spread with
						lightning-like rapidity through the streets and alleys to the remotest corners of the
						city.
					The conspirators, far from denying their guilt, boasted of the crime as of an act of
						heroism and patriotism.  Many officers who were at the
						time miles away from the palace of St. Michael claimed to have been witnesses of the
						tragedy and to have lent a helping hand in slaying "the tyrant." It is recorded that
						Count Münster, the Prussian ambassador at the court of St. Petersburg, a short time
						after Paul's assassination, spoke with horror and indignation of the catastrophe at a
						dinner party at which a number of the most prominent army officers and state officials
						were present; one of these officers quite unconcernedly defended the crime, saying:
						"Count, you should not blame us for defending ourselves! Our Magna Charta is tyranny, or
						if you prefer to call it so, absolutism, tempered by assassination, and our rulers
						should regulate their conduct accordingly!" And this state of affairs has existed in
						Russia to the present day.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XX AUGUST VON KOTZEBUE
					
					
					
					
						AUGUST VON KOTZEBUE
					
					
					CHAPTER XX ASSASSINATION OF AUGUST VON KOTZEBUE (March 23,
						1819)
					AFTER the downfall of Napoleon the monarchs of Europe had a very
						difficult task to perform. Not only were the domestic institutions of their states,
						which had been overthrown by the French conquest and in many cases altered by French
						decrees, to be regulated anew or reinstated on a firm footing, but the relations between
						governments and subjects were to be reorganized on a new basis, in conformity with the
						liberal principles which had spread from France and been adopted readily by the
						intelligent and educated classes in Germany. Solemn promises had been made by the German
						princes to their peoples in order to enlist their sympathies in their final efforts
						against Napoleon, and after the Corsican had been dethroned, they were expected to carry
						out these promises. Especially was this true of Prussia and the smaller German states,
						whose inhabitants had been promised a system of representative government and a
						constitution limiting the powers of the executive. Such promises were very inconvenient
						to some of these governments, and they were rather inclined to forget and abandon them
						than to carry them out in good faith. Moreover Russia  and
						Austria, the representatives of autocratic power in Europe, exerted their influence on
						the German governments in a direction opposite to the popular aspirations, and
						encouraged them to ignore their pledges given under the stress of invasion. It should be
						remembered that the Holy Alliance, of which Metternich was the inspiring genius, had
						been formed not only against Napoleon, but also against the freedom and the popular
						rights of the nations of Europe. In spite of its high-sounding and sanctimonious title,
						the Holy Alliance was the curse of nations, and it would have extended its nefarious
						influence even beyond the Atlantic Ocean, and would have crushed the national
						aspirations for independence and self-government in the states of Central and South
						America but for the timely issue of the Monroe Doctrine, which saved the Western
						hemisphere from "Holy Alliance" interference.
					It was only after the united efforts of the nations culminated in the final
						dethronement of Napoleon, and after the Vienna Congress had apportioned the heritage of
						the Empire among the victorious monarchs that the nations became aware that the liberal
						promises they had received while these monarchs were in distress were either not to be
						redeemed at all, or redeemed only in part. The sagacity of the statesmen of continental
						Europe was bent on defrauding the people of those civil and political rights which had
						been held out to them as part of the reward to be won by repelling the attacks of
						Napoleon, and the sovereigns were only too willing to assist them in carrying out this
						deception.
					Unfortunately some of these sovereigns were of inferior mental calibre and not at all
						fitted for the great  work of reconstructing their
						shattered monarchies after the tremendous convulsions of the preceding twenty years, and
						they were perfectly dwarfed by a comparison with the colossus who had moulded Europe so
						long solely according to the inspirations of his genius or ambition. Alexander of Russia
						had the reputation of being a man of ability; but this reputation was without solid
						foundation. At the period immediately following the overthrow of Napoleon he was
						entirely under the influence of Madame Krüdener, a religious enthusiast and visionary,
						who skilfully concealed her immorality under pietistic propagandism. She filled
						Alexander's mind with vague and mystic ideas of his divine mission as a ruler, in which
						the human rights of his subjects had no place. Frederick William the Third, King of
						Prussia, was a weakling of the worst sort. He had actually been forced into the
						anti-Napoleonic movement by the enthusiasm of his people, and after national
						independence had been accomplished he trembled lest anything might occur to endanger the
						public order and tranquillity so dearly purchased. It was therefore comparatively easy
						for the reactionary elements to get full control of the Prussian government and to
						prevent any bold reform in a democratic direction. All they had to do was to fill the
						mind of the timid King with a vague fear that the scenes of the French Revolution might
						be renewed by inviting the people to coöperation in the government. Even less reliable
						was the Emperor of Austria, Francis the First, a man naturally distrustful and
						suspicious, who knew how to conceal his cunning and his antagonism to liberal ideas
						under the appearance of great personal kindness and bonhomie. These
						were the three men of whom Europe expected a great political  reform, and never perhaps, in political history, were hopes and expectations
						so woefully misplaced and doomed to more cruel disappointment than in this case.
					It would be unjust to assert that the great mass of the German people felt a deep
						interest in the introduction of those measures of political reform which the sovereigns
						had promised when they appealed to the patriotism of their subjects. Most of the
						Germans, even those belonging to the educated classes, had up to that time paid but
						little attention to politics, and their political indifference had survived the war for
						national independence. The nobility, with a few noble exceptions, were not at all
						anxious to see measures of political reform introduced, because they knew that such
						measures would curtail their aristocratic privileges and prerogatives.
					But there was one class of citizens which had hailed the promises of the sovereigns
						with unbounded enthusiasm, for they had hoped from their realization a political
						renaissance for the whole Fatherland and a new era of greatness and world-wide influence
						recalling the days of the Hohenstaufen, — the glorious days when the German Empire
						was the first power in the world, and when all civilized nations from the Baltic Sea to
						the southern shores of the Mediterranean bowed their necks in obedience to the demands
						of its rulers. This class was the students of the many German universities, scattered
						over Prussia, Austria, Bavaria, and the smaller German states. Inspired by Schiller,
						Körner, Arndt, and other poets, these young men had flocked to the standards of Blücher,
						Scharnhorst, York, and Bülow, and had fought with the courage of lions on the
						battle-fields of Germany and France for the holy cause of German independence. The  hope and dream of another Germany, greater, nobler, more
						progressive and worthier of being the leader of nations than they had known it before
						the war, had fanned their enthusiasm into a flame which nothing could extinguish, and
						which after their return from the war burst forth, here and there, in great patriotic
						demonstrations.
					Dreamers and idealists though they were, they began to transform some of their dreams
						into reality. They formed a great association embracing the students of all the German
						universities, north and south, — the German Burschenschaft, in whose organization
						they embodied the noblest principles of manhood, patriotism, and civic devotion. The
						ancient German colors, black, red and gold, were revived to adorn their banners, their
						caps, their sashes and badges. Quite a literature of patriotic and students' songs
						suddenly sprang into existence, in which the dream of a great united Germany appeared in
						the mind's eye as a living reality. Many of the professors of the universities, who had
						also been volunteers in the war and had shared the enthusiasm of the students, joined
						them in their patriotic devotion and lent the authority of their names and writings to
						their aspirations of national political revival. Arndt's famous national song, "Where is
						the German's Fatherland?" with the reply, that the German fatherland embraces all the
						countries in which the German tongue is heard and in which German song rises heavenward,
						is the typical expression of that most enthusiastic period of German student-life.
					The Burschenschaft became an organization of national importance. It had its admirers,
						but it had also its enemies; and unfortunately the latter were mostly to  be found among the nobility. The feeling prevailing against
						the Burschenschaft in the government circles of the different German states was
						therefore decidedly hostile, and waited only for an opportunity to show that hostility.
						This opportunity soon presented itself and, it must be admitted, was brought about by
						the reckless audacity of the members of the association. In the year 1817 the
						tercentenary of the great German Reformation was to be celebrated with unusual splendor,
						and the Burschenschaft profited by this occasion to make a public demonstration in
						behalf of its patriotic principles. It selected as the place of its convention the
						Wartburg, where Martin Luther resided upon his return from the Diet of Worms and, to
						make the convention especially noteworthy and solemn, had chosen the eighteenth of
						October, the anniversary of the battle of Leipsic, as the principal day for the
						celebration.
					An immense number of visitors from all parts of Germany came to Eisenach, situated at
						the foot of the Wartburg, and delegations of students from all German universities,
						adorned with their German colors and carrying black, red and gold banners with patriotic
						inscriptions, assembled on the historic ground and participated in the festivities, for
						which an elaborate programme had been arranged. The greatest enthusiasm prevailed, and
						for the time being all those petty jealousies which had so often disturbed the cordial
						fellowship of the inhabitants of different German states had disappeared, and all those
						present revelled in the exuberance of patriotic sentiment; they were all the children of
						one great fatherland, a great united nation! The songs and the speeches repeated and
						echoed this one thought. It lived uppermost in the hearts 
						of those young enthusiasts, but presented itself to their minds rather as a vague poetic
						ideal than as a stern political reality. Among the thousands of visitors there was,
						perhaps, not one who had seriously thought of the political realization of the dream.
						Imprudent as these too boisterous demonstrations had been during the day, there was
						enacted late in the evening, when most of the guests had already left the famous castle,
						a sort of theatrical performance, which irritated the conservative and reactionary
						classes exceedingly and resulted disastrously for the Burschenschaft. This performance
						was gotten up in imitation of a famous scene in Luther's life — the burning of the
						papal bull. Massmann, a student of the university of Jena, represented the Luther of the
						nineteenth century. A large bonfire was built, and amidst boundless enthusiasm a number
						of books and other materials, odious to the students, were thrown into the flames and
						destroyed. Among the books was Kotzebue's "History of the German Empire," Haller's
						"Restoration of Political Science," Section 13 of the Federal Constitution, etc. Besides
						the books, a corset such as used to be worn by the officers of the Prussian guards, a
						Hessian queue, and an Austrian corporal's mace were also thrown into the fire.
					The Wartburg celebration produced tremendous excitement throughout Germany. The
						reactionary elements were wild with indignation. They accused not only the managers of
						the festivity and the Burschenschaft of revolutionary tendencies, but they included in
						this charge all the young men of the Empire, averring that they had grown up under the
						influence of the pernicious doctrines of the French Revolution and French armies of
						occupation, and wanted now to apply those doctrines to the  reorganization of German institutions. They also demanded that the organizers of the
						Wartburg celebration should be prosecuted and punished as traitors. All the conservative
						and government papers opened a regular war upon the seditious and revolutionary
						tendencies of the universities, and the agitation reached its climax by the publication
						of a memorandum addressed by Baron Stourdza, a Russian councillor of state, to the
						Emperor Alexander, in which he predicted that a bloody revolution would result unless
						these seditious tendencies were speedily repressed. The Stourdza memorandum had
						originally been intended for the use of the governments only. The Czar had sent a copy
						to each European government, but one copy of it had found its way to the office of a
						Paris newspaper and had been published. The excitement among the German students rose to
						the boiling-point, and their wrath was concentrated against Russia. It was only too well
						known that Russia had in her employ a number of spies scattered throughout the German
						states, who kept her government well posted on the political and social currents. The
						most prominent of these spies was August von Kotzebue, a man of great literary talent
						and distinguished as the author of many comedies and dramas, but politically of extreme
						conservative views. The attacks of the liberal press were therefore mainly directed
						against Kotzebue, whose reports to the Russian government were supposed to have inspired
						Stourdza's memorandum.
					At that time there was at Jena a student of the University, of irreproachable
						character, excellent conduct, not especially distinguished by eminent ability or talent,
						but inclined to religious and patriotic exaltation. His name was Carl Ludwig Sand; he
						came from Wunsiedel,  the birthplace of the famous German
						humorist, Jean Paul Friedrich Richter. He had been a volunteer in the war against France
						and had embraced the doctrines of the Burschenschaft with the greatest enthusiasm. The
						denunciations of the German students in Stourdza's memorandum filled him with profound
						indignation, especially against Kotzebue, whom he blamed as the principal sinner.
						Moreover the frivolous, half indecent character of many of Kotzebue's plays had often
						revolted Sand's moral sentiment. He considered him a source of corruption for the young
						men and women of the nation, and when to this wrong the charge of political treason and
						espionage was added, Sand thought that nothing but death was an adequate punishment for
						Kotzebue. He considered also that it was not only a moral, but a patriotic duty to
						inflict upon him that punishment. He knew that the act would cost him his life, but that
						consideration did not for a moment deter him from undertaking it. He did not consult
						with anybody about it, but he conceived, planned, and executed it all alone.
					On the ninth of March, 1819, Sand left Jena and proceeded to Mannheim, where Kotzebue
						lived. Two weeks later, on the twenty-third of March, 1819, a young stranger appeared at
						the Kotzebue residence, and said that he wished to see the councillor in order to hand
						him personally a letter of introduction. The servant delivered the message, and after a
						few minutes Kotzebue himself appeared in the hall and invited Sand — for it was he
						— to come in. Sand handed him the letter; but no sooner had Kotzebue opened it and
						begun to read it than Sand plunged a long dirk-knife into his breast with the words,
						"Take this as your reward, traitor to your country!"  And
						he stabbed him again and again with fatal effect. Thereupon he thrust the knife into his
						own breast, but had strength enough to run out into the hall, where he handed the
						astounded servant a sealed document containing a well-written justification of his
						murderous act, and inscribed: "Death Punishment for August von Kotzebue in the name of
						virtue." Running out into the street, where a crowd of people assembled, attracted by
						the screams of the servant, he called out in a loud voice: "Long live my German
						fatherland!" and kneeling down he forcibly plunged the knife into his breast once more,
						exclaiming: "Great God, I thank thee for this victory."
					Sand's wound was serious, but a skilful operation saved his life. On the twentieth of
						May, 1820, he was executed at Mannheim, after a lengthy trial and a painstaking
						investigation, in the course of which the German and the Russian police made great
						efforts to discover accessories to his crime. All these efforts failed, however, and the
						murder of Kotzebue could be accounted only an individual act of patriotic exaltation.
						The result of Sand's self-sacrifice was very different from what he had expected. In
						fact, Kotzebue's assassination proved disastrous to the liberal movement throughout
						Germany; it furnished a welcome pretext for the most repressive measures against the
						press, against the universities, against the Burschenschaft, against liberty in whatever
						shape or form it might manifest itself. That long era of political reaction was
						inaugurated against which the German people rebelled with only partial success in 1848
						and 1849, and from which only the ejection of Austria and the reorganization of a new
						German Empire on a more liberal basis in 1871 gave them permanent relief.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXI DUC DE BERRY
					
					
					
					
						DUC DE BERRY
					
					
					CHAPTER XXI ASSASSINATION OF THE DUC DE BERRY (February 13,
						1820)
					THE political situation in France, after the Overthrow of Napoleon
						and the restoration of the Bourbons, was even more difficult and more precarious for the
						governing classes than it was in Germany. The French nation, proud in the consciousness
						of having occupied the first place in Europe for twenty years, chafed at the idea of
						living under a king whom foreign rulers and foreign armies had imposed on France, and
						who, in consequence, had to act in blind obedience to the dictates of these foreigners.
						The danger of a new violent outbreak against the Bourbon government was therefore ever
						present not only to the French mind, but to the mind of Europe, and to guard against it
						the foreign powers had made it one of the terms of peace with France that a foreign army
						of occupation should hold possession of the northern and northeastern provinces of
						France until the entire war indemnity exacted from the vanquished country had been paid.
						While the foreign occupation was ostensibly a financial measure, it was in reality a
						military measure giving to the foreign powers the keys to the interior of France and to
						Paris, in case a new invasion  should become necessary.
						Not only was the position of the King rendered difficult by his political opponents, the
						Imperialists and the Republicans, but its hardships and difficulties were materially
						aggravated by the senseless and extravagant demands of the Royalists, who had in large
						number returned to France with the foreign armies. These Royalists, many of whom had
						been absent from France for twenty years or more, on their return from their voluntary
						exile, found their estates and manors, which had been confiscated under the Revolution,
						in the possession of strangers; all the superior offices in the civil service and the
						higher positions in the army, which they claimed as their own by right of birth, were
						filled by men of low extraction. They therefore turned to the King and demanded of him
						the restoration of their lost estates of their aristocratic privileges.
					The King, Louis the Eighteenth, was perhaps the most intelligent of all the monarchs of
						Europe, but he lacked force of character, and, moreover, his long life in exile, with
						its pleasures and enjoyments as a sybarite and epicurean, had but poorly qualified him
						for his suddenly imposed tasks. He was expected by Europe to hold his own in a
						population the majority of whom were opposed to him, and who had learned that a king
						could be easily got rid of, if the people did not want him. Although Louis the
						Eighteenth, with his penetrating sagacity, clearly saw the instability of his throne, he
						honestly wished to make the best of the chance the fortune of war had given him. He was
						willing to give the French people a liberal government, provided it could be done
						without endangering the throne, and without violating the pledges given to the monarchs
						who had reinstated him. He might have even  more
						energetically opposed the reactionary demands of the ultra-Royalists, who recognized his
						younger brother, the Comte d'Artois, as their leader, if his experiences, especially
						during the "Hundred Days," had not filled him with disgust and suspicion toward the
						Imperialists. While Napoleon was in Elba, Louis the Eighteenth kept all the Bonapartist
						generals and high officials in office, relying on their promises and assurances of
						fidelity; but on Napoleon's return they all betrayed him, and either flocked to the
						standards of the Emperor or declared their adhesion to his cause as soon as he had set
						foot on French soil.
					Perhaps the man who had sinned most in this respect was Marshal Ney, who in a personal
						interview asked of the King as a personal favor to be placed in command of an army corps
						and to be sent against the Emperor, pledging himself to bring Napoleon in chains before
						his throne. Louis granted the Marshal's request, but instead of capturing the Emperor,
						Ney went over to him with his entire army corps and fought at Waterloo again as the
						"bravest of the brave" in the imperial army. In vain he sought death on the field, when
						he saw that the battle was lost; it was reserved for him to die by French bullets in the
						Luxembourg garden of Paris, fired by royalist officers, disguised as common soldiers.
						From party hatred, these men had volunteered to act as executioners of one of the
						greatest military heroes of revolutionary France. Labédoyère and other famous generals
						who were traitors to Louis were executed; others saved their lives by flight. The great
						Carnot and other Imperialists were banished from France.
					The impression made upon the ultra-Royalists by these 
						severe measures against men who had shed lustre upon France, was in the highest degree
						deplorable. These fanatics supposed that the Bonapartists and Republicans of the whole
						kingdom were utterly at their mercy. They secretly organized a special government, under
						the presidency of the Comte d'Artois, at the Pavilion Marsan for the purpose of bringing
						to justice all those who had participated in the Napoleonic coup
							d'état or in the Revolution of 1789. A new era of terrorism was organized by
						these "white Jacobins," as they were significantly called, and the most cruel excesses
						were committed in the provinces. La Vendée, which had fought so heroically for the
						Bourbon dynasty, treated the Imperialists and Republicans generously; but in the South,
						where religious fanaticism added fuel to the flame of political hatred, the most
						atrocious excesses and murders were committed. Avignon, Nîmes, Montpellier, Toulouse and
						other cities of the South were disgraced by the butchery of hundreds of Protestants; in
						some of them the victims of religious and political persecution died at the stake. At
						Avignon the famous Marshal Brune was assassinated; at Toulouse, General Ramel; at Nîmes,
						Count de la Garde. Wholesale assassinations and butcheries were organized; armed bands,
						fanaticized by the priests, roamed through the country, and butchered the Protestants
							en masse. Ten thousand of the unfortunates fled to the mountain
						recesses of the Cevennes, choosing rather to die from hunger and cold than to be
						tortured to death. Juries composed of the most intolerant Royalists lent their aid to
						these outrages, by condemning the Protestants to death and acquitting the assassins. The
						veterans of Napoleon's army and forty thousand officers, many of whom had  served with distinction under the imperial eagles, were
						driven from their homes and wandered from village to village begging for bread and
						shelter. The northern provinces were spared these outrages, but the one hundred and
						fifty thousand foreign soldiers stationed in their towns and fortresses were terrible
						reminders of the humiliation and shame which the restoration of the Bourbons had brought
						upon France.
					The French Chambers were entirely under the control of the extreme Royalists. They
						enacted laws which reduced the political conditions of France to those which had existed
						prior to 1789. They looked upon the Revolutionary era and the Empire as upon a lawless
						interregnum which should be ignored by the government, and they demanded that all the
						old institutions of the kingdom should be revived. They were so bold and so insolent
						that they overawed the government for a while. Very reluctantly the King consented to
						several tyrannical laws, — for instance, the law referring all political crimes to
						special courts, composed of one officer and four judges, from whose decision no appeal
						could be taken. But the King saw to his regret that his acquiescence in these immoderate
						demands had no other effect than to make the ultra-Royalists bolder and more arrogant.
						They demanded a curtailment of the right of suffrage, a reënactment of the right of
						primogeniture and other feudal measures.
					The King's patience was exhausted; he refused to sanction any of these laws and
						dissolved the Chambers. In their impotent rage the disappointed ultra-Royalists applied
						to the foreign powers, asking their intervention in behalf of absolute royalty, and
						imploring them to  compel the King to desist from his
						pernicious protection of Jacobins and regicides. Metternich sent this strange petition
						to the French government. But neither the King nor his favorite minister, M. Decazes,
						was scared by such foolhardy steps. They coolly ignored them and courageously
						inaugurated a series of political reforms in order to reassure public opinion. Instead
						of reducing the number of electors (as the ultras demanded), they largely increased it.
						To the periodical press and the daily newspapers was given greater liberty; the
						censorship, which had been exceedingly annoying, was abolished. At the same time, by the
						able financial management of the Duc de Richelieu, the 1,600,000,000 francs war
						indemnity was reduced to 502,000,000 francs and a large number of the foreign troops
						were withdrawn from the northern provinces. These liberal and patriotic measures
						followed one another in quick succession and made a very favorable impression upon the
						people. The liberal parties were willing to cooperate with the government in its
						endeavor to restore the prosperity of the country, to relieve the distress of the
						masses, and to free France from foreign occupation. The Chambers of 1818 and 1819 also
						coöperated with the government, and the liberal party was represented in them by a small
						number of illustrious men, — such men as Lafayette, General Foy, Benjamin
						Constant, — men who were more patriots than partisans. In fact, everything
						indicated a return of speedy prosperity, when an event occurred which at one blow
						crushed the hopes of the patriots, paralyzed the hand of the government, and reinstated
						the extremists in power. This event was the assassination of the Duc de Berry, the hope
						of the Bourbon dynasty.
					
					On its return from exile the royal family of France consisted of: 
							The King, formerly Comte de Provence.
							The King's brother, the Comte d'Artois, and his two sons: 
									The Duc d'Angoulême, and
									The Duc de Berry.
								
						
					The Comte d'Artois, the presumptive heir to the throne, was born in 1757, and was
						consequently fifty-seven years old on his return to Paris. He was ultra-Royalistic in
						his political views and was considered the head of the extremists. His eldest son, the
						Duc d'Angoulême, was born in 1775, and had retired from France with his father at the
						commencement of the Revolution. He was a man of very mediocre ability, but of exemplary
						character. In 1799 he was married to his cousin Marie-Thérèse-Charlotte, daughter of
						Louis the Sixteenth, who had passed her unhappy childhood in prison, which she had left
						only in 1795. She was worshipped by the entire royal family as an angel of kindness and
						mercy. They had no children.
					The younger son, the Duc de Berry, was born in 1778, and had passed his youth and early
						manhood in exile. He had a more manly character than his brother, and the French
						nobility of the old régime looked upon him as the hope of the Bourbon
						dynasty. Far from being a genius, the Duc de Berry was a man of good intelligence,
						brave, dashing, and the very type of a French officer, prior to the Revolution. He had
						many of the generous traits, but also some of the vices of that elegant and
						high-spirited class of young men. While living in exile, in England, he formed a liaison
						with a young  English-woman, who bore him two daughters,
						to whom he was greatly attached and whom he took to Paris and placed in a young ladies'
						academy. In 1816 the King married him to a Neapolitan princess, Caroline, daughter of
						the Crown Prince of that kingdom, a handsome, high-spirited, healthy young woman, who
						gave promise of giving the dynasty direct heirs. The newly married couple lived very
						happily together, and enjoyed life in the French capital to its fullest extent. They
						were really the official representatives of royalty and its splendors, — neither
						the King nor the Duc d'Angoulême caring much for the entertainments, balls, and
						receptions of court life. The prominence thus given to the Duc de Berry, and the
						expectation that through him the elder line of the Bourbons would be continued explain
						fully why he was singled out as the victim of assassination. He was not only identified
						with the extreme Royalists, so odious to the people, but, with him out of the way, it
						was only a question of time when the elder branch of the dynasty would die out entirely,
						no more issue being expected from the Duc d'Angoulême, who had been married already
						twenty years without having children. Such were at least the considerations of the young
						man who undertook the perilous task of killing the Duc de Berry, and who fully
						accomplished his purpose.
					This young man was Jean Pierre Louvel, a resident of Versailles, an enthusiastic
						admirer of Napoleon, whom he considered the living embodiment of the greatness and honor
						of France. Napoleon's dethronement he wanted to revenge on the Bourbons, in whose
						interest it had taken place, and who, in his opinion, were utterly unworthy to rule over
						the French nation. Louvel was a saddler,  thirty-two years
						of age, debilitated in appearance, and considered a political fanatic by all who knew
						him. He had no family or relations except one sister, considerably older than himself,
						who had brought him up, and with whom he lived. He hated the Bourbons so intensely that
						in 1814, when the royal family landed at Calais on their return from exile, he intended
						to make an attempt on the life of Louis the Eighteenth; but the great enthusiasm of the
						people discouraged him. During all these years his wrath against the Bourbons had
						steadily grown, and he had never for a moment abandoned his plan of killing the whole
						family, — first the Duc de Berry, then the Duc d'Angoulême, then the Comte
						d'Artois, and finally the King. He considered De Berry the most important and the most
						dangerous man of the whole family because in him were centred the hopes of continuing
						the dynasty.
					He had been very persistent; he had found employment in the royal stables at
						Versailles, and whenever the Duc de Berry was out hunting, he tried to find an
						opportunity to get near him; he frequently went to Paris and studied the advertisements
						of new plays or operas, expecting that the Duke would attend a first performance. Twenty
						times he had been close to him on such occasions, but had always been prevented by the
						number of friends or attendants surrounding him from getting near enough to stab him,
						and stab him so well that he could not escape; for everything depended on making a
						success of the attempt.
					After long and patient waiting he found his opportunity. It was during the last days of
						the carnival preceding the season of Lent, in February, 1820. The grand masquerade ball
						at the opera was to take place on the  thirteenth, and it
						was a matter of absolute certainty that both the Duc and the Duchesse de Berry, who were
						very fond of dancing, would attend it. When Louvel got up and dressed, he had a joyful
						presentiment that that day would bring him the realization of his long-cherished plan.
						He had in his possession two daggers of very superior quality, both sharp as razors and
						strong enough to penetrate flesh and sinew to the handle. He had studied the human
						anatomy well enough to know exactly where to strike his victim. He chose the smaller
						dagger of the two because he could more easily conceal it; took his supper with good
						appetite and without betraying unusual agitation; and then he started on his mission of
						death. He was promptly at his post at eight o'clock when the carriage of the Duc de
						Berry drove up to the private entrance reserved for the members of the royal family. The
						Duke was not expected so early in the evening, and consequently there were not so many
						attendants gathered near the entrance. The Duke jumped out of the carriage, and held out
						his arm to help the Duchess to alight. This was the proper moment for Louvel, if he
						wanted to commit the crime. He was on the point of rushing toward the Duke, when the
						smiling and lovely face of the Duchess appeared in the light of the lantern, and this
						sight paralyzed the arm of the murderer. He hesitated at the thought that his crime
						would plunge these two happy persons into nameless misery, and before he had recovered
						his equanimity, the Duke and his wife had disappeared behind the entrance door of the
						theatre.
					Louvel blamed himself for his faintness of heart and wanted to postpone the deed to
						some later day; but the thought that he would have to go back to Versailles in  a few days and that no such opportunity might offer itself
						for a long time, caused him to change his mind. That very night his plan must be
						executed, and either the Duke or himself should perish. For several hours he strolled
						through the streets in the neighborhood of the Opera House, went to the garden of the
						Palais Royal and back again, always keeping a watchful eye on the carriages that stood
						waiting for the call of their owners. At twenty minutes past eleven the carriage of the
						Duc de Berry drove up to the entrance door. Louvel stood near by, almost hidden in the
						shadow of the wall, and entirely unnoticed by the attendants of the royal equipage. He
						was not kept waiting for a long time; for a little accident had occurred which induced
						the Duchess to return much sooner than they had anticipated. Their box at the Opera
						House was near that of the Duc and Duchesse d'Orléans, who were also at the theatre that
						evening; the two families were on terms of great intimacy, especially the two duchesses,
						both being Neapolitan princesses. At one of the intermissions of the performance De
						Berry and his wife went to the box of the Duc d'Orléans for a friendly chat, but on
						their return to their own box, a door opposite was quickly opened and struck the Duchess
						with such violence that she felt very unwell. In her delicate condition (she was
						enceinte at the time) she thought it would be better for her to return home than to wait
						for the close of the performance and the masquerade ball. The Duke therefore conducts
						his wife back to the carriage and lifts her into it; the Comtesse de Bétysi, her lady of
						honor, takes her seat by her side; the duke shakes hands with both ladies and with a
						smiling "au revoir, I'll be home soon," steps back from the  carriage. At this moment Louvel rushes forward, lays his
						left hand on the duke's right shoulder and plunges his dagger with so much force into
						the Duke's right side that the weapon remains in the wound. The Duke, mortally wounded,
						sinks to his knees, and utters a slight scream, more of surprise than of pain. As is
						usually the case in such assaults, the victim had rather felt the shock than the wound,
						and only when he reached out with his hand to the spot where he had been hurt, he found
						the handle of the dagger, and comprehended the meaning of the attack. He then cried out:
						"I am struck to death, I have been assassinated!" and as he pulled the dagger from the
						wound, a stream of blood gushed forth. The Duke fainted in consequence of the loss of
						blood, and was carried back into the Opera House, where the Duchess followed him with
						loud screams. In the first confusion Louvel made his escape, but he was soon overtaken
						and brought back to the scene of the murder. The excitement and the indignation of the
						people were so great that he would have been torn to pieces but for the active
						protection of the police and of the servants of the Duc de Berry who were afraid that by
						his death his accomplices and accessories to the crime might be shielded.
					The most eminent surgeons of Paris were immediately summoned to the assistance of the
						Prince. But the wound was fatal, and all their efforts were in vain. In the presence of
						death the Duc de Berry showed a very generous and magnanimous heart. He implored his
						wife, his brother, and all others surrounding his bed to use their influence with the
						King to get his murderer pardoned, and expressed his profound sorrow that he had been
						stabbed by a Frenchman. Up to his last moment  the thought
						that his murderer would be executed in a cruel manner disturbed him, and when toward
						morning the King came to bid him farewell, he repeated his request that the murderer
						should be forgiven and not be executed; but without eliciting the promise from his
						uncle. With this dying request for the life of his murderer on his lips, he expired very
						early in the morning.
					The sensation which the assassination of the Duc de Berry created not only in Paris,
						but throughout France and Europe, was enormous. All parties equally condemned and
						lamented the crime. While the ultra-Royalists deplored in the murder the extinction of
						all their hopes for the establishment of the old Bourbon dynasty on a sure foundation,
						the liberal parties foresaw that it would put an end to the liberal tendencies of the
						government of Louis the Eighteenth. The sinister forebodings of the liberals were only
						too well founded. The Royalists tried at first to create the impression that the murder
						was but the symptom of a widespread conspiracy organized by the revolutionary elements
						of the kingdom against the royal family and the entire nobility, and boldly charged the
						liberal policy of the government as being the cause of it. In a session of the Chambers
						one of the deputies went even so far as to move the impeachment of M. Decazes, Minister
						of the Interior, as an accessory to the crime committed by Louvel. While the Chambers
						refused to act upon this infamous motion, the entire Royalistic press demanded the
						dismissal of Decazes, and the King reluctantly yielded to the universal demand. "M.
						Decazes has slipped in the blood shed by Louvel's dagger," wrote Chateaubriand in
						commenting on the dismissal of the liberal minister. And 
						that era of reaction and repression commenced which ten years later ended in the
						dethronement of the elder branch of the Bourbon dynasty and in the flight and exile of
						Charles the Tenth. The entire liberal party was punished for the crime of one
						fanatic.
					Louvel was tried before the Chamber of Peers. He pleaded guilty. He denied having any
						accomplices. He had conferred with nobody. He recognized the dagger as his own; he gave
						his hatred and abhorrence of the Bourbon family as his only motive for the crime. He was
						convicted unanimously. He expressed no regret for what he had done, and died with
						stoical indifference. He was guillotined June 7, 1820.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXII ABRAHAM LINCOLN
					
					
					
					
						ABRAHAM LINCOLN
					
					
					CHAPTER XXII ASSASSINATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN (April 14,
						1865)
					IN the annals of this nation no tragedy more pathetic has been
						recorded than the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States.
					The Civil War which had divided the country into two hostile camps for four years and
						had laid waste the Southern States of the Union — or the Confederate States of
						America, to designate them by the name they adopted — was at an end. General Lee
						had surrendered the army of Virginia, the flower of the Confederate fighting forces, to
						General Grant at Appomattox Court House, and while General Johnston's army in North
						Carolina, and a few separate minor corps, still remained in the field, Lee's surrender
						was generally construed as the termination of the long and cruel war, and joy ruled
						supreme throughout the North. Liberty had triumphed, and four million slaves had been
						emancipated!
					The surrender of Lee took place on the eighth of April, 1865. On the following day
						President Lincoln visited the late capital of the Confederacy. He traversed the city in
						all directions, and everywhere he manifested the kindest disposition towards the South,
						and expressed the wish that all traces of the unfortunate war should  disappear as soon as possible and that cordial relations
						between the two sections of the country should be reestablished at once. Very likely
						there was not a man in all the Northern States happier at the prospect of a lasting
						peace than Abraham Lincoln. His great and noble heart, sensitive as a woman's, had been
						bleeding for years at the sight of the gigantic fratricidal war, of which Providence had
						made him the most conspicuous figure. But five weeks before, he had entered upon his
						second presidential term, and in his inaugural address he had foreshadowed the policy of
						leniency and moderation which he intended to show to the "rebels" in case of the final
						victory of the Union armies. That address revealed the true inwardness of the great man;
						it was spoken with an eloquence peculiarly his own; it was full of thought, sweetness,
						firmness, unswerving fidelity to duty, high morality made more impressive even by the
						simplicity and originality of language. At the same time it breathed a tenderness for
						the vanquished which made it almost an olive-branch tendered to those who were still in
						arms against the government and inviting them to return to the hearthstones of the
						nation of which they had been the favored sons and daughters for nearly a century.
						Although the triumph of the Union and its armies was already in sight as an event of the
						near future, nothing in that address indicated boastfulness and supercilious pride. No
						arrogance, no pompous reference to the superiority of the North in heroism or exploits!
						On the contrary, the President humbles himself before the decrees of the Almighty, he
						confesses the great national crime and the justice of the immense punishment.
					
					In the tone of sadness pervading the beautiful oration there is almost the presentiment
						of death and that supreme resignation which sometimes takes possession of the soul on
						the verge of the grave. Already he had planned a proclamation of pardon, — a
						general amnesty, excluding none, a full and complete restoration of concord and
						brotherhood between the North and the South, when all at once the terrible news "Lincoln
						has been assassinated! Lincoln is dead!" flashed over the telegraph wires and filled the
						whole North with terror. As if nothing was to be wanting to make this gigantic Civil War
						a tragedy to both sides, the man whose very name was the embodiment of liberty and the
						symbol of emancipation, and who more than any other man had contributed to the great
						triumph, had to succumb at the moment of victory. The election of Abraham Lincoln had
						given the signal for the organization and outbreak of the slaveholders' rebellion, and
						it was certainly a remarkable coincidence that the tolling of the church-bells in towns
						and cities through which Lincoln's funeral train slowly wended its way from the capital
						to his Western home was heard simultaneously with the news of the collapse of that
						rebellion and of the final extinction of human slavery on American soil. This
						coincidence was almost providential, and if the great Emancipator could have chosen his
						own time for his death, he certainly could not have made a more appropriate and glorious
						choice. He became, so to speak, the hero of the great epic of the Civil War — one
						of the greatest the world had seen, — and his tragical death marked the conclusion
						of the strife. In the eyes of the fanatical advocates of the Southern cause Abraham
						Lincoln had always held this prominent  position as the
						principal author of the feud dividing the North and the South, and it is therefore not
						surprising that some of these fanatics had formed a conspiracy to assassinate him and
						some of his most intimate advisers. About a week after Mr. Lincoln's visit at Richmond
						this plot was to be executed.
					On the fourteenth of April, 1865, an especially brilliant performance was to be given
						at Ford's Theatre, Washington, and Mr. Lincoln, General Grant, and Mr. Stanton,
						Secretary of War, were expected to be present; in fact, the Washington newspapers of
						that date had announced that they would be present. But at the very last moment General
						Grant was compelled to leave Washington and go North. Mr. Stanton, being overburdened
						with business and unable to find time to go to the theatre, remained at his office, and
						only Mr. Lincoln went, accompanied by Mrs. Lincoln and a few friends. His appearance was
						the signal for a grand ovation. He seemed to follow the presentation of the play with
						close attention and great interest. The third act had just commenced, when the audience
						was startled by the sound of a pistol-shot proceeding from the President's box. At the
						same moment a man appeared in the foreground of that box, jumped upon the balustrade,
						and thence down to the stage, shouting, "Sic semper tyrannis!" In
						leaping from the box, one of the man's spurs got entangled with the flag with which Mr.
						Lincoln's box was decorated. He fell and broke a leg, but immediately recovering himself
						and getting on his feet he had sufficient presence of mind and power of will to make his
						escape. He knocked down those who tried to stop him, ran through the aisles of the
						scenery, jumped upon a horse which was kept in  readiness
						for him by an accomplice, and disappeared in the darkness of the night.
					This man, who with lightning-like rapidity had appeared on the stage and disappeared
						from it, was the murderer of Abraham Lincoln; and the murder had been committed so
						suddenly that the great majority of the audience, even after his flight, were in
						profound ignorance of what had happened. It was then only that the cries of horror, the
						loud lamentations of Mrs. Lincoln and of the other persons in the President's box
						conveyed to the awe-stricken audience the news of the tragedy which had occurred in
						their midst. The President, shot through the head from behind, had lost consciousness
						immediately, and the blood oozed slowly from the wound. However, life was not extinct,
						and immediately the hope arose that Mr. Lincoln's life might be saved. He was carried
						into a neighboring house, and the best surgeons were called to his assistance. But alas!
						the murderer's ball having passed through the cerebellum had pierced the cerebrum, and
						the wound was fatal beyond all hope. Mr. Lincoln died early in the morning without
						having regained consciousness. The North had lost its greatest citizen and the South its
						best friend.
					
					While this murder was being committed at Ford's Theatre, another assassin entered the
						residence of Secretary of State William H. Seward, who had been seriously injured by an
						accident a few days before. The assassin pretended to be the bearer of a medical
						prescription, and demanded to be admitted to the room of the patient. The servant
						refused to admit him, but was rudely pushed aside, whereupon the visitor, who evidently
						was familiar  with the location of the rooms, burst into
						the one where Mr. Seward was lying ill in bed, rushed toward him, seriously wounded Mr.
						Seward's son, who threw himself in his way, and thereupon engaged the invalid in a
						furious combat, stabbing him several times. In spite of his disability, the Secretary
						defended himself bravely and fought with the courage of despair, until at last the
						assassin, after having badly cut and disfigured his face, made his escape.
					As has been stated already, the plan of the conspirators was to kill not only President
						Lincoln, but other prominent men, such as Andrew Johnson, the new Vice-President,
						Secretary Seward, Secretary Stanton, and General Grant. On several occasions the
						assassins had been on the point of perpetrating these murders, but always unforeseen
						circumstances had occurred and prevented them. At last this gala performance at Ford's
						Theatre seemed to invite them to execute their plot, and they resolved to assassinate
						Lincoln, Grant, and Stanton at the theatre, and Seward and Johnson at their private
						residences. By removing these five men the assassins hoped to decapitate the republic
						itself and imagined that very likely during the terror and confusion which these
						assassinations would cause, the Southern rebels would take up arms again and capture
						Washington city. But only one of the five victims designated was killed — alas! it
						was the most illustrious one of the five — while the others escaped owing to
						fortuitous circumstances.
					As to the murderer of Lincoln, who was identified as John Wilkes Booth, it was
						ascertained that he had been inspired by an implacable and sincere fanaticism. Son of a
						celebrated English tragedian who had lived several  years
						in the United States, John Wilkes Booth was himself an actor of considerable ability,
						who had frequently played on the very stage which he was to desecrate by one of the most
						infamous assassinations of modern times. Young, handsome, eloquent, and audacious as he
						was, Booth had a certain prestige among his companions and great success with the ladies
						of his profession. He was an enthusiastic Democrat, became a prominent member of the
						"Knights of the Golden Circle," and believed in the divine origin of the institution of
						slavery. He had been among the lynchers of John Brown and frequently boasted of his
						participation in that crime. He often expressed the wish that all such abolitionists
						should die on the gallows. He and some others, equally extreme in their views on the
						slavery question, met frequently at the house of a Mrs. Surratt, who was also
						fanatically devoted to the Southern cause, and concocted there the plot to murder the
						President and his associates.
					After having performed that part of the plot which he had reserved for himself —
						the assassination of the President — with almost incredible boldness, Booth fled
						to Virginia. He had intended to continue his flight until he had reached the extreme
						South, and possibly Mexico, but his injury prevented him from carrying out this plan. In
						company with one of his accomplices he hid himself in an isolated barn on the banks of
						the Rappahannock, hoping that as soon as the first storm of indignation had blown over,
						the search for the murderer would gradually relax, if not cease altogether, and that he
						would then have an opportunity to escape. But in this calculation he was mistaken. A
						roving detachment of federal soldiers discovered him in his hiding-place, during the
						night of the  twenty-sixth of April. His companion,
						realizing that all resistance would be useless, surrendered immediately. But Booth
						wanted to sell his life as dearly as possible. He tried to break out and escape from his
						pursuers, but a pistol-shot brought him down with a fatal wound in his head, from which
						he soon afterwards died. The assassin who had assaulted and seriously wounded Secretary
						Seward had, a few days before, been captured at Mrs. Surratt's house.
					The effect of Mr. Lincoln's assassination on the people of the North was indescribable.
						It filled their hearts with bitterness and their minds with thoughts of revenge. It was
						averred that the murderer in crossing the stage of the theatre and defiantly brandishing
						a long knife had exclaimed: "The South is avenged!" This exclamation seemed to implicate
						the whole South, or at least its government, in the murderous act of Booth. The natural
						consequence was that the people of the North, who immediately after the surrender of
						Lee's army were inclined to great leniency toward the vanquished and willing to receive
						them back into the Union with open arms, suddenly turned against them. The army and the
						government circles, and in fact the entire population of the national capital, who had
						learned to love Mr. Lincoln, demanded the most severe punishment for the rebels. Then
						began the long and tedious work of reconstruction, retarded by party spirit and
						retaliatory measures on both sides. It was terminated to the satisfaction of both only
						during the last few years, when the sons of the South fought shoulder to shoulder with
						the sons of the North for the deliverance of Cuba from Spanish oppression under the
						glorious banner of the Union. But how often  during these
						years of contention, was the great man missed whose truly humane spirit would have
						contributed so much to bring the discordant elements of both sections together in
						fraternal harmony and mutual respect, and whose hands had penned the noblest document of
						the nineteenth century — the proclamation of emancipation — setting free
						four million slaves. Such deeds as his can never be forgotten.
					The assassination did a great deal for Mr. Lincoln's standing in history. It added the
						halo of martyrdom to his renown as a statesman, and it has made him a national hero,
						who, next to Washington — or with Washington — holds the highest place in
						the estimation of the American people. It is doubtful whether Abraham Lincoln, if he had
						not crowned his career with a martyr's death, would have held this place. It had
						especially the effect of wiping out an impression which many had formed of Mr. Lincoln's
						character, and which, during the first years of his presidential term, lowered him
						considerably in the eyes of the people. His Southern enemies and detractors made a great
						deal of Mr. Lincoln's "undignified bearing," his "lack of tact," "his mania for telling
						funny stories, in and out of season," and the Northern Democrats were only too busy
						repeating and circulating these stories, because they could not forgive Lincoln for
						having beaten their idol, Stephen Arnold Douglas.
					Mr. Lincoln's distinction was his strong originality and self-reliance. As a young man,
						with no adviser to guide him through the hardships and embarrassments of life, he took
						counsel with his own mind, which fortunately was of peculiar depth, rich in resources,
						— and the advice he received from this consultation, the instruction  he gained by this appeal to the fund of his own knowledge
						and experience served him splendidly as schooling for the task which was in store for
						him. And joined to this self-education nature had bestowed on him some of her rarest
						gifts, — humor, kind, genial, and peculiarly humane, blending tears with laughter,
						and a mother-wit always ready to make fun of his own misfortunes and shortcomings, and
						to joke away any embarrassing situation in which either untoward circumstances or his
						own mistakes might have placed him. In addition to all this he possessed that truly
						American characteristic — shrewdness, which far from being an objectionable
						quality with him, was modified by his kindness of heart and his moral uprightness.
					In that great and distinctly English book, Robinson Crusoe, we find a young Englishman
						in consequence of a shipwreck thrown upon a deserted island in mid-ocean. He is cut off
						from civilization and its resources and thrown upon his own ingenuity to carve out a
						living for himself which, to a degree at least, comes up to the experience which he has
						had while living in civilized society. A few tools and instruments which he saves from
						the wrecked ship are the only things to assist him in the building up of his future
						life, yet by industry, shrewdness, and perseverance he really succeeds in making that
						life not only tolerable, but to a degree comfortable. Possibly the trying circumstances
						in which young Robinson was placed whetted and sharpened his wits, strengthened his
						nerve, and inspired him with enough confidence to become equal to his difficult task; at
						all events, he succeeded, and the book narrating his experience, his trials, and his
						sufferings forms one of  the most delightful and at the
						same time one of the most instructive books for young and old ever written. Its
						educational value can hardly be overestimated. It may be said that Robinson Crusoe is
						but a novel, and that his adventures and achievements all originated in the fertile mind
						of Daniel Defoe. But even if it was so, which is by no means proven, the feat of Defoe's
						genius shows that a young man of strong character and full of resources, with an ideal
						placed before his mental eye, can find the means to raise himself to a higher level than
						he could have reached under ordinary circumstances and without the stimulating influence
						of personal hardships and pressing necessity.
					It was so with Abraham Lincoln. The means of education which the wild West offered to
						him were of the most elementary kind, but his innate genius and energy knew how to make
						them serviceable to the high aim and to the ideals which he had proposed to himself. The
						loneliness of the primeval forests in which his childhood was passed fostered the
						tendency to reverie and thoughtfulness which formed one of the principal traits of his
						character. An American boy in the full meaning of the word he learned to love and
						appreciate that Union from which the West expected its development, and on which it
						depended as on the natural source of its future greatness. As if to prepare him for the
						great part he was to act in American history, he was made to see at an early day the
						wrongs and cruelties of slavery. His pure mind, which had been strengthened and refined
						by immediate contact with nature, felt the stain which soiled the American name and
						flag. As he went down the Mississippi river on a flatboat and became witness of  a slave-auction, where family ties were brutally torn
						asunder, he vowed to himself to do his share as a man and citizen to wipe out that wrong
						against humanity. How nobly he redeemed that vow and how cruelly he suffered for
						redeeming it, we have told in the preceding pages, and the crown of immortality is his
						just reward.
					If we should wish to compare the great martyr-president with any historical personage
						of preceding ages, it would be Henry the Fourth of France. While unquestionably there
						are many differences in their traits of character, they have nevertheless so many traits
						in common that the comparison is, in our opinion, a decidedly just one. Both were placed
						in leading positions at a time when their country was torn up by civil war. In the case
						of Henry the Fourth religion, or rather Protestantism, was the cause of the fratricidal
						strife; in the case of Abraham Lincoln it was negro slavery. Both were enlisted in the
						cause of humanity and progress. It is true, Henry the Fourth renounced Protestantism to
						win a crown, in the possession of which he alone could hope to render immortal service
						to the Protestant Church and the principle upon which it is founded, religious
						toleration; and by the promulgation of the Edict of Nantes he gloriously performed the
						historical task which Providence had allotted to him. Abraham Lincoln was willing to
						make any sacrifice for the maintenance of the American Union, for only as President of
						the United States and as conqueror of the rebellious South, could he hope to become the
						champion of the abolition of negro slavery. He was fortunate enough to live through the
						gigantic Civil War, and Clio, the Muse of History, has entered in imperishable letters
						on the asbestos leaves of  our national annals his
						immortal declaration of the emancipation of the black race. As two great reformers they
						will both live in history, — Henry the Fourth, as the embodiment of the principle
						of religious toleration, Lincoln as the evangelist of negro emancipation. It is a
						strange coincidence that these two great men were endowed by nature with so many
						analogous traits, but rarely found in other great men. Both had a keen relish for humor,
						fun, and wit, and indulged this taste under the most trying circumstances; both were
						lenient and forgiving to a fault; both displayed statesmanship and executive ability of
						a high order; and if Henry the Fourth has won greater laurels as a warrior, Lincoln has
						crowned his great life with the glory of being a great orator. Mankind has grown better
						by having produced these two men.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXIII ALEXANDER THE SECOND OF RUSSIA
					
					
					
					
						ALEXANDER II.
					
					
					CHAPTER XXIII ASSASSINATION OF ALEXANDER THE SECOND OF
						RUSSIA (March 13, 1881)
					THE assassination of Abraham Lincoln leads up to that of the other
						great emancipator of the nineteenth century, Alexander the Second of Russia, which
						occurred on the thirteenth of March, 1881, and which filled the world with horror.
					In one of Goethe's most famous poems a magician's apprentice, in the absence of his
						learned master, sets free the secret powers of nature which his master can control by a
						magical formula. The apprentice has overheard the formula, and has appropriated it to
						his own use; but lo! when the apprentice wants to get rid of the powers he has let
						loose, he has forgotten the magic words by which to banish them, and miserably perishes
						in the attempt. The poem is symbolical of the life and experience of Czar Alexander the
						Second of Russia. As a young man, enthusiastic and desirous to promote his country's
						welfare, he set loose the turbulent and revolutionary powers slumbering in his gigantic
						empire, and they grew to such enormous proportions that even his power, great though it
						was, was insufficient to curb them; finally he paid with his life for his attempt  to confer blessings upon his subjects. In order to
						comprehend the difficulties which confronted Alexander the Second on his accession, it
						is necessary to take a retrospect of the preceding reign.
					The Emperor Nicholas the First died on the second of March, 1855. He had reigned
						twenty-nine years and nine months. During all these years he had ruled his gigantic
						empire with an iron hand and had stood before the world as the most brilliant as well as
						the most imperious ruler who had sat upon the throne of the Czars since the death of
						Peter the Great. He was the model for the other sovereigns of Europe, and his policy was
						adopted with almost servile humility by the monarchs of Austria and Prussia, the former
						of whom he reinstated on his throne by overthrowing the Hungarian revolution, while the
						latter was allied to him by ties of marriage. His dislike for reform and "the modern
						spirit" was caused, it is said, by the sad experience he had made but a few weeks after
						his accession, when a rebellion of the Imperial Guards in his own capital compelled him
						to throw shot and shell into his own regiments, and to quell a widespread conspiracy by
						the severest measures. At that time cheers coming from the ranks for "Constantine and
						the Constitution" had made the very name of a constitution odious to him. He might not
						have taken the demonstration so seriously if he had known that the soldiers, on being
						asked by their officers to cheer for Constantine and the Constitution had asked: "Who is
						the Constitution?" and were told that she was Constantine's wife, whereupon the soldiers
						cheered lustily. At all events, Nicholas, who had intended to introduce a number of
						Western reforms, took suddenly a great  aversion to
						anything which deviated in the least from the most autocratic form of government; he
						punished the slightest disagreement in political opinion or the most timid opposition to
						his imperial will as an act of rebellion. The whole system of government had been
						fashioned upon a half Asiatic, half European model; it combined the absolute —
						almost divine — power of the Oriental ruler with a formidable and well-drilled
						bureaucracy blindly obedient to the Czar and knowing no other law than his will.
					Nicholas the First was a man of superior intelligence, of indomitable will, and of
						great vigor of mind, which enabled him to pay strict attention to the different
						departments of the public service. His most effective instrument was the third section
						of the Czar's personal bureau, — a secret political police by which he overawed
						the empire and whose very name caused terror in the heart and home of every Russian
						family. Whosoever was unfortunate enough to fall under the suspicion of this terrible
						Hermandad — more cruel and more vindictive than the Spanish Inquisition —
						might just as well resign himself at once to his fate, — life-long exile to
						Siberia or a secret execution, most probably by strangulation, in one of the prisons of
						Russia. It was the office of this secret police, which reported directly to the Emperor,
						not only to ferret out crime and bring criminals to justice, but to protect the subjects
						of the Czar from contact with hurtful foreign influences, to confiscate books and
						newspapers from abroad, to open and read letters, and to learn family secrets which
						might be used against the correspondents or their friends. Everything, in fact, which
						the imperial government could think of to cut off Russia from the  current of European ideas, to prevent its subjects from receiving a liberal
						education at the universities, to expand their minds by travelling abroad, to become
						familiar with the great political and philosophical questions of the day by a study of
						literature and newspapers, was done with rigorous care by the police and approved by the
						Czar.
					Occasionally the Emperor became indignant at the venality and corruption of high public
						officials; but he did not see that this venality and corruption were but the logical
						consequence of the system of despotism and Byzantinism which his will imposed even on
						the highest members of the aristocracy. His smile, his praise, was the highest
						distinction, the highest aim of the ambition of the aristocracy, and for this servile
						subjection to the imperial will they compensated themselves by unbridled licentiousness
						and beastly excesses, and by robbing the public treasury. Because it was well known that
						the Emperor looked with suspicion on the universities as nurseries of liberal or
						revolutionary ideas, the nobility did not send their sons thither, for fear that the
						young men might become infected with these ideas, and that transportation to Siberia
						might suddenly interrupt their studies. The nobility, therefore, deemed it more prudent
						to send the lads to court or to the military schools, where they were safe at least from
						the contagion of European liberalism. It is really a wonder that, with such an
						organization of society and with a system of police surveillance perhaps never equalled
						in the world, with a Damocles' sword always suspended over their heads, there still
						remained a number of liberal-minded men, who never abandoned the hope of better days,
						never renounced their dream that the time would come for Russia, as it  had come for western Europe, to enter socially and
						politically the family of enlightened nations, blessed with liberal institutions and
						freed from the despotism of semi-Oriental rulers. These liberal-minded men and true
						patriots — professors of the universities, literary men, and a very small number
						of young noblemen — lived mostly at Moscow, where the distance from the observing
						eye of the ruler and his court saved them from detection, although their secret
						influence pervaded the whole empire, and kept the flame of liberalism burning in the
						hearts of the intellectual élite. While Nicholas had thus succeeded in building up an
						Eastern despotism on the banks of the Neva, he endeavored at the same time to impress
						Europe with the idea of his unrivalled power. His army was considered one of the best in
						Europe, and the immense population of his empire — larger than that of any two of
						the other great powers — gave him almost unlimited material for recruits. The
						generals commanding these armies were also renowned throughout Europe. They had won
						their laurels in the battles against the revolutionary armies of Poland and Hungary, in
						conquering the warlike population of the Caucasus, and subjecting large territories in
						western Asia to the white eagle of the Czar. The Russian diplomats had the reputation of
						being the shrewdest in Europe, and had either by secret treaties or by matrimonial
						alliances succeeded in making Russian influence preponderant on the continent of Europe.
						The Emperor Nicholas stood, therefore, on a commanding height when he provoked the great
						western powers of Europe, together with Turkey, to mortal combat. It was a challenge
						born in arrogance and political short-sightedness, and it found its deserved rebuke in a
							 total defeat of the Russian armies and a thorough
						humiliation of the Russian Emperor. Nicholas ought to have known that, in engaging in
						war with the western powers, he not only endangered his military prestige, but put to
						the test also his system of domestic administration, based entirely on his autocratic
						will, and silently, although reluctantly, submitted to by his subjects, as a tribute to
						his dominant position in Europe. When by the disasters of the Crimean War that position
						was lost, when it became clear to the Russian people that the Emperor was not absolutely
						the universal dictator of Europe, not only his military prestige was destroyed, but his
						system of domestic government lost immensely in public estimation. Nicholas felt this
						double humiliation so keenly that it was just as much personal chagrin as physical
						disease which caused his death even before the war was over.
					It was therefore a heavy burden which his successor, Alexander the Second, assumed when
						he ascended the throne on the second of March, 1855. His first duty — and it was a
						painful and humiliating duty — was to terminate the Crimean War by accepting the
						unfavorable terms demanded by the western powers. In the exhausted condition of the
						Russian treasury, and after the disorganization of the Russian armies by a series of
						disastrous defeats, nothing was left to the young Czar but to submit to the inevitable.
						In doing so he also signed the sentence of death of the autocratic rule established by
						his father. A general clamor for reform, for greater freedom and more liberal laws
						arose, and Alexander the Second was only too willing to grant them. He was
						liberal-minded himself and kind-hearted, and he was anxious to let the Russian nation
						partake of the progress of European  civilization. He
						opened the Russian universities to all who desired a higher education. He reduced to a
						reasonable rate the price for passports, which had been enormous under Nicholas, he
						rescinded the burdensome press laws, and modified the law subjecting all publications to
						a most rigorous government supervision; he issued an amnesty to Siberian exiles,
						including many who had been banished for political crimes; and he finally crowned this
						system of liberal measures by the emancipation of many million serfs, freeing them from
						their previous condition of territorial bondage and placing them directly under
						government authority. Important changes were also made in the personnel of the different
						departments of the public service; a thorough investigation of these departments proved
						that the grossest abuses existed throughout the empire. The army magazines were filled
						with chalk instead of flour, and officers who had been dead for twenty years still
						remained on the pension lists. Numerous other frauds and depredations were disclosed,
						which were eating up the public revenues, and which had been practised for years by high
						officials who had enjoyed the protection of the late Czar. The reforms which Alexander
						the Second introduced did not find favor with the officials, and the emancipation of the
						serfs fully estranged the nobility, whose interests were damaged by the loss of their
						slaves. The Czar therefore soon found himself between two fires: the Liberals were
						immoderate in their demands for still greater liberty, and the nobility attacked the
						government for having granted those liberal measures, predicting that the new policy
						would terminate in disaster, revolution, and assassination.
					It should not be supposed, however, that Alexander  was
						liberal-minded in the American sense of the word; he was riot, — not even as
						liberalism is understood in the western states of Europe. What he tried to be during the
						first years of his reign was a liberal-minded autocrat like Frederick the Great of
						Prussia and Joseph the Second of Austria; but the slightest attempt to limit his
						authority by any constitution he resented as a personal insult. When the landed
						proprietors of the province of Tver sent him a petition worded in the most humble
						language, in which their desire for a constitution was expressed, he flew into a rage,
						and sent the two leaders of the meeting to Siberia. But he was inclined to grant as a
						personal favor what some of his subjects demanded as their right, which they wanted
						guaranteed by law. The system of police espionage and persecution ceased, because
						Alexander hated police denunciations. This change had almost immediately its marked
						effect on public life; the people commenced breathing easier. The nightmare of Siberian
						exile or perpetual imprisonment ceased haunting their minds.
					After a few years Russian society seemed to have changed its character, its ideas, its
						manners; it showed its independence openly, and acted as though its liberties and rights
						were safely secured by a magna charta or constitution. Many thousands of Russian
						noblemen went to France and England, no longer simply to amuse themselves and to live
						well, but to study western institutions or to place their sons in the colleges; and no
						nationality has a greater faculty of assimilation than the Russian. The ideas of central
						and western Europe found ready and intelligent reception in their minds. Hundreds of
						newspapers, periodicals, and magazines were founded, and 
						most of them found numerous and eager readers. Some of these papers became a real power
						and shaped public opinion to a remarkable degree. While direct criticism of Russian
						affairs and Russian institutions was prohibited, the newspapers nevertheless found a way
						to keep their readers posted on all public events and public men. They published
						sketches of every-day life in which every particular was true except the names, and in
						this human comedy, scarcely veiled by the transparent fiction, the governors of
						provinces, the generals of the army, and especially the directors of the police, and all
						the high government officials were exhibited in their true character; their frauds were
						exposed, their arbitrary actions, their abuses of power, and their excesses were
						denounced. The reading public were in the secret, and the daily and weekly newspapers
						became a regular chronique scandaleuse without subjecting the editors
						or publishers to prosecution.
					While these periodicals, published in Russia under the very eyes of the Czar and of
						Russian censors, did their share in undermining the authority of the government, there
						was another class of Russian periodicals, published at Paris, London, and Leipsic, which
						were free from the embarrassing observation of Russian censors, and which consequently
						could speak openly, mention names, attack high officials and the imperial family. The
						most famous of the editors of these periodicals (which were printed abroad, but had
						nearly their entire reading public in Russia) was Alexander Herzen, the famous editor
						and publisher of "The Bell" (Kolokos). Mr. Herzen was a man of great talent, and his
						newspaper soon gained an influence in Russia which became a real danger to the  government. "The Bell" did more for the spread of socialism
						in Russia than all other publications combined. It was more active and more successful
						than all other newspapers in showing up the official wrong-doers of the empire and
						breeding among the masses contempt for the government and its officers, because every
						Russian who could read, read "The Bell," and got his information about Russian affairs
						from Alexander Herzen. The mystery always was: How did "The Bell" get into Russia? since
						the government made a most relentless war on the paper. Nobody could ever tell; the most
						searching investigations of the secret police failed to discover the mysterious channel
						through which the dangerous paper found its way into Russia. As soon as it had crossed
						the frontier, secret printing establishments, unknown to the police, struck off many
						thousand copies and circulated them gratuitously throughout the empire. It was evident
						that a socialistic or revolutionary committee was identified with its circulation in
						Russia.
					But the most notable result brought about by "The Bell" was the change of attitude in
						which the Russian government was placed, and (since the government was the Czar) the
						attitude in which the Czar suddenly found himself toward his subjects. The imperial
						government, under Nicholas, has been bold and aggressive; under Alexander the Second it
						was placed on the defensive; it was compelled to plead with public opinion in order to
						clear itself of the attacks made against it, and when these pleas failed to convince, it
						resorted again to the old repressive and despotic measures which were even more odious
						from having become obsolete for a number of years. Autocracy, which in the hands of a
						strong man  like Nicholas the First had been a source of
						strength and protection, became in the hands of a weak and vacillating man a source of
						weakness and danger. Public opinion, which under Nicholas had been silent, because it
						dared not assert itself, turned openly against Alexander, who had removed the bars which
						kept it in check and the fear which repressed its utterances.
					It is time here to refer shortly to the origin and growth of a political doctrine which
						at this time appeared in Russia and which has had a great and pernicious influence on
						Russian history, — Nihilism. The name appears for the first time in the famous
						novel of Ivan Turgenieff, "Fathers and Sons," and designates a political programme which
						has found its most numerous and most enthusiastic adherents among the young men and
						women of Russia, especially of the educated and professional classes, the students and
						professors of the universities. It first manifested its existence shortly after the
						death of the Emperor Nicholas, when, through the liberal measures of his successor, the
						high schools and academies of the empire were opened to the people, when the
						universities were filled with thousands of young students, eager to learn and imbibe
						philosophical and political principles which until then had been unknown to them. The
						Nihilistic party aimed at a total regeneration of society and at the destruction of its
						present organization in state, church, and social institutions, and it found its
						explanation and excuse in the widespread corruption, brutality, and despotism of the
						officials. It is a mistake to confound the Nihilists with the Liberals or even with the
						Socialists who are advocating reforms or the abolition of certain  political or social abuses. The Nihilists are not aiming at reforms; they
						simply demand the overthrow and complete annihilation of the existing social system with
						all its institutions, until nothing (nihil) remains standing. The reconstruction of
						society, based upon principles of reason and justice, is their ideal; but they leave the
						realization of this ideal to future generations, and advocate for the present the
						employment of all means, even the most reprehensible, for the attainment of their
						immediate aim. The originators and great apostles of the new party were Alexander Herzen
						and Bakúnin, who imbued the young persons of both sexes with an implacable hatred for
						the present system of government and social organization. They made not only despotism
						but all authority odious.
					The first public manifestation of Nihilism was Karakasow's attempt on the life of
						Alexander the Second in 1866. It failed, and at the trial it appeared that the attempt
						was not founded on individual hostility, but on abhorrence of authority in general. The
						attempt on the life of General Trepow, minister of police, in 1878, showed the dangerous
						and rapid progress which the party had made. The assailant was an educated young woman,
						Vera Sassoulitch, who wanted to revenge official injustice by punishing one of its most
						prominent representatives. She was acquitted by a jury at St. Petersburg on February 5,
						1878; and this acquittal, brought about by the ostentatious manifestation of the
						sympathy of the higher classes during her trial, caused a sensation throughout Europe.
						The Czar himself was enraged at the result of the trial, and devoted himself to the
						extermination of Nihilism by all means in his power. The issue  had then been clearly made. Nihilism had by that time become very
						aggressive. It was no longer satisfied with preaching a philosophical doctrine, but it
						openly advocated a policy of murder and incendiarism, in order to frighten and
						disorganize society, and especially public officials. On the other hand, the government
						resorted to the most rigorous measures to exterminate the Nihilists wherever they could
						be found.
					Alexander the Second suffered terribly when he became aware, too late for him to master
						it, of the new intellectual movement and its political results in his empire. The
						situation was the more painful to him, because his own conscience as well as the old
						Russian party held him principally responsible for it. It was he who had set free that
						liberal propagandism which had culminated in this terrible agitation for the destruction
						of society, and which had entirely outgrown his control. Alexander's mental condition,
						on this discovery, would form an interesting subject for the psychologist. From the day
						when he began to reign as an enthusiastic, well-intentioned man of thirty-seven, to the
						days of his disappointments as a ruler and reformer, ending with one of the most
						terrible catastrophes of modern times, his career challenges, for adequate treatment,
						the genius of a Shakespeare. No wonder that he became despondent and thought of
						abdication, — a thought which reappeared with ever increasing force to the end of
						his reign.
					Nor was this feeling of discouragement and weariness of life caused exclusively by the
						fear of personal danger; on the contrary, Alexander knew only too well that he was not
						the only object of Nihilistic persecution, but that all those dear to his heart and also
						those whom he  honored with his confidence and friendship
						were equally exposed.
					The attempt on the life of General Trepow had still another effect on the Czar. It
						effectually eradicated from his mind his previous predilection for liberal reforms and a
						paternal government; it stirred up a feeling of resentment and hatred against
						revolutionists, reformers, and liberals which had never been noticed in him before, and
						which manifested itself in the most severe measures of repression. To his great chagrin
						he saw soon that these measures were utterly unavailing to repress the spirit of
						rebellion in the empire and in his own capital. Nihilism spread with the unconquerable
						fury of a contagious epidemic and defied all measures of the authorities to check it. On
						the twenty-first of February, 1879, Prince Krapotkine, Governor of Charkow, was
						assassinated; and shortly after, attempts were made on the lives of General Drentelen, a
						great favorite at court, and of Count Lewis Melikow, Secretary of the Interior.
					Alexander himself was exposed to a number of murderous attempts. His escape from the
						one made by Alexander Sokoloff, a school-teacher of Toropetz, in the district of Pskoff,
						is almost miraculous. On the fourteenth of April, 1879, at nine o'clock in the morning,
						the Emperor, seated in an open carriage, was waiting in front of the palace of Prince
						Gortschakoff, his Secretary of State. Sokoloff approached the carriage without having
						been noticed by the attendants. He was well dressed, wore a military cap, and looked
						like a retired officer. Standing within a few feet of Alexander, he suddenly pulled
						forth from under his coat a revolver, and, in rapid succession,  fired four shots at him, all of which, however, missed their aim. The
						would-be murderer was immediately overpowered by the Emperor's attendants; but during
						the struggle he fired a fifth shot which severely wounded one of the servants. Sokoloff
						had two capsules containing poison, fastened with wax under his armpits. He succeeded in
						swallowing one of them before he could be prevented, but an antidote was immediately
						administered and saved his life. He was sentenced to death and executed without having
						confessed the motive of his assault or given the names of any accomplices.
					After this attempt the most vigorous and ingenious measures were taken for the
						Emperor's protection. When, in the summer of the same year, Alexander travelled from St.
						Petersburg to Livadia, he was taken to the depot in an iron carriage and escorted by
						four companies of cavalry. Moreover the depot was surrounded by several regiments of
						infantry and cavalry, and nobody was permitted to approach it. Similar measures of
						precaution had been taken at all railway stations along the route where the imperial
						train was expected to stop. At all railroad crossings police officers and detectives had
						been stationed to prevent even the possibility of a collision with the imperial train.
						Another train filled entirely with the body-guards and high police officials preceded,
						at a short distance, the Emperor and his family. A large detective force was stationed
						along the whole route, and scoured the country for miles on both sides of the railroad,
						making it impossible for anybody to approach the track without being closely observed.
						At night, the entire route was lit up on either side with immense bonfires built at
						short distances in order to make  the surveillance of the
						road as complete during the night as during the day. In order not to delay the imperial
						train on the road, all other trains were stopped for days, and the most stringent orders
						were issued that no persons should approach either the depots or any part of the
						railroad.
					That travelling under such circumstances was not a pleasure, and would make a man
						exceedingly nervous, if not absolutely ill, may well be imagined. But in spite of these
						and other precautions almost passing human belief, a new attempt on the Emperor's life
						was made during his return trip from Livadia to Moscow. On the first of December, 1879,
						Alexander had arrived at Moscow safely; but about ten or fifteen minutes later a mine
						exploded, which had been established under the railroad track in the immediate vicinity
						of the depot. The explosion occurred at the moment when the second imperial train was
						passing. It demolished the baggage car and threw seven or eight passenger cars off the
						track. Fortunately nobody was seriously hurt. The Emperor and his suite were on the
						first train this time, while the Nihilists had supposed they would be on the second.
					Less than three months later, on the seventeenth of February, 1880, the Czar was in
						much greater danger at St. Petersburg. At about seven o'clock P. M., on that day, as he
						was on the point of entering the dining-room of his palace, suddenly a terrible dynamite
						explosion occurred underneath the hall occupied by the Imperial Guards. The explosion
						was so violent that all the windows in that wing of the palace were shattered, the
						ceilings of the rooms in the lower story and of the hall of the guards were full of
						holes, and the floors torn to pieces, while the  tables
						and the dishes in the imperial dining-room were hurled in all directions. Eight soldiers
						and two servants of the imperial household were killed, while forty-five were more or
						less seriously wounded.
					This new attempt on his life, with the attending number of victims, impressed the
						Czar's mind so deeply that it brought on a new attack of melancholy which his physicians
						were powerless to subdue. Domestic troubles added to his mental depression, and caused
						apprehensions of a total collapse of his mental faculties. His general health had also
						greatly suffered from the long continued strain of his nervous system. In June, 1880,
						his wife died after a lingering illness. She was a princess of Hesse-Darmstadt, very
						handsome and highly accomplished when he married her, in 1841. But the marriage was not
						a happy one. For quite a number of years the Czar carried on a liaison with the
						beautiful Princess Dolgorouki, and shortly after the death of the Empress he contracted
						a morganatic marriage with her, in spite of the energetic protests of the Czarowitz and
						his other children. The Princess had great influence over Alexander's decisions as a
						ruler; and when he seemed to have made up his mind to abdicate and retire to private
						life, she prevented the consummation of this design by her emphatic protests. Alexander
						had formed the plan to transfer the crown to his son, but only on one condition: that
						the Princess, his wife, should always be treated by the imperial family with the same
						consideration as the deceased Empress, and that her children should also be treated as
						brothers and sisters by the Czar. But when he informed the Princess of this plan, she
						flew into a passion, rejected the proposition most angrily, saying that she  knew the feelings of the Czarowitz toward her too well to
						place any confidence in his promises, and demanded, as a proof of his affection for her,
						that Alexander should forever renounce his plan of abdication. Alexander therefore
						remained, much against his own inclination, on the throne until the day of his death,
						the thirteenth of March, 1881.
					On the forenoon of that day he returned from the residence of the Princess to the
						Winter Palace, driving along the St. Michael's Canal. He was escorted by a small
						detachment of cavalry and an adjutant of the Director of Police. About midway between
						the residence of the Princess and the Winter Palace a man ran up to the imperial
						carriage throwing a bomb charged with dynamite under the horses. It killed two men of
						the Czar's escort and wounded three others. In spite of the protests of the police
						officer and the driver, who insisted on taking the Czar as rapidly as possible to the
						Winter Palace, he alighted, unhurt as he was, to look after the victims of the attack.
						In doing so, he exclaimed: "Thank God, I was not hurt!" But the man who had thrown the
						bomb and been seized by the escort, hearing the Czar's exclamation, replied: "Perhaps it
						is not time yet to thank God!" At the same time another person hurled a bomb at the feet
						of the Emperor. His legs were broken by the explosion, his abdomen was torn open so that
						the intestines protruded, and his face was badly disfigured. The Emperor fell to the
						ground, exclaiming: "Help me! Quick to the Palace! I am dying!" The explosion was so
						violent that the windows of a church and of the imperial stables situated on the
						opposite side of the Canal were shattered. Many persons were killed or wounded. The  imperial carriage was also considerably damaged. The
						Emperor was therefore lifted into a sleigh, which returned to the Winter Palace at a
						gallop. The blood flowed in great quantity from his wounds, and as he was carried up the
						large stairway of the Palace he fainted. The surgeons found it impossible to stop the
						hemorrhage, and at thirty-five minutes past three o'clock in the afternoon he breathed
						his last without having recovered consciousness for a moment.
					The assassination caused the most intense excitement in the capital. A shout of triumph
						went up from the Executive Committee of the Nihilists, and a few days afterward the
						people of St. Petersburg could read the following manifesto, which, in spite of the care
						of the police, had been posted in several conspicuous places: "The Executive Committee consider it necessary once more to announce to all the
								world that it repeatedly warned the tyrant now assassinated, repeatedly advised him
								to put an end to his homicidal obstinacy, and to restore to Russia its natural
								rights. Every one knows that the tyrant paid no attention to these warnings and
								pursued his former policy. Reprisals continued. The Executive Committee never drop
								their weapons. They resolved to execute the despot at whatever cost. On the
								thirteenth of March this was done.
							"We address ourselves to the newly crowned Alexander the Third, reminding him that
								he must be just. Russia, exhausted by famine, worn out by the arbitrary proceedings
								of the administration, continually losing its sons on the gallows, in the mines, in
								exile, or in wearisome inactivity caused by the present régime,
								— Russia cannot longer live thus. She demands liberty. She must live in
								conformity with her demands, her wishes, and her will. We remind Alexander the Third
								that every violator of the will of the people is the nation's enemy and tyrant. The
								death of Alexander the Second shows the vengeance which follows such
						acts."
					
					These accusations were only partly true. Alexander, on ascending the throne, had
						honestly tried to introduce reforms, abolish abuses and pave the way for a progressive,
						liberal government. But his liberal policy did not satisfy the Nihilists. And when in
						self-protection he fell back on the former policy of repression, the Nihilists began a
						war of reprisals, and finally murdered the Czar.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXIV WILLIAM McKINLEY
					
					
					
					
						WILLIAM McKINLEY
					
					
					CHAPTER XXIV ASSASSINATION OF WILLIAM McKINLEY
						PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (September 6, 1901)
					THE North-American Republic had lived eighty-nine years before
						political assassination made its entrance into its domain. From 1776 to 1865, a period
						occasionally as turbulent, excited and torn by political discord and strife as any other
						period in history, political assassinations kept away from its shores, and appeared only
						at the close of the great Civil War between the North and the South, selecting for its
						victim the noblest, gentlest, most kind-hearted of Americans who had filled the
						Presidential chair.
					Sixteen years later, on July 2, 1881, the second political assassination took place in
						the United States, resulting in the death of President James A. Garfield, after months
						of intense suffering from a wound inflicted by a bullet fired by Charles J. Guiteau, a
						disappointed office-seeker. By removing the President this man hoped to restore harmony
						in the Republican party, which, in the state of New York at least, had been disturbed by
						the feud between James G. Blaine and Roscoe Conkling. Guiteau imagined that President
						Garfield had become an interested party in this feud by appointing Mr. Blaine  his Secretary of State. His was the act of a vindictive
						madman.
					Twenty years had elapsed since Guiteau's horrible crime, and again a President of the
						United States was prostrated by the bullet of an assassin, who, at the moment of
						committing the crime, proclaimed himself an Anarchist. When William McKinley was
						reëlected President in November, 1900, a successful and perhaps glorious second term
						seemed to be in store for him. During his first term the policy of the Republican party
						had earned great triumphs, and the President, who was in full accord with his party on
						all economical questions, and was even its most prominent leader on the tariff question,
						had justly shared these triumphs.
					Quite unexpectedly the question of armed intervention in Cuba had been sprung in the
						middle of Mr. McKinley's first term of office, and after having exhausted all diplomatic
						means to prevent war and to induce Spain to grant satisfactory terms to the Cubans, the
						President was forced into a declaration of war by the enthusiasm of the Senators and
						Representatives assembled at Washington. But, as if everything undertaken by Mr.
						McKinley was to be blessed with phenomenal success, the war with Spain was not only
						instrumental in securing the thing for which it had been undertaken, — the liberty
						and independence of the island of Cuba, — but it had also an entirely unexpected
						effect on the international standing of the United States. Up to the time of the
						Spanish-American War the United States had always been considered an exclusively
						American power, and while the European powers seemed to be willing to concede to it a
						leading position — a sort of hegemony — in all American affairs (including
							 Central and South America), which the United States had
						assumed by the promulgation of the Monroe Doctrine in 1823, they had never invited the
						American government to their councils treating of European or other non-American
						affairs. The Spanish-American War was a revelation to Europe. It opened its eyes to the
						fact that over night, while Europe had been sleeping and dreaming only of its own
						greatness, a young giant had grown up on the other side of the Atlantic who was just
						beginning to feel his own strength and who seemed to make very light of time-honored
						sovereignty rights and inherited titles of possession. As the Atlantic cable flashed
						over its wires the reports of American victories and achievements of astounding
						magnitude, — the destruction of two powerful Spanish fleets, followed by the
						surrender of the large Spanish armies in the Philippine islands and Cuba, — Europe
						stood aghast at this superb display of power and naval superiority, and European
						statesmen reluctantly admitted that a new world-power of the first order had been born,
						and that it might be prudent to invite it to a seat among the great powers. History is
						often a great satirist; it was so in this case. Spain had for a long time made
						application for admission to a seat among the great powers of the world and had pointed
						to her great colonies and to her splendid navy as her credentials entitling her to
						membership in the illustrious company. But England and Germany, fearing that Spain would
						strengthen France and Russia by her influence and navy, kept her out of it. And now
						comes a young American nation which nobody had thought of as a great military and naval
						power, makes very short work of Spain's navy, robs her of all her colonies, and coolly,
						without having  asked for it, takes the seat which Spain
						had vainly sighed for.
					In a monarchy a large part if not the whole of the glory of these achievements on land
						and sea would have been ascribed to the ruler under whose reign they occurred. It was so
						with Louis the Fourteenth and Queen Elizabeth, but William McKinley was entirely too
						modest to claim for himself honors which did not exclusively belong to him. Nevertheless
						a great deal was said about imperialism and militarism during the campaign, and these
						charges were even made a strong issue against Mr. McKinley's reëlection. However, the
						good judgment of the American people disregarded them and reflected Mr. McKinley by a
						considerably larger majority than he had received four years before.
					It might have been supposed that this flattering endorsement of Mr. McKinley's first
						administration would have allayed all opposition to him personally, because certainly
						his experience, his conceded integrity and ability, his great influence in the councils
						of his party, and his immense popularity would have been of inestimable value in
						adjusting and solving the new problems of administration arising from the acquisition of
						our new insular possessions in the Pacific and the West Indies. While the two great
						political parties, and in fact all other parties, had bowed to this decision of the
						people at the ballot-box, there was, unfortunately, a class of men in the United States
						as well as in Europe who made war upon the present organization of society as unjust to
						the poor man, and upon all government, which they declared hostile and detrimental to
						the rights of individuals, and which they considered the source of all wrongs and  miseries. This doctrine was originated by a French
						philosopher, Pierre Joseph Proudhon, in his famous pamphlet published in 1850 and
						entitled: "What is Property?" He denounces the unequal division and distribution of
						property among men and the unjust accumulation of capital in the hands of the few as the
						source of all social evils, and, concluding with the emphatic declaration that all
						property is theft, demands its readjustment and reapportionment on a basis of strict
						justice as the sole hope for happiness. Proudhon's ideas and arguments found an echo
						throughout Europe. He had considered the question only in its economical bearings; but
						some of his disciples extended the inquiry in all other directions, and showed the
						hurtful influence of accumulated power and property on all other social conditions,
						especially on politics and the government of nations. They demanded the reinstatement of
						the individual in all his natural rights, and a destruction of all those powers and laws
						which stood in the way of the free and unobstructed exercise of those rights. This meant
						a declaration of war on all established authority and government. It meant anarchy in
						the literal sense of the word, and the men who had adopted this doctrine as their
						political platform called themselves Anarchists.
					On the twenty-ninth of September, 1872, a violent schism occurred at the congress of
						the International Association of Laborers, held at the Hague, between the partisans of
						Carl Marx and those of Bakúnin, and from this date we must count the origin of the
						anarchistic party. In the United States the first symptoms of an anarchistic movement
						appeared in 1878. At the Socialist congress held at Albany, N. Y., the majority of  delegates, who were advocates of peaceable methods of
						propagandism, were opposed by a minority of revolutionists preaching the most extreme
						measures. The leader of this minority was Justus Schwab, who was then publishing a
						socialistic newspaper, "The Voice of the People," at St. Louis. He was a friend and
						admirer of John Most, who had been imprisoned in England for his revolutionary and
						seditious articles, and who was, unquestionably, the intellectual leader of the radical
						minority at Albany. The final rupture between the two factions occurred a year later, at
						the congress at Alleghany, Pa., in 1879, when the radical revolutionists, who were in a
						majority, expelled the moderate faction from the convention. The radical wing has grown
						rapidly in numbers and power, and its influence has made itself felt repeatedly on
						lamentable occasions, the last of which was the assassination of William McKinley,
						President of the United States, during the Pan-American Exposition at Buffalo, on
						September 6, 1901.
					The great American cities, from the Atlantic coast to the Pacific, are hot-beds of
						extreme political radicalism; Italian Carbonarism and Russian Nihilism are represented
						in those cities by some of their most daring representatives, whose official programme
						is destruction of authority by the assassination of its most exalted heads, and
						subversion of law. By placing William McKinley in line with the monarchs who were the
						special targets of their inflammatory harangues and writings, danger and death were
						attracted to his person with magnetic power; and what in the intention of party
						opponents was but a forcible means of attacking Mr. McKinley's and his party's colonial
						policy (to disappear again with his election) may have lingered in the heated
						imaginations of these  avowed regicides, and may have
						intensified their feelings against him, as the most exalted representative of law and
						order (with alleged imperial designs) in this country. Several months before the
						assassination took place it was reported that detectives had ferreted out at Paterson,
						N. J., which is known as a gathering-place of Italian anarchists and assassins, a
						conspiracy which had for its object the assassination of all European monarchs and of
						President McKinley. This report, when published in the newspapers, was received with
						laughter and contempt by the reading public. The mere idea appeared too absurd to
						deserve even a moment's attention, and the result was that to the recent assassinations
						of the Empress of Austria and King Humbert of Italy was added the tragedy of
						Buffalo.
					Only a few months after Mr. McKinley was inaugurated for his second term of office, the
						Pan-American Exposition was held at Buffalo. Mr. McKinley had, from the very inception
						of the great undertaking which was to shed new lustre upon his administration, given to
						it great attention and cordial encouragement. For the first time, such an exposition was
						to exhibit all the products, natural and artificial, of the two Americas in one common
						presentation, challenging the admiration or the criticism of the world on the
						intellectual and industrial standing which this display manifested. The result was
						grand, and in many respects surpassed expectation. It emphasized the impression already
						created by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893, that America would within a short time
						become a dangerous rival for Europe in many departments of industry, not only at home,
						but even in foreign countries which up to that time had almost  held a monopoly for supplying certain articles of manufacture. The
						departments in which articles of steel and iron manufacture, electrical machines, etc.,
						were exhibited showed such superiority over what old Europe could show that even the
						most prejudiced visitors from abroad had to concede it.
					It had been expected that President McKinley, by his presence on several days in some
						official capacity, would heighten the interest and emphasize the importance of the
						Exposition. He had promised and planned to do so. In the summer of 1901 he made a trip
						to the Pacific coast, and was everywhere welcomed with boisterous enthusiasm. Mrs.
						McKinley accompanied him, sharing his popularity and triumphs. Perhaps no President
						since George Washington had to a higher degree possessed the confidence and love of the
						whole people than Mr. McKinley did at the time of his second inauguration. Even his
						political opponents conceded his eminent worth, his integrity, his loyalty to duty, and
						his sincere desire to promote the general welfare of the country. The short addresses
						which he made during his trip to California found an enthusiastic echo in the hearts of
						his fellow-citizens, East and West; the ovations he received and which he accepted with
						becoming modesty and tact, were heartily endorsed by the nation as symptomatic of the
						universal feeling of harmony and of good-will toward the administration. The
						ante-election charges of imperialism were laughed at, and both parties seemed to be
						willing to make the best of the results of the war. Moreover the great urbanity of
						manners, and the personal amiability which distinguished Mr. McKinley were the strongest
						refutations of these ridiculous imperialistic  charges and
						of Mr. McKinley's ambition to be clothed with royal honors. He showed equal courtesy to
						rich and poor, and his grasp of the laborer's hand was just as cordial as of the rich
						merchant's.
					The Presidential party had reached San Francisco, and its reception there was fully as
						enthusiastic as it had been in the cities along the route to the Pacific. It had been
						the President's intention to stop at Buffalo on his return from his trip to California,
						to be the guest of the managers of the Exposition for a few days, and to perform those
						duties and ceremonies which were expected of him as head of the nation. Unfortunately
						this programme could not be carried out. Mrs. McKinley, always in very delicate health,
						fell seriously ill at San Francisco, and for several days her life was despaired of. She
						recovered; but as soon as she was able to bear the discomforts of transportation,
						without inviting the danger of a relapse, the President's return to the East was decided
						on, and all his previous appointments were cancelled. His intention to visit Buffalo,
						during the continuance of the Exposition, was, however, not abandoned, but simply
						postponed to a more opportune time, after Mrs. McKinley should have recovered her usual
						strength.
					Mr. McKinley came to Buffalo in the first week of September. The Exposition had
						attracted many thousands of visitors who were anxious to greet the President. On the
						fifth — which had been made President's Day — he delivered an address to a
						very large audience, in which he spoke feelingly of the blessings bestowed by Providence
						on this country, and in eloquent terms referred to the unexampled prosperity enjoyed by
						its citizens. That secret and unaccountable influence, which frequently  inspires men on the verge of the grave and endows them with
						almost prophetic foresight seemed to have taken possession of Mr. McKinley on this
						occasion. The speech was, perhaps, the best he had ever made. It was the speech of a
						statesman and patriot, full of wisdom and love of country. He did not know, when he made
						it, that it would be his farewell address to the American people; but if he had known it
						and written it for that purpose, he could not have made it loftier in spirit, more
						patriotic in sentiment, and more convincing in argument.
					On the afternoon of the next day a grand reception had been arranged for the President
						at the Temple of Music. An immense multitude had assembled, eager to shake hands with
						Mr. McKinley and to have the honor of exchanging a few words with him. He was in the
						very best of spirits and performed the ceremony of hand-shaking with that amiable and
						cordial expression on his features which won him so many hearts. It had been arranged
						that only one person at a time should pass by him, and that after a rapid salutation his
						place should be taken by the next comer. Hundreds had already exchanged greetings with
						the President, when a young man with smooth face and dark hair stepped up to him. Mr.
						McKinley noticed that the right hand of the young man was bandaged, as though it had
						been wounded, and he therefore made a move to grasp his left hand; but at that moment
						the young man raised his right hand, and in quick succession fired two shots at the
						President, which both wounded him, — the one aimed at his chest, lightly, because
						the bullet deflected from the breastbone; the other, which had penetrated the abdomen,
						very seriously. The assassin had carried a revolver in his right hand and  had covered it with a handkerchief in order to avoid
						detection. Mr. McKinley did not realize immediately that he was wounded, although from
						the effects of the shot he staggered and fell into the arms of a detective who was
						standing near him.
					"Am I shot?" asked the President. The officer opened the President's vest, and seeing
						the blood, answered: "Yes, I am afraid you are, Mr. President."
					The assassin was immediately thrown to the ground. Twenty men were upon him, and it was
						with some difficulty that he was rescued from their grasp. At first he gave a fictitious
						name, and, when asked for his motive, replied: "I am an Anarchist, and have done my
						duty." His statements shortly after his arrest seemed to implicate a number of more or
						less prominent Anarchists in the crime and to make it appear as the result of a
						widespread conspiracy. In consequence a number of the recognized leaders of the party
						— especially Emma Goldmann, whom the assailant named as the person whose teachings
						had inspired him with the idea of committing the crime — were arrested and held
						for a preliminary examination; but nothing could be proven against them, and they were
						discharged.
					After a few days the assailant made a full confession. His name was Leon Czolgosz; he
						was a Pole by birth, and his family lived at Detroit. He was a believer in Anarchism and
						had murdered the President because he considered him the chief representative of that
						authority which, in his opinion, was hurtful to the development of a society founded on
						the equal rights of all its members. He had had no accomplices; he had not consulted
						with anybody concerning the plan, time, or execution of the  crime, but he had resolved upon and executed it on his own responsibility. While his
						confession fully exonerated both the Anarchist party at large and all its members
						individually, it nevertheless showed what terrible consequences may arise from the
						propagandism of a party which has declared war on the existing organization of society,
						when its doctrines inflame the mind of a fanatic or of an unthinking proselyte. Public
						opinion in the United States was stirred to its very depths, all parties vying with one
						another in showing not only their abhorrence of the crime, but also their love and
						admiration for the illustrious victim.
					Unfortunately the hopes of the American people that Mr. McKinley would survive the foul
						and senseless attempt on his life were disappointed. For about a week his condition
						seemed to improve, and his strong vitality seemed to rise superior to the weakening
						effects of a dangerous surgical operation which failed to produce the second bullet,
						deeply seated as it was in the spine. At first he rallied from the severe shock, and his
						physicians were hopeful of saving his life, but in the afternoon of September 12, a
						sudden change for the worse occurred which, it was soon noticed, indicated the approach
						of dissolution. He remained conscious till about seven o'clock in the evening of
						September 13, and faced death in the same spirit of calmness and submission to the will
						of God which had characterized his whole career. "Good-bye, all; good-bye. It is God's
						way. His will be done!" were his last conscious words to the members of his cabinet and
						other friends who, overcome with emotion, were at his bedside. The end came shortly
						after two o'clock in the morning, on September 14, apparently without pain.
					
					President McKinley's death made a profound impression on the American people. The rage
						of the people of Buffalo against the assassin was boundless, and but for the efficient
						measures for protecting him at the station-house in which he was imprisoned, he very
						likely would have fallen a victim to the fury of the thousands who surrounded it. The
						entire police force and several companies of soldiers were kept under arms to be ready
						for any emergency.
					The body of the dead President was first taken to Washington, and thence to its final
						resting-place at Canton, Ohio. The obsequies were of imposing grandeur and magnificence;
						but even more impressive than these, and more honorable to his memory, was the sorrow of
						a whole nation in tears over his untimely and cruel death.
					President McKinley's death is typical of the modern attempts on the lives of sovereigns
						and prominent men. These attempts have lost much of the personal character which in
						former times made them so interesting. They are much more the results of a wholesale
						conspiracy against the organization of society than against great individuals.
						Unfortunately political assassinations have not become of rarer occurrence during the
						last fifty years, as might have been hoped from the progress of education and
						civilization. On the contrary, they have multiplied with the spread and development of
						Anarchism. The Anarchist makes no distinction between the bad ruler and the good ruler.
						The fact that the ruler occupies an exalted station above his fellow-men makes him an
						object of hatred for the Anarchist, and justifies his removal from an elevation which is
						a danger to all. At the present time men very high in authority, whether  in a monarchy or in a republic, are always exposed to the
						daggers or pistols or — what is much worse — to the dynamite or other
						explosives of assassins.
					The field of operation of these murderers — who are generally the deluded agents
						of a central organization of Anarchists, and who have frequently no personal grievance
						against their victims — extends not only all over Europe, from Russia to Spain,
						but also to the western hemisphere.
					While these murders fall with the same crushing effect upon the nations immediately
						stricken in the persons of their rulers or intellectual leaders, the interest in the
						causes leading to them is essentially diminished since they are all inspired by the same
						general motive, — destruction of authority, — and since the hand armed with
						the fatal weapon strikes with blind fanaticism, sparing neither age nor sex nor merit;
						in fact, quite often slaying those who deserve to live, and sparing those whose death
						might be a benefit to their country and the world. In this way we have seen the Czar
						Alexander the Second of Russia, the emancipator of the Russian serfs; General Prim, who,
						if he had lived longer, might have secured a constitutional government for Spain and her
						political regeneration; the Empress Elizabeth of Austria, a faultless and much betrayed
						wife as well as a bereaved mother; King Humbert, whose best endeavors were made in
						behalf of a reunited Italy; President Sadi Carnot, one of the purest and most patriotic
						statesmen the French Republic has had; and last, though not least, our genial and
						noble-hearted President, William McKinley, — all falling victims to the senseless
						vindictiveness of men who do not persecute wrong and oppression, but power and authority
							 in whatever form they may present themselves. We have
						selected the assassination of President McKinley as representative of this class of
						political murders, because he was dearest to the American heart, and also because, in
						our opinion, he was the most illustrious of the many victims of anarchistic
						vengeance.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXV ALEXANDER I AND DRAGA
					
					
					
					
						ALEXANDER I. OF SERVIA
					
					
					CHAPTER XXV ASSASSINATION OF ALEXANDER I AND DRAGA, KING AND
						QUEEN OF SERVIA (June 11, 1903)
					THE Balkan countries — Servia, Bulgaria, Roumania, Bosnia, and
						Herzegovina — are generally considered the political centre from which will
						spread, sooner or later, the conflagration of a gigantic war, which will eventually
						place Russia in possession of Constantinople and European Turkey. Some of these Balkan
						countries are nominally independent, others are still under the suzerainty of the
						Sultan, who holds on to them with the energy of despair. He watches every change in the
						political situation with the carefulness of a physician who knows that his patient is
						doomed, but who hopes that he may for a while prolong his life. The half Oriental, half
						European character of the populations of these Balkan states, their unquenchable thirst
						for national independence, their defiance and hatred of their oppressors, their contempt
						for the impotent Turkish administration, and their hope of improving their condition by
						some political change, — are singularly favorable to insurrections and
						revolutions. Russia is nursing this revolutionary spirit with great skill and prudence,
							 trusting to the proper moment for harvesting the fruit
						of the seed which she has been sowing for upwards of a century. Ever since the days of
						Catherine the Second Russia has stood, so to speak, like a sentinel on the lookout for
						the favorable moment to pounce down on Turkey, to plant the White Eagle on the peaks of
						Macedonia and Roumelia, and to take possession of the Dardanelles as a Russian
						ship-canal between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean. Every commotion and revolution
						in any of the Balkan states helps her in her far-seeing ambition, especially now since
						France will stand by her as an ally. It is in this sense and for this reason that the
						terrible tragedy which occurred at Belgrade, Servia, on the eleventh of June, 1903, may
						claim a place in this gallery of historical assassinations. From it sooner or later
						events of the first magnitude may develop, and while at present comparative quiet has
						been restored at the Servian capital, the change of dynasty may lead to the most serious
						international complications.
					The reign of Alexander the First of Servia was ushered into existence by means of a coup d'état at midnight on the sixth of March, 1889; it terminated after
						midnight on the eleventh day of June, 1903, by assassination.
					The manner in which King Milan forfeited his throne, and again the manner in which King
						Alexander lost both his throne and his life, as well as the many tragedies and comedies
						which occurred in the royal family of Servia between these two events, — all these
						details seem to be rather detached chapters of a highly sensational novel than the sober
						and truthful records of recent history.
					At the age of twenty-one, on the seventeenth of October, 
						1875, King Milan of Servia married Princess Natalia Keschko, the daughter of a colonel
						in the Russian army; Natalia's mother, however, was the daughter of a Roumanian prince.
						Natalia was seventeen years old at the time, and of marvellous beauty. She was one of
						the most admirable beauties of the Russian capital, and King Milan, who fell desperately
						in love with her at first sight, found but little encouragement from her, in spite of
						his exalted rank, because the young lady herself was in love with a Russian officer and
						was loved in return. But Colonel Keschko, who was ambitious and prized very highly the
						honor of a family alliance with a reigning King, by his paternal veto put an end to his
						daughter's sentimental love-affair and compelled her to accept King Milan's hand.
					It is but just to say that Princess Natalia proved herself in every respect worthy of
						the honor conferred upon her. As Queen of Servia she was not only the most beautiful
						woman of the kingdom, but she was a model wife, and opened her heart and mind to all the
						patriotic aspirations of the Servian people. When shortly afterwards a war broke out
						between Servia and Turkey, she personally appealed to the Czar for assistance, went to
						the hospitals to nurse the wounded, cared for the widows and orphans, and became not
						only a popular favorite, but deservedly won the esteem of the Servian nation.
					It was a day of public rejoicing, when on August 14, 1876, she bore the King a son, who
						was named Alexander after his godfather, Alexander the Second of Russia. Another son,
						born two years later, died a few days after his birth. Soon after the birth of his son
						Alexander, King Milan commenced neglecting his wife  and
						bestowed his favor on other women of the court. The Queen felt the King's neglect very
						keenly, and became often an indignant witness to his liaisons, which he did not think it
						worth while to conceal from her. The anger and contempt she felt for the indelicate
						voluptuary gave her strength to overcome the love which had gradually grown up in her
						heart for the father of her son, and to this son she transferred all the tenderness her
						heart was capable of. The Servian people soon saw and learned what was going on at
						court, and while they condemned and despised the King, they praised and idolized the
						Queen.
					Under such lamentable conditions young Alexander grew up to adolescence. He was greatly
						attached to his mother, and applied to her as his adviser and friend in all questions,
						while he could hardly conceal his profound aversion for his father. The King noticed
						this growing hostility in his son and heir, and blamed the Queen for having incited it.
						He saw in it a deep-laid plot on her part to secure a controlling position which would
						enable her, at any given opportunity, to place her son on the throne and to assume the
						reins of government under his name. The breach thus created between the father and the
						mother, and every day widened by the excesses and orgies of the King, reached its climax
						when the question arose who should be appointed instructors to prepare the prince for
						his future duties as the head of the Servian nation. Milan wanted Austrian instructors
						for his son, because he had been leaning on Austrian influence; the Queen, in sympathy
						with the national demands as well as prompted by her own impulses, insisted on Russian
						preceptors, to initiate him into the maze of European 
						politics and to open his mind to the aspirations of Servian genius. It is said that one
						day when the discussion had grown very warm between husband and wife, and when he
						accused the Queen of purposely estranging his son's heart from him, she reproached him
						with the indignities he had heaped upon her, with his many acts of infidelity, and with
						his low and vulgar excesses, which, she said, imperilled the dynasty. The King was
						dumfounded by this torrent of invectives, which he could neither stop nor contradict,
						but which left in his heart a wound which his pride would not permit to heal up. It
						seems certain that from that day his resolution was taken to obtain a divorce from his
						wife for a double purpose: first, that he might not be hindered by her from following
						his low inclinations; second, that he might withdraw his son from the Queen's influence
						and surround him with his own creatures. The question was, how could he obtain this
						divorce from a wife whose conduct was exemplary, and who was almost worshipped by the
						whole people for her private and public virtues? It was clear to him that to succeed in
						his design he had to ruin her character, and on this conviction he built a plot of
						diabolical malice. Under a plausible pretext he arranged a private meeting in the
						Queen's apartments between her and the Metropolitan of Servia. This bishop was known to
						have an almost worshipful admiration for the Queen; upon him, therefore, it was
						supposed, the suspicion of illicit relations with her could be fastened easily. No
						sooner had the Metropolitan entered the Queen's apartments than the King, accompanied by
						some of his intimates, appeared on the scene and "surprised the guilty couple." The plot
						failed miserably; the King's hand appeared too  visibly in
						the arrangement and execution to leave any doubt in the public mind as to the Queen's
						innocence. His evident intention to brand an innocent and much wronged wife as an
						adulteress lowered Milan even more in the estimation of the people, and they commenced
						talking openly of the necessity for his abdication.
					The Queen thereafter refused to live with the King, and this refusal gave him the
						desired pretext to obtain a divorce. They separated in 1888. Alexander was then twelve
						years old. The Queen went to Wiesbaden, and took her boy with her; but on the
						application of King Milan to the German authorities, the boy was taken away from her and
						sent to Belgrade. The King's scandalous conduct had now exhausted the patience of the
						Servian people. They insisted on his dethronement, either by voluntary abdication or by
						forced removal. A delegation of notables placed before him the alternative of either
						abdicating in favor of his son, or of sharing the fate of his uncle, Michael
						Obrenovitch, who just twenty years before was assassinated in a park near Belgrade.
						Milan did not hesitate long. He declared his willingness to abdicate, but he demanded
						two million dollars as the price of this abdication, and the Servian people, only too
						glad to get rid of him at any price, paid the sum demanded.
					On the sixth of March, 1889, Alexander, who was then thirteen years old, ascended the
						throne of Servia. A regency of three prominent men — General Bolimarcovitch, M.
						Ristitch; and General Protitch — was appointed to conduct the public affairs of
						the kingdom. Everything promised a prosperous reign. There was absolute order and
						tranquillity in the country; the people seemed  to be
						satisfied. The Queen returned to Servia, and the government designated one of the royal
						palaces of Belgrade for her residence. She was then at the height of her popularity, and
						the young King shared in that popularity because it was generally supposed that he had
						great respect and love for his mother.
					These happy and peaceful conditions, however, soon underwent a change. Ex-King Milan,
						who could not forget the days of luxury he had enjoyed at Belgrade, was busy stirring up
						intrigues and conspiracies which might lead to his restoration; and on the other hand,
						Queen Natalia, to counteract his manœuvres, built up a party of her own, and took an
						active interest in politics. This became embarrassing to the government, since it
						continued to inflame the minds of the people. Through these conflicting parties the
						country was actually brought to the verge of civil war, which very likely would have
						broken out had not the government taken energetic measures to put a stop to the strife.
						The regents first applied to Milan, and bought him off. They restored to him the
						property which had been confiscated when he went into exile, and paid him one million
						dollars besides. Milan on his part solemnly promised never to set foot on Servian soil
						again, and even renounced his right of citizenship. The contract between the ex-King and
						the council of regency was made on April 14, 1891. Thereupon the regents addressed a
						request to the Queen, asking her, in the interest of peace and order, to leave the
						country. She refused to comply with the request, and a week afterwards an attempt was
						made to remove her by force. She was arrested in her palace, and rapidly driven in a
						coach to the quay, where a steamer was  waiting to convey
						her across the frontier. But a number of young students delivered her from the hands of
						the officers who had charge of her person, conducted her back in triumph to her palace,
						and constituted themselves her guard of honor. Quite a bloody conflict occurred between
						the students and the police, in the course of which a number of persons were killed, and
						many more wounded. However, a second attempt made by the police authorities a day or two
						later was more successful. She was conveyed by railroad to Hungary. The young King
						showed that he was a true Obrenovitch by the fact that he never interfered or even
						uttered a kind word in behalf of his mother. He showed the same ingratitude to the three
						regents in 1893 when he dismissed them unceremoniously like body-servants for whom he
						had no further use. The first coup d'état which Alexander made
						occurred on April 14, 1893. It would seem that the radicals had in some way secured an
						influence over his mind, for it was to their advantage that the coup
							d'état principally turned out. But Alexander showed considerable self-assurance
						on that occasion.
					On the evening of the day mentioned Alexander had invited the three regents and the
						members of the cabinet to take supper with him. Altogether eight persons sat down at the
						supper-table. The very best of humor prevailed among the guests. After the third course
						had been served the King rose from his seat, and addressed his guests as follows: "Gentlemen, for the last four years you have exercised royal
								authority in my name, and I sincerely thank you for what you have done. I feel now,
								however, that I am able to exercise that power myself, and will do so  from this moment. I therefore request you to hand me
								your resignations forthwith."
					Mr. Ristitch was the first to recover his presence of mind. He told the King that it
						would be impossible to comply with his request, because by doing so they would violate
						the constitution. The King thereupon left the table without saying another word; but
						soon afterwards an officer appeared renewing the King's demand for the resignation of
						the members of the Council of Regency and of the Cabinet.
					During that very night the young King, who was then only seventeen years old, went to
						the different barracks and armories where the troops were under arms, proclaimed his
						accession to the throne, received the enthusiastic homage of the regiments, and returned
						to the palace. The coup d'état was a complete success. Alexander the
						First was King, not only in name, but also in fact. He dismissed the old cabinet, and
						appointed a new one, composed exclusively of moderate radicals.
					A few years afterwards Alexander visited the different courts of Europe, in the hope,
						it was commonly reported at the time, of finding a young princess willing to accept his
						hand; but in this hope he was either disappointed, or the report of his intentions was
						unfounded. At all events he returned to Belgrade without a bride. It was soon after this
						that the eyes of the young King were for the first time directed toward the woman whose
						striking beauty and sensual charms inflamed him with a passion to which he blindly
						yielded. He elevated her to the throne, and for this act he paid the penalty with his
						life. For it is absolutely certain that the King's marriage with Draga Maschin, and his
						blind subordination to her  domineering spirit in private
						and public affairs, had much more to do with his tragic downfall than all his political
						mistakes.
					Draga Lunyewitza, better known as Draga Maschin, was the widow of a
						Servian nobleman who had occupied a prominent position at the court of King Milan. Even
						more prominent than her husband had been Madame Draga, not only on account of her
						beauty, which was of a pronounced sensual type, but also on account of her brilliant
						conversational powers. Her most conspicuous feature was her wonderful eyes, large,
						lustrous, and beaming with an intensity of feeling and intelligence so penetrating that
						it was said that no man whose conquest she had resolved upon would be able to resist
						them if properly brought under their influence. That Madame Draga Maschin's eyes had
						often proved victorious was well known from the long list of her favored lovers, —
						a list which included statesmen, high military officers, bankers, and noblemen, and
						lastly, King Milan himself. In the eyes of the people of Belgrade Madame Draga Maschin
						was not only a coquette, but a courtesan. By means of her brilliant mental powers, her
						wit, her interesting conversation, her suavity of manners, and her diplomatic skill, she
						still maintained her position in society, although shunned by the most exclusive
						circles.
					It was principally on account of those brilliant qualities of mind, and on account of
						Madame Draga's intimate acquaintance with a number of the leading politicians at
						Belgrade that the ex-Queen made her one of her attendants in her exile.
					It was in this capacity that King Alexander met Madame Draga Maschin at Biarritz in the
						Pyrenees, 
						
						
							QUEEN DRAGA
						
						 where his mother spent the summer of 1900. The
						experienced coquette tried the power of her eyes on the young man, who had inherited the
						sensual temperament of his father. Alexander was by no means a novice in love-affairs,
						but he had never come in contact with so consummate a mistress of the arts of seduction
						as Draga Maschin. When he left Biarritz he was passionately in love with her, and those
						who had observed her game predicted that something serious would come of it. His mother
						was either too deeply engaged in politics to pay much attention to the flirtation, or
						she secretly favored it in the hope of securing a new and reliable ally.
					Some time afterwards Draga Maschin returned to Belgrade, and the game of love-making
						was immediately renewed. Their intimacy became a matter of public notoriety. It also
						reached the ears of ex-King Milan, who was overjoyed at hearing it; he hoped that his
						former "good friend" Draga would use her influence for his benefit. But Draga Maschin
						worked neither for the Queen, nor for the King; she worked for herself only, and very
						successfully too.
					Almost maddened by passion the King one day called a cabinet meeting and informed his
						ministers that he had made up his mind to make Draga Maschin his wife, and that a
						proclamation to that effect would appear in the official newspaper of the kingdom. The
						members of the cabinet were struck with amazement, and implored him to desist from his
						project, which they said would be fatal to the Obrenovitch dynasty. They employed every
						argument they could think of to change the King's resolution; but in vain. With his
						usual stubbornness, he declared: "I am the King, and can wed whomsoever I please."  As a last protest they all tendered their resignations. The
						King coolly accepted them, and the royal proclamation was published.
					When on a July morning of 1900 the people of Belgrade were surprised by the
						announcement that the widow Draga Maschin was to be Queen of Servia, and when she was
						held up to their wives and daughters as a model of all womanly virtues, their
						disappointment and their protests against this "insane" act of the King were so general
						and so loud that serious apprehensions of an insurrection were entertained. These fears
						were not realized; but the people of Belgrade remained in a state of sullen discontent.
						They knew that a speedy and terrible punishment would overtake the guilty youth. It was
						reported that on reading his son's proclamation, ex-King Milan, who was then a patient
						at Carlsbad in Bohemia, left his sick-room and rushed to the depot to take the train for
						Belgrade. He declared that this outrage should never be committed, and that if the King
						should persist in accomplishing it, he would kill him with his own hands. But Milan's
						wrath had been telegraphed to Belgrade, and he was not permitted to enter Servian
						territory.
					No less great was the shame of Queen Natalia. She implored her son to desist from his
						pernicious intention, laying stress on the disparity of the ages, — he being
						twenty-four and Draga thirty-six, and on the scandalous reputation of the woman whose
						beauty had for the moment infatuated him.
					But neither the father's threats nor the mother's tears made the least impression on
						Alexander, who once more realized the often-quoted Latin saying: 
						"Quos Deus vult perdere, prius dementat."
					The Skuptshina (the Servian Parliament) was amazed at the proclamation, and its
						president as well as the Metropolitan of Servia implored the King on their knees to
						revoke it. He had only deaf ears for them.
					On the fifth of August, 1900, the wedding was solemnized, and Draga Maschin took her
						place on the throne of Servia.
					If the King had hoped that the irritation of the public would die out after the
						wedding, he must have been a badly disappointed man; for the scandals about Draga
						continued. Not only was her past life with its many stains and blemishes laid bare
						unsparingly, but her life as queen consort was also unmercifully exposed. Every word and
						every act of her married life were carefully weighed in the scales of public opinion,
						and hardly ever was a word of praise accorded to her, while vituperation, insinuations,
						and direct accusations abounded. The Belgrade correspondents of foreign newspapers knew
						that anything they might have to report of King Alexander, Queen Draga, or any member of
						her family would be read with interest. If they could not pick up anything of interest
						they invented some unfavorable story. Unquestionably many of the stories circulated
						about Draga, and also of Alexander are utterly untrue. It should also be remembered that
						the elevation of Draga to a station which none of her rivals could hope to attain made
						her an object of envy, and that they resented this elevation by telling about her all
						the bad things they knew. But after making all these allowances, we still find enough to
						justify us in saying that the two were an exceedingly 
						ill-matched couple, — he a voluptuous, ungrateful, good-for-nothing simpleton, and
						she a designing, ambitious, unscrupulous woman of powerful mind.
					The scandal which has been most widely circulated referred to the fictitious pregnancy
						of the Queen. Unquestionably the young King was anxious to have a son. Alexander was the
						last Obrenovitch, and it was natural for him to desire to have a son so that his dynasty
						might continue to rule over Servia. It was equally natural for Draga to desire to become
						the mother of an heir, because as such she would have had an additional claim on the
						affection of her husband, — a claim which might have outlasted her physical
						beauty. This desire was certainly not unreasonable in a wife twelve years older than her
						husband. This pregnancy was officially announced by the court physician, but it was
						afterwards stated that the announcement had been premature. These are the facts in the
						case; and on these slim facts a superstructure of rumors and fables has been erected.
						Very likely the great anxiety of the couple to have an heir was the real cause of the
						announcement. The rumors so widely circulated in the kingdom did certainly not
						contribute to improve the reputation of the Queen, or to give the people the impression
						of a happy domestic life.
					The generally recognized mental superiority of Queen Draga over her husband had still
						another unfavorable consequence, — one of a political character. While Alexander
						was unmarried, his political mistakes, his autocratic interference with the work of the
						Skuptschina, his violation of the constitution, were charged to himself; but after his
						marriage all the political sins of the government were ascribed to Draga's
						instigation.
					
					The political conditions of the Balkan countries are of the most unsettled kind. They
						resemble very much the political conditions in the South American and Central American
						states, and while nominally they are regulated by constitutions and by a parliamentary
						system of government, they are really controlled by the principle that "might
						constitutes right." It has been so in Servia from the day of the establishment of its
						national independence: continuous party strife, revolutions, assassinations —
						frequently winked at, if not directly instigated and supported, by foreign powers. In
						1903 the Radicals had been several years in full control of the government. They had
						filled all lucrative offices with their party friends, many of whom belonged to the
						rural population, and had so apportioned the public taxes as to place the principal
						burden upon the city populations, where the Liberals had their voting strength. The
						misgovernment under the Radicals was so great that it became a national scandal. The
						public debt had been nearly doubled, the annual deficit was enormous, the most flagrant
						corruption and extravagance existed in all branches of the public service; but the
						Servian Congress refused to correct these abuses, and it remained for the King to
						interfere personally. He did so by a new coup d'état in March, 1903;
						the old Constitution was abrogated, a new Constitution was promulgated, and new general
						elections were ordered.
					One of the most alarming features of the political situation in Servia was the
						dissatisfaction of the army, and especially of its officers. This dissatisfaction was
						not, as has been asserted frequently, caused by patriotic considerations or by
						disapproval of the King's personal conduct, but simply by the unpardonable neglect of
						the  army on the part of the government. While in the
						royal palace at Belgrade an uninterrupted series of festivities, all arranged in the
						most sumptuous and expensive style, kept the gay capital on the tiptoe of excitement,
						the army was reduced nearly to a state of starvation, because neither officers nor men
						had been paid for months, "for want of funds in the public treasury." Instead of being a
						firm support of the government, the army therefore turned against it. It easily lent
						itself to propositions for a change, especially if that change would come in with the
						payment of their arrears of wages.
					There was another cause of dissatisfaction, which evoked a direct and strong protest
						against the Queen and her influence. Disappointed in her hope of giving the King a son
						and heir, Draga devised another plan to perpetuate her own power, — namely, to
						select an heir to the throne. Her choice fell upon her own brother, Nicodemus
						Lunyevitch, a young lieutenant in the Servian army, and she succeeded in winning the
						consent of the King. It is even stated that Alexander intended to adopt this
						brother-in-law, who was twenty-four years old, and formally proclaim him his heir. No
						sooner had the plan been mentioned than a very loud, and almost general, opposition to
						it manifested itself. The cabinet ministers heard of it, and waited on the King in a
						body to enter their protest. When their arrival at the palace was announced to him, the
						King knew what they wanted, and kept them waiting for a long time. He finally received
						them in the large assembly hall. He was dressed in full uniform; the Queen was by his
						side and leaning upon his arm. He turned to the prime minister and requested him to
						state the object of the visit, whereupon the prime minister  asked the Queen in a very courteous manner to withdraw for a short time from the
						conference. She haughtily refused, and the King coolly informed the ministers that he
						had no secrets either private or public which he wished to conceal from his wife.
					The ministers then presented their complaints. They stated that public opinion was
						excited to such a degree that there was imminent danger of a revolution if the King
						should persist in carrying out this new plan. "Moreover," added the prime minister, "the
						Skuptschina should be consulted in a matter of such great importance — a matter in
						which the state and the people are principally interested. In default of direct heirs,
						the representatives have the right to say who shall succeed to the throne."
					The King interrupted him angrily, and said brusquely: "I am the King, and can do as I
						please."
					"But the will of the people should also be consulted!" repeated the prime minister.
					"The King's will is supreme!" interposed Draga, and suddenly taking the King's arm, she
						dragged him from the room, leaving the ministers confused and almost stupefied.
					It may be said that this was the beginning of the end. Both Alexander and Draga were
						blinded to such a degree by passion and by the idea of their own infallibility that they
						could not see what everybody else did see — that the measure of their follies was
						full to overflowing, and that the day of reckoning was approaching very fast. Anonymous
						letters came to the King and to the Queen informing them of plots and conspiracies
						against their lives; they disregarded and laughed at them. They  openly showed their contempt for the will of the people and of the Cabinet
						by installing Lieutenant Nicodemus Lunyevitch as the heir apparent, in a brilliant suite
						of rooms of the royal palace, and abandoned themselves to an incessant whirl of
						pleasures and extravagant follies. Concerning this matter, a guest, the correspondent of
						a paper in Paris, wrote: "The King and the Queen do not seem to realize that they are
						dancing on a volcano!"
					In the newspapers of the different capitals of Europe dark and ominous predictions were
						published about a conspiracy which was being formed at Belgrade, and of which persons of
						the highest station would be the victims.
					Then came the elections of the first of June, and they resulted in such an overwhelming
						victory for the government that the predictions of conspiracy and death were momentarily
						silenced and a feeling of greater security was established in the royal palace. It was,
						however, only the calm before the storm.
					Evidently the conspiracy which foreign papers had so often hinted at not only existed,
						but was well organized. The officers of the Sixth Regiment stationed at Belgrade were
						the leaders of it. Another leader was Colonel Maschin, the cousin (not, as is often
						stated, the brother-in-law) of the Queen, who for some personal reason had become her
						bitter enemy, and who was the very soul of the conspiracy.
					It is of course impossible, so soon (two months) after the terrible tragedy, when
						absolutely reliable data are still lacking, to give with historic accuracy the details
						of the plot which culminated in the assassination of the King, the Queen, two of her
						brothers, and some of their most prominent adherents; but from the best and most  authentic information obtainable at present it appears that
						the events of the night of June 10-11 were as follows:
					Ninety army officers, representing nearly every garrison and military organization in
						Servia, had planned to overthrow the government. On Wednesday, June 10, Colonel
						Mitshitch, lieutenant-colonel of the Sixth Regiment, invited his fellow officers
						belonging to the conspiracy to a conference at the Helimagdan Garden at 11 P. M. At that
						conference, which was largely attended, the immediate execution of the plot was agreed
						upon.
					At 1:40 after midnight these officers proceeded in eight groups to the Konac, the royal
						residence, which had been closed for the night. But the conspirators had accessories on
						the inside. They were Colonel Maschin, mentioned above, commanding the King's
						body-guard, and Colonel Maumovitch, personal aid of the King. The conspirators were in
						possession of the keys of the garden gate of the Konac which had been handed to them by
						Captain Panapotovitch, the King's adjutant. The first bloody encounter occurred when the
						conspirators reached the guardhouse near the gate. On their approach some soldiers
						rushed out. "Throw down your arms!" commanded one of the officers. The soldiers fired,
						but were shot by the conspirators, who entered the gate and passed through the garden,
						without encountering any obstacle until they reached the courtyard of the old Konac,
						where Colonel Maumovitch was waiting for them. He opened the iron door that gave access
						to the front room of the first floor. The officers ascended and, by the noise of their
						steps, attracted the attention of the royal couple and some of the officers of the
						palace.  Lieutenant Lavar Petrovitch, who had been alarmed
						by the unusual noise, ran to meet them, holding his revolver in one hand, and his drawn
						sword in the other.
					"What do you want?" he asked.
					"Show us where to find the King and the Queen!" was the reply.
					"Back, back!" shouted the Lieutenant; but he fell instantly, killed by three or four
						bullets.
					The conspirators advanced, but suddenly the electric lights went out, and all were
						enveloped in profound darkness. Utterly confounded and slowly feeling their way up the
						stairs, the revolutionists reached the antechamber of the King's apartment. It was dark,
						but one of the officers discovered a wax candle in a chandelier. He lighted it, and they
						could see their way. This trifling little circumstance, entirely accidental, decided the
						success of the plot. Without light it would have been impossible for them to find the
						victims, who might have made their escape through the long corridors and numerous
						apartments of the palace, with which they were familiar while the conspirators were not,
						and could not have followed them.
					Some of the officers now carried lights, while the others followed them with revolvers
						in their hands. In breathless haste they hurried through the rooms in search of the
						royal couple. They opened the closets and raised the curtains, but no trace either of
						the King or of the Queen. At last Queen Draga's servant was found. He dangerously
						wounded Captain Dimitrevitch, who discovered him, but his life was spared for a little,
						because he was needed. It was in fact this servant who indicated to the officers the
						place where the King and the Queen had  gone to hide
						themselves. Thereupon he was shot. At this moment Colonel Maschin joined the
						conspirators and took them to the King's bedroom, where the King's adjutant tried to
						prevent their search, but was shot by the Colonel's companions.
					After a long search a small door was discovered leading to an alcove. The door was
						locked and had to be burst open with an axe. In this alcove the royal couple had taken
						refuge. Both were in their night robes. The King was standing in the centre, holding the
						Queen in his arms, as if to protect her. Colonel Maumovitch commenced reading to the
						King a document which demanded that he should abdicate the throne because he had
						dishonored Servia by wedding "a public prostitute." The King answered by shooting
						Maumovitch through the heart. Another officer renewed the demand for the King's
						abdication; but the younger officers had become impatient and now fired their revolvers
						at the royal couple until both expired. The body of the King showed thirty wounds, while
						the body of the Queen was so terribly lacerated by pistol-shot and sword wounds that her
						features could not be recognized, and the wounds could not be counted. Both died
						heroically, trying to protect each other with their own bodies.
					Together with the King and the Queen, two brothers of the latter, and a number of their
						most prominent adherents were murdered in cold blood. This terrible butchery reveals the
						semi-savage ferocity of the Balkan population.
					When the people of Belgrade awoke from their sleep early in the morning of June 11,
						there was not, as might have been expected, a manifestation of horror, pity, and  sorrow, among them, but, on the contrary, rejoicing and
						exultation on all sides. Flags were raised, houses were decorated, salutes were fired; a
						stranger entering the city might have supposed that a great national festival was being
						commemorated by the enthusiastic crowds of men, women, and children.
					It may be taken as a convincing proof of the sincerity of the wrath and the depth of
						the contempt which the people of Servia felt for Alexander I and Draga, that of the
						immense multitude which came to inspect the lacerated bodies of those who but the day
						before had been their King and their Queen, not one expressed a word of regret, or shed
						a tear of sorrow. Many, on the contrary, spat on the mangled remains, or mumbled words
						of execration as they passed by the plain coffins. Death itself had not been able to
						wipe out the misdeeds of these two persons.
					History, the terrible but just avenger, will preserve for many ages the memory of
						Alexander the First of Servia, not so much for any single crime, as for having
						persistently insulted the national pride and the moral sentiment of the people over whom
						Providence had placed him as ruler and protector.
				
			
		
		
			
			
				INDEX
				
				
				INDEX
				
					ABO, Treaty of, 253
					Adolphus Frederick, 252-254
					Æmilianus, Scipio, 13
					Africa, 27, 41
					Agrarian law, 11, 17
					Agrippina, 36, 37
					Alba, kings of, 29
					Albany, N. Y., 385, 386
					Albrecht, of Germany, 68, 70
					Albret, Jeanne d', 150
					Alcobaza, 86
					Alexander, of Epirus, 5
					Alexander I., of Russia, 307, 311, 317, 322
					Alexander II., of Russia, 357-378, 394, 401
					Alexander III., of Russia, 377
					Alexander I., of Servia, 397-420
					Alexander III., the Great, 3, 4, 5, 41
					Alexander Nevski Monastery, 304
					Alexandria, 41-45
					Alexandria, Library of, 41, 43
					Alexandrian age, 42
					Alexandrian war, 42
					Alexandrowna Convent, 136
					Alexis, son of Peter the Great, 209-217
					Alfonso IV., of Portugal, 77-85
					Alleghany, Pa., 386
					Altorf, 70
					Alva, Duke of, 117-121, 123
					America, 387
					America, Central, see Central America
					America, South, see South America
					American Union, 354
					Amphictyon League, 3
					Amsterdam, 202, 215
					Anarchism, 391, 393
					Anarchists, 382, 385, 391-394
					Angoulême, Duc d', 333, 334, 335
					Anjou, Duke of, 152
					Ankarström, 249, 274-278
					Anna, daughter of Peter the Great, 222
					Anne, Princess of Saxony, 116
					Antony, Mark, 42
					Antwerp, 124
					Appomattox Court House, 343
					Aragon, 85
					Arc, Jeanne d', 298
					Argentan, 291
					Argyle, Countess of, 97
					Aristotle, 42, 45
					Armfeld, Count, 276
					Arndt, E. M., 318, 319
					Artois, Comte d', 329, 330, 333, 335
					Asia, 4, 6, 41, 229, 363
					Athens, 45
					Atlantic Ocean, 316, 383, 386
					Attalus, General, 4, 5
					Augustus, Octavianus, 36, 37
					Austria, 68, 154, 175, 177, 273, 316, 318, 360, 394
					Austria, Ducal hat of, 70
					Austria, Duke of, 70
					Austrian Governors, 68, 70
					
					Austrian succession, War of, 252
					Avignon, 330
				
				
					BAKÚNIN, Michael, 370, 385
					Baltic Sea, 170, 271, 318
					Barbaroux, 285, 290
					Barnevelt, Olden, 111
					Bastile, 292
					Bavaria, 178, 318
					Bayard, Chevalier, 92
					Beccaria, 265
					Becket, Thomas à, 51-63
					Belgrade, Servia, 400, 404, 405, 407, 408, 410, 414, 416, 419
					Bell, The, 367, 368
					Benningsen, General, 310
					Bernard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar, 181
					Berry, Duc de, 155, 325-340
					Berry, Duchesse de, 334, 336, 338
					Bétysi, Comtesse de, 337
					Biarritz, 408, 409
					Biron, Marshal, 228
					Black Sea, 400
					Blaine, James G., 381
					Bloedraad, see Blood, Council of Blood, Council of, 119
					Blücher, Marshal, 318
					Blücher monument, 123
					Boer Republics, 68
					Bohemia, 165, 167, 171, 173, 174, 177, 181, 182
					Bohemian wars, 169
					Bolimarcovitch, General, 404
					Bologna, 54
					Bonapartist generals, 329
					Bonapartists, 330
					Booth, John Wilkes, 125, 348-350
					Borgia, Cæsar, 143
					Bosnia, 399
					Bothwell, Earl of, 101-108
					Bourbon, Antony of, 150
					Bourbon, Cardinal de, 153
					Bourbon dynasty, 330, 332, 333, 340
					Bourbons, 327, 331, 335
					Brabant, 120
					Braga, Archbishop of, 84
					Brahe, Count, 278
					Bretteville, Madame de, 285-287
					Brown, John, 349
					Brune, Marshal, 330
					Brunswick, Duke of, 166, 167
					Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, Princess of, 213
					Brussels, 113-115, 117-119
					Brutus, 29, 297
					Brutus, Decimus, 30
					Buffalo, N. Y., 386, 387, 389, 393
					Buitenhof, 207
					Bulgaria, 399
					Bülow, General, 318
					Burgundy, 125
					Burschenschaft, 319-321, 324
					Butler, Walter, 186
					Buturlin, Count, 233
					Buzot, —, 285
					Byzantinism, 362
				
				
					CAEN, 285, 286, 288, 289, 291, 292, 295
					Cæsar, 23-31, 35, 36, 42, 67, 187
					Cæsarium, 48
					Cæsars, City of, 41
					Cæsars, Palace of the, 156
					Calais, 335
					California, 388, 389
					Caligula, 33-38, 156
					Calvarez, Alvaro, 78
					Calvin, John, 147, 148
					Calvinistic church, 120, 151
					Cantaneda, 85
					Canterbury, 61
					Canton, Ohio, 393
					Caps, Party of the, 251-253, 256, 257, 263
					Caracalla, 156
					Carbonarism, 386
					Carlos, Don, 124
					Carlsbad, Bohemia, 410
					
					Carnot, Sadi, President of France, 329, 394
					Casan church, 234, 237
					Cassius, 29, 30
					Castile, 84, 85
					Castro, Iñez de, 75-86
					Catherine I., Empress of Russia, 214, 215
					Catherine II., Empress of Russia, 89, 222, 224-227, 229-237, 239-246, 301, 304-306,
						400
					Catherine de Médicis, 149, 151, 152
					Catholic church, 114, 116, 117, 153, 165, 172, 175
					Catholic League, 166, 168, 170
					Caucasus, 363
					Central America, 316, 382, 413
					Cevennes, 330
					Chæronea, Battle of, 3
					Champ-de-Mars, 292
					Charkow, Governor of, 372
					Charleroi, 194
					Charles V., Emperor, 112, 113, 116, 122, 148
					Charles II., of England, 196
					Charles IX., of France, 90, 149, 152
					Charles X., of France, 155, 340
					Charles XI., of Sweden, 250
					Charles XII., of Sweden, 249, 250, 251, 262, 268
					Charles, Prince, of Sweden, 257
					Chateaubriand, 339
					Chatelard, Pierre de, 91-93
					Cherbourg, 285
					Chicago, 387
					Choiseul, Duc de, 254, 255
					Christian IV., of Denmark, 168, 171
					Christianstadt, 257, 258, 259
					Cicero, 20
					Cid, Le, 286
					Cinna, 286
					Civil War, 345, 354, 381
					Clarendon, Constitution of, 58, 59
					Claudius, 33-38, 156
					Clément, Jacques, 149
					Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt, 42
					Cleopatra, Queen of Macedon, 4, 5
					Clio, 354
					Coello, Pedro, 78, 84, 85
					Coimbra, 80, 81, 82, 86
					Coligny, Admiral, 151, 155
					Condé, Prince of, 200, 201, 286
					Confederacy, 343
					Confederate States of America, 343
					Conkling, Roscoe, 381
					Constancia, wife of Pedro I., 77, 85
					Constant, Benjamin, 332
					Constantinople, 399
					Corday, Adrian, 285
					Corday, Charlotte, 283, 285-298
					Corday d'Armans, Monsieur de, 285
					Corneille, Marie, 285
					Corneille, Pierre, 283, 285, 286, 288
					Cornelia, mother of the Gracchi, 12
					Crimean War, 364
					Croatian horsemen, 167
					Cromwell, Oliver, 193
					Crusoe, Robinson, 352, 353
					Cuba, 350, 382, 383
					Cuma, 18
					Cyril, Saint, 44, 46, 50
					"Czar of all the Russias," 134
					Czolgosz, Leon, 157, 390, 391
				
				
					DALECARLIA, 269
					Damiens, R. F., 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161
					Damocles, Sword of, 362
					Danton, G. J., 284, 290, 291
					Dardanelles, 400
					Darius, 6
					Darnley, Lord, 87-108
					
					Dashkow, Princess, 230, 234
					Decazes, M., 332, 339
					Defoe, Daniel, 353
					Delft, 125
					Demaratus, the Corinthian, 5
					Denmark, 102, 215, 222
					De Ruyter, Admiral, 202, 203
					Detroit, 391
					Deveroux, —, 186, 187
					De Witt, Cornelius, 111, 189-208
					De Witt, John, 111, 189-208
					Diana of Poitiers, 91
					Dimitrevitch, Captain, 418
					Dolgorouki, Princess, 375, 376
					Dominican monk, 124
					Domitia, 36
					Dordrecht, City of, 191, 192, 206
					Douai, 194
					Douglas, Stephen A., 351
					Draga, Queen of Servia, 397-420
					Drentelen, General, 372
					Dunbar, 102
					Dunbar castle, 100
					Dutch Republic, 111, 126, 128, 191, 193, 195, 197-202, 208
				
				
					EDINBURGH, 91, 100, 102, 105
					Eger, Bohemia, 165, 184, 185, 186
					Egmont, Count, 115, 116, 118, 119
					Egypt, 27, 41, 42
					Eisenach, 320
					Elba, 329
					Elizabeth, Empress of Austria, 387, 394
					Elizabeth, Empress of Russia, 222-228, 244
					Elizabeth, Queen of England, 89, 94, 229, 384
					England, 59, 60, 62, 68, 167, 193-195, 197, 202, 215, 291, 333, 366, 383, 386
					Epirus, 4, 5
					Essen, Count, 275, 276, 277
					Esths, 268
					Eumenes, King of Pergamus, 42
					Europe, 101, 120, 127, 155, 176, 195, 198, 211, 223, 264, 273, 287, 306, 315-317,
						327, 328, 339, 363, 364, 366, 370, 383-385, 387, 388, 394, 416
					Evrard, Catherine, 293, 295
				
				
					FEHRBELLIN, 199
					Ferdinand II., of Germany, 165-167, 169, 173-175, 179, 180, 185, 188
					Ferdinand, son of Pedro I., 77, 78, 80
					Finland, 214, 252, 253, 265, 268, 274
					Finns, 268
					Flaccus, Lucius, 18, 19
					Ford's Theatre, 346, 347, 348
					Forum, 15, 16
					Foy, General, 332
					France, 59, 60, 62, 91, 93, 103, 112, 147, 152, 154, 155, 160, 161, 194, 195, 202,
						215, 251, 252, 254, 272, 273, 284, 285, 287, 288, 295, 298, 315, 318, 323, 327-329, 331,
						333, 334, 339, 366, 383, 400
					Franche-Comté, 125, 194
					Francis I., of Austria, 317
					Francis I., of France, 147, 148
					Francis II., of France, 90, 93, 149
					Franco-Austrian alliance, 226
					Franconia, 177
					Frederick II., King of Prussia, 223, 226, 227, 229, 253, 265, 268, 366
					Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg, 198
					Frederick William I., King of Prussia, 223
					Frederick William III., King of Prussia, 317
					Frederickshall, Fortress of, 250
					Frederickshamm, Fortress of, 268
					French chambers, 331
					French Empire, 331
					French Republic, 394
					
					French Revolution, 50, 111, 156, 249, 264, 272, 273, 284, 288, 291, 305, 317, 321,
						328, 330, 331, 333
					French Revolutionists, 286
					Friedlanders, 170, 181
					"Friend of the People," 292
					Friesland, 191
					Frisia, 120
					Fuerst, Walter, 69, 70
				
				
					GALITZIN, COUNT, 235, 237
					Gallas, General, 184, 186
					Garde, Count de la, 330
					Garfield, James A., 381
					Gatschina, 303
					Gaul, 26, 27
					Gérard, Balthasar, 125, 126
					German Empire, 67, 198, 318, 324
					German Reformation, 320
					German Universities, 318-320
					Germany, 112, 118, 120, 121, 147, 148, 167-169, 171, 174, 175, 195, 222, 273, 286,
						315, 318-321, 324, 327, 383
					Gessler, Hermann, 65-73
					Gil Blas, 158
					Girondists, 284, 285, 288, 290, 294, 295
					Glasgow, 104, 105
					Goethe, 122, 123, 359
					Golden Fleece, Knight of the, 120
					Goldmann, Emma, 391
					Gonsalvez, —, 84, 85
					Gordon, General, 184, 186
					Gortschakoff, Prince, 372
					Gracchus, Caius, 11, 12, 13, 20, 21, 191
					Gracchus, Sempronius, 12
					Gracchus, Tiberius, 9-21, 191
					Grammaticus, Saxo, 73
					Grant, General, 343, 346, 348
					Granvella, Cardinal, 114-116, 123
					Greece, 3, 6, 45, 287
					Greek church, 227
					Guise, Duke of, 90, 149
					Guise, Henry of, 155
					Guiteau, Charles J., 381, 382
					Gustavus I., 269
					Gustavus II., 175-182, 188, 259, 268
					Gustavus III., 247-279
				
				
					HAGUE, The, 191, 205, 207, 385
					Haller, Albrecht von, 321
					Hannibal, 12
					Hanseatic League, 102
					Hapsburg, House of, 119, 154
					Harrach, Count, 169
					Hats, Party of the, 251-253, 256, 257, 263
					Helimagdan Garden, 417
					Heliogabalus, 156
					Hellichius, Captain, 257
					Henrietta, Princess of France, 196
					Henry II., of England, 53-63
					Henry VIII., of England, 94
					Henry II., of France, 148-150
					Henry III., of France, 149, 152, 155
					Henry IV., of France, 145-161, 354, 355
					"Heptameron," 150
					Hermandad, 361
					Herzegovina, 399
					Herzen, Alexander, 367, 368, 370
					Hesse-Cassel, Frederick of, 250
					Hesse-Darmstadt, Princess of, 375
					Hessian queue, 321
					Höchst, 167
					Hohenstaufen, 318
					Holland, 115, 125, 191, 193, 202, 204-206, 215
					Holstein, 239, 241
					Holstein-Gottorp, Charles Frederick of, 222, 250
					Holstein-Gottorp, Duke of, 229
					Holstein-Guards, 236
					Holsteiners, 224
					Holy Alliance, 316
					Holy Sepulchre, 63
					Holyrood Palace, 92, 97, 99-102, 105, 106, 108
					
					Horace, 286
					Hoorn, Count, 115, 118, 119
					Horn, Count, 274-277
					Horn, General, 177
					Humbert, King of Italy, 387, 394
					"Hundred Days," 329
					Hungarian Revolution, 360
					Hungary, 170, 363, 406
					Hungary, King of, 173
					Hypatia, 39-50
				
				
					IDES of March, 30
					Illo, General, 182-184, 186, 187
					Illyria, 5
					Imperial Guards, 307, 308, 360, 374
					Imperialists, 166, 168, 178, 328, 330
					Ireland, 102
					Ismailoff, General, 239, 240
					Italy, 27, 54, 93, 394
					Ivan IV., 129-143, 221, 222
					Ivan VI., 230, 244, 245, 301
				
				
					JACOBINS, 273, 277, 284, 332
					Jacobins, White, 330
					James I., of England, 101
					James V., of Scotland, 90
					James VI., of Scotland, 101
					Jaureguy, Juan, 124, 125
					Jena, 322, 323
					Jena, University of, 321
					Jerusalem, 142
					Jesuits, 125
					Jews, 118
					John of Austria, 123, 124
					Johnson, Andrew, 348
					Johnston, General, 343
					Joseph II., of Austria, 366
					Julia, daughter of Augustus, 37
					Juliers-Cleves, 154
					Jupiter, 29
					Jupiter, Statue of, 27
				
				
					KARAKASOW, —, 370
					Karamsin, N. M., 221
					Kasan, 133
					Keschko, Colonel, 401
					Kingsley, Charles, 49
					Kinsky, General, 182, 186
					Knox, John, 93
					Kolokos ("The Bell"), 367, 368
					Konac, 417
					Körner, K. T., 318
					Kotzebue, August von, 313-324
					Krapotkine, Prince, 372
					Kraskazelo, 241
					Kreuger, Oom, 70
					Kronstadt, 235, 237
					Krüdener, Madame, 317
					Kuessnacht, 71, 72
					Kuessnacht, Castle of, 67
					Kyrillos, see Cyril, St.
				
				
					LABÉDOYÈRE, General, 329
					Laborers, International Association of, 385
					Lafayette, 332
					Lagarde, Chauveau, 296
					La Guarda, Archbishop, 85
					"La Henriade," 155
					Lamballe, Princess de, 50
					Laputkin, Eudoxia, 211-215
					Laputkin family, 212, 214
					La Rochelle, 151
					La Vendée, 330
					League, The, 150, 152, 153
					Lee, General, 343, 350
					Leipsic, 367
					Leipsic, Battle of, 320
					Lennox, Earl of, 104, 108
					Leslie, —, 186
					Liberals, 365, 369
					Licinian law, 14
					Liliehorn, Count, 274, 275, 277
					Lille, 194
					Lincoln, Abraham, 7, 26, 125, 341-355
					Lincoln, Mrs., 346, 347
					Livadia, 373, 374
					Livia, Drusilla, 36
					Lobkowitz, Prime Minister, 198
					
					London, 367
					Lorraine, Cardinal de, 90, 149
					Louis, XIV., 194, 196, 198, 200, 203, 255, 384
					Louis XV., 156-161, 254
					Louis XVI., 272, 273, 333
					Louis XVIII., 328, 329, 335, 339
					Louvel, J. P., 334-340
					Louvet de Couvray, J. B., 285
					Lunyevitch, Nicodemus, 414, 416
					Luther, Martin, 147, 320, 321
					Lutheran church, 120
					Lutheran faith, 116
					Lützen, 181
					Luxembourg, 200
					Luxembourg Garden, 329
				
				
					MACEDONIA, 400
					McKinley, William, 157, 379-395
					McKinley, Mrs., 388, 389
					Madrid, 116
					Magdeburg, 166
					Mannheim, 323
					Mansfeld, General, 166, 167
					Marat, 281-298
					Maratists, 297
					Marcellus, 36
					Margaret, Duchess of Parma, 114, 115, 117, 122, 123
					Margaret, Queen of Navarre, 150
					Margrave, The, of Baden, 167
					Maria, Empress of Russia, 308
					Marie Antoinette, 50, 271, 272, 296
					Marie de Lorraine, 90
					Marie Thérèse Charlotte, 333
					Marin, Colonel, 309, 310
					Marx, Carl, 385
					Mary de Médicis, 154
					Mary, Queen of England, 113
					Mary, Queen of Scots, 89-108, 149
					Maschin, Colonel, 416, 417, 419
					Masnaliza (Russian Carnival), 307
					Massmann, 321
					Maumovitch, Colonel, 417, 419
					Maurice, Elector of Saxony, 116
					Maximilian of Bavaria, 166, 168
					Mayenne, Duke of, 150
					Mecklenburg, 171, 172
					Mecklenburg, Duke of, 171, 178
					Médicis, Catherine de, see Catherine de Médicis
					Médicis, Mary de, see Mary de Médicis
					Mediterranean, 318, 400
					Melchthal, Arnold, 69
					Melikow, Count, 372
					Messalina, wife of Claudius, 36, 37
					Metternich, 316, 332
					Mexico, 349
					Milan, King of Servia, 400-405, 409, 410
					Milton, John, 155
					Mirowitch, Lieutenant, 244, 245
					Mississippi River, 353
					Mitshitch, Colonel, 417
					Monroe Doctrine, 316, 383
					Montesquieu, 265, 287
					Montpellier, 330
					Moravia, 167, 177
					Moriscoes, 118
					Moscow, 136, 137, 308, 363, 374
					Most, John, 386
					Mueller, Johannes von, 73
					Munda, Battle of, 28
					Münnich, Marshal, 228, 236, 238
					Münster, Count, 312
					Murray, Lord, 94, 99
				
				
					NANTES, Edict of, 147, 153, 354
					Naples, 215
					Napoleon I., 25, 31, 73, 315-317, 327, 329, 330, 334
					Nasica, Scipio, 19
					Nassau, Lewis, Count of, 120
					Natalie, Queen of Servia, 401-406, 410
					National Assembly, 284
					National Convention, 284
					
					Neoptolemus, 6
					Nero, 33-38, 67
					Netherlands, 112-114, 116-121, 126, 167, 192, 194, 195, 197, 198
					Neva river, 363
					Newman, —, 186
					Ney, Marshal, 329
					Nicholas I., 360, 361, 363-365, 368, 369
					Nicholas, son of Paul I., 307
					Nihilism, 369-372, 386
					Nihilists, 369, 370, 371, 374, 377, 378
					Nîmes, 330
					Nitria, 43, 44
					Normandy, 61, 62, 285, 289, 294
					North Carolina, 343
					Northampton, England, 59
					Norway, 249, 263
					Novgorod, 140, 142
					Novgorod, Archbishop of, 140, 141, 234
					Nuremberg, 178
				
				
					OBRENOVITCH, Michael, 404
					Octavius, 15, 16, 17
					Olympian games, 6
					Olympias, Queen of Macedon, 4, 5, 6
					Orange, House of, 191, 193
					Orange Free State, 70
					Oranienbaum, 236, 238, 240, 241
					Orestes, 44-47
					Orléans, Duc d', 196, 337
					Orléans, Duchesse d', 337
					Orloff, Alexis, 232, 234, 241, 242, 245, 302, 304, 311
					Orloff, Feodor, 232
					Orloff, Gregor, 232, 233, 239, 302
					Orloff, Ivan, 232
					Ostia, 38
					Oudenarde, 194
					Oxford, 54
				
				
					PACHECO, 78, 84, 85
					Pacific Ocean, 384, 386, 388, 389
					Pahlen, Count, 307, 308, 309
					Palais Royal, 291
					Palais Royal, Garden of the, 337
					Pan-American Exposition, 386, 387, 389
					Panapotovitch, Captain, 417
					Panin, Count, 230, 231
					Pappenheim, General, 181
					Paris, 54, 55, 149, 154, 157, 254, 273, 277, 284, 285, 288, 289, 291, 294, 322, 327,
						333-335, 338, 339, 367
					Paris, University of, 54
					Parma, Duke of, 125
					Paterson, N. J., 387
					Paul I., of Russia, 231, 244, 299-312
					Pausanias, 5
					Pavia, Battle of, 147
					Pavilion Marsan, 330
					Pechlin, Baron, 274, 277
					Pedro I., of Portugal, 77-85
					Pedro the Cruel, of Castile, 84, 85
					Peers, Chamber of, 340
					Perpetual Edict, 200, 206, 207
					Persia, 4
					Peter, a priest, 47, 48, 50
					Peter I. (the Great), of Russia, 211-215, 222, 227, 229, 232, 233, 360
					Peter II., of Russia, 214
					Peter III., of Russia, 219-246, 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 311
					Peterhof, 227, 233, 238, 239, 240, 241
					Pétion, 285, 290
					Petrovitch, Lavar, 418
					Pharsalus, Battle of, 27, 31
					Philip II., of Macedon, 1-7
					Philip II., of Spain, 112, 113-117, 121-124, 126, 127, 151
					Philip IV., of Spain, 194
					Philip, the Metropolitan, 139
					Philippine Islands, 383
					Piccolomini, Octavio, 186
					
					Piedmont, 93
					Pilsen, 184
					Plato, 45
					Plutarch, 16, 286, 288, 289
					Plutarch's Lives, 291
					Poitiers, Diana of, see Diana of Poitiers
					Poland, 225, 363
					Poland, King of, 140
					Polyeucte, 286
					Pomerania, 171, 176, 238
					Pompadour, Madame de, 156, 158
					Pompey, 26, 27, 28
					Pompey, Statue of, 31
					Poniatowski, Prince, 225
					Pontus, 27
					Pope of Rome, 55, 58, 59, 62, 63, 77, 83, 85, 112
					Poppæa, wife of Nero, 37
					Portugal, 81, 84, 85, 112
					Potemkin, General, 231
					Prague, 173, 174
					Preobrajenski guards, 233
					Prim, General, 394
					Protestant church, 120, 149, 165, 354
					Protestant reformation, 112, 117
					Protestant Union, 166, 167, 170
					Protestanism, 354
					Protitch, General, 404
					Provence, 148
					Provence, Comte de, 333
					Providence Hotel, 291
					Provinces, United, 126
					Proudhon, P. J., 385
					Prussia, 215, 251, 273, 315, 318, 360
					Pskoff, 372
					Ptolemies, 41, 42
					Ptolemy Philadelphus, 42
					Ptolemy Physcon, 42
					Pyrenean peninsula, 112
					Pyrenees, 408
				
				
					QUEROUET, Mademoiselle de, 196
				
				
					RAMEL, GENERAL, 330
					Rappahannock River, 349
					Ravaillac, Frangois, 154, 155, 157, 160
					Raynal, Abbé, 287
					Regensburg, Diet of, 172
					Reichsrath, 250-259, 262, 263, 269, 270
					Reichstag of Gefle, 273
					Reichstag, Swedish, 255, 256, 269, 273, 278
					Repnin, General, 231
					Republicans, 328, 330
					Restitution edict, 172, 175
					Reutli, 69
					Reutli conspiracy, 70
					Reval, 238
					Revolutionists, 284, 297
					Rheims, 90
					Rhine, 177, 198
					Ribbing, Count, 274, 275, 277
					Richelieu, Cardinal, 175
					Richelieu, Duc de, 332
					Richmond, 346
					Richter, 323
					Ristitch, M., 404, 407
					Rizzio, David, 87-108
					Robespierre, 284, 290, 291
					Robzak, 241
					Romanowna, Anastasia, 132, 133
					Rome, 11-14, 25-27, 41, 156, 287
					Rome, Ancient kings of, 29
					Roman Campagna, 13
					Roman Empire, 27, 43
					Roman Republic, 27, 28, 36
					Rostock, 123, 172
					Rostopchin, Count, 308
					Roumania, 399
					Roumelia, 400
					Rousseau, 287-289
					Royalists, 284, 328-331, 334, 339
					Rudolph of Hapsburg, 68
					Rue des Cordeliers, 292
					Russia, 131, 215, 216, 221-223, 226-230, 234, 237, 249, 251, 252,  268-271, 273, 306, 312, 315, 322, 361, 362, 367-369, 377,
						383, 394, 399, 400
					Russian Carnival, 307
					Russian Church, 227
					Russian Empire, 305
					Russian serfs, 394
					Russian universities, 365
					Ruthven, —, 97, 99
				
				
					ST. ANGELO, CASTLE OF,
						215
					St. Bartholomew, Eve of, 111, 140, 149, 152
					St. Louis, 386
					St. Michael, Palace of, 308, 312
					St. Michael's Canal, 376
					St. Petersburg, 215, 222, 225, 233-236, 238, 241, 243, 268, 303, 311, 370, 373, 374,
						377
					St. Petersburg, Governor-General of, 309
					San Francisco, 389
					Sand, C. L., 322, 323, 324
					Sassoulitch, Vera, 370
					Savoy, 148
					Saxony, 180, 181
					Saxony, Elector of, 181
					Scandinavia, 73
					Scania, 257
					Scharnhorst, General, 318
					Schiller, Frederick, 73, 318
					Schüsselburg, 230, 244, 301
					Schwab, Justus, 386
					Schwyz, 67, 69
					Scipio Africanus, Cornelius, 12
					Scotland, 91, 93, 100-102
					Sempronian law, 11
					Seni, the astrologer, 173
					Serapeum, 42, 43
					Servia, 399, 400, 401, 404, 405, 411, 413, 417, 419
					Servia, Metropolitan of, 403, 411
					Servian Parliament, see Skuptshina
					Seven Years' War, 253
					Seward, William H., 347, 348, 350
					Shakespeare, William, 25, 371
					Siberia, 228, 361, 362, 366
					Siberian exiles, 365, 366
					Silesia, 177
					Silius, Caius, 37
					Skuptshina, 411, 412
					Socialism, 368
					Socialist congress, 385
					Socialists, 369
					Sodermanland, Duke of, 277
					Sokoloff, Alexander, 372, 373
					Solbay, Battle of, 203, 206
					Soltikoff, Count, 225
					Soothsayer, 18
					South African War, 68
					South America, 316, 383, 413
					Spain, 13, 81, 103, 111, 112, 126, 127, 153, 154, 177, 194, 202, 382, 383,
						394
					Spanish-American War, 382, 383
					Spanish Inquisition, 112, 115, 121, 361
					Spanish Netherlands, 194, 197
					Stanton, E. M., 346, 348
					Stauffacher, Werner, of Schwyz, 69
					Stockholm, 252, 254-257, 260, 263, 269, 274, 277, 278
					Stourdza, Baron, 322, 323
					Stralsund, Fortress of, 171
					Sulla, General, 29
					Sully, Duke of, 153, 154
					Surratt, Mrs., 349, 350
					Suwarow, General, 231
					Sweden, 175, 194, 195, 197, 222, 249, 251, 254, 256, 257, 262, 263, 265, 267, 269,
						271
					Swenskasund, Battle of, 270
					Swiss Cantons, 67, 68
					Switzerland, 68, 71, 73
					Switzerland Republic, 73
					Synesius, 46
				
				
					TACITUS, 38, 288
					Talizin, General, 307, 309
					
					Tasso, 155
					Tell, William, 67, 70, 72
					Tepelof, —, 241
					Terrorists, 285, 288, 295
					Terzky, General, 182, I86
					Theobald, Archbishop of Canterbury, 54, 55
					Theocritus, 42
					Theodosius the Great, 42
					Theon, father of Hypatia, 45
					Theophilus, Archbishop of Alexandria, 43, 44
					Thirty Years' War, 176, 188
					Thuringia, 180
					Thurn, Count, 180
					Tiberius, 33-38
					Tichelaar, —, 205, 206
					Tilly, General, 166-168, 176
					Toropetz, 372
					Toulouse, 55, 330
					Tournay, 194
					Transvaal, 70
					Transylvania, 170
					Trent, Court of, 116
					Trepow, General, 370, 372
					Trèves, College of, 125
					Trianon, 156
					Tribunal, Revolutionary, 295
					Tribunes, Ten, 15
					Triple Alliance, 194, 195, 197
					Tromp, Admiral, 193
					Troubles, Court of, 119
					Trubetzkoi, Prince, 243, 244
					Turenne, Marshal, 200
					Turgenieff, Ivan, 369
					Turkey, 225, 363, 400, 401
					Turkey, European, 399
					Tuscany, 13
					Tver, 366
					Twer, 138
				
				
					UNITED NETHERLANDS, 195, 196
					United Provinces, 192
					United States, 343, 354, 381-385,
					United States Territories, 68
					Unterwalden, 67, 69
					Uri, 67, 69
					Uri, Lake of, 69
				
				
					VARENNES, 273
					Vauban, Marshal, 195, 200
					Venus, Temple of, 29
					Vergennes, Count de, 254
					Versailles, 156, 157, 265, 334-336
					Vienna, 176, 178, 180, 195, 215
					Vienna congress, 316
					Virgil, 155
					Virginia, 343, 349
					"Voice of the People," 386
					Voltaire, 155, 287
					Vorwärts, Marshal, 123
				
				
					WALDSTÄDTE, Three (Forest Cantons), 67
					Wallenstein, General, 163-188, 308
					Wartburg, 320
					Wartburg celebration, 321, 322
					Washington, D. C., 346, 348, 393
					Washington, George, 126, 127, 351, 388
					Waterloo, 329
					West Indies, 384
					Western Hemisphere, 316
					Westminster, 193
					White Mountain, Battle of, 167
					Wiesbaden, 404
					Wiesloch, 167
					William I., Prince of Orange, 109-128
					William II., Prince of Orange, 192
					William III., Prince of Orange, King of England, 199, 200, 203, 204, 207, 208
					Wimpfen, 167
					Wimpfen, General, 285
					Winter Palace, 309, 376, 377
					Wladimir, Grand Duchess, 135
					Wladimir, Grand Duke, 135
					Worcestershire, England, 57
					
					World's Fair, 387
					Worms, Diet of, 320
					Woronzow, Elizabeth, Countess, 226, 227, 230, 236-239
					Wunsiedel, 322
					Würtemberg, 177
				
				
					YORK, —, 318
					Yssel, 201
				
				
					ZEALAND, 115, 192, 195, 204
					Zubow, Nicholas, 310, 311
					Zubow Brothers, 307
				
			
		
	
