
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Lyons, Robert Edward.. A manual of toxicological analysis. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1116
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				CHART OF
					SPECTRUM SCALES
					MADE FROM THE BRADLEY COLORED PAPERS.
				
			

			
			
				
					 A MANUAL OF TOXICOLOGICAL
						ANALYSIS,
				

				
					BY
					
						ROBERT EDWARD LYONS, AND LOUIS SHERMAN DAVIS,
						Ph. D. (Heidclbcrg)
						Ph. D. (Marburg a. L.)
						Professor of Chemistry.
						Associate Prof. of Chemistry.
					
					IN THE
						INDIANA UNIVERSITY.
				

				
					ANDERSON, IND.
					MORNING HERALD PRINT.
					1899.
				
			

			

			
				VERSO
				Copyrighted by R. E. LYONS & L. S. DAVIS. 1899.
			

			

			

				PREFACE.

				It has been our purpose to prepare a manual of systematic an analysis, both qualitative
					and quantitative, of the common, easily accessible, poisonous compounds. It has seemed
					advisable to refer all descriptions of color to a standard of comparison, since the
					interpretation and descriptions of the primary colors, as well as their tints and shades,
					is so largely influenced by t:he personality of the observer. Such color descriptions are
					misleading and difficult to interpret. In refering to the spectrum-chart it must be borne
					in mind that the intensity of color obtained in the reaction is
					determined, by the amount of substance used.

				It has been assumed that the operator has had considerable training in qualitative and
					quantitative analysis. He must use his judgment as to the applicability of specific
					methods to the conditions under which he is working.

				The methods and descriptions here given should be supplemented by reference to the larger
					descriptive works on toxicology and materia medica, e. g.:

				
					(1) Lehrbuch der Intoxicationen, Dr. R. Kobert.
					(2) Materia Medica, and Therapeutics, .J. V. Shoemaker.
					(3) Poisons, Their Effects and Detection, A. W. Blythe.
				

				Reference has been made to Lyons and Davis' Manual of Qualitative Analysis for the more
					elaborative investigation of certain mineral poisons.

				THE AUTHORS.

				Indiana University, January, 1899.
			

			

			

				Table of Contents.

				

				
					PART 1. Inorganic Poisons page 1- 15.
					PART 2. Volatile Compounds " 15- 37.
					PART 3. Alkaloids " 37- 77.
					PART 4. Caustics " 77- 79.
					PART 5. Systematic Analysis " 70-102.
				

				APPENDIX:
				
					(a)Meyer's Method for the Estimation of Alkaloids page
							102-103.
					(b)Direction for the Preparation of Volumetric Solutions "
							104-206.
					(c)Direction for the Preparation of Reagents " 106-109.
				
			
		

		
			

			
				A manual of toxicological analysis
				
					ANTIMOXY.

					Antimony forms with the mineral acids two classes of salts: the "ic" and the "ous"
						salts. These compounds have a great tendency to form basic salts.

					Use the chloride of antimony.

					1. To a solution of antimony salt free from tartaric acid and acidified with
						hydrochloric acid, add 3-4 volumes of water; a cheesy, white precipitate will be
						formed.

					SbCl3+H2O = SbOCI+2HCl.

					2. Tartaric acid dissolves the white, basic salt.

					SbOC1+C4H5O6 = SbO.C4H5O6+HCl.

					Distinction from bismuth.

					3. If the soluble tartrate in 2. is heated to about 70 deg. and a slow stream of
						hydrogen sulphide gas passed through the solution, all of the antimony will be
						precipitated as am orange-yellow sulphide.

					2(SbO.C4H5O6)+3H2S = Sb2S3+2H20+2C4H6O6.

					The sulphide is soluble in ammonium sulphide, sodium hydrate or potassium hydrate.

					4. Introduce a little. of the solution described in 2. into a platinum dish which forms
						a galvanic element with a pencil of zinc and allow it to stand several hours; a black
						amorphous deposit of metallic antimony will be formed.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce the solution into a large beaker, acidify with dilute hydrochloric acid,
							dilute to about 800 cc., heat the fluid to near 80 and pass a slow stream of hydrogen
							sulphide through the solution until it is saturated. Cover the beaker and let it stand
							12-24 hours. Warm the solution on a waster-bath or very cautiously on a gauze until
							the hydrogen sulphide is completely expelled, filter through a weighed paper, wash
							with dilute hydrochloric acid (1:100) and dry at 100 deg. until constant in weight.
							Transfer a portion of the dried precipitate to a large weighed crucible, and again dry
							at 100 to constant weight. Moisten  the residue with a
							little, conc. nitric acid and cover the crucible with a watch-glass. When the action
							is about ended, warm the mixture on a water-bath and finally evaporate to dryness.
							Heat the residue in the free flame, gently at first and finally to dull redness. The
							antimony sulphide will be changed to antimony tetroxide. Continue to heart the residue
							until it is constant in weight. Calculate the amount of antimony tetroxide that would
							have been formed from the total amount of the sulphide which was dried at 100 to
							constant weight.

						1 grm. of antimony tetroxide represents 0.7894 grm. of metallic antimony.
					
				

				
					ARSENIC.

					Arsenic forms two classes of compounds, the arsenic and the arsenious. It is
						essentially acid in character and is therefore found usually as arsenious or arsenic
						acid anhydride or the salts of these acids.
					
						1. Arsenious Compounds.

						Employ a solution of sodium arsenite.

						1. Hydrogen sulphide precipitates from solutions of arsenites acidified with dilute
							hydrochloric acid, yellow arsenious sulphide. The precipitate is soluble in the
							sulphides or hydroxides of the alkali metals, or in ammonium carbonate. If the
							alkaline solution is acidified with hydrochloric acid, the arsenic is reprecipitated
							as a sulphide.

						2. Silver nitrate precipitates yellow silver arsenite from neutral solutions of
							arsenites. The precipitate its readily soluble in nitric acid or in ammonium
							hydroxide.

						3. When arsenious oxide is heated over a free flame, in a dry test tube, with dry
							sodium acetate, a poisonous gas, Kakodyl
							(CH3)4ASO, Oxide, of exceedingly penetrating and disagreeable
							odor, is evolved.

						4. Arsenites heated on charcoal in the reducing blow-pipe flame, emit a
							characteristic garlic odor, with t!he formation of a white incrustation of the
							oxide.

						5. Minute quantities of arsenic may be detected in the following manner: Introduce
							the solution free from organic matter (See method for removing organic matter from
							inorganic bodies), into a 1,000 cc. flask, dilute to about 800 cc. with water, acidify
							with hydrochloric acid, heat on a water-bath to  about 70
							deg. and pass a slow stream of hydrogen sulphide (free from arsenic) through the warm
							fluid. Continue to pass the gas until the fluid is saturated. Fill the flask well up
							,in the neck with hot water, stopper well and set aside in a warm place for 12 hours.
							Filter off the supernatant fluid through an asbestos or glass-wool filter, wash the
							residue with dilute hydrochloric acid (1:30), transfer the precipitate with filter to
							a porcelain dish, moisten it thoroughly with fuming nitric acid and evaporate to near
							dryness on a water bath. The arsenic sulphide will be oxidized to arsenic acid. Take
							up the residue in 20-25cc. water, neutralize with sodium carbonate, filter through a
							small glass-wool filter and evaporate the filtrate to dryness; heat the residue
							carefully (not above 180 deg.) to expell all water.

						
							A. OTTO'S METHOD:

							Bring about 2 grm. of anhydrous sodium carbonate and 2 grm. of potassium cyanide
								into a porcelain crucible, cover, and heat gently until all water is expelled. Add 4
								parts of the perfectly dry mixture to one part of the dry sodium arsenate residue 
									FIG.I.
								
								 (a small portion of the arsenate residue should be
								reserved for Marsh's test, see B, page (4),
								mix thoroughly and transfer the mixture (or a part of it if the bulk is
								considerable) to a small porcelain boast. When this mixture is heated strongly in an
								indifferent atmosphere, the sodium arsenate will be decomposed with the liberation
								of metallic arsenic which will deposit on the cooler parts of the reduction
								tube.

							The apparatus consists of

							(a) an hydrogen generator, (b) a straight chloride of calcium tube filled with
								freshly fused, granular calcium chloride), and (d) a piece of hard glass combustion
								tubing, 20-30 cm. long and 1-2 cm. in diameter, drawn out at one end to a capillary
								point.

							Connect the apparatus in the manner shown in the figure. The corks used should be
								sound and close fitting so that the apparatus will be air-tight when the capillary
								point of tube (d) is closed.

							The hydrogen is generated from metallic zinc and sulphuric acid (1:3). It is very
								essential to know that the zinc and sulphuric acid used in the generator are free
								from arsenic. To ascertain this fact, allow some of the acid to flow onto the zinc:
								if the current of hydrogen does not produce a black precipitate or turbidity in the
								silver solution after 15 minutes, the materials are free from arsenic. In case the
								silver solution becomes cloudy, continue the evolution of the gas, and heat the tube
								(d) very strongly near its center; if no black deposit or coloration occurs in the
								cooler part of the tube, the materials are free from arsenic.

							Allow the tube (d) to cool, introduce the boat containing the mixture of sodium
								arsenate, sodium carbonate and potassium cyanide, into the tube (d). Connect the
								apparatus, pass a slow current of hydrogen through it until all air is expelled.* Then heart that part of the
								tube (d) immediately under the boat, gently at first, and finally to redness (the
								heating should continue 15-20 minutes). If arsenic is present, it will be condensed
								near the point of tube (d) in the form of a black or brownish-black, lustrous
								mirror. When the operation is ended, the tube (d) may be, broken with a, spray of
								cold water, or cut with a file, and the arsenic collected as thin flakes or small
								cubes.
						

						
							B. MARSH'S METHOD:

							This is perhaps the most delicate test for arsenic.

							It is based upon the fact (1) that nascent hydrogen reduces all 
								*Ignite a test-tube
									full of the gas collected from the capillary point, if the gas is pure hydrogen
									(not mixed with air) the ignition is attended with only the slightest
									report.
								 arsenical compounds, especially the arsenates and
								arsenites, to arsenetted hydrogen gas; (2) that this gas burns in the air with a
								peculiar bluish flame to form water and arsenic tri-oxide; a cold surface depressed
								into the flame will be coated with a deposit or mirror of metallic arsenic and (3)
								that arsenetted hydrogen is easily decomposed by heat, into free arsenic and
								hydrogen.

							A convenient form of apparatus for Marsh’s test is shown in figure 2.

							
								FIG.2.
							

							For the hydrogen generator (g), select a heavy-walled flask and equip with a doubly
								perforated stopper. Through one perforation pass a separating funnel until the lower
								end reaches to near the bottom of the flask; through the other pass a short
								right-angled tube to connect with the U-tube (a) which is filled with fused,
								granular calcium chloride. Connect (,a) and (b) with a glass tube bent at right
								angles.

							The tube (b) is made from a piece of hard glass combustion tubing, about 40 cm. in
								length; it should be constricted in two places near its center and drawn out to a
								capillary point at one end, as shown in the cut.

							It is essential to know that the metallic zinc and sulphuric acid (1:3) used in the
								generation of hydrogen, are free from arsenic. This may be ascertained in the
								following manner: Allow enough acid (in the funnel) to flow into the generator to
								evolve a strong current of hydrogen, let the gas pass about 10 minutes to expell all
								the air from the apparatus (see foot note page 4), ignite the gas at the capillary point and depress a cold
								porcelain dish into the flame. If the surface of the dish remains clean and free of
								deposit, the materials are free from arsenic.

							

							Dissolve the portion of the residue reserved in 5, page 3, or another residue prepared in the same manner, in 20-30
								cc. of water, introduce the solution into the funnel and allow it to flow VERY
								SLOWLY Into the generator which has previously been charged with sufficient acid to
								produce a strong and steady current of hydrogen. Again, depress the cold porcelain
								dish into the flame; a black or brownish-black, lustrous mirror of metallic arsenic
								will be deposited on the porcelain surface. The mirror is readily soluble in sodium
								hypochlorite. (Distinction from antimony.) If the glass tube (b) is heated to
								redness at the point (x) a mirror of metallic arsenic will be formed at the first
								constriction. In case the mirror does not appear at once, continue the heating at x
								for 10-15 minutes.

							Quantitative Estimation:

							Employ the method of Schneider and Fyfe, see page 6.
						
					

					
						2. Arsenic Compounds.

						Employ a solution of sodium arsenate.

						1. Hydrogen sulphide does not at first precipitate cold acidified solutions of
							arsenic acid. A slow stream of hydrogen sulphide passed into a solution of arsenic
							acid or a solution of an arsenate which is acidified with hydrochloric acid and warmed
							to 70 deg., reduces the arsenic to arsenious acid, from which arsenious sulphide,
							mixed with free sulphur, precipitates.

						2. Silver nitrate precipitates from neutral solutions of arsenates, reddish-brown
							silver arsenate. The precipitate is soluble in nitric acid and in ammonium
							hydrate.

						3. Ammonium Molybdate, added in excess to a solution of arsenic acid strongly acid
							with nitric acid, and the mixture gently warmed (40-50 deg.), produces a yellowish
							crystalline precipitate of ammonium molybdo-arsenate,
							(NH4)3ASO4. (MOO3)10, soluble in
							ammonium hydroxide. The presence of hydrochloric acid, or chlorides, interferes with
							the delicacy of this reaction. Precipitation does not occur in the cold. (Distinction
							from phosphoric acid.)

						4. Arsenic acid, or the arsenates give reactions 5. and 6. Arsenious Compounds, page
								2.

						Quantitative Estimation:

						The method of Schneider and Fyfe Requisites: 
								(a) A solution of ferrous chloride free from arsenic. Cover  a few nails or iron turnings with hydrochloric acid
									(1.12), warm until the evolution of hydrogen ceases, filter, add to the filtrate
									100 cc. hydrochloric acid (1.12), transfer to a retort connected with a cooler,
									and distill off about 80 cc. Dilute the distillate with water and test for arsenic
									with hydrogen sulphide. If arsenic is found in the distillate, add more
									hydrochloric acid (1.12) to the iron solution and continue the distillation until
									the distillate is free from arsenic. Dilute the contents of the retort with 50-60
									cc. of water. This solution is not stable and must be prepared immediately before
									using.

								(b) N|10 iodine in potassium iodide. See preparation of reagents.

								(c) Hydrochloric acid (1.12).

								(d) Sodium-hydrogen-carbonate.

								(e) A tubulated, glass-stoppered retort with neck bent to connect with an
									upright Liebig's cooler. Make this connection with a strip of asbestos cloth. (A
									cork or rubber stopper must not be used.)
							
						

						Process: Introduce the finely triturated substance into the retort, washing the last
							traces of the material from the mortar with sand, add hydrochloric acid (1.12) in
							sufficient quantity to form a thin paste and then add about 20 cc. of the ferrous
							chloride solution. Distill the mixture with a yellow-tipped flame until the residue in
							the retort has the consistence of a very thick paste. When the retort is cool,
							introduce about 25 cc. of hydrochloric acid (1.12) and repeat the distillation as
							above. Transfer the distillate, containing the arsenic in the form of arsenic
							trichloride, to a 300 cc. graduated flask, fill to the mark with water and mix.
							Measure off an aliquot part (50cc.) into a flask, add an excess of
							sodium-hydrogen-carbonate and titrate with n|10 iodine, using starch-paste as an
							indicator.

						Calculation: 1. cc. of n|10 iodine represents 0.00495 grm. of arsenic trioxide, or
							0.00376 grm. of arsenic pent-oxide.
					
				

				
					BARIUM.

					Use barium chloride.

					1. Sodium sulphate precipitates from solutions of barium salts, heavy, white barium
						sulphate. The precipitate is insoluble in hot, dilute mineral acids. Barium sulphate is
						also insoluble in a hot solution of ammonium acetate. (Distinction from lead
						sulphate.)

					2. Neutralize any free mineral acid in the barium solution,  with dilute sodium hydrate, add acetic acid (1.10) to slight acid reaction (avoid an
						excess), heat to boiling and add a few drops of potassium chromate solution; yellow
						barium chromate will separate out, especially on standing. The precipitate is soluble in
						strong mineral acids.

					3. The salts of barium impart an intense green color to the Bunsen flame.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						If the volume of the solution be greater than 300 cc., it should be concentrated by
							evaporation on a water-bath. To the barium solution in a 400 cc. beaker glass, add
							hydrochloric acid to distinct acid reaction, heat the solution to boiling and add hot,
							dilute sulphuric acid in excess; keep the mixture near boiling for 10-15 minutes,
							allow to stand about 12 hours, filter*, wash with water until the last washings are free from sulphuric acid, dry,
							ash the paper in a weighed porcelain crucible and ignite the residue until constant in
							weight. 1 grm. of barium sulphate represents 0.6566 barium oxide.
					
				

				
					CHROMIIUM.
					
						1. Basic Chromium.

						The salts which chromium forms with the ordinary mineral acids are apple-green in
							color. The chromates are usually soluble in water.

						Use chromium sulphate.

						1. Sodium hydroxide precipitates light green, flocculent chromium hydroxide, soluble
							in a;n excess of the reagent forming green sodium chromite.

						Cr2(OH)6+2NaOH=Na2Cr204+4H2O.

						2. Ammonium sulphide precipitates chromium hydroxide, with the evolution of hydrogen
							sulphide.

						Cr2(SO4)3+4(NH4)2S+6H2O = Cr2 (OH)6+3(NH4)2SO4+4H2S.

						3. A dry salt of chromium fused in a porcelain crucible with sodium carbonate and
							potassium chlorate, yields a yellow mass containing salts of chromic acid. Extract the
							mass with water, filter, acidify the filtrate with acetic acid and add a few drops of
							plumbic acetate; yellow plumbic chromate will be precipitated.

						4. A sodium meta-phosphate bead, fused with a salt of 
							*Schielcher &
								Schuell's paper No. 583,2, (Welssband) will retain barium sulphate precipitated as
								above directed.
							 chromium in either the oxidizing or reducing flame, is
							emerald-green on cooling.

						Quantitative Estimation.

						Introduce the solution into a porcelain dish, dilute to about 300 cc., add ammonium
							hydrate in VERY SLIGHT excess and heat cautiously over the free flame until the odor
							of ammonia is no longer present. Filter, wash, by decantation, with hot water and
							finally bring onto the paper. Dry the washed residue on the paper, ash in a weighed
							platinum crucible and ignite until constant in weight.

						The increase in weight represents the amount of chromium oxide.
					

					
						2. Acid Chromium.

						The salts which chromic acid forms with t he colorless bases are yellow. The alkali
							and alkali-earth chromates, with the exception of barium, are soluble in water; the
							other chromates are not readily soluble in that menstruum.

						Employ a solution of potassium chromate.

						1. Silver nitrate precipitates from a neutral solution of chromic acid, e. g.--
							potassium chromate, reddish-brown silver chromate. The precipitate is readily soluble
							in nitric acid and in ammonium hydrate.

						2. For the reaction with lead acetate, see Basic Chromium 3, page 8.

						3. Acid solutions of chromic acid or chromates are reduced to the basic condition by
							hydrogen sulphide, adelhyde, or other reducing agents. The chromium ,then shows all
							the reactions for basic chromium.

						4. Chromates show the same reaction with sodium metaphosphate beads as do basic
							chromium compounds. See Basic Chromium 4, page 8.

						5. To a few drops of potassium chromate solution, add 2-3 cc. of hydrogen per-oxide,
							make acid with dilute hydrochloric acid, add about one cc. of ether, close the test
							tube with the thumb and invert it repeatedly without shaking. The chromate its reduced
							to a soluble salt of chromium which imparts a fine blue color to the ether.

						Quantitative Estimation:

						Bring the volume of the fluid to about 300 cc. add an excess of sodium acetate,
							acidify with dilute acetic acid and add an excess of neutral lead acetate. Filter
							through a weighed paper or a  Gooch's crucible, wash with
							water until the washings no longer react with potassium chromate, and dry at 100 deg.
							until constant in weight. 1 grm. of lead chromate represents 0.3636 grm. of chromic
							acid.
					
				

				
					COPPER.

					Use copper sulphate.

					1. Bring a little of the copper solution into a porcelain dish and add an excess of
						ammonium hydrate; a deep blue fluid results.

					2. Potassium ferro-cyanide precipitates from neutral or acid solutions of copper salts,
						heavy, reddish-brown copper ferro-cyanide, insoluble in dilute mineral acids, but
						readily decomposed by the alkali-hydroxides.

					3. Introduce a solution of copper sulphate (free from nitric acid) into a platinum dish
						which forms a galvanic element with a pencil of zinc. Connect the upper end of the zinc
						pencil to the platinum dish by means of a copper wire, make the solution slightly acid
						with dilute sulphuric acid and allow the fluid to stand 3-5 hours. Th:e bottom of the
						dish will be covered, with a bright orange-red deposit of metallic copper. Decant the
						supernatant fluid, dissolve the residue in dilute, hot nitric acid and test for copper
						as directed in 1 and 2.

					4. Potassium iodide decomposes neutral or slightly acid solutions of copper sulphate
						with thee precipitation of yellow cuprous iodide and the separation of free iodine which
						remains in solution in the excess of potassium iodide. The iodine may be detected by
						adding a little starch-paste or chloroform.

					Quantitative Estimation:

					A method for the quantitative estimation is based upon the reaction given in 4. The
						copper must be in the form of a sulphate. Free hydrochloric or nitric acid destroys the
						accuracy of the estimation.

					Process: Dilute the copper solution to a definite volume and mix well. Introduce 10 cc.
						of the copper sulphate solution into a beaker glass, add 10 cc. of potassium iodide
						solution (1-10) allow the mixture to stand 10-15 minutes in diffused light. (Do not
						expose it to direct sunlight.) Add a little starch-paste and titrate the free iodine
						with n|10 sodium hyposulphite.

					1.0 cc. of nl0 sodium hyposulphite represents 0.0063 grm. of metallic copper.
				

				

				
					LEAD.

					Use lead nitrate.

					1. Sulphuric acid or a soluble sulphate precipitates heavy, white plumbic sulphate. The
						precipitate is sparingly soluble in cold water, less soluble in dilute, sulphuric
						acid.

					2. Filter off the sulphate precipitate in 1., wash it with cold water and dissolve in a
						conc. solution of ammonium acetate.

					(Distinction from barium.)

					Potassium bi-chromate precipitates from this solution heavy, lemon-yellow, plumbic
						chromate.

					3. Evaporate a portion of the lead solution to dryness on a water-bath, dissolve the
						residue in a few cc. water, filter if necessary, introduce the clear fluid into
						test-tube, immerse a pencil of zinc (previously cleansed by filing) and let stand 10-12
						hrs. The lead will be deposited on the surface of the zinc pencil.

					Remove the zinc pencil, dip it 2-3 times in hot water, remove the metallic lead from
						the surface of the pencil, dry between filter paper and fuse it to a bead on charcoal,
						in the reducing zone of the blowpipe flame. The easily malleable bead is usually
						surrounded by a lemon-yellow incrustation of lead oxide.

					4. Potassium iodide precipitates from neutral solutions of lead salts, lemon-yellow
						lead iodide.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce the clear solution into a beaker glass, add dilute sulphuric acid in
							excess, dilute with an equal volume of alcohol and allow the mixture to stand several
							hours. Filter through a weighed paper, wash the residue with alcohol until free from
							sulphuric acid and dry the residue at 100 deg. until constant in weight.

						1.0 grm. of lead sulphate represents 0.5995 grm, of lead oxide (Pb0).
					
				

				
					MERCUROUS COMPOUNDS.

					Use mercurous nitrate.

					1. Hydrochloric acid or any soluble chloride precipitates from solutions of mercurous
						salts, white, pulverulent mercurous chloride. The precipitate is insoluble in water and
						in mineral acids, but dissolves in nitro-hydrochloric acid or chlorine water with the
						formation of soluble mercuric chloride.

					2. Mercurous chloride is decomposed by ammonium hydrate into black dimercurous ammonium
						chloride.

					Distinction from silver.

					

					3. Potassium iodide precipitates greenish-yellow mercurous iodide which dissolves in an
						excess of the reagent, with the separation of metallic mercury. Distinction from
						mercuric compounds.

					4. If a few drops of a mercurous solution are placed on a clean copper surface and the
						surface is gently rubbed with the finger, the copper will be coated with a silver-white
						deposit of metallic mercury.

					5. Mercurous compounds give the reaction described in mercuric compounds 1, page 12.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:
							Hempel's method;

						Introduce the solution into a glass-stoppered bottle, precipitate the mercury as
							mercurous chloride by adding an excess of hydrochloric acid, let the precipitate
							settle, wash it cautiously by decantation, until free from chlorine, and add an excess
							of n|10 iodine solution. Should a red precipitate form, add potassium iodide until the
							solution becomes clear. Stopper the bottle and shake for some time. The chloride
							radical will be replaced by the iodine, with the formation of mercurous iodide. Add a
							little starch-paste and estimate the excess of iodine with n|10 sodium
							hyposulphite.

						1 cc. n|10 iodine consumed represents 0.0199 gr. of metallic mercury.
					
				

				
					MERCURIC COMPOUNDS.

					Use mercuric chloride.

					1. Introduce a portion of the soluble mercuric salt into a test tube and lower into it
						a copper wire 1mm. in diameter and 70-80 mm. long. The wire should be previously cleaned
						from all grease, and brightened by rubbing with sand or emery paper. Immerse the test
						tube in hot water and let it stand for a few hours. The surface of the copper its soon
						coated with a gray deposit of metallic mercury. Remove the wire to a porcelain dish and
						wash it with water; let dry on a piece of blotting paper, place the wire in an ignition
						tube twice as long as the wire and 4-5 mm. in diameter. On heating cautiously in the
						flame, beginning at the lower end of the tube, the mercury will be volatilized and
						condensed above the wire, forming a bright deposit of metallic globules.

					2. One of the most characteristic reactions for mercury is the amalgamation of metallic
						gold. The gold plate may be prepared as follows: Dissolve a little gold chloride in an
						excess of  potassium cyanide and introduce the solution
						into a cylinder 12 cm. long and 6 cm. wide. Prepare an electric couple, of carbon and
						metallic copper. The electrodes may be held in place by binding screws fastened into a
						piece of wood 2cm. wide and 10 cm. long. Carefully cleanse the copper with nitric acid,
						and subsequent washing with water. The electrodes should extend at least 1cm. into the
						gold soution. Connect the carbon electrode with the positive pole and the copper
						electrode with the negative pole of an ordinary bi-chromate cell. Let the current pass
						for 1-2 hour. Break the current, wash the copper plate with water and dry with a soft
						cloth. Place a drop of mercury solution on the gold plated surface, touch the drop of
						mercuric solution with a pencil of zinc, absorb the fluid with blotting paper and
						burnish the gray surface, with a soft cloth; a bright mirror of metallic mercury will be
						easily distinguished.

					3. Potassium iodide precipitates from neutral or slightly acid solutions of mercury
						salts, bright red mercuric iodide. The precipitate is soluble in an excess of the
						reagent, forming mercuric-potassium iodide.

					4. Minute quantities of a salt of mercury may be detected by the following reaction:
						neutralize the solution with sodium carbonate, if acid in reaction, add potassium iodide
						solution in excess, filter if necessary, and for each cc. of the fluid add an equal
						volume of saturated potassium hydrate solution. Introduce the alkaline fluid into a
						long, narrow test-tube, add 5-10 drops of ammonium chloride (1-10), mix well, and let
						stand 30 minutes. If a minute quantity of mercury is present, the fluid will be red. The
						color can be best observed by looking down through the test tube resting on a white
						paper.

					
						Quantitative Estimation.

						The method is based upon the fact that mercuric chloride added to potassium iodide,
							yields a red precipitate of mercuric iodide which dissolves colorless, until the
							balance is over-stepped. Prepare a n|10 solution of pure potassium iodide (33.2 grm.
							KI in 1000 cc.) 1.0 cc. of this solution represents 0.01 grm. metallic mercury or
							0.01355 grm. of mercuric chloride.

						Process: Bring 10 or 20 cc. of n|10 KI into a small flask and titrate with the
							mercuric chloride solution under examination until the characteristics red color
							appears. The mercuric solution must be added to the potassium iodide, not vice
							versa.

						Calculation: 1 cc. KI solution consumed represents 0.01 grm. metallic mercury.
					
				

				

				
					SILVER.

					Use silver nitrate.

					1. Hydrochloric acid or any soluble chloride precipitates from neutral or acid
						solutions of silver salts, white, curd-like silver chloride. The precipitate is
						insoluble in mineral acids, readily soluble in ammonium hydrate, potassium cyanide or
						sodium hypo-sulphite.

					2. Potassium chromate precipitates from a neutral solution of silver nitrate,
						reddish-brown silver chromate. The precipitate is readily soluble in nitric acid and in
						ammonium hydrate.

					3. Small quantities of silver may be precipitated upon copper by an electric current.
						Dissolve the substance (free from mineral acids) in an excess of potassium cyanide,
						introduce the solution into a glass cylinder provided with a copper and carbon electrode
						as described under Mercuric compounds 2, page 12. Connect the carbon with the positive pole and the copper electrode with the negative
						pole of the battery. Let the current pass for 1-2 hours. Interrupt the process, wash the
						copper with water and burnish the silver deposit with a soft cloth. It is readily
						recognized by its bright, shining surface.

					4. A dry silver compound mixed with 3-4 parts of dry sodium carbonate and fused on
						charcoal in the reducing flame of the blow-pipe, yields a bright, malleable bead of
						metallic silver. The bead may be dissolved in warm nitric acid and further identified by
						reaction 1, 2 and 3.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Exactly neutralize the silver solution with sodium carbonate and dilute to a definite
							volume. Introduce 10 cc. n|10 sodium chloride into a small flask, dilute with 25-50
							cc. of water, add about 5 drops of potassium chromate (avoid an excess) and titrate
							with the silver solution (using a Guy-Lussac burette or one with glass cock) until a
							permanent red tint is produced.

						1.0 cc. of n|10 sodium chloride represents 0.0107 grm. of silver.
					
				

				
					ZINC.

					Use zinc sulphate.

					1. Ammonium sulphide precipitates white zinc sulphide, insoluble in acetic acid, but
						readily soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid.

					2. Sodium hydroxide precipitates white zinc hydroxide, soluble in an excess of the
						reagent with the formation of sodium zincate. Ammonium chloride added to solutions of
						sodium zincate,  which do not contain a great excess of
						sodium hydroxide, reprecipitates zinc hydroxide, soluble in an excess of ammonium
						chloride. Distinction from aluminum.

					3. Potassium ferro-cyanide precipitates white, flocculent zinc ferrocyanide, insoluble
						in hydrochloric acid, and in ammonium hydrate.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Bring the solution into a porcelain dish, heat to boiling and add sodium carbonate
							until strongly alkaline. If ammonia is given off, add a considerable excess of sodium
							carbonate and boil until the odor of ammonia is no longer apparent. Allow to settle,
							wash the precipitate by decantation with water, bring it onto the filter and complete
							the washing. Dry the paper, remove the precipitate as completely as possible to a
							large watch-glass, place the paper in a weighed porcelain crucible, moisten it with
							conc. solution of ammonium nitrate and ash cautiously. Repeat the process until the
							crucible contents are white, transfer the precipitate from the watch-glass to the
							crucible and ignite until constant in weight. The increase in weight represents the
							zinc oxide present.
					
				

				
					ACETALDEHYDE.

					CH3. CHO.

					Acetaldehyde is a colorless fluid possessing a characteristic, penetrating odor. B. P.
						21 deg. It is ready soluble in water, ether, or alcohol.

					1. Acetaldehyde reduces, an ammonia-silver solution with the formation of a silver
						mirror. The reduction is rapid if the solution is warmed gently. The sensitiveness of
						the ammonia silver solution is increased by the addition of a few drops of potassium
							hydrate.*

					2. Fuchsin-sulphurous acid** is
						colored an intense rad-violet, when agitated in the cold with a little, acetaldehyde.
						The reaction is not satisfactory for the detection of traces of aldehyde in alcohol.

					3. When Fehling's solution*** is
						heated to boiling a little acetaldehyde solution added and the mixture boiled again,
						metallic copper is deposited. Distinction from aceton.

					4. Acetaldehyde precipitates Nessler's reagent. To distinguish between the precipitates
						produced by ammonia and aldehyde add a few drops of potassium cyanide solution; the
							
						*Use Tollen's reagent. See
							preparation of reagents.
						**,***See preparation of reagents.
						 precipitate produced by aldehyde turns black; the
						precipitate produced by ammonia disappears.

					(Hydroxylamin shows the same deportment as aldehyde.)

					5. To a conc. aqueous solution of m-phenylendiamin hydrochloride, add a few drops of
						aldehyde solution; a brown precipitate is formed which dissolves in water, or alcohol to
						a red fluid.

					6. Hydrogen per-oxide oxidizes acetaldehyde to acetic acid. The fluid may be made
						alkaline after oxidation, evaporated to dryness and the residue examined for acetic acid
						with arsenic tri-oxide. See acetic acid 3, page 16.

					7. Legal's reaction serves to distinguish between aldehyde and aceton. To the fluid to
						be tested, add 1-2 cc. of a freshly prepared solution of sodium nitro-prusside and make
						alkaline with potassium hydroxide (sp. gr. 1.14): in the presence of aldehyde, a red
						color appears which fades upon the addition of acetic acid and when heated changes to
						yellow-green. If the reaction is produced by aceton the addition of acetic acid
						intensifies the wine-red color; upon warming it becomes violet.

					8. A few drops of a solution of phenylhydrazin in dilute acetic acid, added to an
						aqueous solution of aldehyde, produces a yellow crystalline precipitate of aldehyde
						phenylhydrazone.

					9. Lieben's iodoform reaction.

					To an aqueous solution of aldehyde, add 2-3 cc. of iodine in potassium iodide solution,
						mix and add an excess of sodium hydroxide; a yellow crystalline precipitate of iodoform
						separates. It may be identified by its odor or by extracting with ether.

					This reaction appears at once with acetaldehyde or aceton, built with alcohol, warming
						and longer contact is required.
				

				
					ACETIC ACID.
					CH3.COOH.

					1. Ferric chloride, free from mineral acids, imparts to neutral solutions of the
						acetates, a reddish-brown color, due to the formation of soluble ferric acetate. On
						boiling the solution, basic ferric acetate will be precipitated.

					2. If a dry acetate is moistened with a mixture of equal parts of con. sulphuric acid
						and alcohol, and the mixture gently warmed, ethyl acetate will be evolved.

					3. To detect small quantities of acetic acid, neutralize with sodium carbonate and
						evaporate to dryness on a water bath; mix the dry residue with 1/4 its volume of arsenic
						tri-oxide, triturate thoroughly in a dry mortar, introduce about O.5 grm. of the  mixture into a dry test-tube and heat cautiously over the
						free flame until the contents of the tube begin to fuse; a poisonous gas, kakodyl oxide,
						of exceedingly penetrating and disagreeable odor will be given off. (See Alcohol 1, page
							18.
				

				
					ACETON.
					CH3.CO.CH3.

					Aceton is a colorless ether-like fluid which possesses a pleasant odor. B. P. 56 deg.
						It is soluble in water, alcohol, or ether. It may be separated from its aqueous
						solutions by the addition of salts, or by distillation.

					1. Lieben's iodoform reaction is sensitive to 0.0001 mg. of aceton in 1 cc. (See
						Acetaldehyde 9, page 16.)

					2. Gunning’s iodoform reaction.

					Render the solution to be tested for aceton, strongly alkaline with ammonium hydrate
						and add iodine in potassium iodide solution until the black precipitate of nitrogen
						tri-iodide disappears rather slowly. After a little time a milky white turbidity and
						finally a crystalline deposit of iodoform appears. The presence of alcohol is without
						effect.

					3. Legal and Nobel's reaction is sensitive to 0.25 mg. of aceton in 1cc. (Acetaldehyde
						7, page 16.)

					4. Reynolds-Gunning reaction.

					To a few cc. of an alcoholic solution of mercuric chloride, made alkaline with
						alcoholic potash, add a few cc. of the aceton solution, shake vigorously, filter and
						test the clear filtrate for mercury with stannous chloride or ammonium sulphide.

					5. Phenylhydrazin hydrochloride shows the same deportment with aceton as with
						acetaldehyde. Compare Acetaldlehyde 8, page 16.

					6. Aceton does not reduce ammonia-silver solutions. Distinction from aldehyde.

					7. When aceton is gently warmed with an aqueous solution of o-nitro benzaldehyde and
						the mixture made alkaline with dilute sodium hydroxide, indigo-blue is precipitated.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Bring the material (the weight or volume of which is known) into a distilling flask.
							Provide a long cooler and a 100 cc. graduated flask as a receiver. Place the
							distilling flask on a water-bath, connect with the cooler and distill over 100 cc.
							Transfer an aliquot part of the distillate to a cylinder, add a few cc. of  iodine in KI solution. make alkaline with sodium hydrate
							(avoid a great excess) and shake vigorously; iodoform will be precipitated. Extract
							the fluid repeatedly with small quantities of ether (until a drop of the extract
							leaves no residue on evaporation), unite the ether extracts and any test residues, in
							a, weighed flask (short wide neck), allow the ether to evaporate at room temperature,
							dry the residue over sulphuric acid and weigh.

						Calculation: 1 grm. of iodoform represents 0.1518 grm. of aceton.
					
				

				
					ALCOHOL.
					CH3.CH2.OH.

					Ethyl alcohol is a colorless liquid which boils at 78 deg. Pure alcohol has an etherial
						odor and a burning taste. It is very soluble in water, ether, glycerine, etc. Oxidizing
						agents change it into acet-aldlehyde, acetic acid, or carbon di-oxide and water.

					1. Introduce the alcoholic solution into a small flask, add a little platinum black*, warm to 40 dog. (not above) and
						shake the mixture gently for 10-15 minutes. Filter, make the filtrate slightly alkaline
						with potassium hydrate and evaporate to dryness on a water-bath. Test the residue for
						potassium acetate in the following manner: mix the dry residue, with 1|4 its volume of
						arsenic trioxide and triturate thoroughly in a dry mortar. Introduce about O. 5 gramme
						of the mixture into a dry ignition tube, (or test tube) and heat cautiously over the
						free flame until the contents of the tube begin to fuse: a poisonous gas, Kakodyl Oxide
						(CH3),AS2O, of exceedingly penetrating and disagreeable odor
						will be evolved.

					AS2O-+4CH3.
							COONa=(CH3)4AS2O+2Na2CO3+2CO2

					2. When a solution of alcohol, which is not too dilute, is warmed with 1-2 drops oaf
						carbon bi-sulphide and 5-10 drops of saturated potassium hydrate solution added,
						potassium ethyl xanthate, will be formed. For its detection in the fluid, see Carbon
						bisulphide 1, page 23.

					3. In the absence of acet-aldehyde the following method serves for the detection of
						alcohol: To 100 cc. of the given fluid, add 2 cc. saturated solution of potassium
						bi-chromate, 8 cc. dilute sulphuric acid (1:1), a small piece of pumice stone, connect
						the flask with a condenser, and warm the mixture gently on a water-bath. 
						*See preparation of
							reagents.
						 The lower end of the condenser should be immersed in a
						solution of fuchsin-sulphurous acid*. The acetaldehyde, which results from the oxidation of the alcohol, will
						react upon the fuchsin solution producing an intense violet color. This reaction is not
						specific for acet-aldehyde.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Render the substance alkaline with milk of lime, dilute with water, if necessary, and
							distill over 50 cc. Determine the specific gravity of the distillate at 15.5 deg. with
							a picnometer, and calculate the per cent. of alcohol from the table:

						
							
								Specific Gravity at 15.5°C.
								Alcohol in weight %
								
								
								
								
							
							
								1.0000
								0.00
								0.9952
								2.72
								0.9904
								5.62
							
							
								8
								0.05
								0
								2.83
								2
								5.75
							
							
								6
								0.11
								0.9948
								2.94
								0
								5.87
							
							
								4
								9.32
								6
								3.06
								0.9898
								6.00
							
							
								2
								0.42
								4
								3.18
								6
								6.14
							
							
								0
								0.53
								2
								3.29
								4
								6.28
							
							
								0.9988
								0.63
								0
								3.41
								2
								6.43
							
							
								6
								0.74
								0.9938
								3.53
								0
								6.57
							
							
								4
								0.84
								6
								3.65
								0.9888
								6.71
							
							
								2
								0.95
								4
								3.76
								6
								6.86
							
							
								0
								1.06
								2
								3.88
								4
								7.00
							
							
								0.9987
								1.19
								0
								4.00
								2
								7.13
							
							
								6
								1.31
								0.9928
								4.12
								0
								7.27
							
							
								3
								1.44
								6
								4.25
								0.9878
								7.40
							
							
								2
								1.56
								4
								4.37
								6
								7.53
							
							
								0
								1.69
								2
								4.50
								4
								7.67
							
							
								0.9968
								1.81
								0
								4.62
								2
								7.80
							
							
								6
								1.94
								0.9918
								4.75
								0
								7.93
							
							
								4
								2.06
								6
								4.87
								0.9868
								8.07
							
							
								2
								2.17
								4
								5.00
								6
								8.21
							
							
								0
								2.28
								2
								5.12
								4
								8.36
							
							
								0.9958
								2.39
								0
								5.25
								2
								8.50
							
							
								6
								2.50
								0.9908
								5.37
								0
								8.64
							
							
								4
								2.61
								6
								5.50
								0.9858
								8.79
							
						
						
					
				

				
					AMYLALCOHOL.
					C5H11.OH.

					Commercial amylalcohol is commonly called "fusel oil." Pure amylalcohol is a colorless
						liquid which possesses a peculiar, penetrating, and disagreeable odor. When inhaled in
						quantity it produces violent coughing and headache. It boils at 131 deg. It 
						*See preparation of
							Reagents.
						 is sparingly soluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol,
						ether, or chloroform.

					1. Introduce the fluid to be tested for amylalcohol into a narrow cylinder, add 30 cc.
						of ether and shake vigorously: allow the ether to separate, pipette it off into an
						evaporating dish and allow it to evaporate at room temperature. To the residue in the
						dish add a small quantity of sodium acetate and a few drops of conc. sulphuric acid; the
						odor of amylacetate will be given off. The addition of a drop of water facilitates the
						reaction.

					2. When amylalcohol is warmed with conc. sulphuric acid until amylene is given off, the
						solution assumes a dark red color. If now the fluid is diluted with glacial acetic acid
						and a drop of ferric alum solution added, the mixture takes on an intense violet color.
						Gentle warming facilitates the reaction.
				

				
					AMYLNITRITE.
					C5H11O.NO.

					Amylnitrite is a yellowish volatile fluid which possesses a pleasant fruit-like odor.
						B. P. 94 deg. It is very sparingly soluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol or
						ether.

					1. Amylnitrite is decomposed by warming with alcoholic potash, into amylalcohol and
						potassium nitrite. The nitrous acid may be detected by adding a little KI-starch-paste
						and acidifying with dilute sulphuric acid; blue iodide of starch will be formed.

					2. To detect the radical C5H11 in
						the amylnitrite, heat the fluid in a pressure flask with alcoholic potash, allow to
						cool, introduce the alkaline fluid into a narrow cylinder, add 30cc. ether and shake
						vigorously. When the ether has separated, pipette it off into an evaporating dish and
						allow to evaporate at room temperature. Add a little sodium acetate to the residue and
						moisten with a few drops of conc. sulphuric acid; the characteristic odor of amylacetate
						will be evolved.

					3. Saponify the amylnitrite solution by heating gently in a pressure flask with
						alcoholic potash, let cool, add 5-10 cc. of chloroform and shake vigorously for some
						time; allow the chloroform to separate, pipette off and drop it onto a piece of clean
						cotton. Place the cotton on a watch-glass and dry at a low temperature; the
						characteristic odor of amylalcohol will be given off.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce the substance (the weight or volume of which is  known) into a distilling flask, connect with a LONG cooler, distill off into a 250
							cc. graduated flask, 150-200 cc., fill to the mark with 95 per cent alcohol and mix
							well.

						To a SMALL PORTION of the fluid to be examined, add a little KI-starch-paste, acidify
							with dilute sulphuric acid and shake the mixture-- if no "blue color appears,
							inorganic nitrites are absent.

						Saponify a measured portion of the fluid e. g., 50-100 cc. in a pressure flask, with
							alcoholic potash and estimate the nitrite of potassium as follows: dilute the solution
							to a definite volume and mix well. Transfer an aliquot part to a small Erlenmeyer
							flask, add an excess of KI solution (1-10), acidify with dilute sulphuric acid and
							titrate the free iodine with n|10 sodium hyposulphite, using starch-paste as an
							indicator. Each cc. of n|10 hyposulphite employed represents 0.00117 grm., of
							amylnitrite.
					
				

				
					ANILIN.
					C6H5.NH2.

					Freshly distilled anilin is a colorless, heavy liquid which boils at 183 deg. It is
						slightly soluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, or carbon
						bi-sulphide.

					Use anilin oil.

					1. Sodium hypochlorite produces, in an aqueous solution of anilin, an intense
						red-violet color (tint 1). An excess of the reagent must be avoided.

					2. Bromine water forms with anilin or its salts, a yellowish-red precipitate of
						tri-brom anilin, C6H2Br3.NH2. The precipitate
						crystallizes from alcohol In colorless needles which melt at 118 deg.

					3. A splinter of pine moistened with anilin or one of its salts and exposed for a short
						time to direct sunlight, will be colored an intense yellow. The presence of free
						hydrochloric acid facilitates the reaction.

					4. Dissolve a little anilin in alcoholic potash, add 2-3 drops of chloroform and warm
						gently: the repulsive odor of phenyl isonitril will be given off. Perform in the
						hood. C6H5.NH2+CHCl3+3KOH = C6H5.NC+3KCl+3H2O.

					5. Dissolve a drop of anilin in conc. sulphuric acid, add 2-3 drops of water and a
						crystal of potassium chlorate; after 10 minutes a fine violet-blue color will be
						produced.

					

					8. If a drop of conc. solution of potassium bi-chromate is added to a solution of
						anilin in cone, sulphuric acid, a fine transient blue color will be produced.

					7. When an aqueous solution of anilin is treated with 1-2 drops of phenol and the
						mixture decomposed with 2-3 drops of sodium hypochlorite, a fine red-violet color is
						obtained which changes to orange shade 1) on the addition of a mineral acid to acid
						reaction.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Introduce the substance into a flask, add sufficient absolute alcohol to cover it,
							make acid with tartaric acid and heat 15-20 minutes on a water-bath; let cool, filter
							and wash the residue with alcohol. Unite the alcoholic filtrate and washings,
							evaporate to a syrup on a water-bath, mix the residue with 100-150 cc. of water,
							filter and wash with water. If the filtrate is not clear, evaporate it to a small
							volume, treat with 60-80 cc. of absolute alcohol, filter, wash the residue with
							absolute alcohol, evaporate the alcoholic filtrate to a syrup, treat it with 90-100
							cc. of water, filter and wash. Introduce the clear aqueous solution, into a cylinder,
							make it alkaline with sodium hydrate and extract repeatedly with ether. Unite the
							extracts and allow the ether to evaporate at room temperature.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Weigh the anilin residue, dissolve it in dilute sulphuric acid (1:30) and in such
							proportion that each cc. of the solution, when diluted to a definite volume, will
							contain about 0.001 grm. of anilin.

						Introduce 40 cc. of the anilin sulphate solution into a 300 cc. cylinder which is
							provided with a glass stopper, and proceed with the estimation as directed in the
							quantitative estimation of phenol. (See Phenol, page 32).

						Calculation: 1.0 grm. of bromine consumed represents 0.1937 grm. of anilin.
					
				

				
					BENZ-ALDEHYDE.
					C6H5.CHO.

					Benz-aldehyde its a colorless, oily liquid which boils at 179-180 deg. It is sparingly
						soluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol, chloroform, ether, and benzo1. It absorbs
						oxygen to form benzoic acid. It is volatile with steam.

					1. Benz-aldehyde colors fuchsin-sulphurous acid **red-violet. 
						**See preparation of
							reagents.
						 The solution should be allowed to stand 20-30 minutes or
						gently agitated 10-15 minutes.

					2. It reduces ammoniacal silver solution (Tollen's reagent), when the fluid is heated
						to near boiling.

					3. Million's reagent imparts a fine red color to a hot solution of benz-aldehyde.

					
						Quantitative Estimation: (Schmidt).

						Introduce a measured quantity of the benz-aldehyde solution (10-20 cc.) into a beaker
							glass, add 10 cc. phenylhydrazin solution (15 gr. phenylhydrazin hydrochloride, 30
							grm. sodium acetate in 1000 cc. water) warm the mixture some time on the water-bath
							and let stand 10-12 hours in a cool place. The benz-aldehyde will be precipitated as
							benzyliden-phenylhydrazin; C6H5 CH.N.NH.C6H5. Bring
							the precipitate onto a weighed filter, wash it with a little water and dry at 60-80
							deg.

						1 grm. benzyliden-phenyl-hydrazin represents 0.5408 grm. of benz-aldehyde.
					
				

				
					CARBON BI-SULPHIDE.
					C S2.

					Carbon bi-sulphide, is a colorless, strongly refracting fluid which boils at 46 deg. It
						is very sparingly soluble in water, readily soluble in absolute alcohol, ether,
						chloroform, and benzol.

					1. Carbon bi-sulphide dissolves readily in an ethyl-alcoholic solution of potassium
						hydrate with the formation of potassium ethyl xanthate,
						K
						CSO+HO.
						CS2+KOH+C2H5.OH-= C2H5 To identify the xanthate, acidify the solution with acetic acid
						and add a few cc. of copper acetate solution; bright yellow copper xanthate will be
						precipitated.

					2. Dissolve a drop of carbon bi-sulphide in a saturated alcoholic ,solution of ammonia,
						and evaporate to dryness on the water-bath. The carbon, bi-sulphide will be decomposed
						into ammonium sulphocyanate and ammonium sulphide.

					CS2+4NH3=(NH4)SCN+(NH4)2S.

					Dissolve the residue in a little water, acidify with dilute hydrochloric acid and add
						ferric chloride; a blood-red color shows the presence of ammonium sulphocyanate.

					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce the substance (the weight or volume of which is known) into a distilling
							flask, connect with a LONG cooler and distill (from a previously heated water-bath)
							100-150 cc. Bring the distillate into a 300 cc. Erlenmeyer flask, make strongly
							alkaline with alcoholic potash, attach a return cooler and heat the mixture gently on
							a water-bath for 30 minutes. Transfer the solution to a beaker glass, make faintly
							acid with acetic acid and add copper acetate solution in excess. Allow the mixture to
							stand 3-4 hours, filter, wash the precipitate with cold water, dry and ignite the
							residue in a weighed crucible. Let cool, moisten the residue in the crucible with
							conc. nitric acid, dry and again ignite the residue. The copper xanthate will be
							transformed into cupric oxide. 1 grm.. of cupric oxide represents 1.9188 grm.
							carbon-bi-sulphide.
					
				

				
					CHLOROFORM.
					C H Cl3.

					Chloroform is a colorless liquid of etherial odor and sweetish taste. B. P. 62 deg. It
						is nearly insoluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol and ether.

					1. When chloroform is heated with a few drops of anilin dissolved in alcoholic potash,
						an exceedingly penetrating and disagreeable odor is evolved. This is due to the
						formation of phenyl iso-nitril. See Anilin 4, page 21. PERFORM THE EXPERIMENT IN THE HOOD.

					2. Dissolve a little resorcin in alcohol, make alkaline with potassium hydrate, add 2-3
						drops of chloroform and warm gently; a fine yellow color will be obtained. A great
						excess of chloroform gives a red color.

					3. Generate hydrogen from pure zinc and sulphuric acid. Dry the gas by conducting it
						through a tube filled with fused calcium chloride. Pass, the dry gas through a tube
						tipped with platinum and ignite; if pure the gas will burn with a colorless flame.
						Introduce into the flame a clean copper wire; it remains colorless. If now a trace of
						chloroform (or any chloride) is introduced into the generating flask, and the copper
						wire again exposed to the hydrogen flame, the flame will take on a bright blue
						color.

					4. Dissolve a little alpha- or beta-naphtol in potassium hydrate (1:2), add 2-3 drops
						of chloroform and warm gently; an  intense blue color will
						be imparted to the fluid. Alcohol facilitates-- much water retards the reaction.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce the substance (the weight or volume of which is known) into a distilling
							flask, connect with a LONG cooler and distill (from a water-bath) 100-150 cc. Bring
							the distillate into a pressure bottle of 200 cc. capacity, add 20 cc. (or an amount
							accurately measured) of a standardized alcoholic solution of potassium hydrate,* stopper the bottle and heart 6-8
							hours in a boiling water-bath; the chloroform will be decomposed into potassium
							chloride and formate.

						Allow to cool, transfer the solution to a beaker glass, wash the flask and add the
							washings to the solution in the beaker. Titrate the excess of potassium hydrate with
							normal sulphuric acid.

						Calculation: Each cc. of normal potassium hydrate consumed represents 0.03 grm of
							chloroform. (Gives approximate results.)

						After titration with sulphuric acid, acidify the solution with dilute nitric acid,
							add 2 cc. of ferric alum and estimate the chlorine by titration with n110 silver
							nitrate solution. (Volhard's method).

						Calculation: 1 cc. of n|10 silver nitrate consumed represents 0.04002 grm. of
							chloroform.
					

					
						Volhard's Method for the Estimation of Chlorine;
							(Modified by Salkowski).

						The method is based upon the fact that the chloride and sulphocyanate of silver are
							insoluble in water and dilute nitric acid, while ferric sulphocyanate is soluble and
							imparts a red color to its solutions.

						
							Requisites:
							
								
									(a) A n|10 solution of silver nitrate. Dissolve 29.075 grm. of pure
										crystalline silver nitrate in 1000 cc. of water.

									(b) A n|10 solution of ammonium sulpho-cyanate. Dissolve about 8 grm. of
										ammonium sulphocyanate in 1050 cc. water, mix well and titrate against the n|10
										silver solution, using ferric alum as an indicator. Dilute the solution to
										n|10.

									(c) Ferric alum solution. Dissolve about 15 grm. in 100 cc. water.
								
							

							
							*Preparation of alcoholic
								potash: Dissolve about 30-35 grm. of pure potassium hydrate in 1000 cc. 95% alcohol
								and determine the exact strength by titrating a a measured quantity of the clear
								solution against normal sulphuric acid. using phenolphtalein as an indicator.
								Alcoholic solutions of potassium hydrate decompose very rapidly and must always be
								assayed with normal acid immediately before use.

							

							Process: Bring a measured portion of the fluid to be examined into a 100 cc.
								glass-stoppered measuring flask and acidify with 1-2 cc. of nitric acid (1:12) free
								from nitrous acid. From a burette (Gay Lussac or one with a glass stop-cock) add
								n|10 silver nitrate, shaking after each addition, until a precipitate ceases to
								form, dilute to the 100 cc. mark, mix well and filter through a dry paper into a dry
								50 cc. measuring flask. When the filtrate reaches the 50 cc. mark, remove the
								filter, transfer the filtrate to a suitable flask, add 5 cc. of ferric alum and
								titrate with n|10 ammonium sulphocyanate until a red tint is imparted to the fluid.
								Calculate the number of cc. of n|10 silver solution consumed by the chlorides in the
								total volume.
						
					
				

				
					CHLORAL HYDRATE.
					CCl3.CHO+H2O.

					Chloral hydrate is a colorless, crystalline substance which melts at 58 deg. It is
						readily soluble in water, alcohol and ether. It volatilizes with steam.

					1. It gives the phenyl iso-nitril reaction when heated with alcoholic potash and a drop
						of anilin. Compare Chloroform 1, page 24.

					2. It does not color fuchsin-sulphurous acid. Compare Acetaldehyde 2, page 15.

					3. Chloral hydrate reduces an ammonia-silver solution (Tollen's reagent) especially on
						warming, with the separation of metallic silver and the formation) of a silver
						mirror.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Digest the substance with small quantities of water, filter, wash, unite the filtrate
							and washings; dilute to a definite volume, mix, and reserve a portion for the
							quantitative estimation.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce an aliquot part of the chloral hydrate solution into a pressure flask, add
							an excess of alcoholic potash (free from chlorine) and heat 1/2-1 hour on a
							water-bath. The chloral hydrate will be decomposed into potassium chloride and
							potassium formate. Acidify the solution with nitric acid and estimate the chlorine by
							Volhard's method. See page 25.

						Calculation: 1.0 grm. of chlorine represents 1.5540 grm. of chloral hydrate.
					
				

				

				
					FORMIC ACID.
					H. COOH.

					Formic acid is a colorless acid fluid possessing a sharp penetrating odor. B. P. 100
						deg. It is readily soluble in water or alcohol. It forms stable salts with the
						metals.

					Use formic acid or ammonium formate.

					1. Formic acid or a soluble formate reduces a solution of mercuric chloride to
						mercurous chloride, especially on warming.

					H.COOH+2HgC12=CO2+HgCl2+2HC1.

					To identify the mercurous chloride, filter, wash, and moisten the residue with ammonium
						hydroxide; a black compound will be formed. (See Mercurous compounds 2, page 11.

					2. A neutral solution of ferric chloride is colored a deep red by formic acid or the
						soluble formates. The color is destroyed by the mineral acids. Boiling precipitates red,
						basic ferric formate.

					3. When a dry formate is moistened with alcohol and a few drops of conc. sulphuric acid
						added ethyl formate is evolved. It may be easily recognized by its rum-like odor.

					H.COONa+C2H5.OH+H2SO4=H.CO.OC2H5+NaHSO4+H2O.

					4. A dilute solution of formic acid decomposes silver nitrate upon standing, with the
						separation of metallic silver; by gently warming the mixture, the reduction takes place
						at once. Distinction from acetic acid.

					H.COOH+2AgNO3=2Ag+2HNO3+C02.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce the weighed substance or its solution into a beaker-glass, make alkaline
							with magnesium oxide, digest with 50 percent alcohol, filter, evaporate off the
							alcohol, take up the residue with water, filter and add to the filtrate an excess of
							mercuric chloride solution and heat the mixture, gently for some time. Set aside until
							the separated mercurous chloride has settled, filter through a paper which has been
							dried at 100 until constant in weight, wash and dry in an air-bath at 100 deg. until
							constant. 1 grm. of mercurous chloride represents 0.0976 grm. of formic acid.
					
				

				
					HYDROBROMIC ACID.
					HBr.

					Use potassium bromide.

					1. Silver nitrate precipitates yellowish-white silver bromide, insoluble in dilute
						nitric acid, soluble in potassium cyanide or in  sodium
						hyposulphite.

					2. Phenol combines with free bromine to form white, crystalline tri-brom-phenol,
						insoluble in dilute mineral acids, soluble in an excess of phenol.

					3. Introduce 2-3 cc. of neutral bromide solution into a small flask, add 10-15 cc. of
						potassium hydrogen sulphate and sufficient potassium permanganate to impart a deep color
						to the fluid; on warming free bromine will be given off. Distinction from hydrochloric
						acid.

					To detect the escaping bromine, moisten a strip of filter paper with a few drops of
						KI-starch-paste, and expose it to the fumes; the appearance of a blue color proves the
						presence of bromine.
				

				
					HYDROCHLORIC ACID.
					HCl.

					Use sodium chloride.

					1. Silver nitrate forms with hydrochloric acid or the soluble chlorides, a heavy white
						precipitate of silver chloride. See Silver 1, page 14.

					2. Mercurous nitrate is precipitated by hydrochloric acid or a soluble chloride with
						the formation of white mercurous chloride. See Mercurous Compounds 1, page 11.

					3. Boas' test for hydrochloric acid:

					Prepare a solution of 0.5 grm. resorcin, 0.3 grm. sugar and 10 grm. dilute alcohol.
						Place 1-2 cc. of this solution in a porcelain lid, add a drop of dilute hydrochloric
						acid and heat very cautiously over the free flame; a rose color will be formed which
						intensifies to a vermilion.

					Method of Extraction and Estimation: See 113.
				

				
					HYDROCYANIC ACID.
					HCN.

					Hydrocyanic (prussic) acid is a colorless, volatile liquid which boils at 26.5 deg. It
						is very readily soluble in water, ether or alcohol. The cyanides of the alkali and
						alkali-earth metals are soluble in water; the cyanides of the heavy metals are insoluble
						in water or dilute acids, soluble in an excess of potassium cyanide.

					The cyanides are generally extremely poisonous.

					

					Use potassium cyanide.

					1. Silver nitrate produces in solutions of the alkali cyanides or in free hydrocyanic
						acid, a precipitate of white silver cyanide. The precipitate is insoluble in dilute
						sulphuric acid, readily soluble in potassium cyanide.

					2. Introduce a little powdered ferrous sulphate into a test-tube containing a soluble
						cyanide, make alkaline with potassium hydrate, and warm gently; the cyanide will be
						transformed into potassium ferro-cyanide. Acidify with dilute hydrochloric acid and add
						a few drops of ferric chloride; a heavy blue precipitate (Prussian Blue), proves the
						presence of hydrocyanic acid in the original solution.

					3. Bring a little potassium cyanide solution into a test-tube (50cc. capacity) which is
						provided with a doubly perforated stopper. Pass a glass tube, drawn out to a coarse
						capillary point, through one perforation, allowing it to reach to near the bottom of the
						test-tube and connect the other end with a hydrogen generator. Pass a second glass tube,
						bent at right-angles, through the other perforation, allowing it to terminate at the
						lower surface of the stopper. Connect this second tube with a Liebig's absorption bulb
						which contains a mixture of 1 part ammonium hydrate and 2 parts ammonium sulphide
						previously warmed to 40 deg. Acidify the cyanide solution in the test-tube with tartaric
						acid, quickly stopper the tube and allow a slow current or hydrogen to pass through the
						apparatus. The volatile hydrocyanic acid will be absorbed by the ammonium sulphide to
						form ammonium sulphocyanate. After 10 minutes, interrupt the process, transfer the
						contents of the absorption bulb to a dish and evaporate to dryness on a water-bath.
						Dissolve the residue in dilute hydrochloric acid filter and test the clear filtrate with
						ferric chloride; blood-red ferric sulphocyanate will be formed.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Bring the substance (the weight or volume of which is known) into a distilling flask,
							connect with a LONG cooler which is attached to a receiver surrounded with ice, and
							distill off (from a water-bath) 100-150 cc. Acidify the distillate with dilute nitric
							acid, add silver nitrate in slight excess, stir well and allow the mixture to stand
							5-6 hours in a dark place. Filter through a weighed filter paper, wash the residue
							with cold water until the last washings are free from nitric acid and dry at 100 deg.
							until constant in weight.

						Calculation: 1 grm. of silver cyanide represents 0.2018 grm. of hydrocyanic acid.
					
				

				

				
					HYDROSULPHURIC ACID.
					H2S.

					Hydrosulphuric acid or, hydrogen sulphide, is a gas at ordinary temperature and
						pressure. It is characterized by an offensive odor resembling that of rotten eggs. It
						its a dibasic acid which possesses strong reducing properties. It is decomposed by
						nitric or nitrous acid, conc. sulphuric acid or, sulphur di-oxide.

					The sulphides of the alkali and the alkali-earth metals are soluble in water, the
						sulphides of the other metals are generally insoluble in that menstruum.

					1. If a strip of paper moistened with an alkaline lead solution* is exposed to an atmosphere containing hydrogen
						sulphide, a brown-black incrustation of lead sulphide will be formed.

					2. Sodium nitro-prusside produces in solutions, which have been, previously made
						alkaline with ammonium hydrate, an intense blue-violet color which quickly changes to
						red-violet.

					3. Add to the solution to, be tested, about 1|50 volume of funding hydrochloric acid,
						mix and introduce a very small piece of para-amido-dimethyl-anilin sulphate, shake until
						solution takes place and add 2-3 drops of dilute ferric chloride solution; a blue color
						(Methylen-blue) is formed.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Apparatus: A distilling flask equipped with a doubly perforated rubber stopper and
							connected with a Liebig's cooler. Through one perforation pass a separating funnel;
							through the other a tube bent at right angles, connecting with a hydrogen generator,
							and leading to near the bottom of the flask.

						Immerse the lower end of the cooler in a measured quantity of n|10 iodine solution
							contained in the receiving flask.

						Bring the substance to be examined into the distilling flask (if solid add 150-200
							cc. of water), introduce from the funnel 10-15 cc. dilute sulphuric acid, boil the
							mixture gently for 30 minutes, turn out the flame and pass a slow current of hydrogen
							gas through the apparatus for 30-40 minutes, or until the hydrogen sulphide is
							completely removed. Rinse the point of the cooler into the receiving flask, add
							starch-paste and titrate the excess of iodine with n|10 sodium hyposulphite.

						Calculation: Each cc. of n|10 iodine consumed represents 0.0017 grm. of hydrogen
							sulphide.

						
						*To 1/2 cc. of lead acetate
							solution add sodium hydrate until the precipitate which is at first formed,
							redissolves in the excess of alkali.
					
				

				

				
					METHYL-ALCOHOL.
					CH3.OH.

					Methyl-alcohol is a colorless liquid which boils at 66 deg. It dissolves in water in
						all proportions. It is readily combustible, burning in the air with a pale blue
						flame.

					1. Conc. sulphuric acid transforms methyl-alcohol to methyl-ether which may be
						recognized readily by its ether-like odor.

					2. Dissolve 0.2 grm. of potassium bi-chromate in 20 cc. distilled water, mix well, add
						30 cc. of the methyl-alcohol solution and 20 cc. of conc. sulphuric acid; mix well and
						allow the solution to stand 15-20 minutes. Neutralize the excess of acid with sodium
						hydrate, filter and add lead acetate to the filtrate as long as a precipitate continues
						to separate. Filter off the precipitated lead sulphate and examine the filtrate for
						formic acid with silver solution. See Formic Acid 4, page 27.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Methyl-alcohol may be estimated quantitatively by exactly the same process as that
							described for the estimation of ethyl-alcohol. See ethyl-alcohol, page 19.

						

							
								Weight %ofMethyl-alcohol.
								Sp., gr.,at 15. 5°.
								Weight % of Methyl-alcohol.
								Sp., gr.,at 15. 5°.
							
							
								5%
								0.99048
								35%
								0.94567
							
							
								10
								0.98262
								40
								0.93697
							
							
								15
								0.97523
								45
								0,92793
							
							
								20
								0.96808
								50
								0.91855
							
							
								25
								0.96093
								55
								0.90863
							
							
								30
								0.95353
								60
								0.89798
							
						
					
				

				
					NITRO-BENZOL.
					C6H5. NO2.

					Nitrobenzol is a slightly yellowish, oily liquid with a penetrating odor. B. P. 207
						deg. It is volatile with steam. It is insoluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol or
						ether.

					1. To detect sma1l quantities of nitrobenzol, introduce the substance into a
						glass-stoppered cylinder, add enough granulated zinc and hydrochloric acid (1:10) to
						maintain a vigorous evolution of hydrogen; continue the action until the odor of
						nitrobenzol disappears. Make the fluid distinctly alkaline with potassium or sodium
						hydrate, and extract with ether. Allow the ether to evaporate at room temperature and
						test the residue for anilin as directed on page 21.

					2. Millon's reagent colors hot solutions of nitro-benzol a beautiful red.
				

				

				
					PHENOL.
					C6H5.OH.

					Pure phenol (carbolic acid) is a colorless, crystalline compound possessing a
						penetrating odor and a burning sweetish taste. It dissolves sparingly in cold water,
						readily soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, glycerine, benzol, or carbon
						bi-sulphide.

					1. A dilute solution of ferric chloride imparts to a solution of phenol, a blue-violet
						color. An excess of the reagent retards the reaction. Alcohol, acetic acid or
						hydrochloric acid prevents it.

					2. When an aqueous solution of phenol is boiled with neutral mercuric nitrate, and a
						few drops of potassium nitrite solution added to the hot liquid, the mixture becomes
						rose-red.

					3. Millon's reagent colors hot solutions of phenol a beautiful red.

					4. Introduce 3-10 cc. phenol solution into a porcelain dish, add 2-3 drops of ammonium
						hydrate, and allow the vapor of bromine to strike over the surface of the alkaline
						mixture; an intense, stable, blue color will be formed. Acidify with dilute hydrochloric
						acid; it is changed to brown-red.

					5. Lieberman's reagent added to a solution of phenol in conc. sulphuric acid, produces
						an intense blue color. Water changes it to red. If now the red fluid s made alkaline
						with dilute ammonium hydrate, the blue color re-appears.

					6. Bromine waster throws down from aqueous solutions of phenol, a white flocculent
						precipitate of tri-brom-phenol.

					C6H5.OH+3Br2=C6H2.Br3.OH+3HBr.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Introduce a weighed quantity of the substance into a flask. provided with a return
							cooler, add 100 cc. of water (if necessary), acidify with tartaric acid, digest the
							mixture alt 50-60 deg. for some time, filter while hot into a cylinder, wash 5-6 times
							with hot water, allow the filtrate and washings to cool, decolorize with animal
							charcoal, filter, extract repeatedly with other, unite the other extracts and allow
							the ether to evaporate at room temperature. Weigh the reside, dissolve in water and in
							such proportion that each cc. of the solution shall contain about 0.001 grm. Proceed
							with the quantitative estimation, as directed below:
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						
							Solutions necessary:
							
								
									(a) 5.95 gr. of potassium bromide (dried at 50 deg.) in 1000 cc. of
										water.

									

									(b) 1.67 gr. of potassium bromate (dried at 50) in 1000 cc. of water.

									(c) n|10 solution of sodium hyposulphite. (See preparation of standard
										solutions.)
								
							
						

						
							Process:

							Introduce 40 cc. of the phenol solution which should contain about 0.5 grm. in 500
								cc. water, into a glass-stoppered cylinder, add 50cc. potassium bromide, 50 cc.
								potassium bromate and 5 cc. conc. sulphuric acid. Stopper the cylinder, shake gently
								and allow to stand 10-15 minutes. The following reaction takes place:

							5KBr+KBrO3+3H2SO4=6Br+3K2SO4+3H2O.

							By this reaction, 0.24 gr. of bromide are set free. It then reacts upon the phenol
								present, to form tri-brom-phenol:

							C6H5.OH+3Br2=C6HBr3.OH+3HBr.

							If the above proportions were used, there will be an excess of bromine. To estimate
								this excess, add 10cc. of potassium iodide solution (1-10), whereby the bromine will
								be fixed as potassium bromide with the liberation of an equivalent quantity of
								iodine.

							Add some starch-paste and titrate the excess or iodine with n|10 sodium
								hyposulphite.

							Calculation: 1 cc. n|10 sodium hyposulphite represents 0.0127 grm. iodine, or 0.008
								grm. bromine. Suppose 5cc. n|10 sodium hyposulphite were consumed, then 5 x 0.008
								represents the number of grm. bromine uncombined with phenol. Hence 0.24-- (5 x
								0.008) represents 0.20 grm. of bromine which combined to form tri-bromphenol. Each
								grm. of bromine consumed represents 0.1958 grm. of phenol.
						
					
				

				
					PHOSPHOROUS.

					The yellow phosphorous of commerce is sold in the form of waxy semi-transparent sticks.
						It is also found in match heads, vermin pastes, phosphorous pills and phosphorated oil.
						It is easily volatile, especially on heating. It dissolves very sparingly in water
						(Julius Hartmann), and bile, but is readily soluble in carbon bi-sulphide.

					
						1. Mitscherlich's Method of Detection:

						Introduce the substance to be examined into a large mortar, triturate it thoroughly,
							transfer to an 800 cc. Erlenmeyer flask and dilute with water until the mixture has
							the consistence of a thin paste. The flask should be provided with a well-fitting
							stopper with one perforation. Connect the distilling flask to an  inverted Leitbig's cooler, by means of a glass tube which is bent twice at
							right angles. The horizontal arm of, the connecting tube should be at least 60 cm.
							long . Let the lower end of the cooler dip into a receiving flask which contains 15-30
							cc. water. The distillation should be carried on in a darkened room. Acidify the
							contents of the distilling flask with tartaric acid, connect the apparatus and heat
							the flask, slowly at first, then to active boiling. If appreciable quantities of
							yellow, unoxidized phosphorous are present, a luminous s zone will rise from the
							distilling flask, pass along the horizontal portion of the connecting tube and descend
							into the inner tube of the cooler, where it appears most luminous. Volatile oils,
							alcohol, ether, and carbon bi-sulphide, prevent the reaction. If the distillation is
							continued some time (until these volatile bodies are driven off) then the luminous
							zone will make its appearance. In case no luminosity is observed, it is not safe to
							infer the absence of phosphorous, for other agents may have obscured the reaction. The
							distillate should be examined for phosphorous or phosphorous acid. To this end, add a
							considerable excess of freshly prepared chlorine water to the distillate, and
							evaporate it to dryness on a water-bath. Dissolve the residue in dilute nitric acid
							and test it for phosphoric acid with (a) ammonium molybdate,, or (b) the
							magnesia-mixture. (See Manual Qualitative Analysis.)
					

					
						2. Blondlot and Dusart's method of Detection:

						This method its based upon two reactions:

						1. Nascent hydrogen reduces phosphorous acid, hypo-phosphorous acid and yellow
							phosphorous to phosphoretted hydrogen gas, but does not so reduce phosphoric acid.

						2. Phosphoretted hydrogen and hydrogen containing the vapor of phosphorous, when
							ignited, burn with an intense green flame. It is most apparent when a cold porcelain
							dish or plate is depressed into, it. The reaction may be interfered with by other
							volatile, organic compounds. This may be avoided by the following process:

						Acidify the substance with dilute sulphuric acid, filter through a little cotton, or
							bring the acid extract directly into the hydrogen-evolving apparatus, connect it with
							two Liebig's absorption bulbs which contain neutral silver nitrate, add a little zinc
							and sulphuric acid to the evolution flask and warm the flask gently on the water-bath.
							The volatilized phosphorous will be collected in the silver solution, as black silver
							phosphide. Bring it onto a small filter, wash carefully with water and test it for  phosphorous in the Blondlot's apparatus. This apparatus is
							essentially the same as that used in Marsh's test for arsenic. Instead of the glass
							tube drawn out to a point, one should substitute a, blow-pipe with a platinum point.
							Connect the apparatus, let the hydrogen gas pass through it at least 10 minutes, to
							insure the removal of all air, ignite the gas and depress a cold porcelain dish into
							the flame. If the flame remains colorless, the zinc and sulphuric acid are free from
							unoxidized or reducible phosphorous. Now introduce the black precipitate into a
							separating funnel, allow it to flow slowly into the evolution flask and again depress
							the cold dish into the flame; if phosphorous is present, a very beautiful green zone
							will be observed.
					

					
						Method of Extraction and Quantitative Estimation:

						Bring the material into a flask, add 30-50 cc. of carbon bi-sulphide, connect the
							flask with an inverted cooler, warm gently on a water-bath 5-10 minutes, let cool and
							transfer the carbon bi-sulphide to a dry tubulated retort. Connect the retort with a
							cooler, add powdered iodine until a violet tint is imparted to the carbon bi-sulphide
							and distill to near dryness from a previously heated water-bath. (Turn off the gas
							flames in the vicinity of the receiving flask). The bi-sulphide distilling over must
							be tinted with iodine, to insure an excess of the latter. The phosphorous remains in
							the retort in the form of phosphorous tri-iodide. Add water cautiously to the residue
							and distill off the excess of iodine by warming with a yellow flame. Transfer the
							contents of the retort to an evaporating dish, add about 10 cc. of nitric acid (1.3),
							warm until all of the iodine is volatilized, dilute with water, filter (if necessary)
							into a bottle or heavy-walled Erlenmeyer flask, add 2-3 cc. of hydrochloric acid, make
							alkaline with ammonium hydrate, precipitate, with the magnesia mixture, and add 1/4
							volume of conc. ammonium hydrate. Close the vessel with stopper and shake the mixture
							vigorously for 30-40 minutes. Filter, wash the residue (1) with dilute ammonium
							hydrate (1 part conc. ammonium hydrate to 3 of water) until free from chlorine, and
							(2) with 96 per cent. alcohol until free from ammonia**. Pierce the paper, spray the residue into a small flask
							(introduce the paper if necessary, add from a burette n|5 hydrochloric acid in
							sufficient quantity to dissolve the precipitate of magnesium-ammonium phosphate, and
							titrate with n|5 sodium 
							**Test the washings with
								Nessler's reagent or a mercurous salt.
							 hydrate, using 5-6 drops of an alcohol solution of
							methyl orange as tan indicator.

						Calculation: Each cc. of n|5 hydrochloric acid consumed represents 0.0071 grm.
							phosphorous pentoxide.
					
				

				
					THYMOL.
					C6H3.CH3.C3H7.OH(1,4,3)

					Thymol ("oil of thyme") crystallizes in colorless prisms which melt at 51 deg. It is
						nearly insoluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol, ether, carbon bi-sulphide,
						chloroform, potassium or sodium hydrate, and glacial acetic acid. It is easily volatile
						with steam.

					1. An aqueous solution of thymol is colored red-violet when hearted to boiling with
						Millon's reagent.

					2. Dissolve a crystal of thymol in conc. sulphuric acid, add 2-3 drops of a saturated
						solution of cane sugar and stir carefully; a beautiful red color will be formed, which
						is decomposed by much water.

					3. A solution of thymol is colored green by Lieberman's reagent. When an excess of
						water is added to the green fluid, the color changes, to a fine red.

					4. Ferric alum does not color aqueous solutions of thymol.

					5. Bromine water in excess precipitates white, di-brom thymol from aqueous solutions of
						thymol. Compare Phenol 6, page 32.

					6. Dissolve a crystal of thymol in conc. sulphuric acid, or to a few drops of a thymol
						solution, add 1-2 cc. of sulphuric acid, treat the solution with 1-2 drops of ferric
						alum and warm gently; a red violet color will be produced.

					7. Dissolve a little thymol in alcoholic potash, add 2-3 drops of chloroform and warm
						gently; the mixture will take on a dark red color. Compare Anilin 4, page 21.

					Method of Extraction: Thymol may be extracted by the method used for the extraction of
						salol. See Salol, page 51.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						METHOD A. Weigh the thymol residue, dissolve it in dilute sodium hydrate and dilute
							to a definite volume (in such a proportion that 100cc. of the fluid does not contain
							more than 0.2 grm. of the residue. Bring 50cc. of this solution into a titrating
							cylinder and proceed exactly as directed for the estimation of phenol. See page 32.

						

						Calculation: Each grm. of bromine absorbed represents 0.4691 grm. of thymol.

						METHOD B. Dissolve the thymol residue in dilute sodium hydrate, bring the solution
							into a 100cc. flask and fill to the mark with water. (Solution A). Introduce 50cc. of
							solution A into a 100 cc. flask, add 5cc. of sodium hydrate (1:10) and allow n|10
							iodine to drop into the solution until a distinct, permanent yellow precipitate is
							formed. Note the exact amount of n|10 iodine added. Now acidify the mixture with
							dilute sulphuric acid, shake vigorously and fill to the mark with water. Mix well,
							filter off 50 cc. through a dry filter and estimate the excess of iodine with n|10
							sodium hyposulphite, using starch-paste as an indicator.

						Calculation: From the above titration calculate the number of cc. n|10 iodine that
							would be absorbed by the whole of solution A.

						Each cc. of n|10 iodine absorbed represents 0.00375 grm. of thymol.
					
				

				
					ACETANILID.

					C6H5.NH.C2H3O.

					Acentanilid crystallizes in colorless leaflets which melt at 113 deg. It dissolves in
						190 parts of cold, and 18 parts of boiling water; it is readily soluble in alcohol,
						chloroform, and ether. It may be saponified by heating with alcoholic potash into anilin
						and potassium acetate.

					1. Acetanilid dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid.

					2. The saturated aqueous solution of acetanilid is not colored by ferric chloride.

					3. Heat a minute quantity of acetanilid with 2-3cc of alcoholic potash, add 2-3 drops
						of chloroform and warm again gently; the odor of phenyl iso-nitril will be given off.
						See chloroform 1, page 24.

					4. A solution of acetanilid may be heated with potassium hydrate, the decomposition
						products extracted with ether, the ether allowed to evaporate at room temperature and
						the residue examined for anilin. See Anilin 4, page 21.

					5. Dissolve a little acetanilid in conc. sulphuric acid, heat until white fumes are
						evolved, let cool and add a crystal of potassium chlorate; a deep red-orange color will
						be formed which changes to a wine-red when warmed on a water-bath.

					

					6. Acetanilid shows the same reaction with hydrochloric acid, sodium hypochlorite, and
						sodium hydrate as does phenacetin. See Phenacetin, 4, page 44.

					7. Acetanilid dissolved in 7-8 drops of conc. sulphuric acid, is not colored by a drop
						of potassium nitrite.

					8. The reaction with conc. sulphuric acid and saturated cane-sugar solution is not
						characteristic.

					9. Froehde's reagent does not react with acetanilid even on warming.

					10. Millon's reagent colors acetanilid green (shade 1) when the mixture is heated to
						boiling; on standing it changes to deep red.

					Method of Extraction: Employ the method used for the extraction of Santonin. See page
							52.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Dissolve the weighed residue, now comparatively free from other organic compounds, in
							an excess of n|2 alcoholic potash. filter (if necessary) into a pressure flask, wash
							with 95 per cent. alcohol and add the washings to the contents of the flask. Make the
							stopper secure and heat the flask in a boiling water-bath 1 to 1 1/2 hours; let cool,
							wash the contents into a graduated flask and dilute with water to a definite volume,
							and in such a proportion that each cubic centimeter of the fluid shall contain about
							0.001 grm.. anilin. Proceed with the estimation of the anilin as directed in the
							quantitative estimation of anilin, page 22.

						Calculation: 1 grm.. bromine consumed represents 0.1937 gram. of anilin or 0.2812
							grm. of acetanilid.
					
				

				
					ANTIPYRIN.
					CH3C=CH
					C11H12N2O, or
					CH3N CO
					N.C6H5.

					Antipyrin (Phenyl-di-methyl-pyrazolon) crystallizes In colorless, glittering,
						monoclinic needles which melt at 113 deg. It is readily soluble in water, alcohol,
						chloroform and ether It may be extracted from acid or alkaline solutions by shaking the
						mixture with chloroform or ether.

					1. Conc. nitric acid colors dilute aqueous solutions of antipyrin green-yellow (tint
						1); if the fluid is now heated to boiling  and another drop
						of acid added, a fine red color is produced. The reaction its very delicate.

					2. Dissolve a small quantity of antipyrin in dilute acetic acid and add a drop of
						potassium nitrite solution (1:3); the fluid will become green (shade 1).

					3. Ferric alum imparts a deep red color to dilute aqueous solutions of anitipyrin.

					4. Iodine dissolved in potassium iodide produces an orange precipitate (shade 2) in
						aqueous or acid solutions of antipyrin.

					5. Bismuth-potassium-iodide produces an orange precipitate in slightly acid solutions
						of antipyrin.

					6. Antipyrin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid; the addition of
						1-2 drops of potassium nitrite solution, produces a red-orange color.

					7. Antipyrin n dissolved in 6-7 drops of potassium nitrite solution and a very small
						drop of conc. sulphuric acid placed in the center of the fluid, produces a red-orange
						center surrounded by bright blue-green, crystals. These crystals are insoluble in water
						and ether; sparingly soluble in alcohol.

					8. Antipyrin shows the same reaction towards conc. sulphuric acid and cane-sugar as
						does acetanilid. See Acetanilid 8, page 38.

					9. Froehde's reagent gives no reaction with antipyrin.

					10. Millon's reagent colors antipyrin deep red.

					11. Heat antipyrin in a porcelain dish with conc. nitric acid until decomposition
						begins, let cool, add 5-10 cc. of water and filter; the filtrate will be colored a fine
						violet-red (tint 1).

					Method of Extraction: Antipyrin may be extracted and purified by the method used for
						santonin. See Santonin page 52.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Antipyrin may be estimated colorimetrically.

						(Solution A). Dissolve 0.1 grm. of pure** antipyrin in 100 cc. water.

						(Solution B). Weigh the residue to be estimated, dissolve in water and dilute to a
							definite volume so that 100 cc. of the fluid contains about 0.1 grm. of substance.
					

					
						Process.

						Introduce 1cc. of solution (A) into one of four test-tubes and into each of the
							others bring respectively 1.0,1.5, and 2.0 cc. of 
							**The preparation should
								show the correct melting point.
							 solution (B). Add 0.5 cc. of ferric alum solution
							(5:100) to each tube and dilute the solutions to an equivalent volume with a saturated
							solution of common salt. Mix well and note the intensities of color. This may be best
							observed by looking through the tubes resting on a white back-ground. Continue the
							examination, using varying quantities of solution (B), until a quantity is found which
							gives the same intensity of color as that produced by 1.0 cc. of solution (A). The
							color intensifies on standing. It is therefore advisable to measure out a fresh
							portion of solution (A) with each series of tests.

						Consultation: Suppose it is found that 2.0 cc. of solution (B) gives the same
							intensity of color as does 1.0 cc. of solution (A). Then 2.0 cc. of solution (B)
							contain 0.001 grm. of antipyrin. The method gives very satisfactory results.
					
				

				
					CAFFEIN.

					C8H10N4O2+H2O or
							C5H(CH3)3N4O2+H2O.

					Caffein is found in the seeds of Coffea arablca, and in the leaves of the Thea,
						chinensis. It crystallizes in long, white, flexible needles which contain one molecule
						of water of crystallization. Dried at 100 dog. it melts at 230 deg. Caffein dissolves in
						80 parts of water to a bitter, neutral, optically inactive fluid. It dissolves readily
						in alcohol and chloroform; sparingly in carbon bi-sulphide, benzol, and ether.

					1. Caffeine dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid.

					2. Introduce a little caffein into a porcelain dish, add 5-6 cc. of freshly prepared
						chlorine water, evaporate rapidly to dryness on a water-bath, and repeat the treatment
						with chlorine water until a brown residue is obtained. The residue gives the following
						reactions: 
							(a). The vapor of ammonia colors it a fine violet-red.

							(b). Potassium or sodium hydrate gives it a violet-blue color (tint 1).
						
					

					3. Caffein gives no characteristic reaction with Froehde's, Mandelin's, or Liebermann's
						reagent.

					4. Caffein dissolved in 10 per cent. acetic acid, gives no characteristic reaction with
						iodic acid.

					Method of Extraction: Use the method given for the extraction of santonin. See
						Santonin, page 52.

					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						METHOD A. Evaporate the aqueous solution of caffein to near dryness on a water-bath,
							add an excess of freshly precipitated lead hydroxide*, mix the substance with 10-15 grm. of sea-sand and
							evaporate it to dryness on a water-bath. Continue the heating until the residue is
							perfectly dry, pulverize, bring it into a Soxhlelt's extraction apparatus and extract
							it completely with chloroform. Distill off the chloroform, dissolve the residue in hot
							water, filter through a small paper into a weighed dish, wash the residue and paper
							free from alkaloids with hot water, evaporate the filtrate to dryness on a water-bath
							and dry at 100 deg. until constant in weight. If the residue is not crystalline and
							perfectly pure, proceed as directed in method B.

						METHOD B. Decompose the caffein residue with an excess of ammonia-silver solution**, filter off any separated
							matter, wash the residue with a little dilute ammonium hydrate, unite the filtrate and
							washings, heat on a water-bath until ammonia is expelled, let cool and extract with
							ether until the residue is free from alkaloid. Unite the ether extracts in a weighed
							flask, distill off the ether and dry the residue at 100 deg. until constant in
							weight.
					
				

				
					CANTHARIDIN.

					C10H12O4.

					Cantharidin is the active principle in the dried and powdered bodies of the Spanish
						fly, Lytta vesicatoria. It crystallizes in colorless, rhombic plates which melt at 218.
						It is soluble in 3000 parts of cold water, sparingly soluble in cold alcohol, carbon
						bi-sulphide, ether, benzol, and chloroform. It dissolves readily in oils, and in the
						alkali hydroxides. It possesses the character of an acid anhydride.

					1. Pure cantharidin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid.

					2. When a crystal of this substance is dissolved in olive oil and applied to the skin,
						it produces a blister.

					
						Method of Extraction: (Dragendorff.)

						Boil the finely divided substance with potassium hydrate (1.20) until the fluid is of
							a uniform consistence, dilute with an 
							*Dissolve 2 grm. of lead
								acetate in water, precipitate with ammonium hydrate and filter.
							**Dissolve 1 grm. of
								silver nitrate in 90 cc. of water and add 10 cc. conc. ammonium hydrate.
							 equal volume of water and shake it repeatedly with
							chloroform to remove the impurities. Acidify the aqueous residue with dilute sulphuric
							acid, and mix it with 4 times its volume of alcohol (95 per cent.); boil for some
							time, filter hot and distill off the alcohol. The residue, left after distilling off
							the alcohol, is again extracted with chloroform, and those chloroform residue
							evaporated to dryness at a low temperature.
					
				

				
					COLCHICIN.

					NH.CO.CH3.
					C22H25NO6 or Cl5H9(O.CH3)3
					CO.OCH3.

					Colchicin is found in the seeds of Colchicum autumnale. It is met with generally in the
						form of a yellow gummy mass. It dissolves in water to an alkaline, laevulo-rotatory,
						bitter fluid. The pure alkaloid melts at 145 deg. Colchicin its also readily soluble in
						alcohol and chloroform, less soluble in e:her and benzol, insoluble in petroleum ether.
						The solutions of colchicin are yellow.

					1. Conc. sulphuric acid dissolves colchicin to an intensely yellow fluid.

					2. It dissolves in conc. nitric acid (1.4) to an intense violet fluid which quickly
						changes to brown-red and finally to yellow. When the yellow fluid is made alkaline with
						sodium hydroxide, the color changes to an intense orange-red.

					3. Conc. sulphuric acid containing a minute quantity of nitric acid, dissolves the
						alkaloid with a yellowish-green color which passes into green, then, blue, and finally
						violet or wine-red.

					4. Mandelin's reagent gives a green color.

					5. An alcoholic solution of colchicin is colored garnet-red by ferric chloride.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Introduce the finely divided material into an Erlenmeyer flask of suitable size, add
							double the volume of absolute alcohol, make acid with tartaric acid (avoid a great
							excess), connect the flask with a return cooler and heat 30 minutes on a water-bath.
							Let the mixture cool, filter off the extract and wash the residue 2-3 times with small
							quantities of alcohol. Unite the alcoholic extracts and evaporate to a thick syrup on
							a water-bath. Add about 100 cc. of water to the residue, mix thoroughly and filter. If
							the filtrate is not clear, evaporate it to a thick syrup, treat with 80-100 cc.
							absolute alcohol, filter, wash the residue with alcohol, evaporate  the extract to a thin syrup, let cool, take up the residue
							with 50-80 cc. of water, extract the acid fluid repeatedly with chloroform, evaporate
							the chloroform extract to dryness and proceed with the quantitative estimation.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Colchicin may be estimated by titration with Meyer's reagent. Weigh the residue,
							dissolve it in dilute sulphuric acid, dilute to a definite volume and in such
							proportion that each cc. of the solution will contain about 0.005 grm. of the residue.
							See Meyer's method.

						Calculation: 1.0 cc. of Meyer's reagent represents 0.0109 grm. of colchicin.
					
				

				
					DIGITALIN.

					The term "digitalin" is used to designate the active principle of the leaves and seeds
						of Digitalis purpurea. The pharmaceutical preparations are neither homogeneous nor
						constant in composition. The ingredients of the various preparations are dependent upon
						the method of extraction. The German preparation is a yellowish, amorphous powder of
						neutra1 reaction. It dissolves readily in water, and alcohol, is relatively insoluble in
						ether, and chloroform. It may be extracted from acid solutions by shaking repeatedly
						with either. Upon evaporation of the ether, a resinous mass is obtained.

					1. It dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to an orange color (shade 1) which changes to a
						current-red on standing. If a very little bromine water is added to the sulphuric acid
						solution of digitalin, the fluid becomes violet-red (tint 1). All samples of digitalin
						do not show this reaction.

					2. The aqueous solution of digitalin is colored yellow-green (shade 1) when heated with
						a few drops of phosphomolybdic acid.

					3. Digitalin does not give a reaction with bismuth-potassium iodide.

					4. Millon's reagent does not color digitalin.

					5. When 1 part digitalin is dissolved in 8 parts alcohol (50 per cent.), 2 parts
						hydrochloric acid (1.12) added and the mixture heated 1/2 hour on a water-bath, the
						digitalin is decomposed into digitaligenin grape sugar, and digitalose.

					C16H22O2,C6H12O6, and C7H14O5.

					The decomposition product reduces Fehling's solution when 
						heated to boiling; it also gives the reaction for carbohydrates with Alpha-Naphtol.

					
						Test for carbohydrates:

						Bring into the lid of a porcelain crucible 2-3 drops of conc. sulphuric acid, 2 drops
							of an alcoholic solution of alpha-naphtol, then a drop of the sugar solution; a
							violet-red color will be formed which quickly changes (on the border) to violet and
							then red-violet.
					

					
						Method of Extraction: (Dragendorff.)

						Moisten the finely divided substance with 20-30 cc. glacial acetic acid, mix well and
							dilute with water to a thin paste; let stand 24 hours at 40-50 deg. Add 3 volumes of
							alcohol, digest several hours at 50 deg., filter, distill off the alcohol from the
							extract, filter, warm the filtrate (a) to 40 deg. and extract it repeatedly with
							benzol. Unite the benzol exracts, wash the benzol in a cylinder with clear water,
							pipette off the benzol and evaporate it to dryness. Examine the residue for
							digitalin.
					
				

				
					PHENACETIN.

					C6H4.O.C2H5.NH.C2H3O.

					Phenacetin crystallizes in white, lustrous, odorless, and tasteless leaflets which melt
						at 135 deg. It dissolves sparingly in cold water, readily soluble in alcohol, ether, and
						chloroform.

					1. Phenacetin does not give the isonitril reaction when heated with alcoholic potassium
						hydrate and chloroform. Distinction from acetanilid. See Anilin 4, page 21.

					2. Conc. nitric acid dissolves phenacetin, especially on warming, to an orange or
						orange-yellow fluid. On cooling, long yellow needles of nitro-phenacetin,
						C6H3.O.C2H5N O2.NH.C2H3O.
						separate, which melt at 130 deg. Distinction from antipyrin

					3. Dissolve a crystal of phenacetin in 5-6 drops of conc. sulphuric acid and add a
						small crystal of potassium chlorate; an orange-yellow color is formed which changes to
						dirty yellow.

					4. If about 0.1 grm phenacetin is dissolved in 1 cc. hydrochloric acid (1.12), heated
						to bolting, 3 cc. water added, enough sodium hypochlorite dropped into the fluid to
						produce a white turbidity, and the mixture again heated until complete solution takes
						place, a yellow fluid is obtained which changes to reddish-violet, when made feebly
						alkaline with sodium hydrate.

					

					5. Dissolve a small quantity of phenacetin in 7-8 drops of conc. sulphuric acid and add
						a small drop of potassium nitrite solution (1:5); a pale violet color mixed with yellow
						is formed.

					6. Moisten about 0.01 grm. of phenacetin with 1-2 drops of potassium nitrite solution,
						(1:5), mix well and add a drop of conc. sulphuric acid; the fluid becomes yellow or
						remains colorless. Compare Antipyrin, 7, page 39.

					7. Froehde's reagent dissolves phenacetin in the cold to a colorless fluid which
						changes to carmin-red when heated on a water-bath.

					8. Dissolve a small quantity of phenacetin in 4-5 drops of conc. sulphuric acid and add
						a drop of a saturated solution of cane-sugar; a reddish brown color is produced. The
						reaction appears only after standing some time.

					9. Millon's reagent givers only a transient red color with phenacetin.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Use the method for the extraction of santonin. See Santonin, page 52.
					
				

				
					PICRIC ACID.
					C6H2.OH.(NO2)3.

					Picric acid (tri-nitro phenol) crystallizes from ether in lemon yellow prisms which
						melt at 122 deg. It dissolves rather sparingly (1:86) at 15 deg.) in water to a yellow,
						intensely bitter, poisonous fluid. It is readily soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform,
						benzol, and petroleum ether. Picric acid forms salts with the metals. These picrates are
						yellow, sparingly soluble, unstable, and poisonous.

					1. A solution of picric acid in hot water is colored deep red when hearted to 80 deg.
						with a few drops of potassium cyanide solution (1:25). The color is due to the formation
						of potassium multi-purpose, C6H2.(NO2)2.N(CN)2.O.K.

					2. If a solution of picric acid is heated to near boiling with Bettendorff's
							reagent,* and then a little
						ferric chloride added, a fine blue color will be formed: Di-imido-amido-phenol,

					C6H2(NH)2.NH2.OH.

					3. Yellow ammonium sulphide colors an alcoholic solution of picric acid, blood-red.
						Gentle warming facilitates the reaction. Red ammonium picraminate,
						
						*See preparation of
							Reagents.
						 C6H2(NO2)2.NH2.O.NH4, is formed.

					4. Dissolve a little picric acid in hot alcohol, suspend a silk or wool fibre in the
						solution and let stand a short time; remove the fibre, and wash it with water. It will
						be dyed a bright yellow.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						introduce the substance into a porcelain dish, add a sufficient quantity of 95 per
							cent. alcohol to cover it, make strongly acid with dilute sulphuric acid (1:10),
							digest the mixture for some time on a water-bath (replacing any alcohol lost by
							evaporation), filter while hot through cotton, and extract the residue with fresh
							portions of alcoho1 until the last alcoholic filtrate is colorless. Unite the extracts
							and distill of the alcohol. Transfer the residue into narrow cylinder and shake it
							repeatedly with small quantities of amylalcohol. Unite the amylalcohol extracts, wash
							them by shaking with dilute sulphuric acid, pipette off the washed alcohol and
							evaporate to dryness on a water-bath. Determine the approximate weight of the yellow
							residue, add sufficient water to dissolve it, filter (if necessary) into a graduate
							flask (100-200 cc. flask), make up to a definite volume with water, and mix well. The
							solution may be used for both qualitative and quantitative examination.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Christel's colorimetric method** (modified). The method is based upon the fact that picric acid forms red
							potassium multi-purpose, when treated with potassium cyanide. The intensity of color
							is proportional to the amount of picric acid.
					

					
						Requisites:

						1. Weigh accurately a small quantity of pure picric acid and dissolve in such an
							amount of water that each cc. of solution will contain 0.0001 grm. of picric acid.
							Example: 0.1000 grm. of picric acid in 1000 cc. of water.

						2. Dissolve 4 grm. of potassium cyanide in 100 cc. of water. (The solution is not
							stable and should be freshly prepared).

						3. Measure accurately 10 cc. of the solution of the picric acid residue to be
							assayed, into a graduated vessel and dilute in such proportion that each cc. of the
							fluid will contain about 0.0001 grm. of the residue.
					

					
						Process:

						Introduce 3 cc. of solution 1 into a test-tube and into each of three other
							test-tubes of like diameter, measure respectively 
							**Zeitschrift f. Anal,
								Chem. 23, 94.
							 3.0, 3.5 and 4.0 cc of solution 3. Add 2 cc of solution
							2 to each of the four tubes, immerse them in a water-bath, previously heated to
							exactly 80 deg, for 1-2 minutes, remove them from the hot water and dilute with water
							to equivalent volumes (e.g. 20 cc.). Note the intensity of color. Repeat the process
							using different quantities of solution 3 until the color produced by a measured
							quantity of solution 3 is the same in intensity as that given by 3 cc. of solution 1.
							The intensity of color is influenced by the length of time, and temperature to which
							the given solution is heated. Therefore insure uniformity in the standard of
							comparison, it is advisable to carry through a new portion (3 cc.) of solution 1 with
							each series of tests,
					

					
						Calculation:

						Suppose 4 cc. of solution 3 equals in intensity the color produced by 3 cc. of
							solution 1. Then 4 cc. of solution 3 contain 0.0003 grm. of picric acid. Hence, 4
							cc:original vol. of solution 3:: 0.0003: X (X equals total quantity of picric
							acid).
					
				

				
					PIPERIN.
					C17H19No3.

					Piperin occurs in the seeds of Piper nigrum. It crystallizes in colorless, shining
						prisms which melt ant 128 deg. It is nearly insoluble in water, readily soluble in
						alcohol, chloroform, and benzol. It is a very feeble base. It may therefore be extracted
						from acid solutions by ether, benzol, or chloroform.

					1. Conc. sulphuric acid dissolves piperin to an orange-red fluid.

					2. Dissolve a little piperin, in conc. sulphuric acid and add 2-3 drops of saturated
						cane-sugar solution; a yellow-green color will be formed.

					3. Piperin dissolves in Mandelin’s reagent to a blue-black fluid.

					4. Crystals of piperin are colored red (shade 1) by Wenzell's reagent; the solvent at
						the same time becomes orange-red (shade 2).

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Piperin is almost insoluble in water acidified, with dilute acids. It will therefore
							be found in the residue left after extracting the substance under examination with the
							dilute mineral  acids. The following method, recommended
							by Dragendorff, may be used for its complete separation:

						Dry the substance on a water-bath, triturate it to a fine powder, digest it on a
							water-bath with 95 per cent. alcohol, filter while hot and wash the residue with hot
							alcohol. Make the alcoholic filtrate and washings alkaline with calcium hydrate
							solution and evaporate to complete dryness on a water-bath. Transfer the residue to a
							Soxhlet's apparatus and extract completely with petroleum ether. Distill off the ether
							and dry the residue. It is usually sufficiently pure for the qualitative
							detection.
					
				

				
					PIKROTOXIN.

					C30H34O13.

					Pikrotoxin is found in Menispermum cocculus. It crystallizes in colorless crystals
						which melt at 199 deg. It is odorless, neutral, intensely bitter, and poisonous. It
						dissolves readily in hot water, chloroform, amylalcohol, and the caustic alkalis; less
						soluble in ether. It may be extracted from acid solutions by shaking repeatedly with
						fresh portions of ether.

					1. Conc. sulphuric acid dissolves pickrotoxin to an orange fluid which is changed to an
						intense violet, when a minute crystal of potassium bi-chromate is added. This reaction
						is not always reliable.

					2. Pikrotoxin reduces an ammoniacal solution of silver nitrate. The reduction is at
						times slow, and is facilitated by warming the mixture.

					3. Fehiling's solution is reduced by pikrotoxin, on boiling.

					4. It does not react with iodine in potassium iodide solution, or with
						bismuth-potassium iodide.

					5. Million's reagent does not color pikrotoxin.

					6. Pikrotoxin dissolved in acetic acid, does not give a characteristic reaction with
						iodic acid.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Use the method given for the extraction of santonin. See santonin page 52.
					
				

				
					SALICYLIC ACID.

					C6H4.OH.COOH.

					Salicylic acid crystallizes in fine, white needles which melt at 155-156 deg. It
						dissolves sparingly in cold water, readily soluble  in
						strong alcohol, ether, chloroform, aceton, and alkali salts, e. g. sodium carbonate,
						acetate, bi-borate, etc. The salilcylates of the metals are generally soluble in water.
						The addition of a mineral acid to acid reaction liberates the salicylic acid from such
						solutions of the salicylates.

					1. Neutral ferric chloride imparts to aqueous or alcoholic solutions of salicylic acid
						or its alkali salt, an intense violet color. The presence of free mineral acids, alkali
						salts, or caustic alkalis prevent the reaction.

					2. Lead acetate precipitates white lead salicylate,
						Pb(C7H5O3)2+H2O. from solutions of salicylic acid or its alkali salts.

					3. When salicylic acid is dissolved in nitric acid (1.3) and the solution evaporated to
						dryness on the water-bath, a yellow residue is obtained which consists principally of
						picric acid,
						C6H2(NO2)3OH. To identify the
						picric acid, see Picric acid 1, page 45.

					4. Introduce a small quantity of salicylic acid or its alkali salt into an evaporating
						dish, add 2-3 cc. of methyl alcohol and 0.5-1.0 cc. of conc. sulphuric acid; heat the
						mixture to near boiling; methyl salicylate will be formed.

					C6H4.OH.COONa+CH3.OH+H2SO4=C6H4.OH.COOCH3+NaHSO4+H2O.

					This compound possesses a peculiar, penetrating odor.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Use the method for the extraction of santonin. See Santonin, page 52.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce the purified substance into a 250 cc. graduated flask, make alkaline with
							sodium or potassium hydrate, warm the mixture to 50-60 deg. and add n|10 iodine
							solution in excess. Should a yellowish-white precipitate form, dissolve it by adding
							sodium hydrate in sufficient quantity, add a little more of the iodine solution,
							acidify the mixture with dilute sulphuric acid, let cool and fill to the mark. Filter
							through a dry paper and estimate the free iodine in an aliquot part of the filtrate,
							by titrarting with n|10 sodium hyposulphite. The estimation is based upon the
							following reaction: C5H4.OH
								COONa+3NaOH+6I=C6H2.I2.O.ICOONa+3NaI+3H2O. Hence six
							atoms of consumed iodine represent one molecule of 
							salicylic acid, or 1 cc. of n|10 iodine represents 0.002294 grm. of salicylic
							acid.
					
				

				
					SALOL.

					C13H10O3orC6H4.OH.CO.OC6H5.

					Salol (phenyl salicylate) crystallizes in colorless needles which melt at 42 deg. It is
						insoluble in water, sparingly soluble in cold alcohol, readily soluble in ether, benzol,
						and chloroform.

					1. It dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless or yellow fluid, (tint 1), which
						changes to yellow-orange on warming.

					2. When an alcoholic solution of salol is added to ferric chloride, a cloudiness is
						produced, but no pronounced color; if a little ferric chloride is added to an alcoholic
						solution of salol, a red violet, (tint 1) its formed.

					3. Salol is decomposed by heating with dilute alcoholic potash, into potassium
						salicylate and phenolate. The phenol may be separated from the solution, acidified with
						sulphuric acid, by distilling with steam or by shaking with ether. To identify the
						salicylic acid in the aqueous residue, shake with ether, pipette off the ether, allow it
						to evaporate at room temperature, dissolve the ether residue in water and add 1-2 drops
						of ferric alum; a red-violet color indicates salicylic acid.

					4. Froehde's reagent dissolves salol to a yellow-green fluid (tint 1) which gradually
						changes to green-yellow.

					5. Dissolve a few crystals of salol on a porcelain lid in 4-5 drops of conc. sulphuric
						acid, mix and add a drop of potassium nitrite solution to the center of the fluid; at
						first a faint violet color (tint 2) is formed which passes quickly into a very dark-blue
						(shade 2) on the circumference of the drop of nitrite, the center remains a deep
						orange-red, (shade 1), while the outer zone of the fluid changes to a pale blue-green,
						(with a darker center) sometimes streaked or bordered with red-violet. After standing
						15-20 minutes, treat the mixture with water; a dirty red color (tint 1) is formed.

					6. If salol is moistened with 4-5 drops of potassium nitrite solution and a drop of
						conc. sulphuric acid added, the fluid remains colorless or faintly yellow.

					7. When salol is dissolved in conc. sulphuric acid and a drop of a saturated cane-sugar
						solution added, the mixture gives an orange color (shade 1).

					

					8. Millon's reagent gives no definite reaction with salol. After saponification it
						gives an intense red color.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Bring a weighed, portion of the original substance into an Erlenmeyer flask, cover it
							with absolute alcohol, acidify with tartaric acid and heat on a water-bath for 15-20
							minutes; filter while hot, wash the residue with hot alcohol, unite the filtrate and
							washings and distill off the alcohol. Dissolve the residue in hot absolute alcohol,
							filter while hot into a pressure flask, make strongly alkaline with sodium hydrate,
							stopper the flask, heat the mixture for 1/2-1 hour in a water-bath, let cool, transfer
							the alkaline fluid to an evaporating dish, evaporate off the alcohol, dissolve the
							residue in 100-125 cc. of hot water, filter into a 150 cc. graduated flask and fill to
							the mark.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Introduce 50 cc. of the salol solution into a 100 cc. graduated flask, heat to 50-60
							deg. and add n|10 iodine solution until the fluid takes on a distinct yellow color.
							Shake the fluid for 5-10 minutes, acidify with dilute sulphuric acid and fill to the
							mark. Filter, transfer 50 cc. of the filtrate to a titrating flask and estimate the
							excess of iodine with n|10 sodium hyposulphite, using starch-paste as an
							indicator.

						This method is reliable in the presence of picric acid and phenacetin; is not
							reliable in the presence of antipyrin, salicylic acid, caffein, colchicin or
							thymol.
					

					
						Calculation:

						Each cc. of n|10 iodine consumed represents 0.0071 grm. of salol.
					
				

				
					SANTONIN.

					C15H18O3.

					Santonin is found in the seeds of Artemisia maritima. It crystallizes in colorless,
						odorless, shining crystals which melt at 170 deg. They quickly turn yellow when exposed
						to the sunlight. Santonin is sparingly soluble in cold water, alcohol, and ether;
						readily soluble in hot alcohol, chloroform and the caustic alkalis. It may be extracted
						from an acid solution by shaking the solution repeatedly with fresh portions of benzol
						or ether. It combines with the heavy metals to form more or less difficulty soluble
						salts. Santonin possesses the character of an acid anhydride.

					

					1. It dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid which very gradually turns
						yellow (tint 1).

					2. When santonin is warmed with alcoholic potash, it dissolves to a red fluid (tint
						1).

					3. To 0.01 grm. of santonin add 1 cc. of water (accurately measured), and 1 cc. of
						conc. sulphuric acid (accurately measured); mix well and add a drop of ferric chloride;
						a violet-red (shade 1) is formed which quickly changes to a red-violet. If 2 cc. conc.
						sulphuric acid and 1 cc. water are added, the fluid becomes deep garnet-red; the
						addition of 1-2 cc. water produces a red-violet.

					4. Froehde's reagent dissolves santonin to a colorless fluid which, when hearted on a
						water-bath, changes to yellow-green (shade 1), mixed with spots or streaks of orange
						(shade 1).

					5. Santonin does not react with acetic and iodic acid.

					6. Neither iodine in potassium iodide nor bismuth-potassuium iodide precipitates
						solutions of santonin.

					7. Zinc chloride colors santonin violet. For description of the process, see Salicin 8,
						page 76.

					
						Extraction from organic matter:

						The general methods for the extraction and purification of alkaloids are not suitable
							for the extraction of santonin. It dissolves very sparingly in water acidulated with
							the mineral acids, and may therefore escape solution unless a special method is
							employed.
					

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Introduce the finely divided substance into a porcelain dish, cover with absolute
							alcohol, acidify with tartaric acid, and digest the mixture on a water-bath for about
							30 minutes. Filter the hot fluid through cotton and distill, or evaporate off, the
							alcohol from the filtrate. Take up the residue with 50-100 cc. of hot water, boil 2-3
							minutes, filter, decolorize the filtrate with animal charcoal (if necessary), heat to
							near boiling and filter while hot. Allow the filtrate to cool and extract it
							repeatedly with small quantities of chloroform. Distill off the chloroform and examine
							the residue for santonin.
					
				

				
					HELLEBORIN.

					C36H42O6.

					Helleborin is found in the roots of Helleborus niger, Helleborus foetidus, and
						Helleborus viridis.

					It crystallizes from hot alcohol in shining, colorless needles.  The alcoholic solution is neutral, and poisonous. It is insoluble in cold
						water, slightly soluble in ether, readily soluble in alcohol and chloroform.

					1. It dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to an orange-red fluid (shade 2).

					2. It is decomposed by conc. zinc chloride solution into grape sugar and
						helleboresin

					C36H42O6+4H2O=C6H12O6+C30H38O4.

					3. Erdman's reagent dissolves it to orange-red (shade 2) which turns black on
						standing.

					4. Mandelin's reagent dissolves helleborin to a dirty black fluid.

					5. Wenzell's reagent shows the same reaction as conc. sulphuric acid.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Use the same method as that employed for the extraction of strychnin. See page 67.
					
				

				
					NARCEIN.

					C23H29NO9+3H2O.

					Narcein is found in opium, of which it forms about 0.1-2.5 per cent. It crystallizes in
						colorless, shining needles which when dried in the air melt at 165 deg. Narcein
						dissolves sparingly in cold water, more readily in ammonium, potassium, or sodium
						hydroxide. It dissolves with some difficulty in alcohol, chloroform, or amylalcohol and
						is insoluble in ether. All narcein solutions are optically inactive.

					Use the free base.

					1. Narcein dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to an orange-yellow fluid (shade 1), which
						turns red on heating, or after standing some time.

					2. If a dry narcein salt is moistened with freshly prepared chlorine water, a few drops
						of ammonium hydroxide added, and the mixture stirred with a glass rod, a red (tint 2)
						will be produced. Tannin shows the reaction.

					3. Iodine in potassium iodide colors dry narcein or its salts blue.

					4. Froehde's reagent colors narcein a green-yellow (shade 2) which changes to green
						(shade 1) and finally to blood-red.

					5. Erdmann's reagent dissolves narcein to a pale yellow fluid.

					

					6. Dissolve a little narcein in conc. sulphuric acid, add a crystal of potassium
						nitrite and stir the mixture carefully; at first a dirty-green color is formed which
						changes to blue-violet (shade 1), then gradually to violet and finally to an intense
						red. Gentle warming facilitates the reaction.

					7. Narcein does not give a defined reaction with crane-sugar and conc. sulphuric
						acid.

					8. Narcein does not react with hydrochloric and iodic acids.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Introduce the finely divided substance into an Erlenmeyer flask, acidify with dilute
							sulphuric acid, add twice its volume of 95 per cent. alcohol, connect the flask with a
							return cooler, heat 30-40 minutes on a water-bath, let cool, filter through cotton or
							asbestos, wash the residue with alcohol until it is free from alkaloid, unite the
							filtrate and washings, distill off the alcohol and evaporate the residue in a dish, to
							a thick syrup. Digest the acid residue with 100-150 cc. of water, filter off any
							separated fat through cotton, wash the residue with water and concentrate the filtrate
							and washings to 40-50 cc. If fat or albuminous bodies separate during the
							concentration, filter through cotton, introduce the filtrate into a cylinder and
							extract the acid fluid with benzine as long as anything dissolves. Remove the benzine,
							make the aqueous residue distinctly alkaline with sodium or ammonium hydrate, heat to
							40-50 deg. and extract it with chloroform until all alkaloid is removed. Unite the
							chloroform extracts, distill off the chloroform, weigh the residue, dissolve it in a
							little dilute sulphuric acid (1:20), filter through a very small paper (if necessary),
							dilute the filtrate to a definite volume and in such proportion that each cc. of the
							fluid contains about 0.01 grm. of substance. Mix thoroughly and take an aliquot part
							for the quantitative estimation of the alkaloid.
					
				

				
					PAPAVERIN.

					C21H21NO4orC16H9(O.CH3)4N.

					Papaverin is found in all opium sorts, of which it comprises about 0.5-1.0 per cent. It
						crystallizes in colorless prisims which melt at 147 deg. It is soluble in hot alcohol,
						aceton, or chloroform; difficulty soluble in cold alcohol, ether or benzol. It is a very
						feeble base.

					1. Pure papaverin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid. The ordinary
						preparations of papaverin, however,  dissolve in this
						reagent to a red-violet fluid (shade 1) which changes to violet-red.

					2. Dissolve papaverin or its salt in 1-2 drops of Froehde's reagent: the border of the
						drop gradually takes on a pale yellow-green which, upon warming over the free flame,
						changes to blue (shade 1), then red-violet and finally red. The transition from violet
						to red is very gradual.

					3. Papaverin is colored red by conc. nitric acid, quickly changing to orange-yellow.
						The reaction is not delicate.

					4. Papaverin and codein show a like reaction with conc. sulphuric acid and sodium
						arsenate. See Codein 8, page 62.

					5. Papaverin gives a dark yellow-green (shade 2) with Mandelin's reagent, which
						gradually changes to a pure blue.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Papaverin may be extracted from organic matter by the method used for the extraction
							of strychnine. See page 67.
					
				

				
					ACONITIN.

					C26H37NO7.(OH)3.O.CO C6H5. (Allen.)

					Aconitin occurs in the leaves and roots of the Renunculaceae, especially in the
						Aconitum napellus. It crystallizes from ether in colorless leaflets which melt at
						193-194 deg. It is nearly insoluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol, ether, benzol,
						and chloroform. It possesses a peculiar, burning, and slightly bitter taste. The French,
						German and English preparations of aconitin show different deportment toward the general
						reagents.

					Use German aconitin.

					1. It dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a pale green-yellow color which very
						gradually changes to yellowish-red and, after standing several hours, becomes
						violet-red.

					2. If a small quantity of aconitin is dissolved in 2-3 drops of conc. sulphuric acid
						and a drop of potassium nitrite solution (1:5) added, the fluid is gradually colored a
						yellow-orange (shade 2).

					3. To a solution of aconitin in 3-4 drops of conc. sulphuric acid, add 1-2 drops of a
						saturated solution of cane-sugar and let stand; a. yellow-orange (shade 2) mixed with
						violet-reed (tint 1) is formed.

					4. Wenzell's reagent dissolves aconitin to a red-violet fluid (tint 1). The reaction is
						not always reliable.

					5. When aconitin is subjected to dry distillation, it gives off a peculiar,
						penetrating, acid vapor.

					

					6. The physiological test for aconitin is very satisfactory. When a little of the dry
						preparation or its solution is placed on the tongue, it causes a peculiar tingling, or
						numbing sensation which persists for some time.

					
						Method of Extraction:
						When extracting aconitin from organic matter, one must have regard to the ready
							decomposability of the alkaloid. It is saponified by alcoholic potash, or by
							superheated steam, into methyl alcohol, benzoic acid and two new bases: pikroaconitin
							and napellin. Dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid saponifies it at 100 deg.,
							liberating benzoic acid. The following method may be recommended:

						Introduce the substance into a large mortar, trilurate it thoroughly with 95 per
							cent. alcohol to the consistence of a thin paste, add an equal volume of alcohol, make
							slightly acid with tartaric acid and digest the mixture 30 minutes at 20-30 deg.
							Filter off the alcohol and repeat the extraction with alcohol until the substance is
							free from alkaloid. Unite the alcoholic extracts and evaporate to a thin syrup.
							Extract the residue with absolute alcohol, filter, evaporate the filtrate to,near
							dryness, add 3-4 volumes of water, warm to, 60 deg. and filter while hot. Make the
							aqueous filtrate alkaline with sodium hydrate and extract with ether until the
							alkaline fluid is free from alkaloid. Unite the ether extracts, distill off the ether,
							dissolve the residue in very dilute sulphuric acid, dilute to 110 cc., filter off 100
							cc. through a dry paper and divide into two parts (a) and (b). Use (a) for the
							detection and (b) for the quantitative estimation.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Employ Meyer's Method for the estimation of aconitin. See page 103, 1 cc. Meyer's reagent represents 0.0268 grm. of
							aconitin.
					
				

				
					PSEUDO-ACONITIN.

					C36H49NO12.

					Pseudo-aconitin is found especially in the roots of Aconitum ferox. It crystallizes
						from ether in transparent needles or granules; it may separate as a viscous mass. The
						crystalline substance melts at 104-105 deg. It dissolves sparingly in cold water, and in
						the caustic alkalis; more readily in alcohol, and ether.

					1. Pseudoacontin shows no characteristic reaction with conc. sulphuric acid.

					2. Dissolve a small quality of the alkaloid in red nitric acid and evaporate to dryness
						on a water-bath. Dissolve the residue in  1-2 drops of
						absolute alcohol and add a drop of alcoholic potash; a fine violet-red color will be
						formed,

					3. Dissolve a crystal of the substance in conc. sulphuric acid, warm gently and
						decompose the solution with 1-2 drops of Mandelin's reagent; the solution takes on a
						blue color.
				

				
					APOMORPHIN.

					C17H17NO2, or C17H16NO.(OH).

					Apomorphin may be prepared from morphine by heating it 2-3 hrs. in a sealed tube with
						10 parts conc. hydrochloric acid, to 140-150 deg. Pure apomorphin is a white, amorphous
						mass. It is sparingly soluble in water, very soluble in alcohol, ether, chloroform, and
						benzol. Its salts (especially the hydrochloride) are insoluble in ether, and benzol. On
						exposure to the air apomorphin turns blue-green (shade 2). This green body dissolves in
						chloroform with violet color.

					Use apomorphin hydrochloride,

					1. Ferric alum colors apomorphin red (tint 1). This color changes quickly to red-violet
						(shade 1), and then to black.

					2. Froehde's reagent dissolves apomorphin to a green-yellow fluid (shade 2), which
						gradually turns blue-violet (shade 1).

					3. If a crystal of apomorphiln-hydrochloride is dissolved in conc hydrochloric acid and
						a fragment of potassium nitrite is added (avoid stirring), the solution takes on an
						intense red, mixed with green-yellow (shade 1) and violet-blue (tint 1).

					4. Dissolve a little apomorphin in 1-2 cc. water, add a few drops of ferrous sulphate
						solution (0.5 gr. in 10 cc. water) and shake carefully; the fluid takes on a blue (tint
						1), which gradually turns black. The blue color may be restored by adding alcohol.
						Neither morphin or codein' show this reaction.

					5. Apomorphin-hydrochloride dissolves in dilute hydrochloric acid to a colorless fluid;
						if a very minute quantity of potassium iodate or iodic acid is added to the solution it
						is colored red. Distinction from morphin and codein.

					Method of Extraction: See A, page 86.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Apomorphin may be estimated colorimetrically.

						Solution 1. Dissolve 0.2000 grm. of apomorphin hydrochloride in about 25 cc. water,
							add 10-15 cc. HCl (1.12) and dilute the solution to 100 cc.

						Solution 2. Weigh the residue to be estimated, dissolve in  10-15 cc. HCl (1.12) and dilute to such a volume that each 100 cc. of the
							solution contains about 0.2 grm. of apomorphin. The total volume must be exact.

						Introduce 1 cc. of solution 1. into one of four test-tubes and into each of the
							others, add respectively 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 cc. of solution 2., add 2 cc. of iodic acid
							(0.5 grm. in 50 cc. water), to each of the tubes, let stand, 2-3 minutes and dilute
							the contents of the tubes with water to equivalent volumes; mix well and note the
							intensity of color. This may be best observed by looking down through the tubes
							resting on a white surface. Continue the examination, using varying quantities of
							solution 2. until a quantity is found which gives the same intensity of color as that
							produced by 1 cc. of solution 1. The color is permanent but intensifies slightly on
							standing. It is therefore advisable to measure out fresh portions of solution 1. with
							each series of tests, that the standard of comparison may be uniform.

						Suppose it is found that 3.0 cc. of solution. 2. gives the same intensity of color as
							does 1.0 cc. of solution, 1. Then 3.0 cc. of solution 2. contain 0.002 grm. of
							apomorphin hydrochloride.
					
				

				
					ATROPIN.

					C17H23NO3.

					Atropin is obtained indirectly from the leaves, seeds and roots of Atropa belladonna,
						and Datura stramonium. The mother substance is hyoscyamin, C17H23NO3, which is
						changed to atropin during the process of preparation. Pure atropin forms colorless,
						odorless, glittering crystals, which melt at 115 deg. to a colorless fluid. It is
						sparingly soluble in cold water, very soluble in alcohol, chloroform, and amylalcohol;
						it dissolves in benzol, when freshly precipitated. Atropin is decomposed when heated
						with mineral acids, the caustic alkalis, and alkali-earths, into tropin, C8H15NO, and tropin-carboxylic
						acid, C9H10O3.

					Use atropin hydrochloride.

					1. Moisten a little atropin with fuming nitric acid, and evaporate to dryness on a
						water-bath. A yellow residue is obtained which when moistened with alcoholic potash
						takes on an intense violet-red (shade 1). (Vitali). Strychnin and veratrin show a
						somewhat similar reaction.

					

					2. Conc. sulphuric acid dissolves atroprin to a colorless fluid, which when heated over
						the free flame, assumes a brown color. If a few drops of water are addled to the brown
						fluid and the mixture again heated gently, it gives off a characteristic and pleasant
						odor not unlike that of the sloe blossom.

					3. A dilute solution of atropin or its salt when dropped into the eye causes a marked
						and prolonged dilatation of the pupil.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						In extracting and purifying atropin, one must regard the fact that it is a readily
							decomposable substance. When the acid solution is heated for some time at 100 deg, the
							alkaloid splits up into tropin and tropin-carboxylic acid. The caustic alkalis and the
							hydrates of the alkali-earths effect the same decomposition. It may be purified by the
							method used for the purification of aconitin, page 56.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Dissolve the weighed residue in dilute hydrochloric acid and dilute to such a volume
							(definite) that each cc. shall contain about 0.005 grm. of the substance.

						Meyer's method may be used for the estimation of atropin. See page 103.

						Each cc. of Myer's reagent consumed represents 0.0077 grm. of atropin.
					
				

				
					BRUCIN.

					C23H26N2O4+4H2O.

					Brucin is found in the seeds of the Strychnos series of plants. It crystallizes from
						dilute alcohol in colorless leaflets. The pure alkaloid, dried at 100 deg. melts at 178
						deg. It dissolves sparingly in cold water to an alkaline, bitter, and poisonous fluid.
						The aqueous solution is laevulo-rotatory. Brucin is readily soluble in alcohol and
						chloroform, insoluble in pure ether.

					Use the free base.

					1. Brucin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless or pale rose-colored fluid;
						a drop of nitric acid gives to the fluid an orange-red color.

					2. Conc. nitric acid (1.4) dissolves brucin to an orange-red fluid which gradually
						changes to orange and then to orange-yellow. A little stannous chloride added to the
						yellow fluid, transforms it to a violet (tint 1).

					3. When brucin, dissolved in sulphuric acid, is treated with a  crystal of potassium di-chromate, orange stripes are formed. Compare
						Strychnin 3, page 67.

					4. Mercurous nitrate containing a very little free nitric acid colors brucin solutions
						a red-orange. The reaction is facilitated by gently warming the solution. Egg-albumen,
						and phenol show this reaction. Distinction from strychnin.

					5. When brucin or its salt is dissolved in 4-5 drops of conc. sulphuric acid, a small
						fragment of sodium arsenate added, and the mixture heated over the free flame until
						white fumes are given off, an orange yellow color is formed. If the mixture is cooled, a
						little water added and the fluid made alkaline with sodium hydroxide, a yellow-orange
						color is produced.

					6. Mandelin's reagent gives no characteristic reaction with brucin. The color is much
						the same as that given by Wenzell's reagent.

					7. Wenzell's reagent colors brucin or its salts red-orange.

					Method of Extraction: Use Dragendorff's method B, page 87.

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Meyer's method may be used for the estimation of brucin.
					

					
						Calculation:

						Each cc. of Meyer's solution consumed represents 0.0102 grm. of brucin.
					
				

				
					COCAIN.

					O.CO.OC6H5
					C17H21NO4 or C5H7(CH3)N.CH
					CH2CO.CH3.

					Cocain is found in the leaves of Erythoxylon coca and other Coca varieties. It
						crystallizes in colorless monoclinic prisms which melt at 98 deg. It dissolves sparingly
						in water (1 in 700) to an an alkaline fluid. It is readily soluble in alcohol,
						chloroform, benzol, and ether. The salts of cocain with the mineral acids are stable and
						dissolve readily in water and alcohol.

					Use cocain hydrochloride.

					1. Cocain dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid. If the solution is
						warmed to 100 deg. during 5 minutes, a little alcohol (1-2 cc.) added, and the mixture
						again warmed, the characteristic odor of ethyl benzoate is given off.

					2. Cocain hydrochloride imparts a black color to mercurous  chloride (calomel), when a mixture of the two substances is triturated in a mortar,
						moistened with a very little alcohol, and again triturated. Compare Pilocarpin 2, page
							65.

					3. Dissolve a little cocain in 2-3 dorps of water, add 1 cc. of a 0.3 per cent.
						potassium permanganate solution, and let stand a short time; a violet precipitate will
						be formed.

					4. When cocain-hydrochloride is heated cautiously over a free flame with conc.
						sulphuric acid containing a little powdered iodic acid, the mixture is at first green
						(shade 1), then blue, violet-red, and finally violet (shade 1).

					5. When an acid solution of cocain is heated to 100 deg. for some time, the cocain is
						decomposed into, benzoic acid, methyl alcohol and ecgonin.

					C17H21NO4+2H2O = C9H15NO3+C6H5.COOH+CH3.OH.

					Therefore in separating the alkaloid from other organic matter, heating with acids must
						be avoided. The following process may be recommended:

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Bring the substance to a finely divided homogeneous state, moisten with water, make
							alkaline with ammonium hydrate, add 2-3 volumes of petroleum benzine, mix thoroughly
							and press out the fluid through a thin cloth. Allow the two fluids to separate and
							pipette off the petroleum benzine into a cylinder. Acidify the petroleum benzine
							solution with a little dilute hydrochloric acid, add an equal volume of petroleum
							ether, stopper well and allow the mixture to stand 12 hrs. The cocain-hydrochloride
							will separate out. Pipette off the mother liquor, dissolve the residue in a very
							little water, filter if necessary, make alkaline with ammonium hydrate and repeat the
							process of extraction as above described. The second crystallization usually gives the
							cocain-hydrochloride in a pure state.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Use Meyer's method. 1 cc. Meyer's sol. represents 0.0078 gr. cocain.
					
				

				
					CODEIN.

					C17H18(CH3).NO3.

					Codein occurs in all opium sorts; the quantity present varies from 0.2 to 0.8 per cent.
						It crystallizes from pure ether, or from benzol free from water, in small shining
						needles or leaflets which melt at 155 deg. It dissolves in 80 parts water at 15 deg.;
						the  solution is bitter, alkaline, poisonous, and
						laevulo-rotatory. Codein is also soluble in alcohol, ether, cholorform, benzol, carbon
						bi-sulphide, and ammonium hydroxide; insoluble in potassium or sodium hydroxide. It
						forms stable, crystallizable salts with the mineral acids.

					Use codein hydrochloride.

					1. A neutral solution of codein, or its salt, is not colored by neutral ferric
						chloride. Compare Morphin 1, page 73.

					2. When codein or its salt is dissolved in conc. sulphuric acid which contains a very
						little ferric chloride (1 drop of ferric chloride solution sp. gr. 1.28 in 100 gr.
						sulphuric acid), and the mixture warmed gently, the fluid, after a time, takes on a
						violet-blue color (shade 1).

					3. Iodic acid or alkali iodates are not reduced by codein Compare Apomorphin 5, page
							57.

					4. Froehde's reagent dissolves codein to a yellow-green fluid which changes to a
						yellow-green (shade 1) and finally to blue.

					5. Dissolve a little codein or its salt in conc. sulphuric acid, heat the solution to
						150 deg., let cool and add a drop of conc. yellow nitric acid; and intense orange-red
						will be produced.

					6. Dissolve a trace of codein in 1/2 cc. of a 2 per cent. aqueous solution of furfurol
						and pour it on to cold conc. sulphuric acid in a test-tube so that the fluids do not
						mix; a red zone forms which changes quickly to violet.

					7. When codein is dissolved in fuming hydrochloric acid and heated 1 hr., at 150 deg.,
						the product gives a red color with iodic acid.

					8. If a little codein or its salt is dissolved in 4-5 drops of conc. sulphuric acid, a
						fragment of sodium arsenate added, and the mixture heated over the free flame until
						white fumes are given off, a blue-violet (shade 1) will be produced; if water is added
						and the fluid made alkaline with sodium hydroxide it becomes red or black. The color
						depends on the duration and intensity of heating with conc. sulphuric acid and sodium
						arsenate.

					Method of Extraction: Use Dragendorff's method B, page 87.
				

				
					DELPHININ.

					C31H49NO7.

					Delphinin is found in the seeds of Delphinium staphisagria. It forms colorless rhombic
						crystals which melt at 192 deg. It is with difficulty soluble in water, easily soluble
						in alcohol, ether, and chloroform.

					

					1. Delphinin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a red-orange fluid (shade 1).

					2. Froehde's and Mandelin's reagents produce with delphinin or its salts, an orange-red
						color (shade 1).

					3. Dissolve a little delphinin in conc. cane-sugar solution and add a drop of conc.
						sulphuric acid; a yellow zone is produced which changes to green.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Use method B, page 87.
					
				

				
					NARCOTIN.

					C22H23NO7 or C19H14(O.CH3)3NO4.

					Narcotin is found in the uncombined state in all opium sorts of which it comprises 4-8
						per cent. It crystallizes from alcohol in colorless, shining needles which melt at 176
						deg. It is almost insoluble in cold water, readily soluble in chloroform, boiling
						alcohol, ether, benzol and acetic acid. It is a very feeble base. Ohloroform extracts it
						from acid solutions.

					Use the free base.

					1. Dissolve a little narcotin in conc. sulphuric acid, add 5-10 drops of Erdmann's
						reagent, and finally 2-3 drops of water; the fluid assumes a red color (tint 1) which
						intensifies on stranding.

					2. Froehde's regent dissolves narcotin or its salts to a green fluid (shade 2)(which
						quickly changes to orange-red (shade 2), when warmed on a water-bath.

					Concentrated Froehde's reagent dissolves narcotic to a green yellow fluid (shade 1),
						which assumes a red color, finally changing to a fine violet-blue.

					4. Narcotin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a pale yellow fluid; if the solution
						is warmed very gradually it becomes orange-red; when the temperature becomes
						sufficiently high to vaporize the sulphuric acid, blue-violet stripes (shade 1) are
						formed, radiating from the circumference toward the center of the solution. The mixture
						finally becomes blue-black.

					5. Neutral salts of narcotin are not colored by neutral ferric chloride. The salts of
						narcotin with the mineral acids, are decomposed in aqueous solution by an excess of
						potassium acetate, the free narcotin separating as a white powder. Distinction from
						codein. Papaverin shows the same reaction.

					6. Dissolve a little narcotin in Mandelin's reagent; it first forms a red-orange (shade
						1), then orange-red (shade 1), and finally an intense carmin-red color.

					

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Use the method given for the extraction of strychnin. See Strychnin, page 67.
					
				

				
					NICOTIN.

					C10H14N2.

					Nicotin occurs in Nicotiana, tobacum, N. rustica, N. glutinosa, etc. It is a colorless
						liquid which has the characteristic tobacco odor, and a burning bitter taste. It
						gradually turns yellow, and finally brown when exposed to light and air. It is volatile
						with steam. It dissolves in water and alcohol in all proportions; the solution reacts
						alkaline with litmus. It is also soluble in ether, amylalcohol, and petroleum ether.

					1. Nicotin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid.

					2. If nicotin is dissolved in hydrochloric acid (1.12), a yellow orange fluid is
						obtained which changes to carmine-red and then orange when a drop of nitric acid (1.3)
						is added.

					3. Chlorine gas colors a solution of nicotin red or red-orange (shade 1).

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Acidify the finely divided substance with sulphuric acid (1:10), digest the mixture
							at 40-50 deg. (not above) for 3-4 hours, filter, digest the residue with 100 cc. of
							water at 50 deg., filter, unite the aqueous filtrates, evaporate on a water-bath to a
							thin syrup, add 3-4 volumes of 95 per cent. alcohol and digest for 12-24 hours.
							Filter, wash the residue with alcohol, unite the alcoholic filtrate and washings and
							evaporate off the alcohol. Take up the residue with 50-75 cc. water, transfer the
							solution to a cylinder, add 30-40 cc. benzine, shake vigorously, let the benzine
							separate, pipette it off and again extract the aqueous, residue with benzine. After
							pipetting off the second portion of benzine, make the acid aqueous residue distinctly
							alkaline with ammonium hydrate and extract the alkaline fluid with petroleum ether.
							Repeat the extraction with fresh portions of petroleum ether as long as anything is
							dissolved. Unite the petroleum ether extracts and allow the ether to evaporate at room
							temperature.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Dissolve the petroleum ether residue above described, in 50 cc. of sodium hydrate
							(1:250cc. water), introduce the solution into a large distilling flask, connect the
							flask with a long Leibig's  cooler, heat the contents of
							the flask to active boiling and pass a strong current of steam through the fluid.
							Continue the distillation with steam until the distillate is perfectly clear and at
							least 300 cc. of fluid shall have passed over. Titrate the distillate with n|10
							hydrochloric acid, using rosolic acid as an indicator.
					

					
						Calculation:

						1.cc of n|10 hydrochloric acid represents 0.0162 grm. of nicotin.
					
				

				
					PILOCARPIN.

					C11H16N2O2.

					Pilocarpin is a semi-fluid, alkaline substance which is sparingly soluble in cold
						water, easily soluble in alcohol, chloroform, and ether. It forms salts with acids, most
						of which crystallize well.

					Use pilocarpin hydrochloride.

					1. Conc. sulphuric acid dissolves pilocarpin without color; if a small crystal of
						potassium bi-chromate is added and drawn gently through the acid fluid, a
						yellowish-green color is obtained which gradually changes to green.

					2. If pilocarpin is rubbed up in a mortar with calomel (mercurous chloride), the
						mixture moistened by exhaling the breath upon it, and again rubbed, it assumes a black
						color.

					3. Pilocarpin dissolves in Mandelin's reagent to a light orange colored fluid.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Pilocarpin may be extracted and purified by the method employed in purifying
							strychnin. See Strychnin, page 67.
					
				

				
					QUININ.

					C20H24N2O2+3H2O or
							C19H20N2.OH.O.CH3+3H2O.

					Quinin is found associated with Cinchonin in the bark of Cinchona calisaya, Cinchonia
						officinalis, Cinchonia lancifolia, etc.

					Pure quinin is a white, crystalline powder which dissolves sparingly in cold water to
						an intensely bitter, alkaline fluid. It dissolves readily in ether, alcohol, chloroform,
						and carbon-bisulphide; sparingly soluble in benzol, petroleum ether, and glycerine. It
						forms stable crystalline salts with the mineral acids. The sulphate, nitrate and
						chloride dissolve in wafer with a beautiful blue fluorescence.

					Use quinin sulphate.

					1. Pure conc. sulphuric acid dissolves quinin to a colorless fluid.

					

					2. To about 50 cc. of water in a small cylinder, add a small quantity of quinin, shake
						well and allow chlorine gas to bubble slowly through the mixture; the quinin dissolves
						slowly to a red (tint 1), then violet (tint 1) and finally dark red liquid.

					3. Dissolve a little quinin or its salt in 1-2 cc. strong (freshly prepared) chlorine
						water, and add ammonium hydroxide to strong alkaline reaction; the solution assumes an
						intense green color (shade 1) which, upon acidifying with hydrochloric acid, changes to
						red-orange.

					4. If quinine sulphate is dissolved in strong chlorine water a few drops of potassium
						ferro-cyanide (1:20) added and the mixture made alkaline with ammonium hydroxide, the
						liquid gives a dark red color, quickly changing to green-yellow. The green appears
						immediately if an excess of potassium ferro-cyanide is added.

					5. Mandelin's reagent dissolves quinin to a pale yellow fluid which becomes
						green-yellow, finally changing to yellow-green. Warming facilitates the reaction.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Use Method A, page 86.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Use Meyer's method, see page 103.
					
				

				
					STRYCHNIN.

					C21H22N2O2.

					Strychnin is found in the seeds and other parts of the Strychnos series of plants, e.g.
						Strychnos ignatii, Strychnos nux vomica, Strychnos columbrina, etc. It crystallizes from
						hot alcohol in colorless, shining prisms which melt at 265-266 deg. It dissolves in
						about 6000 parts of cold water to a colorless, exceedingly bitter, and extraordinarily
						poisonous fluid. The bitter taste is perceptible in a dilution of 1 in 670,000.
						Strychnin is readily soluble in chloroform, alcohol, and benzol; less soluble in carbon
						bi-sulphide, amylalcohol, and ether

					Use strychnin sulphate.

					1. Conc. nitric acid dissolves strychnin to a yellow fluid, with the formation of di-
						or tri-niitro-strychnin; the addition of alcoholic potash to alkaline reaction colors
						the supernatant fluid red or violet. The odor of ethyl aldehyde may be detected.

					2. When strychnin is heated by boiling with hydrochloric acid (1.12) it does not change
						perceptibly, but if a minute  quantity of nitric acid is
						added, to the boiling fluid, it becomes orange-red to red.

					3. The deportment of strychnin toward conc. sulphuric acid and potassium bichromate is
						very delicate and characteristic. The presence of a considerable quantity of atropin
						hinders the reaction.

					Process:

					Dissolve the substance in conc. sulphuric acid, avoiding any considerable excess of the
						acid. Generally 2-3 drops of the acid are sufficient. Place the acid solution on a
						porcelain crucible-lid, drop a small crystal of potassium bi-chromate into it (a crystal
						1/2 the size of a flax-seed its sufficient) and draw it back and forth through the
						solution, by means of a glass-rod. The path of the bi-chromate crystal will be marked by
						blue stripes, which quickly change to violet (shade 2), then to violet, red-violet, red,
						orange (shade 1) and finally to green-yellow (shade 1). Brucin interferes with the
						reaction.

					4. Strychnin gives no characteristic reaction with cane-sugar and conc. sulphuric
						acid.

					5. Mandelin's reagent gives a violet color (shade 2), which quickly changes to
						violet-red (shade 1), then to red-orange. (Distinction from Brucin). The violet does not
						appear if the reagent is added in great excess. Atropin prevents the reaction.

					6. Wenzell's reagent dissolves strychnin to a fine purple-violet color which quickly
						changes to a red (tint 1), then to an orange. Atropin does not prevent the reaction.

					
						Method of extraction and quantitative estimation of
							strychnin:

						Introduce the finely divided material into a porcelain dish, acidify with dilute
							sulphuric acid (1.20) avoiding an excess of the acid. Digest the mixture at 50-60 deg.
							for 2-3 hrs., filter and repeat the extraction and filtration as described until the
							residue is free from alkaloids. Unite the acid extracts and evaporate on a water-bath
							to a thin syrup. Add 3-4 volumes of 95 per cent. alcohol, digest 2-3 hrs., at 30-40
							deg., allow to cool, and filter. Repeat the extraction with alcohol until the residue
							is free from alkaloid. Unite the alcoholic extracts and distill off, or evaporate off,
							the alcohol. Dissolve the alcoholic residue in 40-50 cc. of hot water, let cool,
							filter off any separated matter and wash the residue with water until all the alkaloid
							is removed. Introduce the united aqueous filtrates into a glass-stoppered cylinder and
							shake the fluid 2-3 times with small quantities of benzol.  Pipette off the benzol, render the aqueous residue distinctly alkaline with
							ammonium hydrate and shake it repeatedly with small quantities of chloroform. Continue
							the extraction with chloroform until the aqueous solution is free from alkaloid. Unite
							the chloroform extracts, distill off the chloroform, dissolve the residue in pure
							conc. sulphuric acid and make up to 50 cc. with conc. sulphuric acid. Mix the solution
							by pouring it from one flask to another. Mark it solution A.

						The amount of strychnin sulphate in solution A. may be accurately determined by
							titrating it against a standard solution of strychnin sulphate. To prepare the
							standard solution (B), dissolve about 0.05 grm. accurately weighed) of pure
							crystallized strychnin sulphate in conc. sulphuric acid and dilute to 50 cc. with
							conc. sulphuric acid.

						Introduce 0.5 cc. of solution B into a porcelain lid and 0.5 cc. of sol. A into a
							second lid, add 0.3 cc. of Mandellin's reagent to each of the solutions, mix
							thoroughly with a glass rod until the fluids take on maroon color and then let stand
							15-20 minutes. Spray the orange liquids into two test-tubes of uniform diameter,
							dilute with water until the tubes are near full and the two fluids are of like volume,
							mix well and note the intensities of color by looking down through the tubes resting
							on a white surface.

						a) If the colors are of approximately the same intensity, introduce 0.5 cc. of
							solution B into a porcelain lid and into three other lids bring 0.4, 0.5, 0.6 cc.
							respectively of solution, A. Repeat the estimation as described, using varying amounts
							of solution A until the same intensity of color is obtained as that produced 0.5 cc.
							of solution B.

						(b) If solution A is found upon trial test to be much stronger than solution B,
							dilute a measured quantity (5-10cc.) with conc. sulphuric acid until the solutions are
							of approximately the same concentration, and then proceed as above directed.
					

					
						Calculation:

						Suppose it is found that 0.6 cc. of solution A gives the same intensity of color as
							that produced by 0.5 cc. of solution B. Then 0.6 cc. of solution A contains the same
							amount of strychnin sulphate as does 0.5 cc. of solution B. If exactly 0.05 grm. was
							weighed out in making up solution B, then each cc. will represent 0.001 grm. and each
							0.5 cc. represents 0.0005 grm. of strychnin sulphate. Hence 0.6 cc. of solution A
							contains 0.0005 grm. and 50 cc., the original volume, will contain 0.0415 grm. of
							strychnin sulphate.
					
				

				

				
					THEBAIN.

					C17H15(O.CH3)2NO.

					Thebain is found in small quantities in all opium sorts of which it comprises 0.2-0.5
						per cent. It crystallizes from alcohol in colorless prisms which melt at 193 deg. It is
						nearly insoluble in cold water, readily soluble in alcohol, benzol, and chloroform;
						difficulty soluble in ether, and insoluble in the caustic alkalis.

					Use thebain hydrochloride.

					1. Conc. sulphuric acid dissolves thebain to a red fluid.

					2. Froehde's reagent and Erdmann's reagent show the same reaction as conc. sulphuric
						acid.

					3. Thebain dissolves in Mandelin's reagent to an orange-fluid.

					4. Warm a little thebain for 30-40 minutes with dilute sulphuric acid, allow to cool,
						make alkaline with sodium hydrate, and extract with chloroform. Evaporate off the
						chloroform, dry the residue on a water-bath and dissolve it in conc. sulphuric acid; an
						intense blue color will be formed.

					5. It does not give a pronounced reaction with hydrochloric and iodic acids. Compare
						Apomorphin 5, page 57.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Introduce the finely divided substance into an Erlenmeyer flask of suitable size, add
							double the volume of 95 per cent. alcohol, make distinctly acid with acetic acid and
							warm on a water-bath for 30 minutes, let cool, filter and wash the residue with
							alcohol. Unite the alcoholic filtrate and washings and evaporate to a thick syrup on a
							water-bath. Add 50-100 cc. of water to the residue, mix thoroughly, filter, wash, the
							residue (if any) with water, and add washings to the filtrate. If the filtrate is not
							clear, repeat the process as above directed.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Bring the clear filtrate obtained as above directed, into a beaker glass, add dilute
							ammonium hydrate until a slight turbidity is observed, dissolve it in one drop of very
							dilute acetic acid, and add sodium salicylate solution (1:3) as long as a precipitate
							continues to form. Mix well, cover the beaker and allow to stand 3-4 hours. Filter
							through a weighed paper, wash with water until the last washings give no violet color
							with ferric alum, dry the filter and residue at 100 deg. until constant in weight.
					
				

				

				
					VERATRIN.

					C32H49NO9.

					Veratrin occurs in the seed of Sabadilla officinalis, of which it comprises about 1 per
						cent. Pure veratrin is a white, odorless, amorphic, and very poisonous powder which
						produces violent sneezing when inhaled even in minute quantities. It is readily soluble
						in alcohol, chloroform, ether, amylalcohol, and benzol. Pure veratrin melts at 150-154
						dreg.

					Use veratrin hydrochloride.

					1. Conc. sulphuric acid dissolves veratrin to a pale yellow fluid which quickly passes
						into orange, then into an intense orange-red. The reaction is facilitated by warming the
						mixture on a water-bath.

					2. When veratrin or its salt is dissolved in conc. sulphuric acid, 2-3 drops of
						saturated cane-sugar solution added, and the mixture allowed to stand, the fluid turns
						green, then intensely violet-blue (shade 2), and finally red-violet in color.

					3. Dissolve a little veratrin in fuming hydrochloric acid and warm the solution for
						15-30 minutes on a water-bath; a fine purple-red color will be produced. This reaction
						fails if much atropin is present.

					4. Dissolve a trace of veratrin in 1/2 cc. furfurol solution and allow the mixture to
						flow cautiously onto conc. sulphuric acid in a test-tube which is inclined at an angle
						of 45 deg; a green zone (shade 2) will be formed at the junction of the fluids. The
						color changes to blue or blue-violet. Compare Codein 6, page 62.

					5. An alcoholic solution of veratrin, acidified with sulphuric acid and ignited in a
						porcelain dish, leaves a violet-red colored residue.

					6. Froehde's reagent shows the same reaction as conc. sulphuric acid. See reaction 1.
						Veratrin dissolves in conc. Froehde's reagent to a green-yellow fluid (shade 1); on
						standing the center becomes pale violet-red (shade 2) while the outer zone of the liquid
						takes on a violet-blue (shade 1).

					
						Method of Extraction:

						See Dragendorff's Method, page 87.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Dissolve the veratrin residue in 15-20 cc. hydrochloric acid (1.12), transfer to a 50
							cc. graduated flask and fill to the mark with water. Mark it solution A. Dissolve
							0.1000 gr., veratrin  hydrochloride in 15-20 cc.
							hydrochloric acid (1.12) and dilute to 50 cc. Mark it solution B.
					

					
						Process:

						Measure accurately 1 cc. of solution B into a test tube, and into each of three other
							test tubes introduce respectively 1, 1.5 and 2 cc. of solution A. Add to each of the
							test tubes 4 cc. of hydrochloric acid (1.12), immerse the tubes in a water-bath, heat
							15 minutes, let cool and dilute the contents of the tubes to equal volumes with water.
							Note the various intensities of color in the tubes. If solution A is found to be much
							stronger than solution B, measure out an aliquot part of it and dilute with water
							until it is of approximately the same strength as solution B. Repeat the process as
							directed above until the colors from B and A are the same in intensity.
					

					
						Calculation:

						Suppose 1 cc. solution B equals in intensity the color produced by 1.5 cc. of
							solution A., then 1.5 cc. of solution A contains 0.002 grm. of veratrin
							hydrochloride.

						Note: The intensity of the color is proportional to the amount of alkaloid present.
							It is also influenced by the amount of hydrochloric acid used and the length of time
							the solution is heated. However, if the standard solution is carried through the
							process, with the solution to be estimated, the results are approximately correct.
					
				

				
					BERBERIN.

					C20H17NO4+6H2O

					Berberin is found in the roots of Berberis vulgaris, Xanthoxylum clava, etc. It
						crystallizes in yellow needles which melt at 140 deg. It dissolves readily in boiling
						water, and alcohol to an intensely yellow fluid. The solution is optically inactive.
						Berberin is insoluble in ether, carbon bi-sulphide and petroleum ether. The salts of
						berberin are yellow.

					Use berberin hydrochloride.

					1. Berberin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a yellow fluid (shade 1), which very
						gradually changes to orange-red (shade 1).

					2. When berberin is dissolved in hydrochloric acid and freshly prepared chlorine water
						added, a fine red color is imparted to the fluid. Bromine water, and conc. nitric acid
						show the same reaction,

					

					3. Dissolve a small quantity of berberin or its salt in conc. sulphuric acid and draw
						through the fluid, a crystal of potassium bi-chromate; a black color is formed which
						changes to violet.

					4. Mandelin's reagent dissolves berberin to a blue-black fluid which changes to
						red-violet. The mixture dissolves in water to a red fluid.

					5. Berberin in acetic acid gives no reaction with iodic acid Compare Apormorphin 5,
						page 57.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Berberin resists the action of most solvents both in acid and alkaline solution. It
							can be extracted only very incompletely by ether, chloroform, or amylalcohol. It
							dissolves more readily in hot alcohol. The following process may be employed.

						Treat the finely divided substance with 2-3 volumes of 95 per cent. alcohol, acidify
							with dilute hydrochloric acid (1:20), digest the mixture 30-40 minutes on a
							water-bath, replacing the alcohol lost by evaporation filter while hot through cotton,
							concentrate the alcoholic filtrate to a thick syrup, add 2-3 volumes of absolute
							alcohol, heat to near boiling on the water-bath, filter while hot, wash the residue
							with hot alcohol, concentrate the alcoholic filtrate to a thin syrup, add about 100
							cc. of water, heat to near boiling, filter while hot, and wash the residue with hot
							water until it is free from alkaloid.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						Dilute the aqueous solution of the alkaloid to a definite volume and in such a
							proportion that 100 cc of the fluid contains about 0.50 grm. of substance. Titrate an
							aliquot part of the solution with Meyer's reagent. See page 103.
					

					
						Calculation:

						Each cc. of Meyer's reagent consumed represents 0.02363 grm. of berberin.
					
				

				
					MORPHIN.

					C17H19NO3+H2O.

					Morphin crystallizes in colorless, shining needles, or rhombic prisms which melt at 230
						deg. The crystals dissolve sparingly in cold water to a colorless, bitter, alkaline, and
						laevulo-rotatory fluid. Morphin dissolves very sparingly in ether, benzol, alcohol, or
						chloroform, but is readily soluble in potassium or sodium hydrate or in amylalcohol.

					

					Use morphin sulphate.

					1. The neutral solution of a morphin salt e.g, morphin sulphate is colored blue (tint
						2) when a drop of a dilute solution of ferric chloride is added to it. An excess of
						ferric chloride must be avoided. Part of the ferric chloride is hereby reduced to
						ferrous chloride. To detect the ferrous chloride acidify the solution with dilute
						hydrochloric acid and add a few drops of a freshly prepared solution of potassium
						ferri-cyanide; Turnbull's blue precipitate (shade 2) will be formed. See Manual of
						Qualitative Analysis, page 21,. The reaction is
						not specific for morphin.

					2. Potassium ferri-cyanide in alkaline solution oxidizes morphin to oxy-di-morphin,
							C34H35N2O6, the potassium ferri-cyanide is at the same time
						reduced to potassium ferro-cyanide. To detect the potassium ferro-cyanide, acidify with
						hydrochloric acid and add a few drops of ferric chloride; it precipitates Prussian blue.
						See Manual of Qualitative Analysis, page 24,
						4.

					3. A dry salt of morphine dissolves in pure conc. sulphuric acid to a colorless fluid;
						if the solution is allowed to stand 12-24 hrs., or if it is heated 30 minutes on a
						water-bath, the morphin loses a molecule of water with the formation of apomorphin; if a
						drop of conc. nitric acid or a crystal of potassium nitrite is added to the sulphuric
						acid solution (avoid stirring), an intense red mixed with green-yellow (shade 1) and
						violet-blue (tint 1) will be formed.

					4. Conc. nitric acid dissolves morphin, or its salts, producing an orange-red color
						which quickly changes to orange-yellow.

					5. Froehde's reagent dissolves morphin, or its salts with a beautiful red-violet color,
						which gradually changes to blue, then yellow-green (shade 1) and finally rose-red. The
						reaction is most delicate when the morphin is dissolved in 1-2 drops of pure conc.
						sulphuric acid, a drop of concentrated Froehde's reagent added, and the fluids carefully
						mixed. Water prevents the reaction. This reaction for morphin is extremely delicate and
						under given conditions is specific.

					6. If about 1 mg. of morphin or its salt, is dissolved in 4-5 drops of conc. sulphuric
						acid, a small fragment of potassium arsenate added and the mixture heated over the free
						flame, until white fumes are given off, a blue-violet (shade 2) will be formed which
						changes to blue-green (shade 2). When the colored solution is allowed to cool, diluted
						with water, and then shaken with  chloroform, a fine violet
						color is imparted to the chloroform.

					7. Dissolve a little morphin, or its salt, in a few drops of conc. hydrochloric acid,
						add 1 drop of conc. sulphuric acid and heat the mixture on the water-bath until it
						assumes a purple or black color. Let the mixture cool, add a little hydrochloric acid
						neutralize with sodium carbonate and add 1-2 drops of iodine in potassium iodide
						solution; an orange-red color is produced, which quickly passes into green (shade 2).
						Codein shows this reaction.

					8. Morphin shows the same reaction with furfurol as does codein. See Codein 6, page
							62.

					9. Morphin shows the same reaction with saturated cane-sugar solution as does
						codein.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						In extracting and purifying morphin with amylalcohol, coloring matters and other
							organic bodies are taken into solution in the alcohol which greatly impede the
							identification of the alkaloid.

						Edmund Schleibe* has suggested
							the following process:

						Extract the powdered substance with sulphuric acid (1:20), filter and evaporate on a
							water-bath to a thin syrup. Extract the residue with 5-6 volumes of alcohol, filter
							and distill off the alcohol from the filtrate. Shake the alcoholic residue with
							amylalcohol, so long as coloring matters are dissolved, remove the alcohol, warm the
							acid residue to 50-60 deg. add an equal volume of amylalcohol, make alkaline with
							ammonium hydroxide, and shake the mixture for some time. Allow the alcohol to separate
							and pipette it off; repeat the extraction with fresh portions of amylalcohol, unite
							the extracts and distill off the alcohol. Take up the residue with dilute sulphuric
							acid, filter if necessary, shake with amylalcohol to dissolve any coloring matters,
							separate the alcohol, add a mixture of 10 parts ether and 1 part 95 per cent alcohol
							to the aqueous residue, make alkaline with ammonium hydroxide and shake vigorously.
							Separate the ether, repeat the extractions with fresh portions of ether-alcohol, unite
							the extracts, distill off the ether and finally expell the last trace of ether from
							the residue by heating on a water-bath. The residue is generally sufficiently pure for
							the successful detection of morphin.
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation:

						The method is based upon the fact that morphin hydrochloride 
							*Chem. Centralblatt,
								1883, 332.
							 is completely reduced to apomorphin-hydrochloride, when
							the substance is heated under pressure with an excess of hydrochloric acid, to 150
							deg. The reduction may be made in a pressure flask or in a piece of heavy glass
							combustion tubing sealed at both ends.
					

					
						Process:

						Seal a piece of combustion tubing (about 30 cm. long and 1.5 cm. wide) at one end.
							Dissolve the weighed residue in 20-30 cc. of hydrochloric acid (1.12), introduce the
							solution intro the tube (use funnel that the top of the tube may be kept dry), seal
							the tube to a capillary point and heat it in the "bomb-furnace" for two hours, at
							140-150 deg. Let cool, open the tube, dilute the contents with water to a definite
							volume and in such a proportion that each 100 cc. of the fluid may contain about 0.2
							grm. of substance. Estimate the amount of apomorphin as directed on page 57.
					

					
						Calculation:

						1.0 grm. of apomorphin-hydrochloride represent% 0.9405 grm. morphin.
					
				

				
					MECONIC ACID.

					C7H4O7 or C5H2O3(COOH)2.

					Meconic acid is found in the sap of the poppy, Papaver somniferum. It is therefore
						found in all varieties of opium. It is a colorless, crystalline compound which dissolves
						with difficulty in cold water and in ether, more readily in hot water and alcohol. It is
						a di-basic acid.

					1. Ferric chloride imparts a red color to the solution of meconic acid or its salt. The
						addition of hydrochloric acid does not destroy the color. Distinction from acetic acid.
						Zinc chloride decolorizes the solution. The addition of potassium nitrite restores the
						red color to its original intensity.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						Introduce the substance to be examined, into a porcelain dish, acidify with
							hydrochloric acid, add sufficient alcohol to cover the substance, heat for a short
							time on a water-bath, filter and evaporate to dryness. Treat the residue with 10-15
							cc. of water, heat to boiling and filter while hot. Add magnesium oxide in excess to
							the filtrate, heat to boiling, filter while hot, make the filtrate feebly acid with
							dilute hydrochloric acid, and test it for meconic acid as directed in 1.
					
				

				

				
					SALICIN.

					C.CH2.OH
					HC C(C6H11O6)
					C13H18O7
						or
					HC CH
					CH

					Salicin is found especially in the bark of the Salix pentandra Salix helix, etc. It
						crystallizes in colorless needles which melt at 198 deg. It dissolves in 28 parts of
						cold water to a colorless, odorless, intensely bitter and laevulo-rotatory fluid. It is
						readily soluble in hot alcohol, the caustic alkalis, and glacial acetic acid; insoluble
						in ether.

					Use the free base.

					1. Salicin dissolves in conc. sulphuric acid to a fine orange-red color.

					2. Ferric chloride colors aqueous solutions of salicin brown. This is not a delicate
						reaction.

					3. Conc. nitric acidic (1.3) dissolves salicin to a reddish fluid which quickly changes
						to yellow.

					.4 Evaporate the solution obtained in 3 to dryness on a water-bath, make neutral with
						potassium hydroxide, add a little potassium cyanide and warm gently; an intense
						orange-red color will be formed.

					5. Dissolve 0.1 gr. salicin in water, add a little emulsion and let stand 12 hrs., at
						45-50 deg; the salicin will be decomposed into dextrose and saligenin. If a little
						ferric chloride is added to the neutral fluid, a red-violet color will be produced.

					6. The solution obtained in 5 will reduce Fehling's solution; it also gives the
						reaction for carbohydrates with alpha-napthol.

					7. Froehde's reagent dissolves salicin to a fine blue-violet (shade 2), which gradually
						changes to red (shade 1).

					8. Evaporate a crystal of salicin to dryness on a water bath, moisten the residue with
						5-10 drops of zine chloride solution*, and again evaporate to dryness; a red-violet (tint 1) will be produced.

					
						Method of Extraction:

						See extraction of morphin, page 74.

						
						*See preparation of
							reagents.
					
				

				

				
					OXALIC ACID.
					COOH
					+2H2O.
					COOH

					Oxalic acid is a colorless, dibasic acid. It crystallizes from water in colorless
						prisms. It dissolves in 10 parts of water to a clear, and poisonous fluid. Its salts,
						the oxalates, are widely distributed in nature. The salts and the free acid are
						decomposed by conc. sulphuric acid into carbon monoxide, di-oxide, and water. It is
						formed by the oxidation of a great variety of organic compounds, e.g. when conc. nitric
						acid acts on starch, sugar, albumen, glycerine, etc.

					1. Silver nitrate produces in neutral solutions of the oxalates, white silver oxalate.
						The precipitate is soluble in nitric acid, or ammonium hydroxide.

					2. Calcium chloride precipitates from neutral or acetic acid solutions of the oxalates,
						white calcium oxalate. The precipitate is soluble in nitric or hydrochloric acid.

					3. If oxalic acid or a powdered oxalate is mixed with powdered manganese di-oxide, then
						moistened with water to which a little conc. sulphuric acid has been added, the oxalic
						acid is decomposed into the oxides of carbon and water.

					Detection of the carbon di-oxide:

					A glass rod, moistened with barium hydrate solution and held over the surface of the
						effervescing fluid, is quickly covered with a white incrustation of barium carbonate.
						The incrustation is soluble in an excess of carbon di-oxide.

					
						Method of Extraction.

						Weigh accurately a portion of the original substance, introduce it into an
							evaporating dish and evaporate to near dryness on a water-bath. Make the residue
							distinctly acid with hydrochloric acid (1:10), digest the acid mixture with 50-100 cc.
							alcohol (50 per cent.), filter land, wash the residue with dilute alcohol until it is
							free from oxalic acid. Dilute the clear filtrate to a definite volume. Reserve an
							aliquot part (A) for the quantitative estimation and proceed with the remainder as
							follows: Make a portion of the acid solution distinctly alkaline with ammonium
							hydroxide, then add a little acetic acid to slight acid reaction, stir well and let
							stand.

						1. A precipitate is formed. The precipitate may contain oxalic acid which was
							originally present in combination with  calcium. Filter
							off the precipitate and proceed with the identification as directed in Oxalic acid, 2
							and 3.

						2. A precipitate is not formed. Absence of oxalic acid originally present as calcium
							oxalate. Add an excess of calcium acetate to the acetic acid solution, stir well and
							allow to stand some time. 
								(a) A precipitate is formed: indicates oxalic acid originally present as free
									acid or as the alkali salt. Filter off the precipitate, wash and proceed with the
									identification of the oxalic acid. See Oxalic acid 2 and 3.

								(b) A precipitate is not formed: Absence of oxalic acid in any form.
							
						
					

					
						Quantitative Estimation of the Total Oxalic Acid.

						Introduce the reserved portion (A) into a beaker-glass, make it feebly alkaline with
							ammonium hydroxide, then acidify with dilute acetic acid, add calcium acetate in
							excess, let stand 12 hours, decant the supernatant fluid through a small filter, wash
							the precipitate by decantation, spray the filter contents back into the precipitating
							beaker, acidify the mixture with 2-3 cc. conc. sulphuric acid, heat to near boiling
							and titrate with n|10 potassium permanganate** until a distinct pink color is produced.

						Calculation: 1.0 cc. n|10 potassium permanganate represents 0.0063 grm. of oxalic
							acid.
					
				

				
					NITRIC ACID.

					HNO3.

					1. Dissolve a small fragment of brucin on a porcelain lid in 2-3 drops of pure conc.
						sulphuric acid and add a drop of nitric acid: an intense orange-red color is formed.

					2. Introduce 1 cc. of di-phenyl-amine sulphate solution into a test-tube, incline the
						tube at an angle of 45 deg., and allow a few drops of the nitrate solution to flow over
						the surface of the heavy liquid; an intense blue zone will be formed at the point of
						contact of the two fluids.

					Method of Extraction and Estimation: See 113
				

				
					SULPHURIC ACID.

					H2SO4

					1. Barium chloride added, to dilute sulphuric acid or a soluble sulphate, precipitates
						barium sulphate as a heavy, white, finely 
						**See preparation of
							volumetric solutions.
						 divided powder. It is insoluble in dilute mineral acids.
						Compare Barium, page 7.

					2. Lead nitrate throws down from dilute solutions of the soluble sulphates, white,
						heavy lead sulphate. It its insoluble in water and in dilute mineral acids, soluble in a
						conc. solution of ammonium acetate.

					3. Insoluble sulphates are decomposed into insoluble carbonates and soluble sodium
						sulphates, when boiled for some time with a conc. solution of sodium carbonate.

					Method of Extraction and Estimation. See 113.
				

				

				

					SYSTEMATIC TOXICOLOGICAL ANALYSIS.

					In toxicological analysis the operator must demonstrate: 
							 (1) The presence or absence of a poisonous compound foreign to the normal
								body.
							(2) The quantity, if possible, of such a substance.
							(3) Whether or not it has been absorbed into the vital organs.
						
					

					There are three chief points to be noted which may give some suggestion as to the
						nature of the poisonous body.

					1. The physiological symptoms during the progressive poisoning. These symptoms are
						usually obtained from the attending physicians. It should be born in mind that these
						symptoms are largely influenced, 
							(1) By the state of health of the subject.
							(2) By the fullness of emptiness of the stomach.
							(3) By the remedies which may have been taken at the onset of the
								poisoning.
							(4) By the idiosyncrasy of the individual.
						
					

					2. The physical appearance of the various organs under examination. 
							(1.) They may be strongly corroded.
							(2.) They may be hyperaemic.
							(3.) They may be bleached.
						
					

					It must also be borne in mind that the same poison may super-induce a very marked
						hyperaemic condition in one organ, while it exercises a bleaching effect on others.

					3. The probability that a specific poison has been used.

					

					There are a number of factors which point to the probable presence of a definite
						substance. 
							(1.) Its accessibility.
							(2.) Its virulence.
							(3.) The popular knowledge that it is virulent.
							(4.) A history of the conditions incident to the poisoning.
						
					

					Neither the accessibility, the virulence, nor the popular faith in any poison as an
						agent of destruction, will justify the analyst in suspecting and examining directly for
						a specific substance, without due systematic methods.

					The work of the analyst is divided naturally into two chief stages:

					1. Collecting the material for analysis.

					2. Examination of such materials. 
							(a.) A physical examination.
							(b.) A chemical examination.
						
					

					
						1. Collecting the material for analysis.

						It happens often that the materials are brought to the analyst by some local officer.
							In any case the analyst should notice very carefully the manner in which the samples
							have been packed, whether the seals have been tampered with, etc. It is much more
							advisable, where practicable, for the analyst to collect the materials for
							examination.

						The subject should be opened and the following organs removed, kept separate, and the
							orifices tied with cat-gut or silk cord: stomach, heart, liver, pancreas, kidneys, and
							bladder.

						If there was vomiting and diarrhoea, the vomit and faeces should be collected, kept
							separate and examined. Each sample should be placed in a separate glass jar, sealed
							and kept as cool as possible during transportation. It is not advisable to add an
							antiseptic, e.g. alcohol, carbolic acid, etc., in order to retard or prevent
							putrifaction. When possible, the jars should be packed in ice during transportation,
							and the contents examined as soon as possible.
					

					
						2. Examination of the material.

						(a) The physical examination.

						It is an imperative ruling that each organ or object shall be examined
							separately.

						Weigh the organ and contents.

						Cut open the organ, remove its contents into a clean weighed beaker-glass of suitable
							size, wash the mucous surface with a little distilled water, using as little water as
							possible, and add the  washings to the contents in the
							beaker-glass. Spread out the organ on a glass plate and examine the surface carefully
							with a good lense noting any suspicious-looking substance. If there are marked
							physical changes in the mucous coat, wash it carefully with water and photograph it.
							If it is the stomach which is under examination, let the contents and washings settle,
							siphon off the fluid and examine the residue, which may consist chiefly of food
							particles. It is often of great value to know the nature of the food last taken. Note
							carefully the general appearance, odor, color, land reaction. It should be born in
							mind that the fluids in corpses undergo a rapid fermentation so that in 40-60 hrs.
							after death, the organs take on an alkaline reaction. This reaction is due to the
							probable formation of such bodies, as (1) Ammonium, (2) Di-methylamine, (3)
							Tri-methylamine, (4) Muscarin, (5) Oholin, (6) Betain and (7) Ptomaines.

						These products of fermentation possess more or less basic properties

						(b) The chemical examination.

						If the physical examination and the history of the case point to some specific
							poison, it may be that the operator is justified in examining the organ directly for
							that substance.

						
							(1.) If a volatile poison is indicated, use 100.
							(2.) If an alkaloid poison is indicated, use 101.
							(3.) If an inorganic poison is indicated, use 102.
						

						When the preliminary examinations fail to suggest the presence of some specific
							poison, the operator has the very difficult task of looking for the possible presence
							of any poisonous compound. Generally it is fair to presuppose that only one poison has
							been employed. Obviously this is not very scientific, but in the absence of a more
							complete systematic organic analysis it is necessary.

						
							Process:

							Weigh the organ which has been examined for physical changes, cut up into very fine
								pieces, mascerate it in a large mortar, transfer the mascerated tissue to the
								contents in the weighed baker-glass, and weigh again.

							Always reserve 1/4 of the total weight for special examination or to guard
								against loss by accident. The reserved portion should be packed in ice.
						
					

					
						100. Examination for volatile compounds.

						Mix the contents of the beaker as uniformly as possible, weigh  out 1/4 of the total contents, introduce it into a thick-walled dis-
							tilling flask of suitable size and make the contents distinctly acid with tartaric
							acid. The examination of the volatile compound should be divided into two stages:
								
								(1) Distillation at atmospheric pressure.
								(2) Distillation in vacuo.
							
						

						
							1. Distillation at atmospheric pressure.

							Support the distilling flask on a water-bath and connect the delivery tube of the
								flask with a long Liebig's condenser. The opposite end of the condensing tube should
								dip into an Erlenmeyer flask containing a little water. Make the connections tight
								and distill on water-bath for 15-20 minutes. Interrupt the process, remove the
								receiving flask and examine the distillate for volatile compounds. See 103.

							Examine especially for Alcohol, Formic acid, Amyl-nitrite Acetaldehyde, Chloroform,
								Aceton, Prussic acid, and Carbon-bisulphide.
						

						
							2. Distillation in vacuo.

							Pass a long capillary tube through the stopper to near the bottom of the distilling
								flask and substitute for the Erlenmeyer flask a receiver with two openings, e.g., a
								suction flask. Connect one opening of the receiver with the condensing tube (use a
								good cork) the other with a water or mercury pump. Exhaust the air in the
									apparatus**, heat again on,
								a waiter-bath and continue the distillation for 20-30 minutes. Examine the
								distillate, which may contain the less volatile compounds as directed in 103, page
									83.
						
					

					
						101. Examination of the residue in the flask for non-volatile
							organic compounds, e.g. alkaloids, glucosides, etc.

						Replace the receiver to which 100 cc. of conc. sulphuric acid has been added, exhaust
							the air, continue the distillation in vacuo as above directed until the contents of
							the distilling flask are reduced to a thin paste. Transfer the residue from the flask
							to a weighed porcelain dish (use a bent glass rod, with rubber), evaporate to complete
							dryness on a water-bath; let cool, weigh the residue and examine it for alkaloids and
							other organic non-volatile compounds as directed in, the "Methods for the Extraction
							of Alkaloids from other organic Matter."

						See 104, Method A, page 86 and B, page 87.

						
						**If the apparatus is not
							air tight, coat the stoppers with sealing-wax.

						

						It should be borne in mind that certain alkaloids readily decompose when heated for
							some time with acids e.g., Cocain, Atropin, Colchicin and Thebaine.

						Others require special methods for their extraction and purification, notably
							Santonin, Strychnin, Morphin, Narcein and Salicin. If the substance contains no
							alkaloid or other poisonous organic body, proceed as directed in 102.
					

					
						102. Examination for inorganic compounds.

						Weigh out one-fifth of the original substance, moisten it with water and test the
							reaction.

						(a) It is very strongly acid: Proceed with the detection and estimation of the
							caustic acids as directed in 113, page 100.

						(b) It is neutral or slightly acid: Proceed with the examination for organic
							compounds as directed in 110, page 93.
					

					
						103. THE ANALYSIS OF VOLATILE COMPOUNDS.

						
							I. The Distillate is Neutral toward Litmus.

							The following substances may be present: Nitrobenzol, Phenol, Thymol, Benzaldehyde,
								Anilin, Alcohol, Aceton, Methyl alcohol, Acet-aldehyde, Chloroform, Chloral hydrate,
								Carbon bisulphide, Hydrosulphuric acid, Amyl-alcohol or Amyl-nitrite.

							Make a small portion of the distillate distinctly alkaline with sodium hydrate,
								heat gently to effect solution, add an excess of Millon's reagent and, heat the
								mixture to boiling.

							A.
								A pronounced red color is formed: presence of nitro-benzol,
								phenol, thymol, benz-aldehyde or anilin.

							1. Introduce 15-20 drops of the fluid into a test-tube, add 1-2 drops of
								chloroform, 1. cc. of alcoholic potash, and heat the mixture to boiling. 
									(a) A very offensive, penetrating odor of phenyl iso-nitril is given off:
										presence of anilin.

									(b) Phenyl iso-nitril is not evolved; absence of anilin. Proceed as directed
										in 2.
								
							

							2. Acidify 20-30 drops of the fluid with hydrochloric acid, add a small piece of
								metallic zinc and let the mixture react 15-20 minutes. Remove the zinc, and test the
								fluid for anilin as directed in 1. 
									(a) Phenyl iso-nitril is given off: presence of nitro-benzol.

									(b) Phenyl iso-nitril is not given off; absence of nitro-benzol. Proceed as
										directed in 3.
								
							

							

							3. To 1-2 cc. of the distillate in a test-tube, add an equal volume of
								fuchsin-sulphurous acid solution, shake the mixture vigorously and let stand 30-40
								minutes. 
									(a) A violet-red color is produced: presence of benz-aldehyde.

									(b) A violet-red color is not formed: absence of benz-aldehyde.
								
							

							Test fresh portions of the distillate for, 
									(1) Phenol. See Phenol 1, 4 and 5, page 32.

									(2) Thymol. See Thymol 3 and 7, page 36.
								
							

							B.
								A pronounced red color is not given by Millon's reagent. Absence
								of any appreciable quantities of nitro-benzol, anilin, phenol, and thymol.

							Introduce a small portion of the distillate into a flask, add about 1 grm. of
								crystalline sodium carbonate, heat the fluid, on the water-bath to about 80 deg.,
								add a strong solution of iodine in potassium iodide until the fluid is distinctly
								yellow in color after shaking the mixture, and set aside for 30-40 minutes.

							1. Yellow crystals of iodoform separate, or a very pronounced odor of iodoform is
								evolved: indication of Alcohol, Aceton, Methyl-alcohol, or Acet-aldehyde.

							Add a little nitro-prusside of sodium (0.1:20cc.) to a fresh portion of the
								distillate, make slightly alkaline with dilute sodium hydrate and warm gently. 
									(a) A yellow or red-brown color is formed: indicates aceton or
										acet-aidehyde. Heat a small portion of the distillate with a few cc. of an
										ammonia-silver solution (Tollen's reagent). 
											(1) The silver is reduced: presence of acet-aldehyde.
											(2) The silver is not reduced: presence of aceton.
										
									
									(b) A yellow or red-brown color is not formed. Absence of aceton and
										aldehyde.
								
							
							Examine another portion of the distillate for, 
									(1) Ethyl-alcohol, as directed in Ethyl-alcohol 1, page 18.

									(2) Methyl-alcohol, as directed in Methyl-alcohol 1, page, 31.
								
							

							2. Neither iodoform nor the iodoform odor is produced, when the liquid is heated
								with sodium carbonate and iodine: absence of aceton, acet-aldedhyde, ethyl-, and
								methyl-alcohol. Proceed as directed in C.

							C. Heat a portion of the distillate with 1-2 drops of anilin and
								alcoholic potash.

							1. Phenyl iso-nitril is evolved: indicates chloroform or  chloral hydrate. Heat some of the distillate with
								ammonia-silver solution (Tollen's reagent): 
									(a) Silver is reduced: presence of chloral hydrate.

									(b) Silver is not reduced: presence of chloroform.
								
							

							2. Phenyl iso-nitril is not formed: absence of chloroform and
								chloral hydrate. Proceed as directed in D.

							D. Introduce another portion of the distillate into a small
								evaporating dish, add 2-3 cc. of lead acetate solution, make distinctly alkaline
								with ammonium hydrate and warm 30 minutes on a water-bath.

							1. A black precipitate is formed: presence of carbon bi-sulphide or hydrosulphuric
								acid. 
									(a) Test for carbon bi-sulphide with alcoholic potash: see Carbon
										bi-sulphide 1, page 23.

									(b) Test for hydrosulphuric acid with sodium nitro-prusside. See
										Hydrosulphuric acid 2, page 30.
								
							

							2. A black precipitate is not formed: absence of carbon bi-sulphide and
								hydrosulphuric acid. Proceed as directed in E.

							E. Examine a portion of the distillate for,
							
								1. Amylnitrite. See page 20.
								2. Amylalcohol. See 1 and 2, page 19.
							
						

						
							II. The Distillate is Acid in Reaction.

							Warm a portion of the fluid with 1-2 drops of methyl violet solution (1:1000).

							A.
								The methyl violet color is changed to blue or green: indicates the
								presence of a volatile mineral acid, (hydrochloric, hydrobromic or nitrous
								acid).

							Add a few drops of silver nitrate solution to a little of the distillate:

							1. A decided precipitate is produced: indicates hydrochloric or hydrobromic acid.
								Neutralize another portion of the distillate with potassium hydrate, add 5-10 cc. of
								a solution of the acid sulphate of potassium (1:25), 2-3 cc. of a solution of
								potassium permanganate (1:200) and warm gently. Test the fumes above the liquid with
								a paper, moistened with KI-starch-paste solution: 
									(a) Blue iodide of starch is formed: presence of hydrobromic acid.

									(b) Blue iodide of starch is not formed. Examine the fluid for hydrochloric
										acid.
								
							

							2. No precipitate is formed by silver nitrate: absence of hydrochloric and
								hydrobromic acids. Test the acid fluid directly with KI-starch-paste: a blue color
								indicates nitrous acid.

							

							B.
								Methyl violet is not changed: absence of mineral acids. Add a few
								drops of silver nitrate solution to a small portion of the distillate:

							1. A precipitate is formed: Test directly for hydrocyanic acid. See Hydrocyanic
								acid 2, page 29.

							2. No precipitate is formed: Neutralize a portion of the distillate and add neutral
								ferric chloride: a brown-red color indicates acetic or formic acid. 
									(a) It reduces silver nitrate solution: formic acid.

									(b) It does not reduce the silver solution: acetic acid.
								
							
						

						
							III. The Vapor or Fumes of the Distillate are Luminous in the
								Dark.

							Test for phosphorus as directed in 1, page 33.
						
					

					
						METHODS FOR THE EXTRACTION AND PURIFICATION OF ALKALOIDS FROM OTHER
							ORGANIC MATTER.

						
							104. Method A.

							Introduce the finely divided and thoroughly mixed substance into a large Erlenmeyer
								flask, add 2-3 volumes of absolute alcohol, make distinctly acid with tartaric acid,
								connect the flask with a Liebig's return cooler and heat 1/2-1 hour on a water-bath.
								Allow to cool, filter, wash the residue with alcohol, unite the filtrate and
								washings, distill off the alcohol and evaporate to a thin syrup on the water-bath.
								Add 100 cc. of water to the residue, heat to 70-80 deg., with careful stirring, let
								cool and filter through paper or cotton. If the filtrate is turbid, evaporate it to
								a thin syrup, extract with 60-80 cc. of absolute alcohol, filter, wash the residue
								with a little absolute alcohol, unite the filtrate and washings and evaporate on a
								water-bath to a thick syrup. Take up the residue in 80-100 cc. of water, filter if
								necessary and introduce the clear acid filtrate (A) into a narrow, glass-stoppered
								cylinder.

							1. Extract 3-4 times with 10-20 cc. of ether, unite the extracts and evaporate to
								dryness at a low temperature.

							Examine the residue as directed in 106, page 88, for: Acetanilid, Antipyrin, Caffein, Cantharidin,
								Colchicin, Digitalin, Phenacetin, Picric acid. Piperin, Pikrotoxin, Salicylic acid,
								Salol, Santonin and Thymol.

							2. Extract the aqueous, acid residue in a like manner with small quantities of
								chloroform, pipette it off, distill off the major portion of the chloroform,
								distribute the residue among 7-8  watch-glasses and
								evaporate to complete dryness on the water-bath. Proceed with the examination of the
								chloroform residue for Papaverin, Narcein, Helleborin, and Digitalin as directed in
									107, page 89.

							3. If no definite reaction has been obtained from the chloroform residue pour the
								acid water solution into an evaporating dish, heat it on the water-bath until the
								chloroform is completely expelled, bring it again into the glass cylinder, make
								distinctly alkaline with ammonia, (avoiding an excess of the reagent) extract the
								alkaline fluid repeatedly with small quantities (20-30 cc.) of benzine (B. P.
								50-75), unite the benzine extracts, distill off the excess of benzine, and examine
								the residue for Aconitin, Atropin, Apomorphin, Brucin, Cocain, Codein, Delphinin,
								Narcotin, Pilocarpin, Quinin, Strychnin, Thebain and Veratrin as directed in 108, page 90.

							4. If no definite and conclusive reactions have been obtained from the benzine
								residue, extract the ammoniacal fluid similarly with amylalcohol and examine the
								amyl-alcohol residue for Berberin, Brucin, Helleborin Morphin, Narcein, Papaverin,
								Salicin and Thebain as directed in 109, page 92.
						

						
							105. Method B. (Dragendoff.)

							Introduce the finely divided substance into an evaporating dish, add sufficient
								water to cover it, acidify with 5-10 cc. dilute sulphuric acid (1:5), digest the
								mixture 3-4 hours at 50 deg., filter and digest the residue again at 50 deg. with
								about 100 cc. of water, filter, unite the two filtrates and evaporate on a
								water-bath to the consistence of a thin paste. Bring the residue into a flask of
								suitable size, add 3-4 volumes of 95 per cent alcohol, digest 24 hours at 50-60
								deg., filter, bring the alcoholic filtrate into a fractiionating flask and distill
								off the alcohol. Transfer the residue, left after distilling off the alcohol, to an
								evaporating dish, concentrate to 50-60 cc. bring it into a cylinder and shake it
								vigorously with 20-30 cc. benzine. Pipette off the benzine and repeat the extraction
								with 30-40 cc. After removing the second portion of benzine, make the aqueous
								residue alkaline with ammonium hydrate, warm to 50 deg. and again extract the
								solution with 40-50 cc. of benzine. Pipette off the benzine and repeat the
								extraction so long as anything dissolves. Unite the benzine extracts, distill off
								the benzine, dissolve the residue in a little dilute sulphuric acid, filter (if
								necessary) into a cylinder and proceed to extract with ether, as directed in 104, 1, page 86.
						

						

						
							106. ANALYSIS OF THE ETHER RESIDUE FROM ACID SOLUTIONS.

							This residue may contain Acetanilid Antipyrin, Caffein, Cantharidin, Colchicin,
								Digitalin, Phenacetin Picric acid, Piperin, Pikrotoxin, Salicylic acid, Salol,
								Santonin, and Thymol.

							Dissolve a little of the residue in very dilute hydrochloric acid and add a drop of
								bismuth-potassium iodide.

							A. A red-orange precipitate is produced.

							Indicates: Antipyrin, Caffeln, Colchicin or Piperin. (GROUP 1)
							
								1. Ferric alum colors a neutral solution of the residue deep red:
									antirpyrin.

								2. Ferric alum gives no reaction: absence antipyrin. Examine the remaining
									portion of the residue for piperin, colchicin and caffein. 
										(a) Conc. sulphuric acid gives a brown-red color: piperin.

										(b) Conc. nitric acid gives a violet color: colchicin.

										(c) Chlorine water and ammonia give a fine violet: caffein.
									
								
							
							B. A red-orange precipitate is not produced: absence of group
								1.

							Warm a sample of the substance with 1-2 drops of alcoholic potash:
							
								1. A carmin-red color is formed: santonin.

								2. No pronounced color is formed: absence of santonin. Proceed as directed in
									C.
							

							C. Heat the alcoholic potash solution to boiling, let cool, add
								an excess of Millon's reagent and boil:
							
								1. A pronounced red color is formed.

								Indicates: Salol, Salicylic acid, or Thymol. (GROUP 2). Treat a sample of
									the original substance dissolved in water, with ferric alum. 
										(a) A violet color is formed: salicylic acid.

										(b) No reaction: absence of salicylic acid. Test the dry residue for:
												
												(1) Salol as directed in 2, 3, and 5, page 50.

												(2) Thymol, as directed in 2, 3, and 6, page 36.
											
										
									
								
								2. Millon's reagent does not give a pronounced red color: absence of group 2.
									Proceed as directed in D.
							
							D. Dissolve a little of the residue in Mandelin's reagent.
							
								1. A pronounced color is formed. Indicates: Acetanilid, Digitalin,
									Phenacetin or Pikrotoxin (GROUP 3.)
									
										(a) It is red;
									
										
										

										(x) The color is permanent: digitalin.
										(y) It fades quickly: acetanilid.
									
										
									
								(b) It is yellow to brown: pikrotoxin: confirm 1, 2, 3, page
										48.
									
								

								2. No pronounced color is formed: absence of group 3. Proceed as directed in
									E
							
							E. Dissolve another portion of the residue in Wenzell's reagent
								and let stand 15-20 minutes.
							
								1. A pronounced color is formed:
									
										(a) It is yellow: pikrotoxin.
										(b) It is violent: cantharidin.
									
								
									
								2. No color is produced: 
									
										(a) Test for phenacetin as directed in 4, 5, and 7, page
												44.
										(b) Test for picnic acid as directed in 1, 2, and 3, page
												45.
									
								
							
						

						
							107. ANALYSIS OF THE CHLOROFORM RESIDUE FROM ACID
								SOLUTIONS.

							This residue may contain Papaverin, Narcein, Pikrotoxin, Helleborin, or
								Digitalin.

							Dissolve a little of the residue in dilute sulphuric acid (1:50) and add 2-3 drops
								of potassium-bismuth iodide.

							A. A red-orange precipitate is formed: indicates papaverin or
								narcein.
							
								(a) Examine another portion of the residue for papaverin with Mandelin's
									reagent. See Paperverin 5, page 55.

								(b) Examine the residue for narcein with conc. sulphuric acid and potassium
									nitrite. See Narcein 6, page 54.
							

							B. A red-orange precipitate is not formed: absence of papaverin
								and narcein.

							Dissolve another portion of the residue in conc. sulphuric acid.
							
								(a) A pronounced red color is formed: indicates helleborin or
									digitalin.
									
										1. Test a sample of the residue for helleborin with Erdman's
											reagent. See Helleborin 3, page 53.

										2. Test a portion of the residue for digitalin with conc.
											sulphuric acid and bromine. See Digitalin 1, p. 43.
									
								
								(b) Conc. sulphuric acid gives no pronounced red color: absence of helleborin
									and digitalin.
							

							Examine the residue for pikrotoxin with Fehling's solution. See Pikrotoxin 3, page
									48.

							If no specific reaction has been obtained in the analysis of the chloroform residue
								from acid solution, render the acid, aqueous fluid, left after extracting with
								chloroform, distinctly  alkaline with ammonium hydrate
								(1:10), warm to 30 deg. and extract repeatedly with small quantities of benzine
								(20-30 cc.) Unite the benzine extracts, distill off the major portion of the
								benzine, divide the residue into 7-8 parts, and allow the benzine to evaporate at
								room-temperature. Proceed with the examination of the benzine residue as directed in
									108.
						

						
							Section

							108. ANALYSIS OF THE BENZINE RESIDUE OBTAINED FROM THE AMMONIACAL
								SOLUTION.

							This residue may contain any of the following substances:

							

								
									Aconitin 
									Cocain
									Pilocarpin
								

								
									Atropin 
									Codein
									Quinin
								

								
									Apomorphin
									Delphinin
									Strychnin
								

								
									Brucin
									Narcotin
									Thebain
								

								
									
									Nicotin
									Veratrin
								
							

							A. Dissolve a little of the residue in hydrochloric acid (1.100),
								and add 1-2 drops of potassium-bismuth iodide.
							
								(a) A red-orange precipitate is formed: presence of any of the alkaloids named
									above.

								(b) No precipitate is formed: absence of all the alkaloids named above.
									Proceed as directed in 109, page 92.
							
							B. Dissolve a little of the residue in conc. sulphuric acid.

							I.
								Sulphuric acid gives a pronounced color:
							
								1. It is pure red: presence of veratrin, or thebain.
									
										(a) Test a portion of the residue for veratrin with
											hydrochloric acid. See Veratrin 3, page 70.

										(b) Test a portion of the residue with Mandelin’s reagent: an
											orange color indicates thebain. Confirm by 4,page 69
									
								
								2. Is is dark orange color: aconitin or delphinin. To the conc. sulphuric
									acid solution. add 1-2 drops of saturated cane-sugar solution:
									
										(a) It gives a yellow color which changes to, green:
											delphinin.

										(b) It gives an orange (shade 2) mixed with violet-red:
											aconitin. Confirm 5 and 6, page 55.
									
								
								3. It is yellow: narcotin. Heat the sulphuric acid solution gently over the
									free flame: an orange-red mixed with violet is formed; narcotin. Compare Narcotin
									4, page 63.
							
							II.
								Conc. sulphuric acid does not give a pronounced color:
								 absence of appreciable quantities of veratrin,
								thebain, aconitin, delphinin and narcotin.

							C. Dissolve another portion of the residue in Erdman's
								reagent.

							I.
								It dissolves with a pronounced color: indicates narcotin.
								apomorphin, brucin, or codein.
							
								1. It is red: narcotim or brucin.
									
										(a) Conc. nitric acid dissolves it to an orange-red fluid
											which is changed to violet by stannous chloride: brucin. Confirm by 3 and 7,
											page 60.

										(b) Heat the sulphuric acid solution gently over the free
											flame; an orange-red mixed with violet is formed: narcotin. Confirm by 1 and
											3, page 63.
									
								
								2. It is a dirty green: codein or apomorphin.
									
										(a) The substance dissolved in hydrochloric acid, gives a deep
											red color with iodic acid: apomorphin. Confirm by 1, 2, and 3, page 57.

										(b) To the sulphuric acid solution, add a crystal of sodium
											arsenate and heat over the free flame: a blue-violet color (shade 1) forms:
											codein. Confirm by 2, 5 and 6, page 62.
									
								
							
							II.
								No pronounced color is given by Erdman's reagent: absence of
								appreciable quantities of narcotin, apomorphin, brucin or codein. Proceed as
								directed in D.

							D. Dissolve a portion of the residue in 4-5 drops of Mandelin's
								reagent and let stand 15-20 minutes.
							
								1. It dissolves with a pronounced color: indicates the
									presence of strychnin, quinin, atropin or pilocarpin:
									
										(a) It is a pale red: presence of cocain, pilocarpin or
											atropin. Proceed as in E.

										(b) It is violet or violet-red: strychnin. Confirm by 3 and 6,
											page 67.

										(c) It is yellow-green (after standing some time): quinin.
											Confirm by 3 and 4, page 66.
									
								
								2. No pronounced color is given by Mandelin's reagent:
									absence of appreciable quantities of strychnin and quinin. Proceed as directed in
									E.
							

							E. Neither conc. sulphuric acid, Erdman's nor Mandelin's reagent
								gives a pronounced reaction.

							Use separate portions of the residue for each of the following tests:
							
								(a) Conc. nitric acid and alcoholic potash give a violet-red color: atropin.
									Confirm by 2, page 59.

								(b) Test for quinin with chlorine water and potassium  ferro-cyanide. Confirm by 3 and 5, page 66.

								(c) Test for cocain with sulphuric and iodic acids. See Cocain 4. Confirm by 1
									and 2, page 61.

								(d) Test for pilocarpin with mercurous chloride. See Pilocarpin 2, page 65.

								(e) Test for nicotin with hydrochloric acid and a drop of nitric acid. See
									Nicotin 2, page 64.
							
						

						
							109. ANALYSIS OF THE AMYLALCOHOL RESIDUE.

							The residue may contain Berberin, Brucin, Helleborin, Morphin, Narcein, Papaverin,
								Salicin or Thebain.

							Dissolve a little of the residue in conc. sulphuric acid.

							A. It dissolves in sulphuric acid with a pronounced color.

							1. It is red: indication of salicin, thebain, helleborin,or brucin. Dissolve
								another portion of the residue in very dilute hydro-chloric acid, and add 1-2 drops
								of potassium-bismuth iodide.
							
								(a) A red orange precipitate is formed: presence of thebain or brucin.
								
									
										(x) Conc. sulphuric acid gives an intense red color: thebain. Confirm by 2
											and 4, page 69.

										(y) Conc. nitric acid gives an orange-red color: brucin. Confirm by 2, 3,
											and 5, page 60.
									
								
								(b) A red-orange precipitate is not formed: absence of thebain and brucin:
									presence of salicin or helleborin.
								
									
										(x) Emulsin and ferric chloride give a violet color: salicin. See Salicin
											5, page 76.

										(y) Test for helleborin with Erdman's regent. See Helleborin 2 and 3, page
												53.
									
								
							
							2. It is violet: presence of papaverin. Confirm by 2 and 4. page 55.

							3. It is yellow or yellowish green: indication of narcein or berberin.
							
								(a) Conc. sulphuric acid and potassium nitrite give a dirty green color which
									changes to blue-violet: narcein. Confirm by 2, 4, and 6, page 53.

								(b) Conc. hydrochloric acid and chlorine water give a fine red color:
									berberin. Confirm by 3 and 4, page 72.
							
							B. Conc. sulphuric acid does not give a very pronounced color:
								absence of appreciable quantities of berberin, helleborin, thebain and salicin.
								Examine the residue for morphin and small quantities of brucin, narcein or papaverin
								which may have escaped detection.

							

							1. Dissolve some of the residue in Erdman's reagent.
							
								(a) A red color is formed: indicates brucin.

								(b) A red color is not formed: absence of brucin.
							
							2. Dissolve another portion of the residue in Froehde's reagent: a fine violet
								color is formed: morphin. Confirm by 1, 2 and 3, page 73.

							3. Dissolve a portion of the residue in Wenzell's reagent and heat it cautiously
								over the free flame:
							
								(a) A fine red color is formed: presence of narcein.

								(b) A red violet its formed: presence of papaverin.
							
						

						
							110. METHODS FOR THE DESTRUCTION OF ORGANIC MATTER.

							Methods I, II and III are not applicable for the separation and detection
								of compounds of mercury.

							I. Method of Wœhler and Biebold. (Modified.)

							Introduce the finely divided substance (previously weighed) into a porcelain dish
								of suitable size, add sufficient nitric acid (1.3) to cover it, and heat the mixture
								on a water-bath until it has the consistence of a homogeneous paste. Neutralize the
								free acid with sodium hydrate, add a quantity of ammonium nitrate equal in weight to
								the original weight of the substance and evaporate tie mixture to complete dryness
								on a water-bath. Bring a portion (2-3 grm.) of the dried substance into a large
								porcelain crucible, cover with lid and heat gently until the mixture ignites. (The
								ignition its often attended with slight explosions). Remove the lid and observe the
								color of the mixture. If it is not perfectly white, add 0.5-1.0 grm. of ammonium
								nitrate, cover and again ignite. Continue the addition of small quantities of
								ammonium nitrate and ignition, until the residue is white. Bring a second portion
								off the dry substance into the crucible and ignite as before. Continue to add the
								dry residue and ignite with the nitrate, until the entire residue has been brought
								into the crucible and ignited. The resulting mass must be white and homogeneous.
								Place the crucible in a beaker-glass, cover it with dilute nitric acid (1:10) and
								boil until the residue is thoroughly disintegrated; filter and wash the residue with
								hot water. Mark the filter and its contents Residue 1. Proceed with the examination
								of Residue 1 as directed in 112, page 99.

							Unite the filtrate and washings, add 4-5 cc. conc. sulphuric acid, mix, and
								exaporate to near dryness on a waster-bath. Stir the 
								hot fluid until hydrochloric, or nitric acid fumes are no longer given off.*

							Digest the acid aqueous residue with 15-20 times its volume of water, filter if
								necessary, wash with hot water and mark the filter and its contents, Residue 2.
								Proceed with the examination of this residue as directed in 112,
								page 99.

							Dilute the aqueous filtrate to exactly 200 cc. mix well, reserve an aliquot part
								for the quantitative estimation and proceed with the systematic qualitative analysis
								of the remainder as directed in in 111 page 97.

							II. The organic matter may be destroyed by heating the substance,
								(1) with conc. nitric acid (1.3) and, (2) treating the evaporated residue with
								nitro-sulphonic acid.

							Introduce a weighed portion of the finely divided and uniformly mixed substance
								into a 300 cc. Erlenmeyer flask, add sufficient nitric acid (1.3) to cover it, place
								a small funnel in the mouth of the flask and heat on a water-bath until the mixture
								becomes yellow, or orange in color. Usually a small portion of the substance is
								insoluble in nitric acid. Allow the flask to cool, dilute the contents with 150-200
								cc. of water, heat to near boiling and filter while hot. Mark the filter and its
								contents Residue 1. Evaporate the filtrate, in a porcelain dish, to a thick syrup,
								add cautiously 5-7 cc. of conc. nitro-sulphonic acid (10 grm. potassium nitrite in
								100 cc. conc. sulphuric acid) and evaporate to near dryness; heat the residue
								cautiously over the free flame until completely charred. The temperature should not
								exceed 150-200 deg. If the residue does not come to complete dryness but remains as
								a thick, black fluid, add small pieces of filter paper to absorb the excess of acid,
								heat again to 150-200 deg. until the mass becomes dry and friable. Moisten the
								residue with 2-3 cc. conc. nitric acid, evaporate to dryness on a water-bath and
								heat the residue (not above 100) until the nitric acid is expelled. Allow the dish
								to cool, add 150-200 c. of water, heat to near boiling and filter while hot. Wash
								the residue with hot water until all soluble parts are removed. Mark the filter and
								contents; Residue 2. Unite the filtrate and washings (they should be colorless),
								dilute to a definite volume, reserve an aliquot part for the quantitative estimation
								and use the remainder of the fluid for the qualitative examination, as directed in
									111, page 97.

							If the filtrate is found to contain no poisonous metal, proceed 
								*Bring a drop of the
									fluid into a test-tube, dilute it with 4-5 cc. of water and add a little
									KI-starch-paste. If a blue color is not given, the fluid is free from nitrous
									acid.
								 with the examination of the residue 1 and 2 as
								directed in 112, page 99.

							III. Method of Verryken.

							This method is of special advantage when the object under examination is very
								small.

							Introduce 5-10 grm. of the dry material into a porcelain boat. Equip a piece of
								hard glass combustion tubing at each end with a close fitting, singly perforated,
								rubber stopper. Pass a glass tube 12-15 cm. long through one stopper, allowing it to
								terminate on the inner surface. Connect the outer end of the small tube with a
								sulphuric acid wash-bottle which is attached to an oxygen receiver. The other
								stopper should also be provided with a similar tube which is connected with a
								Liebig's absorption bulb half full of water. Support the apparatus firmly on a
								retort stand, introduce the boat with its contents into the center of the combustion
								tube, make the connections as above directed and pass a slow current of dry oxygen
								into the tube until the air is expelled**

							Now apply a small flame to that portion of the combustion tube in which the boat is
								held. Continue to heat gently until the material in the boat its completely charred
								and black. Increase the heat to a dull redness and maintain it at this stage until
								the organic matter is completely consumed. At no time should the temperature be
								sufficiently high to cause the contents of the tube to blaze. When the oxidation is
								complete, allow the tube to cool without interrupting the flow of oxygen, turn off
								the oxygen, introduce the oontents of the boat into a small porcelain dish, wash the
								combustion tube and the smaller glass connection tubes, with conc. nitric acid, add
								the washings to the contents of the dish, transfer the water in the Liebig's bulb
								also to the dish and wash out the bulb with hot water, adding the washings to the
								remainder of the fluid. Now add 2-3 cc. of conc. sulphuric acid, and evaporate the
								mixture on a water-bath until the nitric acid is completely expelled. Add 150-200
								cc. of water and heat to near boiling; if complete solution does not take place,
								filter, wash the residue with hot water and examine it as directed in 112, page 99.

							Unite the filtrate and washings, dilute to a definite volume, re- serve an aliquot
								part for the quantitative estimation and proceed with the remainder of the fluid as
								directed in 111, page 97.

							IV. This method is especially adapted to, the separation and
								detection of mercury compounds.

							

							**If the apparatus is
								filled with pure oxygen, a glowing splint held to the outer tube of the absorption
								bulb, will blaze.

							

							Introduce an aliquot part of the finely divided and thoroughly mixed substance into
								a 1000 cc. Erlenmeyer flask which is provided with a well-fitting rubber stopper
								with two perforations. Through one perforation, pass a long-stemmed thistle tube,
								allowing the lower end to reach to the bottom of the flask. Connect the other
								opening with a Liebig's return cooler. Add sufficient conc. hydrochloric acid to
								cover the contents of the flask, connect the apparatus as above directed, heat the
								fluid to near boiling on a water-bath and introduce through the thistle tube, a hot
								saturated solution of potassium chlorate, in small portions at a time, e.g. 10 cc.,
								allowing sufficient time to elapse between the additions of the chlorate solution,
								to effect the decomposition of the chlorarte. Generally 10 cc. of the hot saturated
								solution may be added every 5 minutes. Continue the digestion with hydrochloric acid
								and chlorate until the contents, of the flask are oxidized to a clear yellow fluid.
								Remove the thistle tube, introduce in its stead, a close-fitting glass tube allowing
								the lower end of the tube to reach to the bottom of the flask; connect the other end
								with a carbon di-oxide generator and pass a slow stream of carbon di-oxide through
								the fluid until the chlorine is completely expelled. Remove the cooler, disconnect
								the generator, dilute the solution in the flask to 800 cc., pass hydrogen sulphide
								through the liquid until it is saturated, stopper the flask and set aside for 48
								hours. Filter through an asbestos filter, wash it thoroughly with water, bring the
								residue with the filter, into the precipitating flask, cover it with concentrated
								hydrochloric acid, connect with the thistle-tube and return cooler as before, add
								strong chlorine water through the thistle-tube** and heat the mixture on a water-bath until the mercuric
								sulphide is completely dissolved. Remove the thistle-tube, connect the flask with a
								carbon di-oxide generator and pass carbon di-oxide through the fluid (without
								removing the return cooler), until the last trace of free chlorine is removed.
								Filter into a graduated flask, wash thoroughly, adding the washings to the filtrate,
								and dilute it to a definite volume. Reserve an aliquot part for the quantitative
								estimation and proceed with the qualitative detection as directed in Mercuric
								Compounds.

							

							**Chlorine gas could be
								passed through the fluid.
						
					

					

					
						THE SYSTEMATIC DETECTION OF INORGANIC POISONS FREE FROM ORGANIC
							MATTER.

						
							111. The Subject Under Examination is an Acid Fluid.

							Introduce the solution into a flask, (1000 cc. capacity) add 20-30cc of dilute
								hydrochloric acid (1:10), place the flask on a water-bath, teat the contents to 70
								deg., and pass a slow stream of hydrogen sulphide (free from arsenic**) through the hot fluid until
								it is saturated with the gas; fill the flask to the mouth with water, stopper and
								let stand 5-6 hours in a warm place; open the flask land note the odor. If the odor
								of hydrogen sulphide is not distinctly perceptible, pass the gas through the cool
								fluid until it is saturated, stopper securely and let stand lat least 48 hours. If a
								distinct precipitate forms, filter, wash with water acidulated with hydrochloric
								acid and previously saturated with hydrogen sulphide; finally wash it 2-3 times with
								water.

							1. A distinct precipitate is formed; indicates Arsenic, Lead,
								Mercury, Antimony, Copper and Silver. Note the color of the precipitate.

							A. It is pure yellow; indicates arsenic or cadmium. Introduce a
								small portion of the residue into a test-tube, add 2-3 cc. yellow ammonium sulphide,
								and heat to near boiling.
							
								(1) It dissolves completely or very nearly so; indicates arsenic. Transfer the
									remainder of the precipitate (avoiding scraping off any fibres of the paper) to a
									small porcelain dish, moisten it with 1-2 cc. of red nitric acid, evaporate to
									dryness, until the nitric acid is completely expelled; dissolve the residue in a
									little sodium carbonate and again evaporate to dryness. Proceed, with the
									identification of arsenic. See Arsenic.

								(2) The precipitate is insoluble in ammonium sulphide: indicates cadmium.
									Bring the rest of the precipitate into an evaporating dish, add 10-15 c. dilute
									nitric acid (1:10) and boil over the free flame until complete solution takes
									place; let cool, filter, wash the paper with a little water, proceed with the
									clear filtrate as directed in cadmium: see Man. Qual. Analysis.
							
							B. It is orange-yellow: indicates antimony.

							

							**Hydrogen sulphide
								prepared from barium sulphide and pure hydrochloric acid, is usually
								chemicallypure.

							

							Bring the precipitate into a small evaporating dish, add 10-15 cc. hyrdrochloric
								acid (1:12), 0.3 grm., potassium, chlorate and heat on a water-bath until the excess
								of chlorine is expelled. Take up the residue in strong hydrochloric acid, filter,
								and identify the antimony as directed in Antimony Compounds, page 1.

							C. The precipitate is brown-black or black: indicates Mercury,
								Silver, Copper, or Lead.

							Transfer the precipitate to a porcelain dish, add 15-20 cc. dilute nitric acid
								(1:10) and boil 10-15 minutes.
							
								(1) It does not dissolve in boiling nitric acid: indicates mercury. Dilute,
									filter, spray the residue into a dish, add 2-3 cc. aqua regia, heat gently until
									the precipitate dissolves, expell the excess of chlorine at a low temperature,
									dilute with 20-30 cc. of water, filter and examine the filtrate for mercury. See
									Mercuric compounds.

								(2) It dissolves in boiling nitric acid: indicates Silver, Copper, and Lead.
									Dilute a small portion of the filtered fluid, add a few drops of hydrochloric
									acid, and let stand 30-60 minutes. 
										(a) A white precipitate is produced: indicates silver. Examine the
											remainder of the nitric acid solution for silver. See Silver compounds.

										(b) A white precipitate is not formed: absence of silver. Add 1-2cc. of
											sulphuric acid (1:10) to a sample of the nitric acid solution, evaporate the
											fluid to near dryness and digest the residue with a little water. 
												(x) A white precipitate is formed: indicates lead. Proceed with the
													remainder of the solution as directed in Lead compounds.

												(y) A white precipitate is not formed: absence of lead. Examine the
													nitric solution for copper. See Copper compounds.
											
										
									
								
							
							2. Hydrogen sulphide produces no precipitate in the acid
								solution. Absence of Arsenic Antimony Lead, Copper, Mercury, and Silver.

							Make the fluid in the precipitating flask distinctly alkaline with ammonia
								(avoiding an excess of ammonia), add yellow ammonium sulphide, in small quantities
								at a time, shaking the fluid vigorously after each addition of the reagent, until
								the ammonium sulphide is in excess, stopper and let stand 48 hours in a warm
								plaice.

							

							A A precipitate is formed: indicates chromium or zinc.

							Filter, wash the residue with water until free from ammonium sulphide, dissolve the
								precipitate in dilute hydrochloric acid, filter (if necessary) and boil the filtrate
								until the hydrogen sulphide is expelled. Make a small portion of the fluid very
								strongly alkaline with sodium hydrate, boil 15-20 minutes, filter through asbestos,
								and wash.
							
								(1) A green residue is obtained: Dissolve in dilute hydrochloric acid and
									examine for chromium. See Chromium compounds.

								(2) No green precipitate is formed: Absence of chromium. Examine the remainder
									of the hydrochloric acid solution for zinc. See Zinc compounds.
							
							B. No precipitate is formed; absence of zinc and chromium.
						

						
							112. THE SUBSTANCE UNDER EXAMINATION IS A SOLID.

							Introduce the substance, now free from organic matter, into a small beaker-glass or
								evaporating dish, digest it for some time with strong ammonium acetate (1:5),
								filter, repeat the digestion 2-3 times with fresh portions of ammonium acetate,
								unite the extracts and dilute to a definite volume. Examine the residue, (if any) as
								in B. Reserve an aliquot part of the fluid for the quantitative estimation and
								examine the remainder of the solution for lead. See Lead compounds.

							A.
								Lead is present:

							Bring the parts reserved for the quantitative estimation into a porcelain dish,
								evaporate it to near dryness, add an excess of nitric acid and evaporate to complete
								dryness. Cover the dish and heat it gently at first and finally to dull redness
								until the ammonium nitrate is completely decomposed; let cool, digest the residue
								with hot water, transfer the mixture to a beaker-glass, add a little dilute
								sulphuric acid, dilute the fluid with an equal volume of alcohol and proceed as
								directed in the estimation of lead.

							B.
								Lead is not present:

							Bring the substance into an evaporating dish, add dilute potassium hydroxide to
								strong alkaline reaction, digest the mixture at 70-80 deg. for some time, stirring
								constantly, filter, and wash the residue with hot water. Examine the filtrate for
								antimony as directed in C. The residue is barium sulphate mixed with a trace of
								organic matter. Dry the filter and contents and 
								proceed with the estimation as directed in Barium compounds.

							C. Dilute the solution to a definite volume, and reserve an
								aliquot part for the quantitative estimation. Introduce the remainder of the
								solution into a 1000 cc. flask, acidify with hydrochloric acid and proceed as
								directed in 111.

							If the qualitative examination demonstrates the presence of antimony, bring the
								portion reserved for quantitative analysis, into a large beaker-glass and estimate
								the antimony as directed on page 1.
						
					

					
						CAUSTICS (Free Acids.)

						113. Introduce a weighed portion of the original substance into a
							beaker-glass, digest it with 100 cc. of water, filter, and repeat the extraction with
							water until the last portions are neutral to litmus solution. If the filtrate is
							cloudy bring it into a cylinder and shake with 15-20 grm. of freshly washed animal
								charcoal**, filter, wash the
							charcoal free from acids and dilute the filtrate to a definite volume. Mark it
							Solution A.

						Bring a small quantity of this solution into a test-tube, add 2-3 drops of
							methyl-violet (1:1000) and heat to boiling.

						A.
							The methyl-violet is changed to light blue or green: indicates the
							presence of free mineral acids, e. g. Sulphuric, Nitric or Hydrochloric. Test other
							portions of the solution for
						
							(1) The radical SO4 with barium chloride: a white
								precipitate insoluble in host hydrochloric acid proves the presence of the
								radical.

							(2) The radical Cl, with silver nitrate solution: a white precipitate, insoluble
								it dilute nitric acid proves the presence of the radical Cl.

							(3) To 1 cc. pure conc. sulphuric acid, add 1-2 drops of diphenyl-amine sulphate
								and 2-3 drops of the fluid under examination (solution A): a bright blue color
								'indicates radical NO3.
						
						It must be borne in mind that these reactions only show the presence or absence of
							the radicals SO4,Cl and NO3. They
							do not show with what these radicals are combined.

						If the examination has demonstrated the presence of any or all of these radicals, it
							will be necessary to find out which ones are in combination with hydrogen; that is
							which exist as free acids.

						

						**Pulverize 50 grm., of
							animal charcoal, ignite it in a covered platinum dish, let cool, digest it with 25 cc.
							dilute hydrochloric acid (1:10), filter and wash the residue until the wash water is
							free from chlorine, e. g. it gives no cloudiness with silver nitrate.

						

						Introduce 10 cc. of the clear solution (solution A), into a flask, add 2-3 cc
							phenolphtalein and titrate with n|10 potassium hydrate, in order to ascertain how much
							free acid is present. If it is found by titration that 10 cc. of the fluid contains a
							great deal of free acid a measured portion of solution A may be diluted to a definite
							volume. Introduce 10-20 cc. of the solution into an evaporating dish, add a small
							quantity of quinin hydroxide, stir well, until the quinin is dissolved and continue to
							add the quinin hydroxide until a permanent turbidity is established. Evaporate the
							solution to complete dryness on the water-bath, extract the dry residue with absolute
							alcohol. Dilute the filtrate with an equal volume of water and examine the solution
							for
						
							1) The radical SO4 with barium chloride.

							2) The radical Cl with silver nitrate

							3) The radical NO3 with di-phenyl-amine
								sulphate.
						
						The presence of the radicals in the alcoholic filtrate proves that they were
							originally in combination with hydrogen; for the quinin hydroxide forms salts only
							with the radicals which were originally in combination with hydrogen These quinin
							salts dissolve in absolute alcohol while the salts which these radicals form with the
							metals are not soluble in that menstruum.

						B.
							The methyl violet solution is not affected: absence of free mineral
							acids. Transfer 20-30 cc. of solution A into a narrow cylinder, extract it with small
							quantities of ether, to remove other organic acids, and test the aqueous residue
							directly for oxalic acid. See Oxalic Acid, page 77.

						
							Quantitative Estimation:

							Introduce an aliquot part of solution A, into a cylinder, extract it repeatedly
								with small quantities (20-30 cc.) of ether, pipette off the ether, bring the watery
								residue into an evaporating dish, add quinin hydroxide until a permanent turpidity
								is produced, evaporate to complete dryness on the water-bath, extract the residue
								with absolute alcohol as long as it contains an acid or acid radical (see A), dilute
								the extract with water to a DEFINITE volume and divide it into three parts, X, Y,
								Z.
							
								Part X. Proceed with the quantitative estimation of sulphuric acid as follows:
									Heat the fluid to boiling, acidify with hydrochloric acid, add hot barium chloride
									in excess, boil 5-10 minutes, and let stand 12 hours. Filter and proceed with the
									precipitate as in, the estimation of barium; 1.0 grm. of barium sulphate
									represents 0.34335 grm. of sulphur-trioxide.

								

								Part Y. Acidify the solution with dilute nitric acid, add silver nitrate in
									excess, and proceed as directed in Volhard's estimation of Chlorine.

								Part Z. Bring 1 cc. of part z into a graduated flask, fill to the mark with
									water, mix and estimate the nitric acid in an aliquot part as follows:
							
							Estimation of Nitric Acid.

							Solutions Required:

							1. Acid phenyl sulphate: add 18.5 cc. of conc. sulphuric acid to 1.5 cc. of water
								and 3 grm. of pure phenol.

							2. Standard potassium nitrate: Heat a little potassium nitrate in a platinum
								crucible until it begins to fuse, let cool, and dissolve 0.722 grm. in 1000 cc. of
								water. 1 cc. of this solution will contain 0.00045 grms. of nitric acid.

							Process:

							A measured volume of the solution under examination is evaporated to dryness on a
								waster-bath, 1 cc. of solution (1) added, mixed thoroughly; to this residue add 1
								cc. water and 3 drops conc. sulphuric acid, warm gently, dilute with 25 cc. of
								water, make slightly alkaline with ammonium hydrate, and dilute to 100 cc. in a
								colorimetric cylinder. 5 cc. of solution 2 are evaporated to dryness and the residue
								treated as above; make up to 100 cc. Compare the intensity of color in the two
								cylinders, and dilute the stronger with water until the colors are of the same
								intensity.

							Calculation:

							Suppose the color produced by 10 cc. of the fluid under examination is equal in
								intensity to that produced by 5 cc. of solution 2, the final dilutions being the
								same; then 10 cc. of the unknown solution contains 0.00225 grm. of nitric acid.
						
					
				

				

				
					APPENDIX.

					
						The Volumetric Estimation of Alkaloids with Meyer's Solution.

						Meyer's reagent is prepared by dissolving 6.775 grm. of dry crystalline mercuric
							chloride and 25 grm. of potassium iodide separately in water, mixing the solutions,
							and diluting the mixture to 1000 cc. The solution thus obtained its n|20.

						The yellowish, precipitates yielded by the great majority of alkaloids with Meyer's
							reagent are more or less soluble in alcohol, ether, acetic acid, iodides and sometimes
							in an excess of the  reagent. The solution of the
							purified alkaloid to be tested must (1) be distinctly acid with dilute sulphuric or
							hydrochloric acid; (2) must not be more than slightly alcoholic; (3) must not contain
							acetic acid, and (4) must, as a rule, contain about 0.5 per cent. of the alkaloid. For
							accurate titration, it is essential that the solutions operated on shall be of nearly
							uniform strength and that the reagent be added in exactly the same manner. It is also
							advisable to make a control titration with the same volume of a solution containing a
							known weight of the same alkaloid in a state of purity.

						
							Process:

							To the measured quantity of the alkaloidal solution, add Meyer's 'reagent from a
								burette as long as a precipitate is produced. To determine this end reaction it is
								necessary to filter a portion of the mixture. A filter 1/2 inch in diameter,
								supported on a ring of platinum wire, may be used. A drop of the filtered liquid is
								placed in a watch-glass on a black background and a droop of the reagent added. The
								faintest turbidity may be readily detected. All filters and test drops are to be
								returned to the solution before the titration is ended. The end of the reaction is
								that point at which Meyer's reagent ceases to form a precipitate.

							The following table of constants is compiled from the results of A. B. Lyons*.

							
								
									Alkaloid.
									Solution Condition.
									Strength.
									Weight of the alkaloid in grm. precipitated by 1.0 cc. of reagent
								

								
									Aconitin 
									Acid
									1:200
									0.0141
								

								
									Atropin
									"
									1:200
									0.0077
								

								
									"
									"
									1:400
									0.0072
								

								
									"
									"
									1:600
									0.0067
								

								
									Berberin
									"
									1:200
									0.0263
								

								
									"
									"
									1:400
									0.0257
								

								
									"
									"
									1:600
									0.0218
								

								
									Brucin
									"
									1:400
									0.0102
								

								
									Cocain
									"
									1:200
									0.0078
								

								
									"
									"
									1:400
									0.0069
								

								
									"
									"
									1:600
									0.0063
								

								
									Colchicin
									"
									1:200
									9.0109
								

								
									"
									"
									1:400
									0.0088
								

								
									"
									"
									1:600
									0.0080
								

								
									"
									"
									1:800
									0.0067
								

								
									Pilocarpin
									"
									1:200
									0.0050
								
							

							

							*Manual of Pharmaceutical
								Assaying.
						
					

					

					
						PREPARATION OF SOLUTIONS FOR VOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS.

						(Standard Solutions, Normal Solutions and Indicators).

						1. Standard solutions are simply solutions of accurately known strength. That
							strength is selected which best fits the requirement of the reaction to be executed.
							Standard solutions are prepared (1) by dissolving an accurately weighted amount of
							substance in a definite volume of the solvent, e. g. 15 grm. of a salt in a 1000 cc.
							measuring flask, filled to the mark with water; or (2) by titrating a portion of a
							solution of an approximate weight of the substance with a standard solution, or
							solution of known strength. The strength of such solutions is expressed as the weight
							of the dissolved substance in 1.0 cc. or as the weight of another substance which will
							react with 1.0 cc.

						2. A normal solution is one which contains, dissolved in 1000 cc. of the solvent, the
							molecular weight of the substance in grammes, divided by its hydrogen equivalent.

						The hydrogen equivalent of an acid is the number of replaceable atoms of hydrogen it
							contains; of a base, the valence of the metal or metallic radical present; of an
							oxidizing agent, the number of hydrogen atoms that can be oxidized to water by one
							molecule of the substance; of a reducing agent, the number of hydrogen atoms which
							have the same reducing power as one molecule of the substance; of other substances,
							the number of hydrogen atoms which a molecule can liberate, unite with or with which
							it can in some way react.

						These facts point at once to the necessity of a proper understanding of the chemical
							work to be done by a given reagent, before the strength of a normal solution can be
							detetermined.

						Normal solutions are often inconveniently strong; in such cases 1|2, 1|5, 1|10, 1|20,
							1|100 normal solutions are prepared. These are usually designed as n|2, n|5, n|10,
							etc.

						3. Indicators are substances which have no influence upon the trend of the chemical
							action, but which give a characteristic color with one of the reagents. An indicator
							is used to determine the "end-point" of the reaction, when the reagent produces, no
							change in color and when it is not convenient or possible to demonstrate the
							disappearance of the last trace of the body acted upon, e.g. the titration of acid
							with alkali.
					

					

					
						SOLUTIONS.

						OXALIC ACID: 1 litre N|10 contains 6.3000 grm.; 1 litre N|5 contains 12,6000 grm.

						POTASSIUM HYDRATE, N|10: Dissolve about 3.5 grm. in 600 cc. water, mix and titrate
							against N|10 oxalic acid, using litmus or phenolphtalein as an indicator. Calculate
							the amount of water to be added to 500 cc. to make it N|10. 1cc. of the N|10 solution
							contains 0.0056 grm. KOH.

						POTASSIUM HYDRATE N|5: Dissolve about 12 grm. in 600 cc. water and standardize with
							N|5 oxalic acid.

						SULPHURIC ACID N|l0: Dilute about 6 grm. of pure acid to 600 cc. with water (add the
							acid to the water), mix, and titrate against N|10 KOH, using phenolphtalein as an
							indicator.

						1 cc. N|10 sulphuric acid contains 0.0049 grm. acid.

						SODIUM CHLORIDE N|10: 1 litre contains 5.8500 grm. A solution of approximately this
							strength may be standardized with N|10 silver nitrate by Volhard's method. See page
								25.

						SILVER NITRATE N|10: 1 litre contains 16.996 grm.

						POTASSIUM PERMANGANATE N|10: Dissolve about 3.6 grm. pure crystalline permanganate in
							600 cc. water. Bring 10cc. N|10 oxalic acid into a flask, add about 10cc. sulphuric
							acid (1.4), warm and titrate with the permanganate solution (from a glass-stoppered
							burette) until a pink tint appears. Calculate and dilute.

						POTASSIUM DI-CHROMATE N|10: 1 litre contains 4.9083 grm. The salt should be
							crystallized and heated to fusion.

						SODIUM HYPOSULPHITE N|10: Dissolve about 26 grm. sodium hyposulphite and 2.5 grm.
							sodium carbonate in 1100 cc. water. To 10 cc. N|10 potassium di-chromate, add 2-3 cc.
							KI solution (1:5), 5 cc. of sulphuric acid (1:10) and a few drops starch-paste;
							titrate with sodium hyposulphite until the blue color disappears. Calculate the amount
							of water to be added to 1000cc. to make it N|10. The solution should be kept in the
							dark.

						IODINE IN POTASSIUM IODIDE N|l0: Dissolve about 13 grm. pure iodine in 1050 cc. of a
							5 per cent. solution of KI and standardize with N|10 sodium hyposulphite, using
							starch-paste as an indicator.

						POTASH, STANDARD ALCOHOLIC: See Foot-note, page 25.

						AMMONIUM SULPHO-CYANATE N|10: See Chloroform, page 25.

						HYDROCHLORIC ACID N|l0: Dilute 11 cc. pure conc. hydrochloric acid to 550 cc. and
							titrate against N|10 potassium  hydrate, using
							phenolphtalein as an indicator. Calculate the necessary dilution.

						HYDROCHLORIC ACID N|5: Dilute 21 cc. conc. acid to 550 cc. and titrate against N|5
							KOH.
					

					
						INDICATORS.

						LITMUS SOLUTION: Digest 1 part litmus with 6 parts water, filter, and divide the
							solution into 2 equal parts. To one part add very dilute sulphuric acid, drop by drop,
							until a red tint is imparted; now add the other half of the solution and mix.

						ROSOLIC ACID: 0.5 grm. in 100 cc. alcohol.

						FERRIC ALUM: 15 grm. in 100 cc. water.

						PHENOLPHTALEIN: 0.5 grm. in 100 cc. 95 per cent alcohol.

						METHYL ORANGE: 0.5 grm in 100 cc. alcohol.

						SOLUBLE STARCH SOLUTION: Introduce 250 cc. glycerine into a 600 cc. Erlenmeyer flask,
							add 15 grms. of finely pulverized starch, and heat the mixture, with constant
							stirring, until white fumes escape. Continue the heating 30 minutes. Let cool, pour
							the contents of the flask into about 700 cc. alcohol (95 per cent.), let stand 48
							hours, decant the alcohol, wash the residue with a little alcohol (95 per cent.) and
							keep the washed residue under strong alcohol. Upon long standing, the starch-paste
							solution decomposes. It should, therefore, be prepared, as required.

						To prepare the soluble starch for use:

						Press about 1 gr. of the washed residue between, filter or blotting paper until the
							alcohol is removed and dissolve it in 100 cc. water. The solution, prepared in this
							way, is perfectly transparent, very sensitive, and, may be kept for some time. With
							small quantities of free iodine, it gives a fine blue color.
					

					

						PREPARATION OF REAGENTS.

						Solutions of chemically pure reagents prepared in the following manner and proportion
							are best suited for general use. Unless otherwise specified, distilled water is to be
							used as the solvent. Crystalline substances should be powdered.

						Acid Acetic, 1:10.

						Acid Hydrochloric, 1:6 (vol.), and 1.12 sp. gr.

						Acid Iodic, 0.05 grm. in 50 cc. water.

						Acid Nitric, 1:6 (vol.); 1.2; 1:3.

						Acid Nitrosulphonic, 10 grm. potassuim nitrite in 100 cc. conc. sulphuric acid.

						Acid Phosphomolybdic: Precipitate the ordinary nitric acid solution of ammonium
							molybdate with sodium phosphate, filter,  wash the
							residue, suspend in water and warm with sodium carbonate until it is dissolved.
							Evaporate the solution to dryness, ignite to expell the ammonia, moisten with nitric
							acid, ignite again, let cool, weigh the residue, dissolve in warm water, acidify with
							nitric acid and dilute, with water so that 1. grm. of the salt is contained in 10 cc.
							of the solution.

						Acid Picric, saturated solution.

						Acid Suphovanadic, see Mandelin's reagent.

						Acid Sulphuric, 1:10 and 1:20. Pour the acid into the water.
						Acid Tartaric, 1:10.

						Ammonium Acetate, 1:5.

						Ammonium Carbonate, 1:6 with the addition of 1 part conc.

						Ammonium hydrate.

						Ammonium Chloride, 1:10

						Ammonium Hydrate 1:6.

						Ammonium Molybdate. Digest 150 grm. of pulverized ammonium molybdate with 400-500 cc.
							water at 40 deg., add 50-60 cc. of ammonium hydrate, dilute to 1000 cc. and pour it in
							a fine stream into 1000 cc. of nitric acid (1.2). Allow the mixture to stand 2-3 days,
							filter and use the filtrate.

						Ammonium Sulphide 1:3.

						Antimony Chloride 1:50. Add hydrochloric acid until clear.

						Barium Chloride 1:10.

						Barium Hydroxide: saturated solution (filtered).

						Bettendorff's reagent, 1 grm. stannous chloride in 4 cc. conc.

						HCL.

						Bismuth-potassium iodide: To 1.5 grm. of freshly precipitated basic nitrate of
							bismuth, add 20 grm. water, heat to boiling, add 7 grm. KI and finally 20 drops of
							hydrochloric acid (1:10).

						Bromine Water. A saturated solution~

						Calcium Chloride 1:10.

						Calcium Hydrate. A saturated solution (filtered).

						Cane-sugar, saturated solution.

						Chlorine gas 

								(a) 100 gr. NaCl.
								commercial.
								100 gr. MnO2.

								(b) Pour 240 gr. conc. com. H2SO4 (small quantities at a time, with stirring) into 120 cc. water.
									Introduce (a) into a large flask provided with thistle tube, place the flask on a
									water bath, and add (b) (when cool) to the mixture in the flask.
							
						

						Chlorine Water. Pass Cl gas through distilled water until saturated and keep the
							solution in a colored glass bottle.

						

						Chromium Sulphate 1:20.

						Copper Sulphate 1:20.

						Erdman's reagent: 10 drops of dilute nitric acid (10 drops 30 per cent. acid in 100
							cc. water) in 20 grm. of pure conc. sulphuric acid.

						Fehling's Solution: 
								(a) 17 grm. copper sulphate in 250 cc. water.
								(b) 85 grm. potass. sodium tartrate and 25 grm. sodium hydrate in 250 cc.
									water. Mix equal volumes of (a) and (b) as needed.
							
						

						Ferric Alum 5:100.

						Ferric Chloride, neutral. Neutralize as nearly as possible with dilute sodium
							carbonate.

						Froehde's reagent: 
								(a) Conc.: Each cc. conc. sulphuric acid contains 0.05 grm. sodium or ammonium
									molybdate.

								(b) Dilute: Each cc. conc. sulphuric acid contains 0.01 sodium or ammonium
									molybdate.
							
						

						Fuchsin-sulphurous acid: Add 20 cc. sodium hydrogen, sulphite (1.27 sp. gr.) to 1000
							cc. of aqueous fuchsin solution (1:1000), let stand several hours and add 10 cc. conc.
							hydrochloric acid.

						Furfurol: 20 per cent. aqueous solution.

						Hydrogen Sulphide: Prepare the gas from iron sulphide and commercial sulphuric acid
							diluted 1:4).

						Hydrogen Sulphide free from arsenic: Prepare the gas from pure sulphide of barium and
							pure hydrochloric acid (1:6).

						Iodine in KI: 1 grm. iodine with 2.55 grm. KI in 100 cc. water.

						Lead Acetate 1:20.

						Lead Nitrate 1:20.

						Lieberman's reagent: 6 grm. potassium nitrite in 100 cc. conc. sulphuric acid.

						Litmus solution: See indicators, page 106.

						Mandelin's reagent: 1 grm. ammonium vanadate in 200 grm. pure conc. sulphuric
							acid.

						Mercuric Chloride 1:40.

						Mercurous Nitrate 1:40.

						Methyl Violet 1:1000.

						Meyer's reagent: See page 103.

						Millon's reagent: Dissolve 10 grm, met. mercury in 10 grm. conc. nitric acid and
							dilute with twice its volume with water.

						Naphthol alpha, 20 per cent. solution in absolute alcohol.

						Nessler's solution: Dissolve 2 grs. of KI in 5-6 cc. water, add 3.2 grs. of mercuric
							iodide, shake the mixture until the major  portion of
							the red salt is dissolved, add 20 cc. water, and 30 cc. KOH (13.4 grs. fused KOH in
							26.6 cc. water). Allow the mixture to settle land filter through asbestos. Keep the
							clear filtrate in a glass-stoppered bottle. (Coat the stopper with paraffine).

						Platinum Black: Precipitate platinic chloride with ammonium chloride, filter and heat
							the residue with oxalic acid, filter, wash and dry.

						Potash, Alcoholic: saturated solution in 95 per cent. alcohol.

						Potassium Bromide and Bromate: 1.167 grm. KBrO3 and 5.959
							grm. KBr in 1000 cc. water.

						Potassium Chromate 1:30.

						Potassium Ferri-cyanide 1:20 (should be prepared only when needed).

						Potassium Ferro-cyanide 1:20.

						Potassium Hydrate 1:6 and 1:20.

						Potassium Iodide 1:100.

						Potassium Iodide starch-paste: 1 grm. KI in 200 cc. of paste.

						Potassium Mercuric iodide: see Meyer's reagent.

						Potassium Nitrite 1:5.

						Quinin Hydroxide: Precipitate quinin sulphate with ammonium hydrate, filter and
							wash.

						Silver Nitrate 1:50.

						Sodium Arsenate 1:30.

						Sodium Arsenite 1:30.

						Sodium Bi-carbonate 1:10.

						Sodium Carbonate 1:20.

						Sodium Chloride, saturated solution.

						Sodium Hydrate 1:6 and 1:20.

						Sodium Hypochlorite: Suspend 2 grm. of fresh calcium hypochlorite in water, decompose
							with sodium carbonate, filter and dilute the filtrate.

						Sodium Nitroprusside 0.1 grm. in 5 cc. (prepare only when needed).

						Sodium Sulphate 1:10.

						Starch-paste: Triturate 0.1 grm. powdered starch with 100 cc. cold water and boil for
							a few minutes.

						Soluble Starch. See Indicators.

						Tollen's reagent: (a) 3 grm. silver nitrate in 30 grm. ammoniunm hydrate. (b) 3 grm.
							sodium hydrate in 30 grm. water. Mix (a) and (b) in a colored bottle and keep in a
							cool place.

						Wenzel's reagent: 1 grm. potassium permanganate in 200 cc. conc. sulphuric acid.

						Zine Chloride: 1 grm. of fused zinc chloride in 30 cc. conc. hydrochloric acid;
							dilute with 30 cc. water.
					
				
			
		
		
			
				

				Index
				
					
						INDEX,
						Description.
						Quantitative Estimation
					
					
						Acid Acetic
						16
						
					
					
						" Formic
						27
						27
					
					
						" Free, detection of (113)
						100
						
					
					
						" Hydrochloric
						28
						101
					
					
						" Hydrobromic
						27
						
					
					
						" Hydrocyanic
						28
						29
					
					
						" Hydrosulphuric
						30
						30
					
					
						" Meconic
						75
						
					
					
						" Nitric
						78
						101
					
					
						" Oxalic
						77
						78
					
					
						" Picric
						45
						46
					
					
						" Salicylic
						48
						49
					
					
						" Sulphuric
						78
						101
					
					
						Acetaldehyde
						15
						
					
					
						Acentanilid
						37
						38
					
					
						Aceton
						17
						17
					
					
						Aconitin
						55
						56
					
					
						Alcohol Amylic
						19
						
					
					
						" Ethylic
						18
						19
					
					
						" Methylic
						31
						31
					
					
						Alkaloids, Estimation of by Meyer's method
						103
						103
					
					
						" Analysis of (a) Ether residue (106)
						88
						
					
					
						" " of (b) Chloroform residue (107)
						89
						
					
					
						" " of (c) Benzine residue (108)
						90
						
					
					
						" " of (d) Amylalcohol " (109)
						92
						
					
					
						" Extraction of (101)
						82
					
					
						Amylnitrite
						20
						20
					
					
						Analysis, Systematic Toxicologica 1
						79
						
					
					
						Anilin
						21
						22
					
					
						Antipyrin
						38
						39
					
					
						Antimony
						1
						1
					
					
						Apomorphin
						57
						57
					

					

					
						Arsenic Compounds
						6
						6
					
					
						Arsenous " 
						2
						6
					
					
						Atropin
						58
						59
					
					
						Barium
						7
						8
					
					
						Benzaldehyde
						22
						23
					
					
						Berberin
						71
						72
					
					
						Brucin
						59
						60
					
					
						Caffein
						40
						41
					
					
						Cantharidin
						41
						
					
					
						Carbon bi-sulphide
						23
						24
					
					
						Chloral Hydrate
						26
						26
					
					
						Chloroform
						24
						25
					
					
						Chromium, Acid
						9
						9
					
					
						" Basic
						8
						9
					
					
						Cocain
						60
						61
					
					
						Codein
						61
						
					
					
						Colchicin
						42
						43
					
					
						Copper
						10
						10
					
					
						Destruction of Organic Matter (110)
						93
						
					
					
						Delphinin
						62
						
					
					
						Digitalin
						43
						
					
					
						Helleborin
						52
						
					
					
						Indicators, preparation of
						106
						
					
					
						Inorganic Compounds, Analysis of (a) soluble (111)
						97
						
					
					
						" " " of (b) insoluble (112)
						99
						
					
					
						Lead
						11
						11
					
					
						Mercuric Compounds
						12
						13
					
					
						Mercurous " 
						11
						12
					
					
						Morphin
						72
						74
					
					
						Narcein
						55
						
					
					
						Narcotin
						63
						
					
					
						Nicotin
						64
						64
					
					
						Nitro-benzol
						31
						
					
					
						Papaverin
						54
						
					
					
						Phenacetin
						44
						
					
					
						Phenol
						32
						32
					
					
						Phosphorous
						33
						35
					
					
						Pilocarpin
						65
						
					
					
						Pikrotoxin
						48
						
					
					
						Piperin
						47
						
					
					
						Pseudo-aconitin
						56
						
					
					
						Quinin
						65
						66
					
					
						Reagents, Preparation of
						106
						
					
					
						Salicin
						76
						
					
					
						Salol
						50
						51
					
					
						Santonin
						51
						
					
					
						Silver
						14
						14
					
					
						Strychnin
						66
						67
					
					
						Thabain
						69
						69
					
					
						Thymol
						36
						36
					
					
						Veratrin
						70
						70
					
					
						Volatile Compounds, Analysis of (103)
						83
						
					
					
						Volumetric Solutions, Preparation of
						104
						
					
					
						Volhard's Method for the Estimation of Chlorine
						25
						25
					
					
						Zinc
						14
						15
					
				
			
		
	
