
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Mason, Augustus Lynch, 1859-1939. True stories of our pioneers. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1120
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				FRONTISPIECE
				
						TRUMBULL WHITE AUGUSTUS LYNCH MASON LLD JOHN CLARK RIDPATH LLD EMINENT
							AMERICAN HISTORIANS (THE AUTHORS OF THIS BOOK)
					
			
			
			
				
					TRUE STORIES OF OUR PIONEERS
					
					THE HEROIC DEEDS AND DEVOTED LIVES
						OF THE FATHERS AND MOTHERS OF AMERICA
						EMBRACING THE PRINCIPAL EPISODES IN THE STRUGGLE OF THE WHITE
						RACE WITH THE RED MEN FOR THE POSSESSION OF THE NEW WORLD
						A TRUE AND VIVID ACCOUNT OF THE DARK CAPTIVITIES AND THE
							UNCONQUERABLE COURAGE OF THE MEN AND WOMEN WHO WRESTED THE AMERICAN FORESTS FROM THE
							ABORIGINES AND GAVE THEM TO THE PLOW AND THE SICKLE
				
				BY
					AUGUSTUS LYNCH MASON, LL.D.
					DEAN OF THE LAW SCHOOL OF DE PAUW UNIVERSITY
				
				WITH INTRODUCTION AND SPECIAL CONTRIBUTIONS
					BY JOHN CLARK RIDPATH, LL.D.
					AUTHOR OF "A CYCLOPÆDIA OF UNIVERSAL HISTORY," "THE GREAT RACES OF MANKIND,"
						"HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES," ETC.
				
				AND WITH ADDITIONAL CHAPTERS ON THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE, THE GREAT NORTHWEST, THE
					PANAMA CANAL AND THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION
					BY TRUMBULL WHITE
					AUTHOR OF "OUR WONDERFUL PROGRESS," "MARTINIQUE AND THE WORLD'S GREAT
						DISASTERS," "OUR NEW POSSESSIONS," ETC.
			
			
			
				VERSO
				COPYRIGHT 1904 BY E. A. MERRIAM.
			
			
			
				PREFACE.
				CIVILIZATION is a war—a war of light with darkness; of truth with
					falsehood; of the illuminated intellect and the rectified heart with the barbarism of
					ignorance and the animalism of the savage.
				The present work portrays a single phase of this sublime conflict. It recounts one of the
					thousand campaigns of this war. It is an attempt to condense into a single volume, and
					give an adequate literary expression to, the thrilling history of the struggle between the
					White man and the Red man for the possession of this continent. It is also intended to be
					a memorial to a race of heroes. Other countries have esteemed their earliest heroes as
					worthy of the song of the poet and the praise of the historian. With us the deeds of our
					fathers are as yet unsung, and their very names are fading from our memory.
				The author has aimed to make this book not only historical, but realistic. It is a
					truthful account of actual events, gathered from a vast mass of authorities. Yet the
					design has been pictorial rather than geometrical. The author has sought rather to paint a
					picture than to make a map. In the execution of this purpose he has been nobly seconded by
					the PUBLISHERS, who have spared neither trouble nor expense to procure
					for  him rare and valuable authorities. The large collections
					of the public libraries of the country were found inadequate, and booksellers from Boston
					to San Antonio have been called upon for books difficult of access.
				To the vast number of painstaking and truthful writers from whom the author has thus
					drawn his facts, and perchance even the expression of them, an obligation exists for which
					no adequate return can be made. The author also takes this opportunity to express his deep
					obligations to PROFESSOR JOHN CLARK RIDPATH, the eminent historian, to whose generous aid he
					is indebted for suggestions, as well as for additions to the narrative. A similar
					recognition is due to HON. HENRY A. RATTERMANN, whose unequaled library of rare books on American Pioneer
					History—especially that part relating to the settlement of the Ohio
					Valley,—has furnished valuable data for this volume, without which much that is
					interesting would have been lost to these pages.
				The liberality of the PUBLISHERS has extended not merely to the
					procurement of literary materials, but has also enriched the book with a collection of
					artistic engravings in every way worthy of the topic. Supplemented as his own efforts have
					been by these powerful and generous aids, it is not without confidence that the work is
					submitted to the public.
				A. L. M. DEER PARK, MARYLAND.
			
			
			
				PUBLISHERS' PREFACE
				This book is presented to fill a long felt want on the part of the public, for what may
					be called "Pioneer History."
				Its educational qualities are instantly recognized by all readers who seek definite
					information and facts concerning the early settlement and first development of America. It
					is intended to serve and DOES serve all readers with that important
					part of American history not found in the numerous Histories of the United States. The
					question arises, "Who were the mothers and fathers of America?" Generally, they were small
					bodies of men and women, of sturdy and resolute character and sterling qualities. This
					volume tells you who they were and what part of our great country they originally settled,
					what they had to contend with—in many cases sacrificed their lives for the true
					principles involved.
				To the teacher or student, this volume WILL TEACH American history and
					perhaps the most important part of American history, and furthermore that part which is
					not to be found elsewhere. To the parents its great value cannot be estimated. It paints
					for their children, character, courage, resolute endurance and firmness of mind. The
					stories are thrilling, yet true, and intensely interesting. It cultivates a desire for a
					closer  acquaintance with these men and women of the noblest
					and grandest period of pioneer history. It is a storehouse of essential information to
					young or old in any vocation of life.
				To the foregoing facts must be added a mention of the illustrations. These were drawn and
					engraved on wood at an enormous expense. There never were any photographs of these scenes
					from which to make half tone or photographic pictures. Each one of these rare and renowned
					illustrations tells a story in itself. They make a lasting impression on the reader. We
					are proud to be able to present this excellent volume to all readers.
				THE PUBLISHERS.
				
				
					ROBERT SIEUR DE LA SALLE.
						BY LOUIS GUDEBROD. The name of LaSalle is ever present in the
						early history of the Mississippi Valley from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico. His
						wonderful voyages, his perils, his achievements, are all related in earlier chapters of
						this volume.
				
				
				
					PERE MARQUETTE. Father Marquette's fame is immortal as one of the greatest of the
						early French explorers of this continent, traversing its forests and rivers year after
						year, laboring for the conversion of the Indians, and finally laying down his life among
						them in Northern Michigan where much of his noble work had been done.
				
				
				
					WILLIAM CLARKE THOMAS JEFFERSON MERRIWETHER LEWIS President Jefferson
						and the men sent by him under his administration to explore the great
						Northwest—known in history as the Lewis and Clarke expedition.
				
				
				
					PIERRE LACLEDE, FIRST SETTLER OF ST. LOUIS.
						BY J SCOTT HARTLEY.
				
				
				
					THE DESTINY OF THE RED MAN.
						BY A. A. WEINMANN.
				
				
				
					STATUE OF CAPTAIN WILLIAM CLARKE STATUE OF SACAGAWEA, THE INDIAN WOMAN WHO LED
						LEWIS A ND CLARKE THROUGH THE INDIAN TRAIL OVER THE MOUNTAINS STATUE OF CAPTAIN
						MERRIWETHER LEWIS Lewis and Clarke's expedition, covering nearly two years and a
						half, gave the people of this country their first information concerning the immense
						extent, vast wealth and natural wonders and resources of the Northwest.
				
			
			
			
				CONTENTS
				
					CHAPTER I.
							THE LEGEND OF POWHATAN.
						Captain John Smith—His adventures in Turkey—Three single
							combats and as many victories—Prisoner of a princess—Her suspicious
							brother—Escape—The Jamestown Colony—Smith, sticking in a quagmire,
							is captured by Indians—Pocahontas, the king's daughter—She saves Smith's
							life and makes a pet of him—Follies of the colony—Coronation of
							Powhatan—Smith's fight with the big Indian—Starvation—A meal of
							powdered wife—Betrayal and capture of Pocahontas—Rolfe in love—The
							marriage and death of the Indian princess—Smith's hobbies—He dies
							neglected and in want
						Pages 33-81
					CHAPTER II.
							THE TRIALS OF LA SALLE.
						The greatest French explorer—His saint-like predecessor,
							Marquette—A grave in a wilderness—La Salle's ambition—Life in the
							fort—Building The Griffin—Up the lakes—Loss of The
								Griffin—La Salle journeys on foot from the Illinois to
							Montreal—Bankruptcy and ruin—Tonty's six gifts, and their
							significance—The second attempt—Down the Mississippi—The fort on
							"Starved Rock"—The simpleton of Versailles—French
							reinforcements—Four vessels set sail from France for the Delta of the
							Mississippi—Shipwreck of them all—Lost in a Texan
							wilderness—Suffering and treachery—La Salle attempts to reach the
							Illinois—His assassination
						Pages 82-123
					CHAPTER III.
							ROGERS' RANGERS.
						Captain Rogers—His fierce scouts—Their exploits on Lake
							George—English scalps worth sixty francs—The Rangers on skates give chase
							to nine sleds on the ice—A fearful race—The triumph of men over
							brutes—Fort William Henry—A debauch on Saint Patrick's Eve—Saved by
							the Rangers—Burning of the fort—Awful battle—Two-thirds of the
							Rangers killed—Rogers' leap—Lost in a wilderness of snow—An insane
							guide—The St. Francis expedition—A two hundred mile march—An Indian
							wedding feast—Destruction of the village
						Pages 126-149
					
					CHAPTER IV.
							THE AMBITION OF PONTIAC.
						The mighty chieftain of the Ottawas—The conspiracy—Council
							of infernal peers—The plot at Detroit—Warned by an Indian girl—Guns
							hidden under blankets—Foiled—Presque Isle—An Indian mine—Fire
							and sword—Surrender of the haggard garrison—Michillimackinac—The
							game of ball—Success of the stratagem—Butchery of the garrison—The
							trader Henry's adventures—Hidden in a garret—Discovered—A friend in
							need—Carried away—The siege of Detroit—A vast fire-ship—A
							midnight sally—Attacked in a ravine—Bloody defeat—The fight around
							Campan's house—Retreat of the survivors—Boquet's expedition—The
							circular fight—Wreck of the Lake Erie expedition—The Paxton boys—A
							panic in Philadelphia—Peace—Pontiac's death
						Pages 150-209
					CHAPTER V.
							JOSEPH BRANT AND THE MOHAWKS.
						An American castle—A symmetrical maiden—Sir William
							Johnson—The Five Nations—A terrible wrestling match—Conquests of the
							Iroquois—The Revolution—Brant and the English landlord—A gay rider
							in the dust—Old Fort Schuyler—A faithful dog—The siege—Battle
							in the swamp—Brant's cruelties—Massacre of three hundred
							whites—Invasion of the Indian country—An ear of corn twenty-two inches
							long—Burning of Ellis's mills—An amour of a Dutch trader—Brant in
							old age
						Pages 210-266
					CHAPTER VI.
							THE CONFLICT IN THE OHIO VALLEY.
						Transformation—The escape of McConnel—Capture—Sleeping
							in bonds—The knife—Killing his captors—A race for life—A fight
							in a fog—Old Morgan's strength—Biting off a finger—An American Meg
							Merrilles—The black horse—Through the wilderness—The great fight of
							Poe and Big Foot—Five Kentucky boys and their pluck—Drawing the
							claret—The boys kill their keepers and escape—A strange story—The
							first Chickamauga—The attack on Widow Scraggs's cabin—"Keep the door
							shut!"—Driven out by the flames—Mrs. Merrill's bravery—The
							sufferings of Massy Harbison—One hundred and fifty thorns in her feet and
							legs—The blood avenger—The wizard's punishment
						Pages 267-318
					
					CHAPTER VII.
							THE COURAGE OF KENTON.
						Simon Kenton—The tortures of love—Flight to the
							wilderness—Stealing horses from the Indians—Unable to ford the
							Ohio—Captured and whipped—Eight times exposed to the gauntlet—Three
							times tied to the stake—The burning-glass story—Old age and
							disappointment
						Pages 320-334
					CHAPTER VIII.
							BRADY THE BACKWOODSMAN.
						Father and son—A rum experience—Talking by the
							roadside—Three rifle-shots—Scalped—Sam Brady—A dull
							Dutchman—Touching elbows—Brady's Leap
						Pages 335-344
					CHAPTER IX.
							THE DAYS OF DANIEL BOONE.
						Westward, ho!—A ruined cabin—Devoured by wolves—A
							flask of whisky—Thirsty squaws—Boone's family—Capture of the
							girls—The rescuing party—An uplifted tomahawk—Haggard with
							hunger—Siege of Boonesborough—Tracked by a bloodhound—Boone swallows
							a butcher-knife—Frightened women—Bringing in the water—The terrible
							battle of Blue Licks—Later years
						Pages 345-369
					CHAPTER X.
							THE CRUELTIES OF GIRTY.
						The renegade—Frightening the Moravians—The beautiful Katy
							Malott—The attack on Dunlap's Station—Relief party from
							Cincinnati—Blind, drunken, and wretched
						Pages 370-381
					CHAPTER XI.
							THE DOOM OF CRAWFORD.
						The Sandusky expedition—The army on the march—A bad
							omen—A deserted village—Indian spies—The enemy in sight—The
							first day's battle—A hat for a water-bucket—The second day—The
							attack at nightfall—Rout of the whites in the grove—The fatal cranberry
							marsh—The retreat—Shot on the river bank—The poisoned kettle—A
							Russian noble—Slover and Paull—Painted black—The
							Gauntlet—Tossed to the dogs—Sentenced to be burned
							alive—Interruption by a thunder-storm—Miraculous escape—Naked and
							bleeding—Seventy-five miles in eleven hours—Dr. Knight—The foolish
							Tutelu—His lies—William Crawford—Stake and flames—"For God's
							sake, shoot me through the heart!"—The spirit released
						Pages 382-420
					
					CHAPTER XII.
							THE ROMANCE OF RED EAGLE.
						The Emperor Alexander—Red Eagle as a boy—A rich man's
							home—The idol of the people—Tecumseh—A false prophet—Red
							Eagle's sweetheart—Love and War—The massacre of Fort Mims—Card
							playing and drinking among the garrison—The growing sand-heap—The
							attack—The hopeless defense—"To the bastion!"—Red Eagle's
							nobility—Searching the heaps of corpses—The dog charge—Jackson's
							campaigns—Dale's famous canoe fight—Mutinies—The battle of the
							Horseshoe—Surrender of Red Eagle
						Pages 421-450
					CHAPTER XIII.
							THE TRUE STORY OF THE PROPHET.
						The change of name—Mythical ancestry—The good elder
							brother—White scoundrels—Red villains—The great conspiracy—The
							rogue of a prophet—His miracles—The sun darkened—Tecumseh's love for
							his sister—His ambition—The night before the
							battle—Tippecanoe—Harrison's victory—Tecumseh's rage—Battle of
							the Thames—Who killed Tecumseh?
						Pages 451-484
					CHAPTER XIV.
							THE SORROWS OF THE SEMINOLES.
						The Seminole's curse—Blood-money—Exile or
							war—Massacred among the Palmetto trees—Reign of terror on the
							plantations—The "House of Blood"—Scalped in a parlor—The tragedy in
							the flower garden—Thirty skeletons in a row—Fever, flood, famine—The
							conspirators in the chief's wigwam—Knives glistening in the starlight—The
							flight—Osceola betrayed—"I feel choked; you must talk"—The caged
							eagle—The squeeze through the embrasure—A fifty-foot leap—Osceola's
							dungeon—Despair—Death—Bloodhounds used in the war—Killed in a
							cupola—Horrors of the Florida war—Coacoochee's capture—The departure
							into perpetual exile
						Pages 485-520
					CHAPTER XV.
							BLACK HAWK'S HUMILIATION.
						First chapter of an Indian Genesis—Battles of the
							gods—Tricked into a treaty—Willing to die for his
							brother—"Move"—Who is Black Hawk?—Stealing roasting-ears from one's
							own fields—A dog banquet—A squaw swims the Mississippi, carrying her child
							in her teeth—"Paint me as I am"—The princely Keokuk—Gall and
							wormwood
						Pages 521-536
					
					CHAPTER XVI.
							THE HISTORY OF KIT CARSON.
						The Carson family—An old mare for supper—Monsieur Le
							Beaver—A tail for a shovel—Political and domestic life of the smart
							animal—The great Kit—The trappers—Winter life in a trappers'
							tent—The ace of trumps—A fight in the snow—Two men in a
							fort—The dash for life—Twelve hundred dollars' worth of horses
							stolen—Carson's pursuit—Shot through the heart—Terrible fight with
							grizzly bears—The summer rendezvous—The duel with the bully—The
							"surround"—Othello's occupation gone—The angry trader—The Kansas
							border war—The deserted home—Fremont and Kit—Through the Mexican
							lines—Bleeding feet—The runner—General Carson—Last
							sickness—"Doctor, compadre, adios!"
						Pages 537-585
					CHAPTER XVII.
							HEROES OF THE LONE STAR STATE.
						Nelson Lee, the Texan Ranger—A dollar a day to be shot
							at—Buckskin vs. Broadcloth—The Ranger's Horse—A "greeny's" first
							taste—Seven hundred Comanches—Tomahawks rising and falling—A bullet
							in a bridle arm—Bitten by a rattlesnake—The noble Black Prince—The
							cunning ranchero—His successful stratagem—On to the Rio Grande—The
							surrender of the Rangers to Mexicans—Lee escapes through a garden—In the
							dark river—Steep and slippery banks—Lee forces two Mexicans to guide
							him—The purchase of the watch—The night attack—Wonders of the
							watch—A god or a devil—which?—The awful torture—An Indian
							sweetheart—In the bushes—Recaptured—Lamed for life—The Sleek
							Otter—Lee kills Rolling Thunder, and escapes
						Pages 586-606
					CHAPTER XVIII.
							HEROES OF THE LONE STAR STATE-—CONTINUED.
						David Crockett—The wretched home—Dodging a drunken
							father—A child alone in a wilderness—Twice married—Walks fifty miles
							in one day—The flames of fever—Frontier justice—The
							candidate—In the Legislature—Moves west—The bear hunt in the
							storm—The coat with two pockets—"Half horse, half alligator"—Elected
							to Congress, when he could neither read nor write—The dinner with the
							President—Three terms—Then defeat—To Texas—The siege of the
							Alamo—Crockett bravely meets death—The fighting parson—A young
							teamster—A successful preacher—In the Confederate army—Attacked in
							the cañon—Peaceful days
						Pages 607-625
					CHAPTER XIX.
							THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE.
						The greatest real estate deal in history—The Democrat and the
							Autocrat—Pioneers of peace—Exploration on a large scale—Some
							forgotten heroes—"The first American traveler"—"The greatest American
							traveler"—Cabeza de Vaca—John Law and the Mississippi Bubble—How we
							bought Louisiana—The Cabildo—The Santa Fe Trail—The Pony
							Express—Gold in the Black Hills—Custer's last fight—The Oklahoma
							"boom"—The pioneers of to-day
						Pages 626-635
					
					CHAPTER XX.
							THE GREAT NORTHWEST.
						Where and why pioneers advance into the wilderness—Effect of
							climate—Rivers the highways—The thirst for gold—The desire for
							freedom—Great names in the Great Northwest—The first American sailor on
							the Pacific Ocean—Lewis and Clarke expedition—Astoria—How Marcus
							Whitman saved Oregon—The Mormons and their journey to Utah—Gold in
							California—The Pacific railways
						Pages 636-660
					CHAPTER XXI.
							PANAMA AND THE CANAL.
						A new republic—Panama in history—The greed for
							gold—Character of the Spanish settlers—Discovery of the Pacific Ocean by
							Balboa—Spain attempts to keep her discoveries a secret—The
							Buccaneers—Plunder of Panama by Morgan and his men—The Route to the
							California gold fields—Opening of the railway—De Lesseps and the Panama
							Canal—Present condition and future
						Pages 661-674
					CHAPTER XXII.
							THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION.
						The Leap of a Century—One hundred years of progress—The rise
							of a great nation—Invention changing habits and methods of life—A fitting
							commemoration of the acquisition of the Mississippi Valley—The landscape beauty
							of the Exposition—Immensity and beauty—The palatial buildings—The
							wealth of exhibits—The treasures of art—Intellectual
							achievements—The attractions of the Midway—Significance of the
							Exposition
						Pages 675-704
				
			
			
			
				INTRODUCTION.
				
						THE PIONEER was a rugged seer
						As he crossed the Western river,
						Where the Copper Man called the INDIAN
						Lay hid with his bow and quiver.
					
				As for the pioneer, his days are numbered. As for the Indian, there he stands, a specter
					on the horizon!
				The conflict has been irrepressible. There could be no compromise; the races were too
					unlike. The red man had no beauty that our spirits could desire him. The verdict of
					civilization has been, that his room is better than his company. It is an edict issued
					from the court of Progress—that ferocious Titan who strides from East to
					West—that the Indian shall disappear, shall be remanded to the past, shall
					evanish.
				In those great movements by which the populations of the world are transformed, History
					is blind, cruel, remorseless. She is the least sentimental of all the divinities. She
					neither smiles at human happiness, nor weeps at human sorrow; she merely attends to her
					syllogism. When she finds a tribe of nomads living in a valley adapted to the cultivation
					of corn, she sends the news to some corn-raising race, and leaves the rest to cupidity and
					the casuists.
				And the casuists make a muck of the whole business. They seek a design. They find it in
					this—that the soil is intended for those who will cultivate it. They fix on this
					correlation. The hint of nature is, that the clover-field and the orchard must take the
					place of the brake and the wilderness. It is all very 
					beautiful. The designated race comes in; and the gray squirrel, after gibing at the
					business for a season, goes over the horizon followed by a bullet.
				But how about the other side of the question? It is well for the supplanters—but
					the supplanted? The red deer is designed for the cane-brake, and the cane-brake for him.
					Both are designed for the hunter. Is Nature not as well pleased to be tracked by a buck of
					ten spikes, as to be wounded in the breast with a hoe?
				In this world there is one law: the weakest goes to the wall. Men may
					as well expect a weight on the shorter arm of a lever to lift a greater weight on the
					longer, as to suppose a reversal of this law. There is such a thing as a science of Historical Physics, which it is time for thinkers to consider. The
					fundamental maxim in the dynamics of progress is, that the greater force overcomes the
					less. They who will, may complain of the result and try to explain it.
				The movement of civilization westward, from Babylon to Rome, from Rome to London, from
					London to San Francisco, has furnished a succession of eras in which the stronger, more
					highly developed races, have flung themselves in heavy masses upon the aboriginal
					populations. The latter have yielded, have perished, are perishing. In Greece, the
					Hellenes came upon the Pelasgians, and the latter were either exterminated or absorbed.
					Again, in Southern Italy, the Œnotrians were overwhelmed by the aggressive colonists of
					Magna Græcia. The Gaulish and British Celts sank into the earth under the tremendous
					pressure of the Roman and the Saxon. The American aborigines, forced back from the
					seaboard through the passes of the Alleghanies, are swept across the great valley of the
					Mississippi, and thrown up like pebbles on the plains of the West.
				In the great march which has thus substituted the wheat-field for the cane-brake, and
					made the White man the exterminator of the Red barbarian, there is this that is peculiar:
					in America the work has been done by a class of men unknown 
					in Europe—THE PIONEERS. Europe was peopled by
					large bodies of men moving from one country to another. In many regions the antiquarian
					finds the Age of Stone suddenly cut off by the Age of Bronze, without any intervening Age
					of Copper. This means that a bronze-bearing soldiery overwhelmed the people of the Stone
					Age before the latter had developed into a capability of working the metals. The Hellenes
					came from the east as migrating tribes. The original peoples of the peninsula were
					extinguished by the invaders. The Gaulish nations were trodden under foot by Cæsar's
					armies. The followers of Hengist and Horsa, before whom the Celts of Britain perished,
					were an innumerable horde. Everywhere, except in our own country, the movement has been
						en masse. But in America the work has been accomplished by a different
					process. Here we have had the gradual approach of civilization, and the gradual recession
					of barbarism. Population has been flung westward in a spray, which has fallen far out
					beyond the actual line of the column. Hence the pioneers.
				It is surprising that no State of the great sisterhood, west of the influence of the
					Atlantic tides, has been colonized. Every commonwealth has been peopled
					by the scattered scouts of progress—the pioneers. They have come by twos and threes.
					The individual, unable longer to endure the hardships of civilization, has moved out to
					find the comforts and conveniences of the wilderness. At the first he consisted of
					himself, his dog, and his gun. A little later he consisted of himself, several dogs, one
					wife, and many children. Afterwards he consisted of himself, with the concomitants last
					mentioned, and a neighbor of precisely the same definitions.
				We have thus had in America a race of men, sui generis—the
					pioneers—the hardiest breed of adventurers that ever fore-ran the columns of
					civilization. They belonged, like other heroes, to the Epoch of the Dawn. The Old World
					knew them not. They are our own—or were; for the pioneer type is in process of
					extinction. Like the red tribes, pressed back  by their
					energies, the rugged adventurers who made ourselves possible, are seen only in the glow of
					sun-down. The line of pioneer life has swept westward from the Connecticut to the Hudson;
					from the Delaware to the Ohio; from the Ohio to the Wabash, the Wisconsin, and the
					Illinois; from the Father of Waters to the Rockies and the Plains. In a few more years
					there will be no place on the continent, or any continent, that can properly be called
						THE WEST. The pioneer has always lived in the
					West. He will disappear with his habitat, and never be seen more.
				The pioneers were a people of heroic virtues—and no literature. The situation
					forbade it. The actual life of the men who made civilization possible in the larger part
					of the United States was remanded at their death to tradition. The pioneer bard starved.
					The pioneer annalist left his notebook to his son, who lost it while moving further west.
					The next generation repeated the story of frontier life as it had been received from the
					fathers. A few wrote. From Canada to the lagoons of Louisiana a traditional lore grew up
					and was perpetuated. Then came books, most of them written with little skill and no
					dramatic quality, often garrulous, sometimes dull. In them, however, were portrayed the
					incidents and accidents of that daring life which was soon to sink behind the horison.
				A few of these frontier books were written by the actors; others, by those who had not
					participated in the scenes described; most, by persons of little scholarship or wit. Until
					the present time few works on pioneer life and adventure have been produced which have
					exhibited artistic merit and literary ability. The flash of life through the cumbrous
					drama has been obscured by dull conception, coarse diction, ungainly style, and unnatural
					arrangement. It is important at the present epoch, when the sun of our heroes' fame is
					setting, but has not set, that a true and vivid picture should be preserved of the life
					which they led, and the deeds which they performed.
				As it respects this preservation for posterity of the annals  of our Pioneer Age—the story of our great adventurers and heroes—there is
					thus presented an alternative between the now and the never. What is not presently accomplished in the way of an authentic record of the
					daring exploits of the fathers will never he accomplished at all. It is a question of
					immediate photography. The pioneer may still be sketched ere the sunlight fades into
					darkness; but the evening cometh, when no instrument, however delicate its lenses, can
					supply the want of a living subject for the picture. In another generation the sketch of
					the American adventurer will be but the reproduction of a wood-cut, instead of a
					photograph from nature. Whoever by genius and industry contributes to fix in our
					literature an adequate conception of the lives and deeds of our heroes will make himself a
					favorite of the present and a friend of the coming generation.
				Such a work requires the skill of a dramatist. It is not enough that the story of the
					men, "who by their valor and warcraft beat back the savages from the borders of
					civilization, and gave the American forests to the plow and the sickle," should be told
					even passably well; it must be told with the fervor and living power of the drama.
					Shakespeare is now recognized as the prince of historians. If we would study the story of
					the struggles of York and Lancaster, we shall do better in the three Henrys and the two Richards than in the flat and lifeless pages
					of Hall and Hollinshed. It has remained for our times to discover that the historical
					imagination is better than the historical microscope. The former discovers men; the
					latter, insects. The former composes the Drama of Life; the latter the Farce of
					Particulars.
				The present work is a series of dramas in prose. It gathers and relates the exploits of
					our national heroes. The characters live and act. The material is gathered from the wild,
					but not extravagant, annals of frontier life. Every scene in this book is a true
					photograph from Man and Nature. The incidents are real. They are sketched with a dramatic
					power  which can be paralleled in no other book devoted to
					the romance and tragedy of American adventure. The author has precisely that kind of
					fervor which is requisite to make alive the very pages whereon his characters are
					marshaled for our interest. The book conforms emphatically to the prime conditions of
					narrative: it is interesting and true. The interest is
					maintained by the vigor and enthusiasm of the treatment; the truth has been elicited by a
					careful culling and comparison of the various traditions, which are thus given a new lease
					of life.
				The book is a work of art. It is composed with a skill worthy of the highest species of
					literary effort. The arrangement of the several parts, and the adaptation of style to
					subject, show on the part of the author a rare combination of brilliant fancy and artistic
					taste. Mr. Mason has made the happy discovery that dullness in a book is never commended,
					except in the columns of a magazine called the Owls' Own Quarterly.
				To all classes of people THE STORY OF THE PIONEERS will recommend itself. The book will be read
					carefully—which is an important consideration in the premises. The American boy will
					take fire as he turns these pages. The mild-eyed youth in the bubble-stage of sentiment
					will wonder that such things could be and not o'ercome the actors. He who has reached the
					zone of apathy in the Middle Age of Man will find in these thrilling stories of the life
					that is setting a-west food to revive the adventurous spirit; and the nonagenarian may
					chance to be re-warmed to hear again so graphically related the traditions that hovered
					about the fountains of his youth.
				A book so well conceived and admirably executed—so vivid in its delineations of the
					lives and deeds of our national heroes, and so picturesque in its contrasts and
					surprises—can hardly fail of a hearty reception by the public.
				JOHN CLARK RIDPATH.
			
			
			
				List of Illustrations.
				
					Captain Brady and His Chickasaw Scout Frontispiece
					The Great Powhattan
						24
					Sufferings of the Vrooman Family
						25
					Pioneer Women Inciting Indians to Violence
						26
					Alice Thompson's Appeal for Mercy
						27
					Red Jacket Pleading for Peace
						28
					Carson Conducting Emigrants across the Sierra Nevada
						29
					Carson Parleying with Cheyenne Scouts
						30
					Cheyenne Braves on the War Path
						30
					The Sioux Massacre at Big Stone Lake, Minnesota
						31
					Frontier Settlers in Minnesota—the Boelter Homestead
						32
					The First Day at Jamestown
						37
					Captain Smith Amuses Pocahontas with Toys
						44
					French and Indian Hunters of the Blue Juniata
						55
					An Indian Scout Reconnoitering
						55
					Battle of Captain Smith and the Indian Chief
						57
					Captain John Smith
						74
					Pocahontas
						76
					Baptism of Virginia Dare
						79
					Marriage of Rolfe and Pocahontas
						80
					Escaping from Brant's Indians
						89
					La Salle and His Companions
						90
					Marquette and Joliet Preaching
						99
					La Salle Proclaiming the French Empire in America
						106
					Murder of La Salle in Texas
						115
					Torture of a Prisoner by the Iroquois
						124
					
					Death of Braddock
						125
					Rogers' Rangers on Lake George
						145
					Catherine Reveals the Conspiracy to Gladwin
						159
					Roger Williams Opposing the Pequot Emissaries
						163
					Arrival of Dalzell with Supplies
						186
					Panic of the Philadelphians at the Approach of the Paxtons
						203
					The Baronet in Council with the Mohawks
						216
					The Battle near Fort Schuyler
						238
					The Summons at Captain Mann's
						243
					Struggle of a Frontier Militiaman with a Mohawk Brave
						254
					Joseph Brant
						262
					Capture of David Morgan's Assailant
						282
					The End of Vengence
						282
					Conflict of the Linn Boys with the Indians
						293
					The Defense of the Scraggs Cabin
						304
					Mrs. Harrison and Her Captors
						309
					Witchcraft at Salem Village
						316
					Killing an Indian Scout in the Ohio Valley
						319
					A Western Mazeppa—Simon Kenton a Prisoner
						331
					Death of James Brady
						336
					Brady's Leap
						343
					Boone Rescues the Calloway Sisters
						348
					Boone Rescues His Daughter
						369
					Slover's Companion Running the Gauntlet
						401
					Assassination of Marat by Charlotte Corday
						422
					Tecumseh Entering the Council
						426
					Region of the Creek War
						432
					The Dog Charge
						438
					Andrew Jackson
						439
					Red Eagle's Leap
						443
					Plan of the Battle of the Horseshoe
						447
					Tecumseh
						454
					Capture of Boone by the Indians
						459
					Tecumseh as a Deer Hunter
						464
					Fort Harrison
						473
					General Harrison's Cavalry Horses Stampeded
						481
					Battle of Tippecanoe—Where Jo Daviess Fell
						481
					The Seminole War—Massacre of the Motte Family
						492
					Osceola
						500
					Zachary Taylor
						504
					Rescue of Lucy Cornells by Red Eagle
						519
					Black Hawk
						528
					Keokuk
						535
					
					Carson and the Trappers in Camp
						544
					Carson Killing the Horse Thief
						552
					Carson Attacked by Grizzlies
						554
					Encounter Between Carson and Shunan
						556
					The Rescue of Cotton
						563
					Carson and His Favorite Horse "Apache"
						568
					The Rangers Pursuing the Comanches
						588
					Spotted Leopard, the Comanche Chief
						601
					Colonel David Crockett
						616
					Attacked by the Nez Perce Indians
						642
					Fremont on the Rocky Mountains
						668
					Robert Sieur De La Salle
						673
					Pere Marquette
						674
					Pierre Laclede, First Settler of St. Louis
						675
					The Destiny of the Red Man
						675
					Emblematic Group "Georgraphy and Society"
						676
					A Corner Entrance of the Varied Industries Palace
						677
					Machinery Palace in Foreground, Electricity Palace Beyond
						678
					Main Entrance and Portion of West Facade of Educational Palace
						679
					A Corner Entrance of the Education Palace
						680
				
			
			
			
				ILLUSTRATIONS
				
						THE GREAT POWHATAN.
					
				
				
						SUFFERINGS OF THE VROOMAN FAMILY.
					
				
				
						PIONEER WOMEN INCITING INDIANS TO VIOLENCE.
					
				
				
						ALICE THOMPSON'S APPEAL FOR MERCY.
					
				
				
						RED JACKET PLEADING FOR PEACE.
					
				
				
						CARSON CONDUCTING EMIGRANTS ACROSS THE SIERRA NEVADA.
					
				
				
						CARSON PARLEYING WITH CHEYENNE SCOUTS.
					
				
						CHEYENNE BRAVES ON THE WAR PATH
					
				
				
						THE SIOUX MASSACRE AT BIG STONE LAKE, MINNESOTA.
					
				
				
						FRONTIER SETTLERS IN MINNESOTA—THE BOELTER HOMESTEAD.
					
				
				
						The famous American trapper. He served as guide to Fremont in his Rocky Mountain
							explorations and was an officer in the United States service in both the Mexican and
							Civil Wars. The tombstone at top is at Taos, New Mexico.
					
				
				
						UPPER—COW BOYS, NORTH DAKOTA. LOWER—EXHIBIT OF GAME.
					
				
				
						DAVID CROCKETT. GENERAL SAM HOUSTON.
					
				
				
						UPPER—BEN HUR ROOM. It was in this room that General Lew Wallace wrote his
							famous book "Ben Hur." The room is in the Governor's Palace, Santa Fe, New
							Mexico. LOWER—TIPPECANOE AND TYLER TOO. When General William Henry
							Harrison was elected President in 1840, the watchwords "Log Cabin" and "Hard Cider"
							were effectively used in winning votes.
					
				
				
						TINNEY TONE. Kiowa Indian in war costume. CAPT. JACK CRAWFORD, THE
							POET-SCOUT, AND E. S. PAXSON, WITH CAMP PARAPHERNALIA.
					
				
				
						SIOUX INDIANS, SUN DANCE. Exhibition at a reservation post.
					
				
				
						INDIAN CAMP, OKLAMOMA. PRAIRIE SCHOONERS, SOUTH DAKOTA. SIOUX INDIAN
							TEPEES, SOUTH DAKOTA.
					
				
				
						KIOWA INDIANS DRAWING RATIONS, ANADARKO, OKLAHOMA. CREE INDIANS, MONTANA.
					
				
				
						GERTRUDE THREE FINGERS AND PAPOOSE, OKLAHOMA. ASSINABOINE INDIAN MOTHER AND CHILDREN,
							MONTANA.
					
				
				
						COW-BOYS, TEXAS. Man with hat off is Clay McGonigle, who in a test in 1903,
							lassoed three and tied a steer in 23¾ seconds. Next to him is Miss Lucille
							Mulhall. NAVAJO INDIAN WEAVING. INDIAN GRAVES, DEADWOOD, SOUTH DAKOTA.
					
				
				
						INDIAN LAUNDRY GIRLS, ANADARKA, OKLAHOMA. INDIAN BREAD MAKERS, ARIZONA.
					
				
				
						BUFFALO ON THE RANGE. MOUNTAIN SHEEP, COLORADO.
					
				
				
						UPPER—OUTFIT WAGON, INDIAN TERRITORY. LOWER—SOD HOUSE. NORTH-WEST
							NEBRASKA. Former home of a now wealthy Alliance resident.
					
				
				
						STATUE FORT DEARBORN MASSACRE, CHICAGO. Black Partridge rescuing Mrs. Helm.
					
				
				
						FT. DEARBORN TABLET, CHICAGO, ILL.
					
				
				
						ZUNI INDIANA VILLAGE, ARIZONA.
					
			
		
		
			
			
				TRUE STORIES OF OUR PIONEERS
				
					CHAPTER I.
						THE LEGEND OF POWHATAN
					THE age of Elizabeth was an age of wonders. The extension of commerce
						and the revival of learning, the reformation of religion and the revolution of science,
						the rise of civil liberty and the invention of negro slavery, the theory of the planets,
						the proof of the circulation of the blood, and the discoveries in the New World, all
						combined, at once, by their variety and oppositeness, to stimulate and astonish the
						minds of men. It was a dozen epochs crowded into one. The wildest romances were
						seriously believed, and the soberest facts laughed at as chimeras. Every thing which was
						simple and matter of fact was rejected. The more improbable a thing was, the more
						willingly men received it as truth. At such a time the stories of the traveler found a
						ready audience.
					Captain John Smith, the historian of Powhatan and Pocahontas, was a traveler who
						narrated his own adventures. As a story-teller he was a success. What he tells us of
						Powhatan and his amiable daughter, is told as an aside to the stirring drama of his own
						life. Left an orphan, in England, at fifteen, but with competent means, he was
						apprenticed to a trade, while his guardians appropriated his fortune to themselves. He
						had read books of romance and adventure enough to inspire him to  run away. But he was no ordinary boy. He rambled around over Europe, meeting
						with various adventures, taking part in the Continental wars until the peace of 1598.
						Being nineteen years old and eager for adventure, he enlisted in an army of mercenaries,
						employed in the war of the Netherlands. After a year or two of hacking at his
						fellow-men, he fell in with three rogues for companions, who robbed him and escaped. One
						of these gallants he afterward met, and ran through with his sword.
					Our hero next appears on a ship bound for Italy. Getting into a quarrel with the
						passengers over religion and politics, they settled the argument by pitching him
						overboard. But "God got him ashore on an island." He was picked up by a trading vessel,
						the Britaine, which seemed to have no particular destination, but
						lingered around for freight. The "freight" wanted was a Venetian merchant vessel, which
						no sooner "spoke" than the Britaine fired a broadside. A lively fight
						followed, but the merchant surrendered to the pirate. Of the spoils, Smith got "five
						hundred sequins, and a little box God sent him, worth as much more." His acknowledgments
						of Providence are touching.
					Having wandered around Italy till he was tired, Smith went to Vienna, and enlisted in
						the army of the Emperor Rudolph, in the war against the Turks. The Turks had shut up
						Lord Ebersbraught in the besieged town of Olumpagh. Smith had invented a system of
						signals, which he had once providentially explained to Ebersbraught. Letters from A to L
						were represented by one torch displayed as many times as the letter was removed from A;
						letters from M to Z were represented by two torches, similarly displayed. Three torches
						signified the end of a word. Going upon a hill, Smith flashed his torches to the
						besieged, signaling that they would attack at midnight on the east. The garrison were to
						make a sortie at the same time. On the side opposite to that of the intended attack,
						Smith set up some stakes in the plain, and strung them with long lines of powder
						strings. At the moment of the attack these were touched off, resembling the flash of
						musketry, and the Turks prepared,  in force, to resist the
						attack from this quarter. Their mistake was discovered too late to prevent the rescue of
						the garrison. From this time on, Smith bore the rank of captain.
					Still more chivalric are his performances in another siege. During the slow toil of the
						besieging Christians in making trenches and fortifications, the Turks would frequently
						yell at them, and ridicule their work. In order to pass away the time and "delight the
						ladies," the Turkish bashaw sent a challenge for single combat with any Christian. John
						Smith, aged twenty-three, accepted it. A theater was built, the armies drawn up, and the
						bashaw appeared to the sound of music. His caparisoned horse was led by two janizaries,
						and his lance was borne by a third. On his shoulders were a pair of silver wings, and
						his costume was ornamented with jeweled plumes. "This gorgeous being Smith did not keep
						long in waiting. Accompanied by a single page, he took position, made a courteous
						salute, charged at the signal, and, before the bashaw could say 'Jack Robinson,' thrust
						his lance through the sight of his beaver, face, head, and all, threw him to the ground,
						and cut off his head." A friend of the bashaw's then challenged Smith. The fight was
						with pistols, the Englishman winning another head. Smith then became challenger. The
						combat was long and doubtful. The weapons were battle-axes. Once Smith dropped his, and
						the Turks set up a great cheer, but "by his judgment and dexterity in such a business,
						by God's assistance, having drawn his fanchion, he pierced the Turk so under the culets,
						thorow backe and body."
					Smith was eventually taken prisoner, but only to meet with a new adventure. He was sent
						to be the slave of the beautiful Charatza Tragabigzanda at Constantinople. He was by no
						means ill-favored, and the tender passion soon inflamed the heart of the young mistress.
						But controlling herself, she sent him away to her brother Tymor, "to learn the language,
						till time made her mistress of herself." Smith thought he would, ere long, become her
						husband, but in an hour after his arrival the brother stripped  him naked, forged a great iron ring about his neck, with a bent stick
						attached to it, and set him about the vilest tasks. One day Tymor was alone with him in
						a field. Mad with rage, Smith sprang on him, beat out his brains, dressed himself in the
						dead man's clothes, and made his escape. After wandering several days in a desert, he
						found a kind-hearted man, who knocked off the iron, and helped him to a ship homeward
						bound.
					Such was the man who, in 1605, returned to smoky, pestilential, and filthy London, a
						city without sidewalks or lighted streets, its houses, built of wood, vilely constructed
						and ventilated, one-half of its people religious bigots, the other half abandoned
						debauchees. The town was feverish with excitement over the stories of the great
						Virginia, where gold was as common as iron, where copper was dipped out of the rivers by
						the bowl full, where the inhabitants decked out in pearls as large as peas, supplied all
						visitors with the rarest fish and game and the finest fruits, "four times bigger than
						those in England." So, in 1606, when a charter was granted for a colony in Virginia,
						notwithstanding several previous ones had utterly failed, and left no monument but the
						story of their fate, Smith joined the expedition. Edward Wingfield was president. It is
						not wonderful that this crowd of seventy-one persons soon fell to quarreling. They were
						from the slums of London—thieves, plugs, cut-throats, idlers—in search, not
						of glory, but of a country where money could be had without labor, men, as Smith said,
						"more fit to mar a state than to make one." Their settlement in Virginia was called
						Jamestown. Here they had a rough time.
					The engraving on the opposite page gives a faithful view of the first day's work in the
						wilderness. It was a struggle for existence rather than for wealth. Discipline there was
						none. The president was accused of keeping the choicest stores for himself. The men
						would not work, supplies ran low, disease and famine alike attacked the unhappy
						adventurers. One night they had an ugly row, in which all took part. Their preacher, Mr.
						Hunt, a good man, pacified them, and the next 
							THE FIRST DAY AT JAMESTOWN.
						
						 day the crowd partook of the holy communion. All these
						colonial undertakings, no matter how abandoned the men, wore a cloak of religion. The
						ostensible aim, as expressed in the Jamestown charter was, "by the grace of Almighty
						God, to propagate the Christian religion to such people as yet live in darkness and
						miserable ignorance of all true knowledge, and worship of God."
					But the quarrel was ever breaking out anew. Conspiracies to kill Smith, depose
						Wingfield, and escape to England in the pinnace were as thick as hops. Sometimes one
						faction had the upper hand, sometimes the other. The intelligent directors, safe at
						home, had instructed the colonists to search for a passage to the North Sea, and in
						exploring rivers, when they reached a fork to take the branch leading to the north-west
						as most likely to come out right. In obedience to this, Captain Newport, Smith, and
						others shortly ascended the river which the savages called POWHATAN.
						The country, too, bore the name, and the various tribes of Indians, whatever else they
						called themselves, were continually mentioning the same mysterious word. On their
						journey the explorers were hospitably treated, receiving presents of fruit, game, and
						vegetables, as well as a roast deer and baked cakes. They reached a wigwam village,
						governed by a king, the name of town and ruler both being Powhatan. This chief is
						supposed to have been a son of the great Powhatan. The natives made elaborate feasts,
						and in return their chief was entertained on the ship, where the English pork and peas
						and the liquors quite enraptured him. When the latter grew suspicious of a cross erected
						as a sign of English dominion, Newport told him the arms represented Powhatan and
						himself, and the middle their united league.
					On the morning after the feast on shipboard, the noble red man found himself too sick
						to get up; no doubt, the result of the hot drinks he had taken to so kindly. After a
						multitude of feastings from other chiefs, the explorers returned to find that the colony
						had suffered a severe attack from savages. The  president
						was cursed to his face for his failure to erect fortifications. He was accused "of
						ingrissing to his private use oatmeale, sacke, oyle, aqua vitæ, beef, and egges;" while
						the others had only "a half pint of wheat, and as much barley boyled with water for a
						man a day, and this being fryed some twenty-six weeks in the ship's hold, contained as
						many wormes as graines." As a result of the quarrels, Wingfield was deposed and
						imprisoned. Wingfield denies embezzling the delicacies. "I never had but one squirrel
						roasted!"
					The colonists hung one of the council, and Smith himself came near it. The pious frauds
						had a church, however, with "Common Prayer morning and evening, every day two sermons,
						with an Homily on Sundaies." Smith seems to have been almost alone in his efforts to
						build up the colony. Every one else was crazy about gold. He made several short voyages,
						securing small amounts of corn from the Indians, which, with the swans, geese, and ducks
						on the rivers, wild "pumpkins and persimmons," made life quite tolerable, so that for a
						while the "tuftaffety" gentlemen of the colony quit wanting to return to England.
						Necessity, however, again drove Smith to make a more extended voyage up the
						Chickahominy.
					They proceeded up the river as far as possible with the pinnace. Then Smith took two of
						the crew, Robinson and Emry, ashore with him, where two Indians were hired to take them
						further in a canoe. The crowd in this canoe paddled some twenty miles. For convenience
						in getting supper, they pulled ashore. Leaving one Indian and the two Englishmen to
						"boyle the pott," Smith took the other Indian with him to look around in the
						neighborhood for game. He had gone some distance when cries and yells were heard from
						the canoe, and then all grew still. Smith rightly conjectured that the men had been
						attacked and killed. Seizing his guide, he bound him fast to his own arm with a garter,
						and made ready to fight. No Indians were yet in sight, but an arrow, winged by a hidden
						hand, struck Smith's thigh. Shortly a score of savages jumped from their  cover. Holding his terrified guide before him as a shield,
						Smith began a retreat to the boat. His pistol he fired as often as he could, and at
						every shot the savages fled. When the sound died away they would again appear and
						discharge their arrows, but the unlucky Indian tied to Smith's arm protected him well.
						But for an accident, the retreat would have been successful, and the story of Powhatan
						never have been set afloat in the current of history. While walking backwards, intent on
						on his enemies, Smith fell into a quagmire, both his guide and himself sinking up to
						their breasts. To escape was out of the question. Almost dead with the cold, Smith threw
						away his weapons. The Indians then ran to him and pulled him out of the mud, built a
						fire, rubbed his benumbed limbs, and took him before their king, Opechancanough, a
						brother, as it transpired, of the great Powhatan.
					Smith was a man of resources. He drew out a compass, which greatly interested the
						savage, and then proceeded to "demonstrate by that globe-like Jewell, the roundness of
						the Earth and Skies the Spheare of the Sunne, Moone, and Starres, and how the Sunne did
						chase the night round about the world continually; the greatest of the Land and See, the
						diversitie of Nations, varietie of Complexions, and how we are to them Antipodes." These
						wonderful qualities of a compass have, probably, never been made use of by any but our
						own Smith.
					The secret of his demonstration is lost to science. At any rate, it evidently impressed
						the savage, as it must the reader, with the ingenious intellect of the lecturer. The
						king saw his captive was an extraordinary man. Smith was placed under guard, and the
						Indians formed in procession to conduct him to Orapaka, a "Town and Seat much frequented
						by Powhatan and the Imperial Family." The king walked first, followed by poor Smith,
						held by three lusty savages. On either side walked a file of six more, with their arrows
						notched. The remainder followed in single file. The village celebrated the strange
						capture with games, dances, and feastings. Smith was placed in a long house, with forty
						savages for a guard. For supper he had  a quarter of
						venison and ten pounds of bread. Each morning three women brought him three great
						platters of fine bread and more venison than a dozen men could devour. In spite of the
						plenty, Smith's appetite was poor, as he thought they fed him highly in order to eat
						him. His captors were preparing to attack Jamestown, and Smith exerted himself to
						explain the terrible cannon, the mines with which the fort was, he said, surrounded, and
						the certain failure which would result from an attack. To prove it, and to procure some
						presents for the Indians, he asked the king to send messengers to the fort. This request
						was granted. Three naked savages set out through the snow and ice of winter on the trip.
						Smith took care to send a letter, scratched on some bark, telling the colonists that he
						was safe, and how to both treat the messengers well, yet to frighten them with the
						cannon, and to send him certain trinkets. When the messengers returned, great was the
						astonishment of the village that Smith had been able to talk so far to his friends, and
						that the messengers had brought what he predicted they would bring.
					After many days of delay and ceremony, the Indians decided to take Smith before their
						emperor, Powhatan, the Indian Cæsar, who had conquered the entire region, to whom
						innumerable chiefs and tribes were subject. Such was the extent of his name that the
						English, understanding little of the language but hearing the word often repeated, by
						turns regarded it as we have seen, as the name of a river, of the country, of the
						people, of a town, and of the chief whom they met in their first voyage. This man had
						extended his dominions till they were many times the size of his original inheritance.
						The hereditary chiefs or "kings" of the subject tribes were permitted to rule their own
						tribes as before the conquest, and their local laws and customs were not interfered
						with, on condition of their paying annual tribute to Powhatan of "Skins, Beades, Copper,
						Pearl, Deare, Turkies, wild Beastes, and Corn," a system of government strangely similar
						to that of the Roman Empire. His subjects  regarded him as
						half man and half God, a rather intimate union of church and state.
					When the dauntless Smith was presented to this important personage, he seemed about
						sixty years old, his hair was gray, his figure tall and majestic. He was reclining at
						the end of a long apartment, on a chair or couch of state, covered with great robes of
						furs, with a coronet of immense, gayly colored plumes on his head. At his head and feet
						sat two shapely young Indian girls, in scanty attire, his youngest and favorite wives.
						Behind him were grouped the rest of his wives, adorned with beads and decorated with the
						most gaudy paints. Around the room were arranged fifty of the tallest warriors in his
						dominions. This "palace guard" was increased to two hundred from this time on account of
						the English. He is said to have lived "in great barbaric state and magnificence." At
						night a sentinel was posted on each corner of the house, who was required at certain
						intervals to give a signal to the guard in the house. If he slept or omitted the signal
						he received terrible punishment. Powhatan had a large number of towns or seats in which
						he, from time to time, made his residence, according to the season or the character of
						the game which each place afforded.
					On Smith's entrance into the dusky emperor's hall of state, a terrific shot was set up.
						The Queen of Appomattox (a name now familiar to every American), brought a copper basin
						of water, while her companion attended with a bunch of feathers on which to dry Smith's
						hands. The emperor, having assured himself that Smith's hands were clean, proceeded to
						ask him innumerable questions as to where he was from, where he was going, what brought
						the whites to his kingdom, what were their intentions, what kind of a country they lived
						in, and how many warriors they had. No doubt, the slayer of three Turkish bashaws, and
						the pet of the princess, Tragabigzanda, was equal to his opportunities. It is possible
						that the old savage regarded him as a liar, for after his questionings were over, Smith
						says, "a long consultation was held, but the conclusion was, two  great stones were brought before brought before Powhatan; then as many
						savages as could, layd hands on him, dragged him to them, and theron laid his head,"
						preparatory to beating out his precious brains with their war-clubs. By lucky accident
						Smith escaped the doom through the famous intercession of Pocahontas, "the king's
						dearest daughter, whom no entreaty could prevaile, but gat his head in her arms, and
						laid her own upon his to save him from death," an incident which has been expanded,
						moralized upon, and applauded in turn by a hundred historians.
					No doubt poor Smith received the caresses of the Indian maiden with a sensation rarely
						the lot of mortals to enjoy, for the stern old emperor looked at the scene for a moment,
						muttered a few words in his strange tongue, and, with his own hand lifted the girl and
						Smith from the ground. Smith was still doubtful of his fate for a day or two. During
						this time he busied himself carving wooden toys for Pocahontas, who had saved him by her
						intercession. These filled the childish hearts of herself and her companions with
						delight. While making himself popular with the young girls, Smith noticed with
						satisfaction that the chiefs still admired and wondered at the compass as much as ever.
						In the picture on the opposite page the wily Englishman is presenting Pocahontas with a
						wooden doll, which he has just manufactured.
					One day, old Powhatan laid aside his dignity, as most kings do at times, and disguising
						himself in the most horrible manner, with two hundred others, "as blacke as himselfe,"
						hid behind a curtain in a large house, to which Smith was presently brought. He sat down
						by the fire, thinking the apartment otherwise unoccupied, when with unearthly shrieks
						and a "hellishe noise," the savages jumped from their hiding-place, brandishing weapons,
						and making horrible contortions as they circled around him. He supposed his end was at
						hand. The affair was only a joke, though he was well-nigh dead with apprehension. There
						are still savages, white enough, who enjoy such jokes. Powhatan explained the matter
						with many grins, furnished him with 
							CAPTAIN SMITH AMUSES POCAHONTAS WITH TOYS.
						
						 guides, and sent him back to Jamestown. Smith promised to
						send his liberator "two gunnes and a gryndestone." This promise he fulfilled by offering
						his guides two culverins and a mill-stone, which they could not possibly transport. He
						took care both to frighten by firing the culverins and to pacify them with many presents
						for Powhatan and his wives.
					Smith's life, however, was scarcely safer among the ruffians at the fort than among the
						savages. On the day of his return, his enemies, headed by Ratcliffe, the president,
						arrested him on the charge of murdering his two companions, Robinson and Emry, found him
						guilty, and sentenced him to be hung the next morning, a sentence of which the
						fulfillment was only prevented by the arrival of Newport, from England, the same
						evening. The affectionate Pocahontas and her father did not forget Smith. Two or three
						days after his return a fire broke out, destroying their buildings and supplies at the
						fort. Shortly afterward, Pocahontas, a perfectly nude maiden, appeared at the fort with
						a train of attendants such as herself, bringing presents of corn and game to Smith and
						his friends. This visit was only the first of a long series, in which Pocahontas came to
						the fort regularly, at least twice a week, with abundant gifts. She was only eleven or
						twelve years old, evidently of a kind and generous nature, but full of the fun which
						belongs to youth. On the occasions of her visits to the fort, she became well acquainted
						with the men. Her sportiveness was manifested by "making cart wheeles" falling on her
						hands, "heeles upwards," and turning over and over around the fort.
					During Smith's seven weeks' captivity, which had been a great advantage in gaining the
						confidence and learning the language of the Indians, he, in order to awe them, greatly
						bragged of the immense power and skill of Captain Newport. Though he secretly despised
						the man, Smith, priest-like, set up the bogus image before the worshiping multitude, and
						called it divine. Powhatan naturally had a great desire to see Newport, and he was
						promised the pleasure. The new-comers on  the ship
						completely demoralized the prices in trade with the Indians. The sailors were foolishly
						granted the privilege of trading, and it soon took a pound of copper to buy the quantity
						of corn for which only an ounce of the metal had previously been required. Only such
						Indians as had his special license were allowed by Powhatan to visit the fort and trade.
						One poor redskin slipped in one day without license, and furtively sold a little basket
						of corn. For this offense the emperor had him killed. Newport sent forward to Powhatan
						presents, much too rich to be wise, and followed himself with Smith and forty men.
					When they arrived at Werowocomoco, the wary Newport declined going ashore, for fear of
						treachery, till Smith first examined the situation. Even Smith, before crossing the
						crazy traps, which bridged a network of creeks, required a large number of Indians to
						precede him, and retained others as hostages, lest the affairs should be pitfalls. The
						village wore a holiday look. Fifty great platters of fine bread stood in front of
						Powhatan's lodge. The emperor received Smith with great state and display, caused him to
						sit on the right hand of his throne, and renewed the old acquaintance with friendly
						conversation, in which Smith's joke about the "gunnes and gryndestone" drew much loud
						laughter. Smith presented Powhatan with a suit of red cloth, a white greyhound, and a
						hat. He was lodged with Powhatan, and served by a young Indian woman, who was appointed
						to attend him, with an abundance of rich and various food. In the evening there was a
						feast, with songs, dances, and speeches. Next morning Newport came ashore, and was
						royally entertained for four days. Powhatan spared no effort to elaborate his
						hospitality, proclaiming death to any subject who offered any discourtesy to his guests.
						Newport gave him a white boy, Thomas Savage, as a present.
					When they came to trade, Powhatan was much too crafty for Newport. He affected great
						dignity, said the great Powhatan could not enter into a dicker. "Let Captain Newport lay
						down all his commodities. Such as Powhatan wants he will 
						take and then make such recompense as is right." Such was his speech. Newport fell into
						the trap. He received four bushels of corn when he should have had two hundred. Smith
						seeing this failure, apparently by accident glanced some blue beads, so that their glint
						caught the eye of the Indian, who at once became eager to see them. Smith denied having
						them, then protested he could not sell them, that they were made of the same stuff as
						the sky, and were only to be worn by the greatest kings on earth. All this inflamed the
						savage's anxiety to the highest pitch, and he offered twenty, fifty, a hundred, two
						hundred, three hundred bushels of corn. Smith yielded to this last offer with great show
						of reluctance, took his corn, "and yet," he says, "parted good friends."
					The presence of Newport's ship at the colony was a constant demoralization. Such of the
						shoremen as had any thing of value whatever traded it to the sailors for liquor or ship
						stores, which were wasted in excesses. Smith wanted Newport to leave, but he caught the
						"gold fever," and remained fourteen weeks, diligently loading his vessel with river
						sand, in which were shining particles of mica, which he insisted were gold. The idle
						colonists gave up regular work, in spite of Smith's expostulations, and dreamed of
						fabulous wealth. The ship remained so long that its stores were exhausted, and instead
						of the colony receiving supplies from Newport, actually had to divide its meager store
						to revictual the ship for the return. Newport sailed proudly away with his cargo of
						dirt, but not without doing a mischief to the colony. Powhatan, with a motive clear as
						day to Smith, sent Newport twenty turkeys, asking for twenty swords in return, which the
						goose at once sent him. Soon afterward he sent a like present and message to Smith, but
						obtained no swords for his trouble, which angered him. Though professing friendship, the
						Indians began to give trouble with their thieving. Several men from the fort were
						waylaid in the forest and stripped of their weapons. Thus matters went on till Smith
						took several of the Indians prisoners,  and by dint of
						threats and promises learned from them that the crafty Powhatan, seeing the superiority
						of English weapons, and designing to massacre the colony, had undertaken to trade for
						weapons with Newport and Smith, and, failing with the latter, to take them from the
						colonists whenever caught out alone. Another sign of hostility was the return of the boy
						Savage, with bag and baggage, to the fort. Learning that some of his people were
						prisoners, the emperor of Virginia sent the lovely Pocahontas, "who not only for
						feature, countenance, and proportion, much exceedeth any of the rest of his people, but
						for wit and spirit the only nonpareil of his country," to Smith to deny hostile
						intentions and ask for the release of his men. Any favor asked by Pocahontas was certain
						to be granted, and after prayers, and a hearty meal, the warriors were given back their
						bows and arrows, and restored to liberty.
					Smith, who was never idle, one day went on an exploring trip around the Chesapeake Bay,
						on which he met with many adventures. Once he caught a fish on his sword, which in being
						taken off thrust its "poysonne sting of two or three inches long, bearded like a saw,"
						into his wrist. The arm quickly swelled to an enormous size, and the torment was so
						great that he gave up hope, and his friends prepared a grave under his directions.
						Luckily "it pleased God, by a precious oyle Dr. Russell applied to it, that his
						tormenting paine was so assuaged that he ate of that fish to his supper." Once he met
						the Susquehannock Indians, distinguished by their friendly disposition and enormous
						stature. Their tobacco pipes were three feet long, their voices "sounded from them as
						they were a great noyse in a vault or cave, as an ecco." The calf of the chief's leg
						"was three-quarters of a yard about," and his body of similar proportions.
					On September 10, 1608, Smith was made president of the colony. He at once stopped the
						erection of a pleasure house, which Ratcliffe, who had succeeded Wingfield in the
						presidency, was having built for his own use, and set the men about useful  labor. Things had barely begun to run smoothly when the
						marplot Newport returned with several wild schemes. He brought with him orders for a
						coronation of Powhatan as emperor, together with elaborate presents for the old
						Indian.
					A more foolish thing was never perpetrated. The effect of the coronation was to
						increase Powhatan's notion of his own importance, and make it impossible to maintain
						friendly relations with him. Smith's hard sense protested against the folly, but finally
						he insisted on at least trying to get Powhatan to come to Jamestown for the ceremony.
						With this object he went to Powhatan's residence, but finding him away from home, was
						compelled to wait a day for his return. In the meantime Pocahontas had some more of her
						fun. Smith and his men were sitting around a fire in the open air, when they were
						alarmed by the most frightful uproar in the surrounding woods. They seized their arms
						and thought they were betrayed. In a moment Pocahontas came running up to Smith, and
						told him he might kill her if any hurt was intended, and explained that it was only
						sport. At the head of her thirty young women, attired as we have intimated was their
						fashion, she led them in a wonderful "anticke," dancing, singing, crying, leaping,
						casting themselves in circles around the visitors, and "falling into their infernal
						passions." An hour was spent in this "mascarade." Then "they solemnly invited Smith to
						their lodgings, where he was no sooner in the house, but all these nymphs more tormented
						him than ever, with crowding, pressing, hanging about him, most tediously crying, "Love
						you not me? Love you not me?" After this he was seated at the most elaborate banquet of
						savage dainties which the ingenuity of Pocahontas and her nymphs could devise. The feast
						at last broke up, and his dusky tormentors escorted him to his lodging with a fire-brand
						procession.
					In the morning, Smith, his head no doubt a little thick from the frolic, stated his
						wish to Powhatan, agreeing to assist him in a war against his enemies, the Monacans, if
						he would come  to Jamestown. But this proud representative
						in the American forest of the divine rights of kings, haughtily replied: "If your king
						has sent me a present, I also am a king, and this is my land; eight days I will stay to
						receive them. Your father is to come to me, not I to him, nor yet to your fort; neither
						will I bite at such a bait; as for the Monacans, I can revenge my own injuries."
					"This was the lofty potentate," says a charming writer, "whom Smith could have tickled
						out of his senses with a glass bead, and who would infinitely have preferred a big
						shining copper kettle to the misplaced honor intended to be thrust upon him, but the
						offer of which puffed him up beyond the reach of negotiation."
					Smith returned with his message. If the mountain would not come to Mahomet, then
						Mahomet must go to the mountain. Smith describes with rare humor the ridiculous ceremony
						of the coronation, the last act of which shows that Powhatan himself must have seen the
						size of the joke. "The presents were brought him, his bason and ewer, bed and furniture
						set up, his scarlet cloke and apparel with much adoe put on him, being assured they
						would not hurt him. But a foule trouble there was to make him kneel to receive his
						crown; he not knowing the majesty, nor wearing of a crown, nor bending of the knee,
						endured so many persuasions, examples, and instructions as tyred them all. At last, by
						bearing hard on his shoulders, he, a little stooped, and three having the crown in their
						hands, put it on his head, when by the warning of a pistoll the boats were prepared with
						such a volley of shot, that the king started up in a horrible feare, till he saw all was
						well. Then remembering himself to congratulate their kindness, he gave his
							old shoes and his mantell to Capt. Newport!" The mountain labored, and brought
						forth a mouse.
					This magnificent failure to get two ship loads of corn which Newport had promised,
						reduced the colonists almost to starvation. Smith, finding no corn was to be procured
						peaceably  from the Indians, began a more radical policy.
						Taking a strong force with him, he again sailed up the Chickahominy, and declaring his
						purpose to be to avenge his captivity and the murder of his men, he made war. It was not
						long before the Indians sued for peace, and paid one hundred bushels of corn, a serious
						inroad on a small harvest, for their crops had failed.
					Things went on poorly enough at the fort. Out of three hundred axes, hoes and
						pick-axes, only twenty could be found, the thievish colonists having secretly traded
						them off to the Indians. The hundred bushels of corn were soon gone. In their extremity
						Powhatan sent word to Smith to visit him, send him men to build him a house, give him a
						grindstone, fifty swords, some big guns, a cock and hen, much copper and beads, and he
						would in return load Smith's ship with corn. Unwilling to miss an opportunity, however
						slight, to procure supplies, Smith resolved to humor Powhatan by sending some workmen,
						among whom were two knavish Dutchmen, to build the house, and to follow with a force
						strong enough to take old Powhatan's corn by force if it could not be had peaceably.
					It was midwinter. A severe storm detained Smith and his men on the way, and compelled
						them to celebrate their Christmas among some friendly Indians. While the winter storm
						raged without, the men were warmly lodged among the savages, and feasted around the
						roaring fires on splendid bread, fish, oysters, game, and wild fowl.
					Proceeding on their journey, their landing at Powhatan's residence had to be made by
						wading breast deep through the half frozen shallows and mire for a half mile. Powhatan
						sent down provisions for them, but pretended not to have sent for them at all. Smith
						reproached him with deceit and hostility. Powhatan replied by wordy evasions, and seemed
						coolly indifferent about his new house. He demanded guns and swords in exchange for
						corn, which Smith refused. The old emperor then said he doubted the intentions of the
						English, for he had heard that they came not so much for trade as to invade and possess
							 his country. For what good purpose did Smith and his men
						carry arms, if they really came on an errand of peace? Let them have their weapons in
						their vessel, in order that his people might not be afraid to bring in their corn, and
						as a proof that their intentions were peaceful. "Let us all be friends together and
						forever Powhatans." The secret of Powhatan's conduct lay in the fact, not entirely
						discovered by Smith for some months, that the two Dutchmen, yielding to the seductive
						influence of Powhatan's abundant table and comfortable quarters, had betrayed the
						destitute condition of the colonists to him.
					At an interval in the dispute Smith managed to trade an old copper kettle to the
						emperor for eighty bushels of corn. Then the debate was renewed with the same vigor.
						Powhatan, liar that he was, said that he had lived to see the death of three generations
						of his people, and his experience taught him that peace was better than war. Why then
						would the English try to take by force what they could quickly have by love? Why would
						they destroy Powhatan and his people who provided them food? What could be gained by
						war? Powhatan in his old age could take his people, hide their corn, burn their lodges,
						fly to the forest, and live there in the cold, subsisting on acorns and roots. But this
						would not only make him and his people bitterly unhappy; the English themselves must
						starve if they destroyed the people who furnished them food. Powhatan and Captain Smith
						would alike end their lives in misery. He concluded with an earnest appeal to Smith to
						have his men lay aside their guns and swords.
					But Smith was proof against this eloquence. Believing that Powhatan's purpose was to
						disarm the English and then massacre them, he ordered his men to break the ice and bring
						the vessel nearer shore. Then more men were to land and an attack was to be made. The
						intellect of the Indian and the white man were well matched in their insight into
						character and in craftiness. No diplomacy inferior to that of the Indian emperor could
						have so long retained the upper hand of Smith.  No leader
						of less courage and resources than John Smith could so long have maintained a starving
						colony in the hostile dominions of the great Powhatan. In order to consummate the
						movement by which his entire force should become available for action, Smith kept
						Powhatan engaged in a lengthy conversation. But the Indian outwitted him. Suspecting his
						motive, Powhatan, skillfully excused himself for a moment, leaving three of his most
						entertaining wives to occupy Smith's attention, and passing through the rear of his bark
						dwelling, escaped to the forest, while the house was silently surrounded by his
						warriors.
					When Smith discovered his danger, he rushed boldly out, fired at the nearest Indian,
						and made his way unhurt to the shore. The English, then, with leveled muskets, forced
						the Indians to load the boat with corn. Night came on; the work was done, but the vessel
						could not sail till high tide. Smith and his men had to pass the night ashore. Powhatan
						designed to surprise them by an attack while at their supper. Once more the gentle
						Pocahontas saved Smith. Slipping into the camp, she took Smith aside, hurriedly told him
						that her father would shortly send down an abundant supper for the English, but, that
						while the latter were engaged in the meal, an attack would be made by her father with
						all his warriors. Smith offered her handsome presents and rewards, but with tears
						running down her cheeks, she refused them all, saying, that if she were seen to have
						them, it would cost her her life. Once more urging Smith to depart, the affectionate
						girl turned from him and fled into the forest, the gloom of which was deepened by the
						thickening shadows of a winter twilight. Presently ten huge savages came, bearing a hot
						supper for the English, and urged them to eat. But Smith compelled the cooks first to
						taste their own broth as an assurance that it was not poisoned.
					The night was one of anxiety. Large numbers of savages could be seen lurking around. No
						one was permitted to sleep, but all were required to be prepared for a fight at any
						moment. Their vigilance saved them, and in the morning the homeward  trip was commenced. It was a dark prospect for the colonists. They had
						escaped this time, but could they always do as well? Where were their supplies to come
						from, if not from the Indians? Meanwhile, the Dutch traitors made a trip overland to the
						fort, represented that Smith had sent them, and procured guns, ammunition, fifty swords,
						tools, and clothing. They also induced six "expert thieves" to desert with them to
						Powhatan.
					On the way back Smith had a thrilling adventure with Opechancanough, the savage to whom
						Smith had delivered his lecture on astronomy. In the hope of securing corn, Smith took
						fifteen men and went up to the chief's house, where he found himself betrayed and
						surrounded by seven hundred armed savages. Smith spoke to his men, told them to follow
						his example and die fighting. He then openly accused Opechancanough of an intent to
						murder him, and challenged him to single combat, the Indian to choose the weapons, and
						the victor to cut off the other's head and be lord over the countrymen of the
						vanquished. This the Indian refused, denied his hostile intention, and laid a handsome
						present just outside the door. Had Smith gone outside, he would have fallen, pierced by
						a hundred arrows. Seizing an opportunity, he rushed up to the king, grabbed him by
						the hair, placed a loaded pistol at his head, and marched him around, half dead with
						fright, before all his warriors. Looking on Smith as a god, the people threw down their
						arms. It was not long till they were trading in good style. Here Smith was overtaken by
						a messenger from the fort, who had gone to Powhatan's residence, seen great preparations
						for war, and only escaped alive through being concealed by Pocahontas in her lodge, and,
						having been furnished by her with provisions for his journey, safely conducted away at
						night.
					New disasters at the fort required Smith's presence. Beset by hostile savages along the
						river, he at last reached home, with five hundred bushels of corn as the result of this
						exhausting campaign in the dead of winter. New hardships beset the colony, but were met
						with renewed energy on the part of Smith. 
							FRENCH AND INDIAN HUNTERS OF THE BLUE JUNIATA.
						
						
							AN INDIAN SCOUT RECONNOITERING.
						
						
							BATTLE OF CAPTAIN SMITH AND THE INDIAN CHIEF.
						
						 The renegade Dutchmen managed through confederates in
						the gang of ruffians within the fort to continue the thefts of arms and ammunition.
					One day, Smith, while walking in the forest, encountered the gigantic king of Paspahey,
						and a terrible combat ensued. The savage, of great strength and stature, slowly forced
						Smith into the water, intending to drown him. But the Indian stumbled over a stone. To
						regain his balance he threw up his hands. At the same instant Smith's iron hand grasped
						his throat; with the other hand the Englishman whipped out his sword to kill his foe.
						But the Indian pleaded for his life. Smith was a kind-hearted fellow, and besides, full
						of vanity. The notion struck him that it would he a fine thing to take the big Indian
						prisoner to the fort as proof of his prowess. This he at once proceeded to do. Our
						artist has given us a vivid picture of the scene of the combat, just at the moment when
						Smith, clutching his adversary's throat, paused with sword in air. The Indian was taken
						safely to the fort and put in chains. He subsequently managed to escape, probably
						through the help of Smith's enemies.
					Shortly afterward, on a trip up the Pamunkey (now York) River, Smith was attacked by
						this king's people, but when they knew their foe, they threw down their arms, and their
						best orator addressed Smith, telling him that his ex-captive was there and proceeding to
						justify the escape. "Do you blame the fish for swimming, or the bird for flying? Then
						you should not blame my master for obeying the instinct of his nature to escape to the
						freedom of his forests. Why do you pursue us and force us at too great loss to avenge
						the injuries we receive at your hands? The red man is a savage; he knows not the white
						man's God. But these are his rivers and forests. Here his people have hunted and fished,
						planted seed and gathered harvests, for many generations. Yet the white man seeks to
						take what is not his. If you succeed in conquering us, we will simply abandon the
						country of our fathers, and remove to a place where we will  be beyond the white man's reach. If that were done the English would gain nothing,
						but would lose the corn and fruit we are willing to sell them. Why not, then, let us
						enjoy our houses, and plant our fields in peace and security, seeing that you as well as
						we will be benefited by our toil?" The result of this speech was a friendship which
						lasted for many years.
					A singular incident at this time raised Smith's reputation to the highest pitch among
						the savages. Two of Powhatan's people had stolen a pistol. Smith arrested them, threw
						one in the dungeon, and gave the other a certain time to produce the pistol, in default
						of which the prisoner should die. Smith, pitying the fellow in the dungeon, sent him
						some food and some charcoal for a fire. At midnight the other returned with the pistol,
						but his friend was found badly burned, and smothered to death with charcoal fumes. The
						grief of the poor fellow was so great that Smith said, if he would be quiet he would
						restore his companion to life. Little thinking a recovery would take place, Smith
						applied stimulants and rubbed the Indian's body, when suddenly he sat up! To the great
						sorrow of his friend the "dead" Indian was crazy. Smith, catching the spirit of the
						thing, told the other to be quiet, and he would restore reason to his friend also. The
						patient was laid by the fire and allowed to sleep till morning. He awoke in his right
						senses. Thenceforth the Indians believed Smith could restore the dead to life. For three
						months, the colonists, through the iron discipline of Smith, enjoyed peace and
						prosperity. Twenty cabins were built at the fort; a block-house erected for defense,
						through which lay the only entrance; a good well was dug, and a considerable quantity of
						tar and soap ashes manufactured.
					One day the unlucky colonists found that their abundant store of corn was eaten up by
						the rats, which, from the few brought over in the ship, had increased to thousands.
						Without corn for bread work had to be stopped. No provision, except wild roots and
						herbs, could be procured at that time of year. Eighty men were sent down the bay to live
						on oysters;  twenty went up the river to subsist on fish.
						The Indians, to show their friendship, brought to the fort what game they could find.
						Sturgeon were abundant. Those of the colony who were not too lazy, dried the fish,
						pounded it to powder, mixed it with herbs, and made a very tolerable bread. The
						majority, however, would rather starve than work. They importuned and abused Smith
						because he refused to trade guns, swords, and ammunition for corn. He, at last, issued
						an order, reciting that every man able to work who failed to gather each day as much
						provision in a day as he himself did, should be taken across the river, and left as a
						drone. Some of the vagabonds preferred to desert to the Indians, where they could
						partake of the abundance without labor. But Powhatan and his tributary chieftains
						imitated Smith, and all whites who refused to work were flogged and sent back to the
						fort.
					Meanwhile treachery was at work without and within. The villians at the fort plotted
						with Powhatan to betray it. The Indians were being taught that King James would kill
						Smith for his ill-treatment of them. Besides these obstacles, the Virginia Company was
						greatly dissatisfied. A considerable investment of money in the colony had brought no
						return. The North Sea was undiscovered. This was without excuse, argued the London
						magistrates, when only a little longer trip, twenty, thirty, or forty miles would,
						doubtless, have brought the colonists to the other ocean. What want of courage and
						common sense was shown by not pushing the matter! Besides there were yet no cargoes of
						gold pigs or even copper pigs sent home. There must be gold there. Every one said there
						was. Probably Smith was amassing a fortune, and his colony rolling in a life of wealth
						and luxury, while he left the honorable Board of Directors to hold the bag. No doubt
						there were mountain ranges of solid gold in Virginia, but the directors were not
						fault-finding. A certain report of one single mountain, or even hill, of gold would be
						satisfactory. Even a very little hill, say two hundred feet high and two thousand feet
						in circumference, if it  were not full of caves, would be
						quite comforting. Such a modest demand, they argued, ought to be complied with.
					Thus, at war with the Indians, betrayed by his own men, and misrepresented and abused
						by the English capitalist, Smith, no doubt, felt that, after all his hardships, his fall
						was at hand. Lord De La Ware and others obtained a new charter and commission from the
						English king. Preparations, more elaborate than for any previous expedition, were made.
						Several ships in the fleet were wrecked in a storm. Those which reached Jamestown
						brought many enemies of Smith, and a great crowd of the London riff-raff. Smith, not yet
						formally superseded, continued to exert his authority.
					To relieve the Jamestown settlement somewhat of its unruly elements, Smith planned two
						new settlements, one under Captain West and one under Martin. Each, with its proportion
						of provisions, set out in high glee. Martin and his men went to Nausemon. The poor
						savages received him kindly, but the novice mistook their noisy mirth, as they
						celebrated his arrival, for hostility, and falling on the wretched Indians, captured
						their poor, naked king and his houses. The work of fortification was begun, and the
						savages, divining Martin's fear, attacked him, released their king, killed several men
						and captured a thousand bushels of corn which Martin had traded for.
					The other expedition pitched its settlement in low, swampy ground, liable to
						inundation, and well suited to breed fevers among the men. To remedy this mistake Smith,
						still the president, sent to Powhatan proposing to buy the town called Powhatan, for the
						new settlement. A treaty was at last made between them, by the terms of which Powhatan
						agreed to resign the town, its forts and houses, with the entire region thereabouts to
						the English. The latter, in return, were to defend him and his dominions from the
						Monacans, and to pay annually a certain proportion of copper. All thieves were to be
						promptly returned to their own people for punishment. Each house of Powhatan's was to
						annually furnish one bushel of corn  in exchange for a
						cubic inch of copper. When this treaty of trade and friendship was completed, the
						swaggerers and roustabouts of the settlement denied Smith's authority, and refused to
						stir an inch from their swamp. In attempting to quell the mutiny Smith barely escaped
						with his life. Well knowing the importance of keeping faith with Powhatan, he exerted
						all his skill to induce the men to take advantage of the treaty. But the settlement had
						the notion that the Monacan country was full of gold, that they could prevent any one
						else than themselves from visiting it, and that Smith's desire to remove them was
						prompted by his wish to secure access to the gold fields for himself.
					Meanwhile, Powhatan's people began to complain bitterly to Smith. The old emperor sent
						messengers, saying that those whom he had brought for their protectors were worse
						enemies than the Monacans themselves; that these "protectors stole their corn, robbed
						their gardens, broke open their houses, beat them, and put many in prison; that,
						heretofore, out of love for him, they had borne these wrongs, but after this they must
						defend themselves." The shrewd old diplomate also offered to fight with Smith against
						the settlement and quell the mutiny, which he was keen enough to perceive and
						understand.
					Failing in his well-meant efforts, Smith sailed away. Accidents are sometimes
						fortunate. His ship ran aground. Messengers came running, begging him to return. In the
						brief interval since his departure, Powhatan's enraged people had made an attack,
						killing many of the settlement. Smith returned, restored order, removed the colony to
						the town Powhatan, where they found a fort capable of defense against all the savages in
						Virginia, good warm and dry houses to live in, and two hundred acres of land ready for
						planting corn. This comfortable and secure place was called Non-such. Hardly were they
						well settled, when the old infatuation seized them. Mutiny broke out. Smith, seeing the
						mutineers bent on their own destruction, gave up in despair and left them forever.  They at once abandoned the eligible lodges and fort at
						Non-such to return to the open air, and poisoned at that, of the old swamp.
					Misfortunes come not singly but in whole battalions. As Smith was returning to
						Jamestown, disgusted at the folly he had witnessed, a bag of powder in the boat was
						accidentally fired, tearing the flesh from his body and thighs and inflicting terrible
						burns. In his agony he leaped into the river, and was barely saved from drowning.
						Lacking both doctor and nurse, flat on his back at the fort, suffering untold torments
						from the wounds, poor Smith succumbed at last. His enemies deposed him; a plot to murder
						him in his bed was almost consummated, an elaborate indictment for his misdeeds was
						drawn up, and on September 29, 1609, he sailed away from the inhospitable shores of
						Virginia to return no more— 
								"Ingratitude, more strong than traitor's arms,
								O'ercame him quite."
							 Powhatan at once commenced active hostilities.
					Henry Spelman was an English boy whom Smith had given to Powhatan in the trade for the
						town of the same name. He had afterwards left Powhatan and returned to the fort.
						Powhatan sent Thomas Savage, the other boy whom Newport had given him, to Jamestown on
						an errand. Savage complained of loneliness, and easily persuaded Spelman to return with
						him. Powhatan now made use of him by sending word to the fort that he would sell them
						corn if they would come up for it. It may be easily believed that supplies were running
						low, now that Smith was no longer there to plan and execute methods for their
						procurement. An expedition of thirty-eight men set out at once. No suspicion of
						treachery was felt. As the boat landed, the Indians, who lay in ambush, sprang forth in
						overpowering numbers and killed every man in the party except Spelman, who was returning
						with them. He fled through the woods, made known his distress to Pocahontas, whose
						tender  heart seems to have been ever responsive to
						misfortune. Through her help he was hidden for a while, furnished with provisions by her
						own hand, and then assisted to secret flight.
					Powhatan henceforth haughtily refused all trade. The forests were filled with lurking
						savages. Many a man went out from the fort to hunt game who never returned. Such food as
						they had on hand was consumed and wasted by the officers. The colonists bartered away
						their very swords and guns, with which alone corn could be procured. Of the five hundred
						colonists at the time of Smith's departure there remained, at the end of six months,
						only sixty, and these subsisted chiefly on "roots, herbs, acorns, walnuts, and berries,
						and now and then a little fish." It is almost impossible to believe the stories of this
						"starving time." The corpses of two savages who had been killed, were seized by the
						poorer colonists, boiled with roots and herbs, and greedily devoured. "One
							among the rest did kill his wife, powdered her, and had eaten part of her before it
							was known." This man was burned alive for his crime. Strange as this story is, it
						was reaffirmed in most particulars in the published report of an official investigation
						into the affairs of the colony by the London directors in the year 1610. These
						extremities were the result of sloth, vice, and crime as much as of the natural
						hardships of the situation. The colony was composed of the very offscourings of London.
						All planting and gathering of crops was abandoned, the houses decayed, the church became
						a tumbling ruin. They ate their fish raw rather than build a fire and cook it. When
						Somers and Gates, after terrible adventures, arrived with re-enforcements, they said the
						colony would have been extinct in ten days had not succor arrived.
					With wavering fortunes the colony continued to exist. We have little account of
						Powhatan, owing to the fact that his remorseless hostility cut off all intercourse with
						him. In 1613 the princess, Pocahontas, had developed into the maturer beauty of eighteen
						years. Captain Argall, Smith's ancient enemy, was  making a
						voyage in search of supplies, when he learned that Pocahontas, instead of being with her
						father, the emperor, was living with the King Potowomek's people. It is not certainly
						known why she was away from home. There are reasons for thinking that she went to
						Potowomek, partly because her father suspected her of friendship to the English, and
						desired to remove her from their vicinity, and partly, because she herself was glad to
						escape from the scenes of torture and butchery which took place on the occasion of every
						capture of an Englishman.
					Another account is, that she was making a friendly visit on the occasion of an Indian
						fair. Argall resolved to capture her if possible, and force Powhatan to ransom her by
						the release of his prisoners, the restoration of stolen property, and abundant gifts of
						corn. He resorted to a mean stratagem. Among the tribe whose guest she was, Argall found
						a low savage, named Jabazaws, to whom he offered the bribe of a copper kettle, to decoy
						her on board his ship. The scoundrel had a keen insight into his victims' character.
						Having no chance to play upon her curiosity, because Pocahontas had seen many larger
						vessels, he instructed his wife to pretend her great desire to see one.
					Carefully planning for Pocahontas to overhear them, the savage proceeded to beat his
						wife for her mock importunities. She cried lustily, and at last he told her that if
						Pocahontas would go aboard with her, she might go. The amiable girl, always glad to
						oblige others, fell into the snare. Once on board the ship, Argall decoyed her into the
						gun room, and locked her up, in order to conceal from her the treachery of her own
						people. Jabazaws and his wife gleefully received their reward. Then Argall told
						Pocahontas she was his prisoner, and must be the means of making peace between the
						English and her father. At this announcement the cheat, Jabazaws, and his wife, cried
						louder than poor Pocahontas herself, finally, with many tears and embracings, taking
						leave of her. The meanness of the man Argall, who could thus take advantage of a young
						girl, a barbarian, forsooth, whose very life she had  risked again and again to help the English, is almost
						beneath the whip of scorn.
					This gallant gentleman took his prize to Jamestown, which she looked upon for the first
						time since Smith's departure, four years before. Messengers were dispatched to Powhatan,
						announcing the capture of his daughter and the requisite ransom set on her head. English
						captives, stolen tools, captured guns, were to be restored, with much corn. Powhatan was
						greatly disturbed by this news. Pocahontas was still his favorite daughter. But it was a
						great sacrifice to give up the English weapons. Besides she had always inclined to aid
						the English, which was wrong. Whatever were the thoughts of the white-haired emperor, as
						this new sorrow burdened his heart, it was three months before he responded to the
						message. This delay was singular, and is hard to account for. It may have been caused by
						the struggle between private affection for his daughter and public duty to his country
						and people. At the end of three months, he sent back seven of his English captives, each
						armed with an unserviceable musket, and promised, on the release of his daughter, to
						give five hundred bushels of corn. This was promptly declined, and a demand made for the
						return of every captive, gun, and sword. Powhatan was so angered at this reply that he
						was not heard from for a long time.
					In the following Spring, an expedition of one hundred and fifty men took Pocahontas,
						and went up to Powhatan's seat. The emperor refused to see their messengers. The English
						then told his people they had come to receive a ransom for Pocahontas and restore her to
						liberty. To this the Indians replied with showers of arrows. A fight ensued. Forty
						houses were burned. Then a palaver was had, and a truce arranged till the following day.
						Meanwhile Pocahontas went ashore, and two of her brothers and some friends were
						permitted to see her. She welcomed them, but in a rather frigid way. She spoke little to
						any but her brothers, and told them plainly, that if her father loved her, he would not
						value her less than old  swords, axes, and guns; that for
						her part, she preferred to remain with her captors, who treated her more kindly than her
						father, unless he manifested his affection more actively. Her brothers were fond of her,
						and were glad to find her gently treated. They promised to persuade the emperor to make
						a peace. Two Englishmen, John Rolfe and one Sparkes, at once started to Powhatan's court
						to arrange a treaty. He haughtily refused to see them, but his brother, Opechancanough,
						intimated that a peace might be effected.
					But while these elaborate negotiations were working to patch up a cumbrous and probably
						short-lived treaty, another power, with more skillful hands, was knitting a surer
						alliance. Pocahontas, whose gentle and refined nature from the first seemed to yearn
						toward the civilization of the English, had changed greatly during her residence with
						them. Her tears and entreaties to be set free, at the time of her capture, are in marked
						contrast with her indifference, at the interview with her brothers, toward her own
						people, and her willingness to remain with the English. The real reason for this was
						known only to a single one of her captors, Mr. John Rolfe, a steady, industrious, and
						enterprising man, one of the best of the colony. He was a widower, his young wife having
						died. When he came in contact with Pocahontas, her charms of person and graces of
						character filled him with an admiration tinged with emotion.
					Rolfe was a very religious fellow, and he made his Christian duty to the untutored
						maiden the excuse for frequent calls, long conversations, and earnest persuasions to
						renounce her idolatry, and adopt the true Christian religion. Love is a cunning fellow.
						He knows the foibles of human nature. He delights to masquerade long in the characters
						of duty, friendship, mutual improvement, pleasure, or religion, and then suddenly to
						throw aside his masque and startle his victims with the sight of his own true self. Thus
						it was that Master Rolfe kept assuring himself that his talks and persuasions with
						Pocahontas were merely done from a sense of duty; and, as the girl slowly  yielded to his influence, until at last, just before her
						wedding, she renounced the religion of her fathers, and formally professing her adoption
						of Christianity, was baptized and re-christened by the name of Rebecca, she too
						persuaded herself that she was animated wholly by the strength of Master Rolfe's
						arguments and the truth of his cause.
					When the expedition set out, of which the object was to restore Pocahontas to her
						people, Rolfe must have undergone great inward torment. He resolved to ask the governor,
						Sir Thomas Dale, for permission to marry Pocahontas. Instead of speaking to Dale, whom
						he saw every day, Rolfe drew up a long letter, a sort of theological treatise, to him,
						and when he set out to interview Powhatan on the subject of the peace, left this curious
						document with a faithful friend, who was to deliver it to the governor in the author's
						absence. The letter is a glorious illustration of the perfection of love's masquerade,
						his deft concealment of his real character from his victim.
					It began with solemn assertions that the writer was moved only by the Spirit of God;
						that he sought only to obey his conscience, as a preparation for the "dreadful day of
						judgment, when the secrets of all men's hearts shall be opened;" that he was in no way
						led by "carnall affection," and that he sought only "for the good of this plantation,
						for the honor of our countries, for the glory of God, for my owne salvation, and for the
						converting to the true knowledge of God and Jesus Christ, an unbelieving creature,
						namely Pokahuntas." He went on to describe how long the subject had borne on his mind,
						how he had set before his mind the proneness of mankind to evil desires, how he had
						studied the rebukes of the Bible against marrying strange wives; how the fearful
						struggle had kept up day and night between the powers of light and darkness; how
						"besides the weary passions and suffering, he had daiely, hourely, yea, and in his sleep
						indured; even awaking him to astonishment, taxing him with remissnesse, and
						carelessnesse, refusing and neglecting to perform the duteie of a good Christian,
						pulling  him by the eare and crying; why dost thou not
						indeavor to make her a Christian?" Still he proceeded with his foolish delusion. He said
						that the Holy Spirit often demanded why he was created, if not to labor in the Lord's
						vineyard. Here was a good chance for him. Besides all which were her apparent love for
						him, her intelligence and desire to be taught, her willingness to receive good
						impressions, "and also the spirituall, besides her owne incitements stirring me up
						hereunto." That these "incitements" and the rest had great influence over the writer of
						this remarkable love-letter is plain. "Shall I be of so untoward a disposition as to
						refuse to lead the blind in the right way? Shall I be so unnatural as not to give bread
						to the hungrie, or uncharitable as not to cover the naked?"
					Such horrible wickedness was not to be thought of. He determined to sacrifice himself
						on the altar of duty. He could not close, however, without renewed protests that he was
						not influenced by his own desires or affections. In fact, one thinks he doth protest too
						much. He finishes, saying, "I will heartily accept of it as a godly taxe appointed me,
						and I will never cease (God assisting me) untill I have accomplished and brought to
						perfection so holy a worke, in which I will daily pray God to bless me, to mine and her
						eternal happiness."
					Governor Dale read this tedious missive, and no doubt saw the size of the joke. But,
						nevertheless, he could see the marriage would be a good thing for the colony, and lay
						the foundation for a lasting peace. He approved of it heartily, humoring Rolfe by giving
						his assent in the same style in which the letter was written, and, so far as we are
						informed, without wounding the susceptible heart of the widower by any facetious
						reflection on his cant and self-delusion.
					Word was sent to Powhatan, and he, too, seemed to approve of it. He was growing
						conservative in his old age, and he saw in the marriage a career suited to the tastes of
						his daughter as well as an assurance of long continued peace for his weary people. The
						expedition returned to Jamestown, where  Pocahontas, as
						before remarked, formally announced her conversion to Christianity. This was really a
						good joke on Rolfe, for it demolished at one blow the entire fabric of mock reasoning,
						by which he justified his desire to marry Pocahontas. However, the question was not
						sprung. Preparations for the wedding went on merrily. Powhatan shortly sent down an old
						uncle of Pocahontas to represent him at the wedding and give the bride away. The
						ceremony was performed in the Jamestown Church, about the 5th of April, 1614. This
						marriage is justly celebrated as being the basis for a peace with the Powhatans as long
						as Pocahontas lived. Other tribes, along them the Chickahominies, who are said to have
						had no king, but a rude sort of republican government, sent in their submission to this
						colony, which no longer had occasion for war.
					It is instructive to notice that the colony at this time abandoned the communal system
						of property, because while all were fed out of the common store, some would shirk the
						labor, and even the most industrious would "scarcely work in a week so much as they
						would for themselves in a single day." The prosperity of the colony was assured.
						Communism is the very soul of barbarism; individual property the earliest sign of
						civilization.
					The first time a thing occurs it is remarkable. The wedding of Rolfe and Pocahontas,
						famous as the first marriage of a white man with an Indian woman on this continent,
						recalls an incident which had transpired twenty-seven years before. This was the birth
						of a little waif known to history as Virginia Dare, the first white child born in
						America. It took place in 1587, in the unhappy colony at Roanoke, Virginia, founded
						under the auspices of Sir Walter Raleigh, whose transcendent genius more nearly
						apprehended the glorious destiny of America than that of any other man of the age. This
						little maiden was baptized when she was a week or two old. The scene was one of
						thrilling interest to the anxious group of spectators. That ceremony performed over the
						unconscious babe has been described with touching interest by every historian of
						America.  Well might it be. What a world drama has been and
						will be enacted on the new continent between the births of the first white child and of
						the last white child in America! But the history of little Virginia Dare closes with her
						baptism. Shortly after, her father, leaving his wife and child behind, went to England
						for food and help. When he returned no trace was to be found of the colony, save the
						single word "CROATAN" carved on a tree. Historians have speculated
						upon the fate of the lost colony of Roanoke and of Virginia Dare, but no satisfactory
						solution has ever been given of the mystery.
					Such benefits had flowed from the marriage of Pocahontas that good Governor Dale
						piously ascribing it to the Divine approval which rested on the conversion of the
						heathen, and reflecting that another daughter of Powhatan would form an additional
						pledge of peace, sent Hamor and the interpreter, Thomas Savage, to Powhatan, for the
						purpose of securing another daughter for himself. At the town of Matchcat, farther up
						the river than Werowocomoco, from which the emperor had removed on account of the
						proximity of the English, the visitors were received. The emperor seemed glad to see
						Savage, and invited him to his house. After a pipe of tobacco had been passed around,
						Powhatan inquired anxiously about his daughter's welfare, "her marriage, his unknown
						son, and how they liked, lived, and loved together." Hamor answered that Rolfe was very
						well, and "his daughter so well content that she would not change her life to return and
						live with him, whereat he laughed heartily, and said he was very glad of it."
					Powhatan then desired to know the reason of the unexpected visit. Hamor said his
						message was private, and he desired no one to be present. The emperor at once ordered
						the room cleared of all except the inevitable pair of queens who sat on either side of
						the monarch. As a propitiatory introduction to the subject, Hamor delivered a message of
						"love and peace," supplementing it with presents of coffee, beads, combs, fish-hooks,
						and knives, and a promise of the long-wished-for 
						grindstone, whenever Powhatan would send for it. Hamor then proceeded to speak of the
						great reputation for beauty and attractiveness which Powhatan's youngest daughter bore,
						of the desire of Pocahontas to have her sister's companionship, of Governor Dale's
						intention to remain permanently in Virginia, and his desire, in case the young lady
						proved to be all that was reported of her, to make her his "nearest companion, wife, and
						bed-fellow." Such an alliance, Hamor represented, would be an honor to all concerned,
						and would form a new bond of alliance and friendship.
					When Hamor had finished, the emperor gracefully acknowledged the compliment, but
						protested that his daughter had been three days married to a certain one of his kings.
						Hamor replied that this was nothing, that the groom would readily relinquish her for the
						ample presents which Governor Dale would make, and further, that the emperor might
						easily exert his authority to reclaim his daughter on some pretext. To this base
						proposition the old monarch made an answer, of which the nobility and purity might have
						put to shame the brazen Hamor. He confessed that his real objection was the love he bore
						to his daughter, who was dearer to him than his own life; that though he had many
						children, none delighted him as much as she; that he could not live unless he saw her
						every day during the few remaining years of his life, which he could not do if she went
						to live with the English, as he was resolved never to put himself in their power by
						visiting them. He desired no other pledge of friendship than the one already existing in
						the marriage of his Pocahontas, unless she should die, in which case he would give up
						another child. Finally, he urged with vehement and pathetic eloquence, "I hold it not a
						brotherly part for your king to endeavor to bereave me of my two darling children at
						once. Give him to understand that, if he had no pledge at all, he need not distrust any
						injury from me or my people. There hath been already too much of blood and war. Too many
						of my people and of his, have already fallen in our strife, and by  my occasion there shall never be any more. I, who have power to perform it,
						have said it; no, not though I should have just occasion offered, for I am now grown old
						and would gladly end my few reclining days in peace and quiet. Even if the English
						should offer me injury, I would not resent it. My country is large enough, and I would
						remove myself farther from you. I hope this will give satisfaction to your king. He can
						not have my daughter. If he is not satisfied, I will move three days' journey further
						from him, and never see Englishmen more."
					His speech was ended. The barbarian's hall of state was silent. The council fire,
						unreplenished, had burned low during the interview, and the great, crackling logs lay
						reduced to a dull heap of embers, fit symbol of the aged monarch who had just spoken;
						within their midst still burned the glowing heart of fire, but more and more feebly,
						while over all the white and feathery ashes were weaving the shroud of death. Call him a
						savage, but remember that his shining love for his daughter only throws into darker
						shadow the infamous proposition of the civilized Englishman to tear away the three days'
						bride from the arms of her Indian lover, and give her to a man who had already a wife in
						England. Call him a barbarian, but forget not that, when his enemies hungered he had
						given them food. When his people were robbed, whipped, and imprisoned by the invaders of
						his country, he had only retaliated, and had never failed to buy the peace, to which he
						was entitled without money and without price. Call him a heathen, but do not deny that
						when he said that, if the English should do him an injury, he would not resent it, but
						only move farther from them, he more nearly followed the rule of the Master, of whom he
						was ignorant, than did the faithless, pilfering adventurers at the fort, who rolled
						their eyes heavenward and called themselves CHRISTIANS.
					In 1616 John Rolfe and Pocahontas went to England, taking several Indians with them.
						Here Rolfe well-nigh got  into trouble over his marriage.
						The intelligent King James, the same who wanted his minister to procure him a
						flying-squirrel, because he was "so well affected to such toys," took it into his
						limited head that Rolfe, a private gentleman, by marrying into the imperial family of
						Powhatan, had committed high treason. The "anointed" pedant was deeply offended, and
						insisted that Rolfe meant to claim the Virginia dominion as his wife's heritage, and
						have the crown descend to his posterity. His counselors succeeded with difficulty in
						showing him how far-fetched the notion was. The Lady Rebecca, as Pocahontas was called
						in England, received, for a little while, considerable attention. The aristocracy
						ventured to patronize her slightly on account of her rank. She was received by the king
						and queen, taken to the theaters, and called on by several of the nobility. Captain
						Smith, busy with other matters, did not see her for some time, but either to help
						Pocahontas or draw attention to himself, wrote the queen a letter, in which he gave a
						brief and spirited account of the many kindnesses which Pocahontas had bestowed on the
						colony, and earnestly requesting that she receive the royal favor and attention while in
						England.
					In a little while, however, Pocahontas seems to have been neglected. The novelty wore
						off. After the first weeks of her visit she was no longer spoken of as the wife of Rolfe
						at all. Either on account of the London smoke or the neglect of the Virginia company,
						she was staying at Branford. Smith relates the story of a singular interview which he
						had with her here. After a modest salutation, she, without a word, turned her back to
						him, and passionately buried her face in her hands. At length she broke forth with
						pathetic reproaches, recalling the old scenes at the colony, and her sacrifices for the
						English, how he had called Powhatan "father" when he was a stranger in a strange land,
						yet how, now that their positions were reversed, he neglected her and objected to her
						calling him "father." She said that after his departure the English always  told her he was dead, yet Powhatan had commanded those of
						her people that were with her to search for Smith, and find out whether he was living
						"because your countriemen will lie much." The reason of her conduct is obscure. Many
						have thought that Rolfe had told her Smith was dead, because she was resolved never to
						marry to any one as long as he was alive. It is not impossible that she had loved him,
						and was deeply grieved to find the trick which had been played upon her. More likely she
						was homesick, and, grieved to find the English no longer paid her any attention, was
						deeply sensitive to Smith's neglect, in not visiting her earlier and renewing their old
						acquaintance.
					
						CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH.
					
					Among the Indians who accompanied Pocahontas was Tocomnoco, her brother-in-law, who was
						sent by Powhatan to take the number of people in England, and bring an account of their
						strength and resources. When he arrived at Plymouth he got him a long stick, and began
						to cut a notch in it for every person he met. But he soon wearied of the endless task,
						and threw away the stick. When he was asked by Powhatan on his return, how many
						Englishmen there were, he said: "Count the stars in the sky, the leaves on the trees,
						and the sand on the sea-shore; for such is the number of people in England."  This same savage accidentally met Captain Smith in London,
						where their old acquaintance was renewed. He at once begged Smith to show him his God,
						king, queen, and prince, about whom Smith had told him so much. Smith put him off the
						best he could about showing his God, but told him he had already seen the king, and the
						others he should see when he liked. The Indian stoutly denied having seen the king,
						James not coming up to his notion of the ruler of such a people. When convinced that he
						had really seen the king, he said, with a melancholy countenance: "You gave Powhatan a
						white dog, which he fed as himself; but your king has given me not a mouthful nor a
						present; yet I am better than your white dog."
					In May, 1617, Rolfe, who had been appointed secretary of Virginia, with his wife and
						child, prepared to return to America. They were on board their ship, which was detained
						a few days in the Thames by contrary winds. During this delay the lovely Pocahontas was
						taken ill, and, after an illness of three days, died, in a stranger's land.
					Thus ends one of the briefest and loveliest romances to be found in all literature.
						Amid the darkness of barbarism and savagery, bloomed the rare and delicate nature of
						Pocahontas, a wild rose in the rocky cleft of black precipices and gloomy mountains. She
						seemed born for a different sphere than that in which she was placed. The brutality of
						her people was wholly absent from her affectionate heart. She took naturally to the
						civilization which she so little understood. Whatever motives may have influenced her in
						her adoption of Christianity, it is on record that she "lived civilly and lovingly" with
						her husband. From the first she had no fear of the English, going freely to their fort
						and on board their ships. Nearly every one in the colony had some favor, bestowed in the
						days of her frolicsome visits to Jamestown, for which to remember her. On all occasions
						she was their friend, supplying them with provisions, concealing them from her father,
						and aiding them to escape. Her influence over her father was unceasingly exerted  in behalf of the strangers. Modern criticism has regarded
						some of the stories told of her as romances. But after disentangling the flower from all
						the weeds and mosses of legend which may have sprung up around it, the beautiful,
						affectionate nature, the refined manners, and apt intelligence of the Indian princess,
						remain in all their lily-like freshness and fragrance. Her early death, though sad
						enough, was perhaps fortunate, both for her and for her history. As to herself, had she
						lived, her keen intelligence would have learned to understand more and more fully the
						difference between her people and the English, a knowledge which would have brought only
						pain and sorrow to her loving heart. And as for her history, her early death has left us
						only her portrait in the perfect bloom of youth, a youth which has been made immortal by
						the pens of countless historians.
					
						POCAHONTAS.
					
					In 1618 died the great Powhatan, "full of years and satiated with fightings and the
						delights of savage life." He is a prominent character in the early history of our
						country, and well does he deserve it. In his prime he had been proportionally to his
						surroundings, as ambitious as Julius Cæsar, and not less successful. He had enlarged his
						dominions by conquest to many times their original size, and had spread the terror of
						his arms over a vast extent of country. He had many towns and residences, and over a
						hundred wives. In his government he was despotic and cruel. Offenders were beaten to
						death before him, or tied to trees and torn limb from limb, or broiled to death on
						red-hot coals.
					
					His people had a sort of religion, with priests, temples, and images, but "the
						ceremonies seemed not worship, but propitiations against evil," and they appear to have
						had no conception of an overruling power or of an immortal life. Their notions of
						personal adornment were very decided, if not pleasing. Oil and paints were daubed all
						over the person. Their ears had large holes bored in them, in which were hung bones,
						claws, beads, "and some of their men there be who will weare in these holes a small
						greene-and-yellow coloured live snake, neere half a yard in length, which crawling and
						lapping itself about his neck, oftentimes familiarly he suffreeth to kiss his lips.
						Others wear a dead ratt tyed by the tayle."
					In his last days Powhatan much feared a conspiracy, between his brother Opechancanough
						and the English, to overthrow his government, to prevent which his diplomacy was
						carefully exercised. There is much that is pathetic in the close of his career, his
						dominions overrun with strangers, his well-beloved daughter sleeping her last sleep in a
						foreign land, and himself, no longer opposing armed resistance to the English, which he
						was shrewd enough to see must in the long run result in the extermination of his people,
						but simply "moving farther from them."
					It would be unjust to the man, to whom we are indebted for the story of Powhatan and
						his lovely daughter, to close this account without referring briefly to his career after
						leaving Virginia. He was forever after a hobbyist on America. He was always laboring to
						get up new expeditions, of which he should have command. Once he did go to New England,
						and as usual, met with thrilling adventures. But he was pursued by the same ill luck
						which had been his evil star. His ambitious plans were never fulfilled, or, if he did
						get men to invest in his enterprises, they always met with disaster and ruin. Smith had
						the great good fortune to be his own historian. He took care to tell his own story, and
						he told it well, making himself the center of every scene. He was a graphic writer, full
						of wit, and his pages, though crude in style and bungled in arrangement, are the most
						interesting chronicles of his time.
					
					Smith was a prolific author. His first work was "The True Relation," written by him,
						while in America, narrating the history and condition of the colony, published in
						London, 1608. In 1612 he published his "Map of Virginia and Description of the Country."
						This map shows that he had a fine eye for topographical outline. Other works were "A
						Description of New England," 1616; "New England's Trials, 1620; "The General Historie,
						1624, with three later editions. He wrote also "A Sea Grammar" and several other books,
						which went over the same ground of his own adventures and the history of the Jamestown
						colony. These books were written and published by him at his own expense. He distributed
						them gratuitously in large numbers, solely with a view to exciting interest about
						America, and helping him in working up his plans.
					Reading between the lines, we see a man of strong nature, full of conceit, of manners
						disagreeable because egotistical, impatient of opposition, and insufferably fond of
						talking about and magnifying his own adventures. Yet he was no ordinary character. The
						very rashness and impulsiveness which he manifested in England made him fertile in
						expedients in fighting Powhatan. The very strength of his dictator-like intellect, which
						gained him the hate of the Jamestown colonists, whether of lower or equal rank, caused
						him to achieve success with the savages and keep the storehouse of the fort full of
						corn. His great energy expending itself on the one hobby of working up expeditions to
						America, no doubt, made him to some extent a nuisance in England, after he was
						discountenanced and insulted by the Virginia company. But that Smith was a smart man, of
						rare force and ingenuity, far ahead of his age in foreseeing the future greatness of
						America, and possessing executive ability of a high order, must be conceded. He came, in
						time, to regard himself as the originator of all the discoveries and colonizations of
						his busy age, mentioning the Virginia colony as "my colony," and in relating the story
						of an expedition, of which he was only a private in the rear rank, saying, "I took ten men and 
							BAPTISM OF VIRGINIA DARE.
						
						
							MARRIAGE OF ROLFE AND POCAHONTAS.
						
						 went ashore," "I ordered the boats to be
						lowered," and so forth. His swaggering rhetoric brings a smile to the face of the
						reader. His latest and best biographer says: "If Shakespeare had known him, as he might
						have done, he would have had a character ready to his hand that would have added one of
						the most amusing and interesting portraits to his gallery. He faintly suggests a moral
						Falstaff, if we can imagine a Falstaff without vices." Smith was not only a good
						Churchman, but a good man. His private life, passed amid the roughest characters and
						surroundings, was upright and pure. He was never heard to use an oath.
					In spite of his incessant efforts, by writing books, making speeches, and addressing
						letters with offers of his services, to colonization societies, Smith was compelled to
						remain a mere spectator of the rapid settlement of the New World. Though out of money
						and out of reputation, his buoyant spirits never sunk. He was a Micawber, always
						expecting something to turn up, or better yet, a Colonel Mulberry Sellers, who was never
						without a scheme with "millions in it." Hardship and disappointment made him prematurely
						old, if it did not make him unhappy. His last years were spent in poverty-stricken
						seclusion, a "prince's mind imprisoned in a pauper's purse," as was said of him by a
						friend. Fed by his "great expectations," he held up his head to the end. Almost his last
						act was to make his will in due form, pompously disposing to Thomas Parker, Esq., of
						"all my houses, lads, tenements, and hereditaments whatsoever." They were located only
						in his fancy. When the instrument was duly drawn, he, who had written so many books,
						could only make his mark. The end had come. On June 21, 1631, being fifty-two years old,
						he passed away. He lived and died a bachelor. He was wedded to his love of adventure.
						While there is much about him at which to laugh, there is more which begets admiration
						and sympathy for him who called himself, on the title-pages of his books, the "sometime
						Governor of Virginia and Admiral of New England."
				
				
				
					CHAPTER II.
						THE TRIALS OF LA SALLE.
					ROBERT CAVALIER DE LA SALLE is one of the loneliest characters of
						history. His life was a struggle between Will and Fate. He was a Frenchman, the
						descendant of a wealthy family of Rouen. While but a child his love of study, his
						dislike of amusements, his serious energy, caused his family to select for him a career
						in the Church. His education was carefully attended to by the great "Society of Jesus,"
						of which he became a member. But while La Salle was at first attracted to the Jesuits by
						their marvelous discipline, their concentrated power, their unequaled organization, his
						strong nature, as he approached manhood, rebelled at the vast machine of which he was
						only a part. He found himself, not at the center, but at the circumference of power. He
						left them. By the laws of the order, the fortune left him by his father had become the
						property of the "Society." Impoverished, but ambitious, La Salle, a young man of
						twenty-three years, in 1666, turned his back on the splendors and achievements of France
						in the reign of Le Grand Monarque, to seek his fortune among the
						wildernesses of America.
					His destination was Montreal. An association of priests called the Seminary of St.
						Sulpice, were the feudal proprietors of the entire region. The priests were granting out
						their lands on easy terms to any who would form a settlement. La Salle at once arranged
						for a large tract of land, eight miles above  Montreal, at
						the place now called La Chine. The location was exposed and dangerous, but eligible for
						the fur trade. Here he marked out a palisaded village, platted the land within the
						palisade into lots containing a third of an acre each, and without the palisade into
						forty-acre fields. These tracts he rented out for a small, annual rent to tenants. He
						built a comfortable house for himself, and a small fort. The little settlement of which
						he was the feudal lord grew and flourished. At evening La Salle would look out over the
						tranquil waters of Lake St. Louis, and as his imagination dwelt on the lonely world
						stretching ever toward the sunset, the great purpose of its exploration took shape in
						his mind. The Indians who came to trade with him told him of a great river in the West,
						but of its destination they were ignorant. The dream of the age, a passage to the South
						Sea, was realized, if this river emptied into the Southern or Pacific Ocean. So the
						restless La Salle sold his seignory back to the priests of St. Sulpice, and with the
						money bought canoes and supplies for an expedition.
					The Sulpitians were envious of their more famous rivals, the Jesuits. The latter had
						long excluded every rival from missionary labors among the Indians. They threaded
						forests, swam rivers, endured hunger, cold, and disease to follow the Indian to his
						wigwam. With deathless pertinacity, they learned hideous languages, lived on nauseous
						food, and dared the flames of torture, to tell the story of their religion. No sacrifice
						was too great, no enterprise too hazardous, no suffering too severe to deter them from
						their great object—the conversion of the savages. Everywhere these heroic priests
						had preceded the march of civilization. Twenty years before the saintly Marquette
						floated down the Mississippi, a Jesuit establishment was located on its banks. When the
						Hurons, among which they labored so long, were driven from their homes by the resistless
						arms of the Five Nations, the priests shared their sufferings and exile. Long before any
						other white men, they had traversed the great lakes and unfurled the banner of the cross
						on their farthest shores.
					
					For all this wasted heroism the rewards seem meager enough. Now and then a savage,
						attracted by some beads, would allow himself to be baptized; but, as one chronicler
						says, "an Indian would be baptized ten times a day for a pint of brandy." Sometimes the
						priests were edified by seeing a warrior throw a piece of tobacco at the foot of the
						cross as a symbol of worship. "I have been amply rewarded," says one of these fathers,
						after being fed by his hosts for six days on some nauseous, boiled lichen and a piece of
						old moccasin, "for all my sufferings. I have this day rescued from the burning a dying
						infant, to whom its mother allowed me to administer the sacred rites of baptism, and who
						is now, thank God, safe from that dreadful destiny which befalls those who die without
						the pale of our most holy Church."
					The Sulpitians, envying the Jesuits, aided La Salle in his efforts, and also fitted out
						an expedition of their own to join him, hoping to find fields for their own missionary
						zeal. This double-headed expedition was ill-suited to the imperious will of La Salle.
						After weeks of travel the priests resolved to direct their course to Lake Superior. La
						Salle warned them that they would find the field preoccupied by the Jesuits. La Salle's
						goal was the Ohio, which his Indian friends had confounded with the Mississippi. The two
						expeditions separated. The priests traversed the great lakes, and met with many
						hardships, only to find La Salle's prediction true. One night a storm swept their
						baggage, containing their altar service, into the lake. This they took to be the work of
						the Devil, to prevent their having mass. Soon afterward they found a stone idol in the
						forest, which inspired their highest resentment. Hungry and petulant, they attacked the
						thing with fury, broke it up, and dumped the fragments in the lake. This pious exploit
						was, as they said, divinely rewarded by a bear and a deer, killed the same day. They
						returned to Montreal without having made a convert or a discovery.
					La Salle's men had mostly deserted him, and returning to 
						his old settlement, called it La Chine in derision of his phantom idea of a passage to
						China. With one companion, he pushed on to the south, discovered the Ohio River, and
						descended it to the falls at Louisville, Kentucky. Here his guide deserted him, and La
						Salle made his way back to Montreal alone. In the following year he made a similar trip
						to Lake Michigan, and discovered the Illinois River.
					The information gained on these trips and from the Indians, together with vague rumors
						among the Jesuits, gradually created a belief by La Salle, that the Mississippi flowed
						into the Gulf of Mexico. His fertile mind mapped out the vast scheme of discovery and
						conquest, to the accomplishment of which he devoted the remainder of his life. History
						has no parallel for his labors. His idea was to explore the Mississippi, build a chain
						of French forts from the Lakes to the Gulf, command the mouth of the Mississippi with a
						fortress which should be the key to the continent. The great river should be open only
						to the navies of France. The vast interior domain of the continent should become a new
						empire for Louis XIV to govern.
					England should be confined to the strip of sea coast east of the Alleghanies; Spain to
						Florida, Mexico, and South America. The trade with Indians for furs and hides, opened up
						through the whole interior of the continent, from the base line of the Mississippi and
						the chain of forts, would enrich France beyond the scope of the imagination; and this
						was but the prelude to the great empire which La Salle foresaw was destined to flourish
						between the Alleghanies and the Rockies, the Lakes and the Gulf. The Jesuits might hold
						undisputed sway in frozen Canada. It was for him to discover and control the rich and
						beautiful Mississippi valley.
					In 1672 the Count de Frontenac became governor of New France. He was a bold and
						ambitious man, with many points of resemblance to La Salle. The latter, nursing his
						mighty dream in the secrecy of his own brain, saw that Canada must be the basis for the
						fabric. From there he must start, from  there receive
						supplies and men. Nor could he stir without the permission of the government. Frontenac
						became the friend of the youthful, but stern, and self-poised adventurer.
					A plan was formed between them, to build a fort at the spot now occupied by Kingston,
						near the junction of Lake Ontario and the St. Lawrence River. The ostensible reason was
						defense against the Iroquois. But Frontenac saw in it a monopoly of trade and La Salle
						regarded it as the first link in the chain which was to bind America to the throne of
						France.
					The location chosen was the territory of the Iroquois, the dreaded Five Nations. This
						league of Indians, the Mohawks, Oneidas, Onondagas, Cayugas, and Senecas, embraced the
						most intelligent, powerful, and warlike races on the continent. Originally occupying
						about what is now New York State, they had extended their all-conquering arms over
						Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, and Illinois, and much of Canada. A thousand
						miles from their council fires were brave but subjugated peoples, who held their lands
						at the pleasure of their conquerors, paid annual tribute, and prostrated themselves
						before embassies of Iroquois, who called them dogs and spat in the faces of their
						proudest chieftains.
					The Iroquois hated the French, who had helped their Canadian neighbors to defend
						themselves from the scourge. Moreover, the English and Dutch furnished them arms, and
						made them a sort of police over other tribes. Many a party of Indians from the Lake
						Superior region, with its fleet of fur-laden canoes, was waylaid by the Iroquois on the
						way to Montreal, and either plundered or forced to trade with the English and Dutch.
					La Salle was dispatched to Onondaga, where the council-house of the confederacy was
						located, to invite them to a conference at the site of the proposed fort. On the
						appointed day, Frontenac, in glittering armor, with a brilliant and formidable force of
						French soldiery, met the assembled hosts of the Iroquois. By means of alternate threats,
						persuasions, and presents,  he obtained their consent to
						build the fort, which was named in honor of himself.
					The next step in La Salle's course was to erect a fort at the mouth of the Niagara
						River. But it was indispensable to obtain the sanction of the French Government. Fort
						Frontenac had been built without any authority. Already strong influences were at work
						to have Louis XIV order it to be torn down. First, was the political party in Canada,
						who had supported the former governor, and who became the mortal enemies of Frontenac
						when he supplanted his predecessor. The political animosities of Frenchmen are the most
						bitter and far reaching of any people. When they hate, they hate. Another group of
						formidable enemies were the merchants of Montreal and Quebec. They saw that Frontenac
						and La Salle, with their fort so much nearer the lakes, the great avenue of Indian
						traffic, would have a practical monopoly of the fur trade. The last, but by no means
						least, of the enemies of the governor and the dauntless La Salle, were the Jesuits. La
						Salle was a zealous Catholic, but he despised the Jesuits. The latter, who had long had
						a monopoly of New France, were already losing it in Lower Canada. They therefore watched
						their western missions with the greatest jealousy, and resented every movement which
						tended to open up the great lakes to their rivals.
					The first attack of these dangerous enemies on La Salle was an attempt to secure the
						destruction of Fort Frontenac. La Salle was arranging to return to France in the fall of
						1674, in order to lay his projects before the king, and resist these intrigues, when his
						ambition received a powerful stimulus from the report of Joliet, who in the spring of
						1673 had set out with Father Marquette, and five boatmen, to explore the Mississippi,
						and carry the Gospel to the countless tribes along its banks.
					Marquette was the child of an illustrious family of the French nobility. Inspired
						solely by a sense of religious duty, he had bidden farewell to the splendors of the
						baronial castle in  which he was born, to dwell among the
						Indians. Slowly the little party made their way through the lakes, up Green Bay and Fox
						River, thence by many weary portages on to the Mississippi. The simple and inoffensive
						savages, perhaps drawn more by the gentle and saint-like spirit of Marquette than by his
						explanations of the atonement, received the strangers kindly, pressed on them their best
						hospitality, and after many solicitations for them to remain, helped them on their weary
						way. At the village of the Illinois the two unarmed Frenchmen were treated to a great
						feast. The first course was Indian meal, boiled in grease, which their host fed them
						with a spoon. This was followed by a vast platter of fish. The host carefully picked the
						bones from each mouthful, cooled it, by blowing, and tucked it in their mouths with his
						fingers. This excessive politeness seemed to destroy the Frenchmen's appetites, either
						from embarrassment or other causes, as the remaining courses of baked dog and buffalo
						were hardly tasted.
					Day after day the voyagers floated down the majestic river, into the ever-opening
						landscape. Now their eye swept over boundless prairies; now they peered into the
						perennial gloom of mighty forests; now they shuddered with alarm at the imaginary
						dangers of red and green dragons and scaly monsters, painted by some Indian artist on
						the dark background of the overhanging bluffs; now they struggled with a more real
						danger in the mighty torrent from the Missouri River, which hurled its masses of mud and
						uprooted trees far out into the transparent depths of the Mississippi. As they proceeded
						southward the sun became warmer, the vegetation denser, the flowers more luxuriant.
						Every evening, after hauling their canoes ashore, Marquette, with clasped hands, would
						kneel before the "Father of Waters," and pour out his soul in prayer to the Infinite. As
						he prayed, a mild supernatural radiance would illumine his delicate and scholarly
						features. The spoken words would often cease, but still the slender black-gowned figure,
						with hands lifted, and face turned toward the crimson glories of the dying day, 
							ESCAPING FROM BRANT'S INDIANS.
						
						
							LA SALLE AND HIS COMPANIONS.
						
						 continued kneeling till the black bannered armies of night
						darkened all the air.
					Seven hundred miles from the mouth of the Mississippi the voyagers commenced to
						retrace their lonely way. After weeks of toil, they made their way back to the Green Bay
						mission. Here Marquette, sick and exhausted from the toils of the expedition, was
						compelled to stop, while Joliet carried to Montreal the news of the discovery, and of
						their firm belief that the Mississippi flowed, not into the Pacific Ocean, but the Gulf
						of Mexico.
					Marquette, though feeble in health, after a long repose, determined to return to the
						Illinois Indians, among whom he had promised to found a mission. Taking two boatmen,
						Pierre and Jaques, he started on the slow journey. Overtaken by winter and renewed
						sickness, the gentle father was compelled to pass the winter in a rude hut on the shores
						of Lake Michigan. Some branches from the trees formed his bed, a log his pillow. His
						earthly companions were filthy savages, but he had constantly present with him a divine
						Companion. Urged on by love and pity, he set out amid the sleet and rain of early spring
						toward his destination. He was received by the Illinois at their great village, near the
						site of the present town of Utica, La Salle County, Illinois. Here, every morning, in a
						vast wigwam, he told his breathless auditors the story of the cross.
					At last his failing health forced him to leave his sorrowful Indian friends. Slowly and
						wearily, he set out with his two faithful boatmen on the return trip. During the day he
						reclined on a rude pallet in the canoe, his face turned toward the skies he was so soon
						to inhabit. At night his two companions would hastily build a shelter, gently lift and
						carry him from the boat, and then prepare the rough dish of Indian meal, so ill suited
						to the sufferer. One evening Marquette pointed to a lonely eminence on the lake shore:
						"That is the spot for my last repose." The encampment was made earlier than usual. It
						was well. In the darkness of the night, with a crucifix in his  hand and a prayer on his lips, the gentle spirit of Marquette exhaled to the
						skies, amid the sobs of his heart-broken companions. There in the wilderness they laid
						him to rest. Though always called Father Marquette, he was just thirty-eight years
						old.
					We turn abruptly from this angelic nature to the iron figure of La Salle. When Joliet
						arrived at Montreal with the news of his discovery, La Salle found all of his beliefs as
						to the course of the Mississippi confirmed. He at once sailed for France, it being the
						fall of 1674. His tireless energy and address secured him an audience with the great
						French monarch himself. In strong, clear statements he explained the necessity of the
						forts. His effort was successful. The king granted him the fort and a large tract of
						land. He was to pay back what the fort had cost the king, and rebuild it in stone. His
						friends, anxious to share his prosperity, loaned him money to pay the king.
					La Salle returned to Canada with his grant in his pocket. From this moment he was
						encircled by enemies who shadowed him to his grave. The merchants and traders of Canada
						organized into a league to oppose him. The country became a hornet-nest for him. Every
						weapon which malice could wield or ingenuity invent was employed to strike him. The
						Jesuits procured an order from France forbidding his traders to go out among the
						Indians. La Salle formed an Iroquois settlement around his fort, so that the Indians
						thereafter came to him. When he was at Quebec, the wife of his host undertook to play
						the part of Potiphar's wife. La Salle quickly left the room to find the hall filled with
						spies, who had expected to catch him in the baited trap. Reports were sent to his
						brother, the Abbé Cavalier, a Sulpitian priest, to the effect that La Salle had seduced
						a young girl, and was living in gross immorality. His excommunication might have taken
						place, had not his brother visited him, only to find him presiding over a most exemplary
						household. A servant was hired to put poison in his food. 
						La Salle ate of the dish, and was taken dangerously ill, but finally recovered.
						Emissaries were sent out among the bloody Iroquois, telling them that the fort was
						designed to aid in making war on them. On the other hand, word was sent through many
						channels to La Salle that the Iroquois intended a massacre, and Frontenac was urged to
						raise a force and attack them. It was with great difficulty that the Indians were
						quieted.
					In spite of these villainous machinations, La Salle's inflexible will was victorious.
						By the help of Indians, Fort Frontenac was rebuilt of stone. Within its walls were
						substantial barracks, a guard house, an officer's house, a forge, a well, a mill, and a
						bakery. Nine small cannon peeped through the walls. A dozen soldiers formed the
						garrison, and three times as many laborers and canoe men were also inhabitants of the
						fort. Outside were a French settlement, an Iroquois village, a chapel and priest's
						house, a hundred acres of cleared land, and a comfortable lot of live stock. Four
						forty-ton vessels and a fleet of canoes were built for navigating the lakes.
					Here in this solitude, a week's journey from the nearest settlement, La Salle reigned
						with absolute power and rapidly increasing wealth. But La Salle's ambition was not gain,
						but glory. In the autumn of 1677 he again sailed for France. His enemies, growing more
						numerous and bitter all the time, were ahead of him, and denounced him to the government
						as a fool and madman. This was embarrassing. The scheme he was about to propose was so
						vast as to inspire distrust of his sanity. In his memorial to the king, La Salle recited
						his discoveries, described the great Mississippi valley, predicted its future, unfolded
						its immense value to France, enumerated the enormous difficulties which would attend its
						conquest, pointed out the anxiety of the English to possess it, outlined the plan of
						securing it by a vast chain of forts, artfully hinted at a chance to wrest Mexico from
						Spain, declared that it was as a basis for this enterprise that he had built Fort
						Frontenac, and asked similar privileges for another fort at the mouth of the
						Niagara—the  key to Lake Erie. The statesmen of
						France gave La Salle an attentive audience. They granted him a royal patent allowing him
						to build as many forts as he chose on the same terms as Fort Frontenac, gave him a
						monopoly of the trade in buffalo hides, and as a crumb of comfort for the Jesuits,
						forbade him to trade in Upper Canada or the great lakes. This patent says nothing of
						colonies. Louis XIV was always opposed to them. But a military dominion over the
						wilderness, and a path for the invasion of Mexico, suited him well. For the
						accomplishment of this Titanic labor he gave La Salle five years!
					La Salle's imperative need was money. This he borrowed in large sums at ruinous
						interest. These creditors lived to change from wealthy friends to bankrupted enemies.
						The exploration of America cost untold fortunes, thousands of heroic lives, and
						centuries of unrequited toil and hardships. Our debt to the past is beyond computation.
						La Salle was joined by the valued and trusted Henri de Tonty, a son of an Italian
						banker, who invented Tontine insurance. Tonty had lost a hand in battle. He was the only
						one of all his followers in whom La Salle could place complete confidence.
					On his arrival in Canada, although it was in the dead of winter, La Salle pushed
						forward his enterprise. Father Hennepin, a Ricollet friar, and La Motte, another ally,
						who had joined La Salle in France, with sixteen men were dispatched from Fort Frontenac
						across the chopping waves of Erie as an advance party. After breasting the fierce
						December storms, they disembarked in the snow at the mouth of the Niagara River, and
						commenced to erect a fortified house. The ground was thawed with hot water. Little
						progress was made before it became evident that the consent of the Iroquois must be
						obtained. La Motte failed in this, but La Salle, following with supplies and
						re-enforcements, appeared before the solemn council of the Five Nations. Forty-two
						stately chiefs, arrayed in robes of black squirrel skin, listened to him and received
						his presents. "The senators of Venice," wrote Hennepin, "do not look more grave  or speak more deliberately than the counselors of the
						Iroquois." La Salle's dexterity won their permission to erect a fortified warehouse at
						the mouth of the Niagara River and to build a ship above the Falls. This was a triumph
						over the Jesuits, two of whom he found at the Iroquois capital, who spared no effort to
						thwart his proceeding.
					But La Salle's enemies were just beginning to show their hand. He made his way to the
						camp on the Niagara River, only to find that the pilot, to whom he had intrusted the
						navigation of his vessel, laden with costly supplies, tools, and materials for building
						the ship above the Falls, had wrecked her on the rocks, and of all her precious cargo
						nothing but the anchors and cables for the new vessel had been saved. This disaster was
						appalling and irreparable, and, as Hennepin says, "would have made any one but La Salle
						give up the enterprise." It became evident, too, that others of his party, besides the
						pilot, had been tampered with. They were a motley crew of French, Flemings, and
						Italians, quarrelsome, discontented, and insubordinate.
					La Salle, inflexible and silent, ordered an advance. Formed in single file, every man
						heavily burdened with materials and supplies for the new ship, the priest, Hennepin,
						with his altar on his back, the procession stumbled through the deep snow, and up the
						steep heights above Lewiston. Six miles above the Falls, in spite of the terrible cold,
						the ship was begun. Food was scarce. The Iroquois acted suspiciously. A squaw told the
						French that they intended to burn the vessel on the stocks. No corn could be bought.
						Leaving the energetic Tonty in command, La Salle returned to the mouth of the river,
						marked out the foundations for the new fort, and then set out on foot, with two
						companions, for Fort Frontenac, two hundred and fifty miles away, a trip made necessary
						by the loss of his supply vessel. It was a bitter February. His path lay through the
						country of the treacherous Iroquois, among whom the Jesuits were intriguing for his
						destruction. For food he had a small bag of parched  corn.
						Though a long way from the fort, the bag was growing very light. Their rations were
						reduced one-half. This did not suffice. They again reduced them one-half. One night they
						ate the last handful. Then they did without eating.
					La Salle arrived at the fort to find himself ruined. His enemies had circulated reports
						that he was gone on a hare-brained adventure. Though his property at Fort Frontenac was
						ample security for his Canada creditors, they had seized all his property of furs,
						ships, and corn, wherever found. The blow was terrific and beyond remedy. La Salle
						simply hardened himself to the shock. If any thing, his step was more haughty, and his
						mouth more stern. But he could not allow his foes to triumph by giving up his
						enterprise.
					In August he reappeared on the Niagara River. He had contrived to get a few supplies in
						spite of the vigilance of his creditors, and he brought three more friars. Though he
						hated Jesuitism, he was zealous for the faith. Tonty had long since completed the Griffin, as the new ship was called. It swung easily at anchor, so near
						the shore that Hennepin preached from its deck to the Indians.
					On the seventh day of August, 1679, amid the chant of Te Deums and the booming of
						cannon, the Griffin spread her snowy canvas, and sped out over the
						blue depths of Lake Erie. The first few days were lovely. The rippling water sparkled in
						the sunlight; the distant shore seemed like a delicate blue penciling upon the cloudless
						horizon; the bulwarks of the Griffin were decorated with splendid
						game. On up the Detroit River and Lake St. Clair into Lake Huron, which spread before
						them like a sea, the voyagers held their way. Suddenly a terrific storm arose. The
						vessel shook like a leaf before the fury of the billows. La Salle and his company cried
						aloud to all the saints, some one of whom it is presumed heard their cries, as the storm
						passed away and the vessel found refuge behind Point St. Ignace. La Salle lingered here
						at the Jesuit mission to find his ever present enemies still bent on his destruction. He
						had  expected to have the expedition proceed from this
						point in canoes, while he returned in the Griffin with a cargo of furs
						to appease his creditors. Such signs of disloyalty appeared that he sent the Griffin back without him. It proved to be a most disastrous
						determination.
					The fleet of deep-laden canoes were soon caught in another storm. With great difficulty
						and danger the explorers reached the shore, where they remained a week, drenched by
						incessant sleet and rain. As the tempest raged on the lake, La Salle trembled for the
							Griffin. Though sorely pressed for food, he dared not camp near
						Indians, for fear some of his men would steal his goods and desert to them. The
						hardships were intolerable. Overhead great rain clouds swept across the sky; beneath
						raged an angry turmoil of tossing waves. At night the heavy canoes had to be dragged by
						the exhausted and hungry men through the breakers and up the steep shores. One morning
						foot-prints were seen in the soft mud and a coat was missing. La Salle knew that the
						theft must be punished. A stray Indian was made prisoner, and La Salle went to his
						people and told them he would be killed unless the coat was returned. This was
						embarrassing. The coat had been cut up and divided among the Indians. It was a fight or
						a compromise. The latter was effected by paying for the coat in corn.
					La Salle made his way to the mouth of the St. Joseph River. Here he was to meet Tonty,
						coming along the east shore of the lake from Michillimackinac. The spot was wrapped in
						its primeval solitude. To wait for Tonty was dangerous. Winter was setting in; the men
						were restless; yet La Salle said he would wait, if it was by himself. In three weeks
						Tonty arrived. One of his canoes with guns, baggage and provisions had been swamped.
						Part of his men had deserted. For many days their only food had been acorns. It was time
						for the Griffin to have made her trip to Niagara and back again. Day
						after day La Salle scanned the horizon, with anxious eye. No sail appeared. To delay
						longer was impossible. Two men were sent to  meet it, while
						the remainder, thirty-three in all, began to force their canoes up the St. Joseph River.
						They looked eagerly for the trail which led to the great village of the Illinois.
						Nowhere could it be found. La Salle went ashore to search for it. Night came with thick
						falling snow, but La Salle returned not. The suspense of the party was intolerable. It
						was four o'clock the next day before he came in sight. He had lost his way. In the night
						he saw the gleam of a fire through the forest. Hastening to it, he found, not his camp,
						but a spot warm from the body of a man who had evidently fled. Calling loudly and
						getting no answer, La Salle coolly lay down and slept till morning. On his return he was
						greatly exhausted from his exposure, and slept in a hut close to the camp-fire. During
						the night the hut caught fire, and he narrowly escaped the flames.
					When at last the Illinois trail was found, the party shouldered canoes and baggage for
						the tramp. One of the men, enraged at his hardships, raised his gun to shoot La Salle
						through the back, but was prevented from doing so. The great Indian town of five hundred
						enormous lodges was reached, but every wigwam was silent and empty; and the ashes of
						every camp-fire cold. The people were absent on their great hunt. Abundant stores of
						corn were found, but it was a terrible offense to touch it. La Salle felt that he must
						have the friendship of the Indians at any cost. The Jesuit emissaries were busy among
						the Iroquois, inciting them to make war on the distant Illinois, hoping by this means
						that La Salle and his forlorn companions might be massacred, or at least forced to
						abandon their enterprise. One morning, as the little flotilla of canoes drifted down the
						Illinois River, the Indians of the deserted village came in sight. They received the
						strangers as friends, providing food, and rubbing their feet with bear's grease. La
						Salle made them a speech, told them he came to protect them against the Iroquois, and
						intended to build a great wooden canoe with which to descend the Mississippi and bring
						them the merchandise they so much wanted.
					
					
							MARQUETTE AND JOLIET PREACHING.
						
					
					One would think that La Salle, in this wilderness, far remote from the dwellings of
						men, would have been free from the pursuit of his enemies. Not so. Hate, like love,
						laughs at distance and difficulties. That very night a Jesuit emissary reached the
						Indian camp. A secret nocturnal council was held. The stranger warned the Illinois that
						La Salle was their enemy, an Iroquois spy, soon to be followed by the Iroquois
						themselves in all their blood-thirstiness. After this speech he disappeared in the
						forest. In the morning La Salle noticed the change in his hosts. Distrust and malignity
						were depicted on every savage face. Adroitly learning the facts from an Indian to whom
						he had given a hatchet, he made a bold speech, denying the slander, and challenging them
						to set him face to face with his traducer. The speech restored general confidence. If
						oratory is the art of persuading men and swaying an audience, La Salle was a great
						orator.
					One morning, La Salle found six of his men, including two of his best shipbuilders, had
						deserted. It cut him to the quick. But this was not all. A treacherous hand again placed
						poison in his food. His life hung in the balance for hours, but an antidote given by the
						faithful Tonty turned the wavering scale. Worse than all, it was evident that the Griffin, the main stay of the whole enterprise, was lost. Nothing was
						ever heard of her again. Two men sent to search for her, reported that they had made the
						circuit of the lakes and found her not. La Salle afterwards found evidence of her having
						been deliberately sunk by the pilot, at the instance of his enemies. The loss of the Griffin was the severest blow yet. She carried anchors, cables, and
						equipment for the new boat he was to build on the Mississippi, as well as costly
						supplies. The mountain of disasters was enough to break a heart of stone.
					Did La Salle give up? No! He mocked at despair, and instead of yielding, built a
						strong permanent fort, which he called Fort Crèvecœur, or "Broken-hearted," in very
						irony at his misfortunes. He also commenced the great task of building  a forty-ton ship for the river. Trees had to be felled and
						laboriously sawed into plank by hand. Yet in six weeks the hull was completed by men who
						were not carpenters. La Salle induced Father Hennepin to give up his preaching, and
						render some reluctant service by exploring the Illinois River to its mouth. Hennepin,
						who was a great boaster but poor worker, tried to shirk the enterprise, but at last,
						with two companions and a canoe well filled with hatchets, beads, and other presents for
						the Indians, supplied at La Salle's own cost, started on his trip. He descended the
						Illinois to its mouth, and then ascended the Mississippi, was taken prisoner by the
						Sioux, and after many adventures made his way back to Montreal, and thence to Europe. He
						at once published all account of his travels, laying no claim to having discovered the
						mouth of the Mississippi. Fifteen years later, La Salle being long since dead, Hennepin
						rivaled our friend Captain John Smith by publishing a new story of his travels, in which
						he claims to have traversed the entire Mississippi, and thus anticipated La Salle in his
						chief work. The falsehoods and exaggerations of the book have long since been
						exposed.
					La Salle's exploration could advance no farther until the precious articles for the new
						ship, lost in the Griffin, could be replaced. The expedition was
						eating itself up with expense. Its chief determined to make his way on foot through the
						vast and gloomy wildernesses which lay between him and Montreal, in one last effort to
						replace the loss. It was equal to one of the labors of Hercules—a journey of
						twelve hundred miles, through a country which was the perpetual battle-ground of hostile
						and cruel savages, without food, sleeping on the open ground, watching by night and
						marching by day, carrying a heavy load of blanket, gun, ammunition, hatchet, kettle and
						a sack of parched corn. Sometimes pushing through thickets, sometimes climbing rocks
						covered with ice and snow, with clothing constantly wet from swimming a dozen rivers a
						day, and wading for hours at a time waist or even neck deep in  marshes, exposed continually to attack from ravenous beasts, and to a
						thousand other hardships, toils, and dangers. In all the journey there was not a gleam
						of light from a single cabin window to welcome the weary travelers at night-fall, not a
						white man's face to cheer them amid the frightful and gloomy solitudes of unending
						forests.
					La Salle's companions were a Mohegan hunter, who had followed him with ceaseless
						fidelity, and four Frenchmen. Two of the latter left the party at the point nearest
						Michillimackinac. The terrible exposures impaired the health of the party. The Mohegan
						and one Frenchmen were taken ill, and were spitting blood. This left La Salle and one
						man in health. They had to provide for the additional burden of the sick men.
					But we may not linger over the tragic story. After sixty-five days of unparalleled
						sufferings, the stone bastions of Fort Frontenac rose before their weary eyes. The
						unconquerable will and iron frame of La Salle, who had been reared in delicate luxury, a
						scholar, whose career had been marked out to be that of a gentle parish priest for some
						rural flock in France, had achieved the impossible.
					Poor La Salle had reached his goal, but his long journey had but brought him to new
						grief. It is almost too cruel to record. Within a week he had, by extraordinary effort,
						in spite of his bankruptcy and misfortunes, collected the needed supplies. He was on the
						point of setting out on the return trip to his forlorn colony on the Illinois, when two
						messengers from Fort Crèvecœur arrived with a letter from Tonty. He reported to his
						stricken chief that, after his departure, the men had mutinied, blown up the fort,
						plundered its stores, throwing into the river all they could not carry off, and then
						deserted. All was lost. His mighty effort was spent. Yet he gave not an hour to his
						grief. Whatever was the inward conflict, no human eye could pierce beneath the iron mask
						of his features. He chose nine trusty and well-armed men and went to meet the mutineers.
						Two canoes surrendered at once. The third showed  fight.
						Two of the villains were killed. The remainder were safely lodged in the dungeon of the
						fort, to await the coming of Count Frontenac. La Salle's enemies used the killing of the
						two mutineers as a basis for a charge of murder.
					After all his toil, the mighty dream of the interior empire seemed wrecked forever. But
						La Salle was incapable of retreat. He seemed impelled by an inward force, as resistless
						as his fate was remorseless. On the 10th of August, 1680, he embarked again with his
						succor for Tonty. If the latter could keep his foothold on the Illinois, success might
						yet be wrested from adversity. Through Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron, and Michigan, up the
						St. Joseph River, and down the Kankakee, he once more took his way. At every step he
						found the Indians prejudiced against him by the Jesuits.
					When, at last, they drew near the meadows on which had stood the great village of the
						Illinois, with its population of eight thousand souls, their horror-stricken gaze met a
						scene of utter desolation. Where once was heard the busy hum of human life, no sound,
						save their own footsteps, broke a silence as of the grave. The plain was covered with
						heaps of ashes and charred poles. Hundreds of human bodies, hideous souvenirs of battle,
						half-eaten by wolves and birds of prey, filled the air with pollution. With but one
						thought, La Salle searched the blackened and bloody field of death, with sleepless
						anxiety, for traces of the fate of Tonty. That the Iroquois had wrought the work of ruin
						was clear. That Tonty had been burned alive, or taken prisoner, he thought he read in
						some charcoal drawings on some stakes. Taking four men with him, La Salle pushed on to
						Fort Crèvecœur. Hope was dead in his breast, and dark despair floated on raven plume,
						like a bird of ill-omen, in ever-narrowing circles above his dauntless form.
					The fort was destroyed. On the stocks stood the hull of the half-finished vessel, with
						every nail and spike withdrawn. In charcoal letters La Salle read, "Nous
							sommes lous savages: ce 15, 1680," inscription by the mutineers. Even here he
						found  bodies lashed to stakes and half-consumed by the
						torturing flames. Down the Illinois he floated, till he saw before his eyes the mighty
						river of the Mississippi. It was the source and object of all his vast ambitions and
						incomparable efforts. But its charms were unheeded by his anxious eye. No trace of Tonty
						could be found.
					Tonty, after the mutiny, lived in the Illinois village, a weak, one-handed soldier of
						fortune, yet, withal, a courtly gentleman, amid his savage companions; one who would
						have graced any court in Europe. One evening word was brought that the Iroquois were
						coming. The same messenger said La Salle was with them; hence, Tonty must be a traitor.
						The excited savages threw his precious forge and tools into the river. He was in the
						utmost peril. All night the warriors sang, danced, painted their bodies, and worked
						themselves into a frenzy to raise their courage. Tonty resorted to a desperate
						expedient. He went unarmed into the Iroquois camp, bearing a belt of wampum.
					By exaggerating the numbers of the Illinois and threatening future vengeance from the
						French, he patched up a peace. Scarcely was it made before being broken. In six days the
						Iroquois chieftains summoned Tonty to meet them. An orator presented him with six packs
						of beaver skins. The first two, he said, signified that the children of Frontenac, that
						is, the Illinois, should not be eaten; the next was a plaster to heal Tonty's wound; the
						next was oil to anoint himself, that he might not be fatigued in traveling; the fifth
						signified that the sun was bright; the sixth required him to pack up and go back to
						Canada forthwith. Sadly he called his five faithful companions together and started on
						foot for Green Bay Mission.
					La Salle, failing to find his friend, retraced his steps to the fort on the St. Joseph
						River. Here he located for the winter. Instead of being crushed by the cruel aggregation
						of disasters and defeats, he modified his plans and mapped out in his own secretive mind
						a new plan for the pursuit of the great enterprise, from which he never took his eye.
						His notion was to  induce the Western tribes of Indians to
						unite in a defensive league against the Iroquois, with himself at its head. He worked
						incessantly, traveling far and near. As has been said, he was a great orator with the
						Indians. He punctuated his sentences with presents of hatchets and kettles, and
						emphasized his words with red blankets. Such eloquence was irresistible. Besides, the
						Indian knows a hero by instinct. He recognizes a true leader at sight. Everywhere the
						Indians from innumerable tribes lent their aid to the enterprise. La Salle was to
						protect them against the Iroquois, and French traders were to bring to them all the
						articles they needed, in ships which would sail up the Mississippi.
					Things looked promising. To discover the mouth of the Mississippi was of the first
						importance. For this a trip to Canada was again necessary. On his way back, La Salle, to
						his infinite joy, found Tonty at Michillimackinac. Each told his tale of disaster. The
						new scheme and its signs of promise were laid before Tonty. Arrived at Montreal, La
						Salle made a last effort to appease his creditors and procure a new equipment. Once more
						he set out for the Illinois, by the same dreary route, so full of suggestions of wasted
						wealth, disappointed ambitions, and fruitless toil. The past was a failure. Would the
						future prove brighter?
					The plan of building a large vessel for the journey down the Mississippi, if
						consummated, would have enabled La Salle to gather quantities of furs, and pay the cost
						of the expedition. Disaster had forced him to abandon the plan and the trip was made in
						canoes. The Indians along the river proved to be friendly, intelligent, and polite.
						Concerning the Arkansas tribe, one of the party writes: "They are gay, civil, and
						free-hearted. The young men, though alert and spirited, are so modest that not one of
						them would take the liberty to enter our hut, but all stood quietly at the door. We
						greatly admired their form and beauty. We did not lose the value of a pin while among
						them." At the principal town of the Taensas, the travelers were 
							LA SALLE PROCLAIMING THE FRENCH EMPIRE IN AMERICA.
						
						 dumfounded to find large square dwellings, built of mud,
						straw, and cane, arched over with dome-shaped roofs.
					In one of these buildings, in a room forty feet square, sat the king on a chair of
						state; three wives were at his side, and ranged around him sat sixty old men, wrapped in
						white cloaks, woven of mulberry bark. When he spoke his wives howled. His death would be
						celebrated with the death of one hundred victims. Another building formed the temple. In
						the center was an altar on which burned a perpetual fire. Around the room were ranged
						long rows of grinning skulls from the victims sacrificed to the Sun. The king was
						frightfully solemn. No smile had ever flitted across his cast-iron countenance. But if
						he failed to appreciate a joke, he liked presents and visited La Salle at his camp. On
						this important occasion the solemn old savage advanced, in his white robes, preceded by
						two men with large white fans, while a third bore an enormous disc of burnished copper,
						representing the Sun, which was the king's ancestor. At each spot that he visited, La
						Salle erected a cross with the arms of France, as an emblem of her dominion.
					On the 6th of April they reached a point where the river divided into three channels.
						It was the Delta. It was not long till the heavy current bore the voyagers out into the
						lonely gulf. For a thousand years its tossing waves had in that mighty solitude striven
						to rise above themselves; for a thousand years they had fallen back, broken and sullen,
						to their own level—fit emblems of human ambition. Gathering on the shore, the
						little group of weather-beaten men erected a column and a cross, with the insignia of
						the French people. Then La Salle proclaimed aloud the French dominion.
					"On that day," says Francis Parkman, "the realm of France received on parchment a
						stupendous accession. The fertile plains of Texas; the vast basin of the Mississippi,
						from its frozen northern springs to the sultry borders of the gulf; from the woody
						ridges of the Alleghanies to the bare peaks of the Rocky Mountains—a region of
						savannahs and forests,  sunerts, and grassy prairies,
						watered by a thousand rivers, ranged by a thousand warlike tribes, passed beneath the
						scepter of the sultan of Versailles; and all by virtue of a feeble human voice inaudible
						at half a mile."
					The new domain was called Louisiana, in honor of its king. Henceforth the name of La
						Salle was a part of history. But his labors were only begun. Impatiently he urged his
						little fleet of canoes upward against the heavy current. His way seemed clear now for
						the execution of his original plan, to abandon the difficult and roundabout route
						through frozen Canada, the great lakes and the Kankakee swamps, to plant a fort at the
						mouth of the Mississippi, and thus monopolize the magnificent natural pathway to the
						interior of the continent. On his way back, La Salle was stricken down with a deadly
						fever. Against this foe his stubborn will was powerless. He could not proceed to Canada
						to announce his discovery, nor to France to raise means for carrying out his splendid
						plans, nor even to the Illinois to commence his fort. While La Salle lay in a hut on the
						banks of the Mississippi the fever of ambition and impatience uniting with that of
						disease, Tonty pressed on to Canada with the glorious news of the discovery.
					By December Tonty and La Salle were once more together on the Illinois River, busy with
						perfecting the great Indiana league. Overhanging the river, La Salle had previously
						noticed a great rock, one hundred and twenty-five feet high, inaccessible on all side
						except by a difficult footpath in the rear. Its top was about an acre in extent. This
						rock, properly fortified, could be defended by a score of men against hosts of savages.
						It is now called "Starved Rock." It is six miles below the town of Ottawa, Illinois. On
						the top of this rock La Salle and Tonty made a clearing, and built a palisade, lodges,
						storehouses. It was named Fort St. Louis.
					The league grew and strengthened. Every day brought re-enforcements. Around the fort a
						hundred tribes took up their dwelling, inspired with the idea of being protected by La
						Salle  from the terrible Iroquois. They came from the
						Kankakee, from the Ohio, even from Maine. Among the promiscuous throng of lodges were
						those of some discomfited warriors of Philip of Mount Hope, who had for a while spread
						terror and despair through the Puritan settlements of New England. La Salle's diplomacy
						had achieved a wonderful success. Twenty thousand savages planted their wigwams upon the
						plains, over which he looked from his castle in the air.
					Of all men the Indian is the most unstable. La Salle understood the Indian character
						thoroughly. His mushroom colony could only live by his fulfilling his promises to
						protect it from the Iroquois, and bring Frenchmen to exchange commodities for their
						furs. To achieve these things he needed help. Frontenac was no longer governor of
						Canada. His successor, La Barre, belonged to the political faction composed of La
						Salle's enemies. These last were not asleep. The news of his discovery and his mammoth
						Indian town teased their jealousy and hate into a perfect frenzy. Their emissaries
						worked incessantly to induce the Iroquois to make war and destroy La Salle, who, they
						said, was combining the western Indians against the Five Nations. On the other hand,
						they spread rumors through the excitable throngs around Fort St. Louis that La Salle was
						keeping them there for the Iroquois to destroy them all at once. Reports were frequent
						that the Iroquois were coming.
					La Salle's situation was full of peril. He dared not leave Fort St. Louis to carry out
						his plans for traffic on the Mississippi, for if an attack should be made in his absence
						he would be denounced as the instigator of the Iroquois war. Yet the necessity for his
						departure grew stronger each day. No one but he could arrange to build the fort at the
						mouth of the Mississippi, and bring vessels from France laden with articles of traffic
						for his savage allies. To meet the emergency, he sent letters to France, imploring
						assistance. They were never heard from. He begged La Barre to send him supplies and
						re-enforcements. No answers were ever received. He weakened his  little colony by sending messengers to Montreal to procure supplies and
						bring them by canoes. The messengers were plundered of their cargoes by the Canadian
						governor and thrown into prison. La Salle, in the depths of the wilderness, was unaware
						of the governor's enmity. Again and again he wrote, describing the situation, and
						imploring that his men might be allowed to return with supplies. The only response was
						angry letters from his creditors, accusing him of every crime under heaven. There
						remained but a hundred pounds of powder in the fort. Should the Iroquois come, strong
						resistance was impossible.
					On receipt of La Salle's letters, La Barre wrote to the government of France that La
						Salle was a crack-brained adventurer, bent on involving the Canadian colonies in a war
						with the Iroquois; that he had set himself up as king; that he had robbed his creditors
						only to waste the ill-gotten gain in riotous living and in debauching the Indians; that
						so far from serving the king, his sole object was private gain. These slanders reached
						the mark. The king wrote back that "the discovery of La Salle is utterly useless, and
						such enterprises should, in the future, be prevented." What a prophet was Louis XIV
						concerning the future of America! Had he but known better, his "New" France was most
						speedily to far surpass his "Old" France. La Barre, emboldened by the king's letter,
						seized all of La Salle's property, declared his privileges forfeited, and dispatched an
						officer to supersede him at Fort St. Louis. He found only Tonty. La Salle had started
						for France.
					It was an opportune moment for La Salle when he appeared before the gold and ivory
						chair of state in which sat the small specimen of humanity, in high-heeled shoes and
						gaudy attire, who represented the sovereignty of France. A war with Spain was in
						progress. La Salle was smart. His great object was to get a fort and colony on the
						Mississippi. Instead of dwelling on its use in controlling and developing traffic with
						the vast  interior, he held out the more glittering, but
						far less substantial, allurement that such a fort would be a basis for a descent on
						Mexico and the Spanish dominion. His geographical notions were wrong. Mexico was much
						farther off than he thought. But the king knew no better. The idea of wresting Mexico,
						with its rich mines of silver and gold from the indolent Spaniards who guarded it,
						caught his eye. Feeling exerts a powerful influence on conduct. He hated Spain. Any plan
						to hurt her was grateful to him.
					So La Salle was granted more than he asked. La Forest, La Salle's lieutenant, was
						dispatched to Canada with a royal reprimand for La Barre. He was also to resume
						possession of Fort Frontenac and Fort St. Louis. He was further ordered to march the
						four thousand warriors at the latter place, to the mouth of the Mississippi, to
						co-operate with La Salle in an invasion of Mexico. When his lieutenant received this
						latter order from La Salle, the latter must have nearly burst with inward laughter. It
						is the solitary joke in his stern career. It gives him a rank among the funny men of all
						ages. Gulliver's exploits are nothing in comparison with marching four thousand wild
						Indians, as unstable as water, belonging to a hundred wandering tribes, two thousand
						miles from their hunting-grounds; their women and children left behind at the mercy of
						savage foes; their numbers so great that, without any provision for supplies, they must
						starve on the way; with no arms but bows and arrows, and no object but to invade a
						country of which they had never heard. But the wise simpleton of Versailles saw nothing
						of the joke. What could be more natural? The idea delighted him. He gave La Salle four
						ships instead of one. Of these the Joly was the largest.
					A hundred soldiers, thirty gentlemen, a number of mechanics, besides the wives of some
						and a few girls who saw a certain prospect of matrimony, embarked on this last
						expedition of Robert Cavalier De La Salle. The command was divided. Beaujeu, a
						high-tempered, but old and experienced naval officer,  was
						to command the ships at sea; La Salle was to have entire control on land. This
						two-headed arrangement gave rise to no end of trouble. La Salle, always suspicious and
						secretive, found out that Beaujeu's wife was devoted to the Jesuits. His cold,
						impenetrable manner, confiding in none, counseling with none, haughty and reserved,
						would have exasperated a far less testy and excitable man than old Beaujeu. As it was,
						La Salle's colleague splattered over with fury. Before they were out of the harbor, La
						Salle believed that Beaujeu was a traitor, in connivance with his enemies to ruin the
						expedition. Old Beaujeu, on his part, was furious that he, an experienced naval officer
						of high rank, should divide command with a man "who has no experience of war except with
						savages, who has no rank, and never commanded any body but
						school-boys"—a thrust at La Salle's school-teaching days, when he was with
						the Jesuits. Beaujeu wrote letters continually to the government, complaining of his
						ignominy. To these ebullitions of age, vanity, and temper the answers were curt
						enough.
					The two leaders quarreled—about the stowage of the cargo, about the amount of
						provision to be taken on board, about the destination of the expedition. Beaujeu
						believed that La Salle was not a sane man. It is not impossible that his terrible
						exposures and sufferings, his ceaseless struggles with his creditors and enemies, his
						crushing disappointments had affected the poise of La Salle's mind. His universal
						distrust included even the faithful Tonty. On July 24, 1684, the little fleet spread its
						canvas. On the fourth day out the Joly broke a bowsprit. La Salle
						believed it to have happened by design. The ships put back to Rochelle to repair the
						damage.
					The wretched voyage lasted two months. La Salle was in miserable health. The
						disagreements between him and Beaujeu grew continually worse. La Salle desired to put in
						at Port de Paix. Here he was to receive supplies and information from the French
						governor, who had orders to render all possible assistance to the expedition. Beaujeu,
						boiling with rage, managed to  run by the place at night
						and insisted on landing at a different place, Petit Gouare. No supplies were to be had
						here. Many of the men were sick from the intense heat and close confinement on
						shipboard. The smallest vessel, the one laden with stores, tools, and ammunition, had
						fallen behind. Two days passed, and instead of her arrival, word was brought that she
						had been captured by pirates. The blow was terrific, and could not have fallen, had
						Beaujeu put in at Port de Paix. La Salle, eaten up with anxiety, became dangerously ill
						and delirious. In the extremity, Joutel, a gardener, who had joined the expedition, was
						his main reliance, and continued so till the end. He became the historian of the
						enterprise. While lying at this port, freed from the restraint of their leader's eye,
						the men engaged in the worst debauchery, contracting diseases which brought many to
						their graves.
					The captain of the Aimable gave La Salle great uneasiness. To prevent
						treachery, he went on board the vessel himself. It was near New Year's, when, having
						entered the Gulf of Mexico, they discovered land. Every eye was strained to detect the
						mouth of the great river.
					At this point La Salle committed a fatal blunder. Having heard that the currents of the
						gulf set strongly to the eastward, he supposed he had not reached the Mississippi. In fact he had passed it. Day after day they sailed slowly to the west.
						No sign of the river appeared. A halt was called. The weather was stormy; the coast
						unknown and dangerous. The men were rapidly consuming the provisions. Beaujeu was
						irritable. Joutel says La Salle requested him to sail back in search of the river and
						that the naval commander refused to do it. Impatient of the restraint and anxious to
						assume the sole command, La Salle determined to land his soldiers on the swampy shores
						and send them to search for the river by land. Joutel was placed in command.
					For three days the detachment pushed their way north-eastward through tropical forests
						and across lagoons. The men were constructing a raft to cross Matagorda Bay, when they
							 discovered the ships which had been following along
						the coast. La Salle came ashore, and announced that this was the western mouth of the
						Mississippi. He ordered the ships to enter the narrow harbor. The Aimable came first. La Salle was watching her. Suddenly some men came running in
						from the forest reporting that two of their number had been carried off by the Indians.
						La Salle ordered instant pursuit. With a last anxious look at the Aimable, which was steering in the wrong direction to be safe, he started after
						the Indians. He had just come in sight of them when the report of a cannon was heard
						from the bay. The savages fell prostrate with fright. But the chill of a more deadly
						fear froze the blood in La Salle's veins. The gun was a signal of distress. The Aimable, with her cargo of stores and utensils for the colony, had
						struck the cruel reef.
					Securing his men from the Indians, La Salle hastened back to the scene of either
						accident or treachery to save, if possible, the cargo. The small boat of the vessel was
						found to have been staved in. This looked suspicions and caused delay. A boat was sent
						from the Joly. Some gunpowder and flour had been landed, when the wind
						rose. The breakers came rolling in, lifting the doomed vessel and hurling her, again and
						again, upon the rocks. The greedy waves were strewn with her treasures.
					La Salle's heart must have been broken. The circumstantial evidence that the captain of
						the Aimable had wrecked his vessel on purpose was of the strongest
						character. The wretched company encamped near the wreck behind a rough pile of boxes,
						bales, drift wood, and spars. The Indians were unmistakably hostile. They plundered the
						camp, fired the woods, and even killed two men. The colonists were nearly all sick. Five
						or six were dying every day. Beaujeu having accomplished his mission and landed La Salle
						at what he declared was the mouth of the Mississippi, set sail for France. Toward the
						last, the testy old sea-captain sympathized with La Salle. He, at least, had not proved
						treacherous, and they parted friends. The colonists were left to their misery. It is to
						be remembered that 
						
							MURDER OF LA SALLE IN TEXAS.
						
						 in the unhappy company were women and girls. The colony
						lived in constant fear of the Spanish, who were patrolling the gulf in search of them.
						Two of the men deserted. Another was hung for crime. One of the best of the company was
						bitten by a snake and died.
					The most serious thing, however, which befell the colony was the discovery by La Salle
						that he was not at the mouth of the Mississippi. He knew not where he was, only not on
						the river which was the source and object of all his Titanic toil. Unless the river
						could be found, and that speedily, his mighty undertaking was utterly and forever
						ruined. If it could be found, a good fort built, and communications established with
						Fort St. Louis, on the Illinois, something might yet he accomplished. Unless this was
						done, La Salle felt that all his Herculean labors were wasted, his life a ruin, and his
						dream of empire a bitter folly.
					The future was as black as midnight. A single star beam shone through the darkness. The
						little frigate Belle, a gift from the king to La Salle, was still
						safe. If the Mississippi could be found, this vessel might convey the colony and such
						stores as they had left to its banks. A spot was sought where protection could be had
						from the scorching sun. The industrious toiled. The friars got out their battered altar
						and crosses. A fort was built. The stoutest sank under this labor. Numbers also were
						being slowly consumed by diseases brought with them. La Salle's company was not the
						"flower of France." Many of his men had been professional street beggars. On the walls
						of the new "Fort St. Louis," as La Salle called it, were planted eight cannon. In the
						absence of balls, they were loaded with stones and bags of bullets.
					When the wretched colonists were thus located, La Salle started on a journey of
						exploration. He was still dauntless, self-contained, energetic. His mighty sorrows may
						have shattered him. In his extremity his fierce temper only became more fractious, his
						suspicion more dark. He treated his men  with more and
						more rigor and hauteur. He kept his own counsel more obstinately than ever. He was made
						of iron. He bent not one inch to the storm. His invincible intellect refused to bow to
						defeat. It insulted Fate, and hurled defiance at all the powers of destiny and hell.
					The day of his departure was the last of October, 1685. His brother, Abbe Cavalier,
						just recovered from a long illness, accompanied him with fifty men. It was March before
						they returned. They told a tale of suffering and disappointment. Some of the men had
						deserted, some were drowned, some snake bitten, some killed by Indians. The Mississippi
						had not been found. This was not the worst. The Belle had been ordered
						to follow them along the coast. At a certain point in the journey La Salle lost sight of
						her. Men were sent to search. They brought back no tidings. The day after La Salle
						reached the fort the last one of these detachments arrived. They had been more
						successful. The pilot of the Belle, while on shore, had been killed by
						Indians. Soon after this the crew got drunk. A wind arose; the vessel was clumsily
						handled; in five minutes all that was left of her was a mass of spars and splinters
						hanging on the rock-bound coast.
					In all his troubled career, the unfortunate La Salle had never met with a disaster so
						utterly overwhelming and irretrievable as this. With the loss of the Belle was lost the only means of returning to France, or of planting a colony on
						the Mississippi.
					There was no longer any use to hunt for the river. If it were found the colony could
						never get there. To transport their cannon, forges, tools, and stores by land was
						preposterous. A man could not carry enough food to take him half-way. La Salle broke
						down. He was taken with another terrible attack of fever.
					For months he fought this foe as he had every other. His sublime will rose superior to
						difficulty. His mind once more cleared. He determined to make his way to the
						Mississippi, force his canoe upward against its current to the Illinois; thence from
						Fort St. Louis again to Canada and to France, where he 
						would obtain succor. It was a journey of seven thousand miles. The imagination fails to
						compass the immensity of the undertaking. It surpassed the labors of Hercules.
					One April day, after mass and prayer, a little handful of men, with hatchets, kettles,
						guns, corn, and presents for the Indians, strapped to their backs, set out over the
						prairie on the mighty undertaking. La Salle alone knew its extent. He kept the secret
						locked in his own breast, or not a man would have accompanied him. The trusty Joutel
						remained in command at the fort. The strictest discipline was enforced. This was to
						divert the minds of the colonists from their terrible situation. Every one was compelled
						to work. Joutel says: "We did what we could to amuse ourselves, and drive away care. I
						encouraged our people to dance and sing in the evenings, for when M. de La Salle was
						among us pleasure was often banished. I tried to keep the people as busy as possible. I
						set them to making a small cellar to keep meat fresh in hot weather; but when M. de La
						Salle came back he said it was too small. As he always wanted to do every thing on a
						large scale, he prepared to make a large one, and marked out the plan." Like poor La
						Salle's other plans, the one for this cellar proved too large to be practicable. So it
						was never built at all.
					The situation of the colonists was practically hopeless. There was not one chance in a
						thousand that La Salle could really make his way across the wilderness of a continent
						inhabited by sleepless and bloodthirsty savages, to Montreal, and thence to France. Even
						if he reached France, from what resources could the disappointed and ruined adventurer
						draw the large sums necessary to equip a vessel and come to their relief? It was now
						nearly two years since they left Rochelle. La Salle had promised to conquer Mexico in a
						year! Yet La Salle's trip to France was their only hope. Located at the mouth of a Texan
						river, no ship would ever pass that way, unless some Spanish cruiser, seeking whom it
						might destroy.
					Still, that the colonists were not overwhelmed with despair,  is shown by one Barbiers, who asked leave to marry one of the girls.
						Joutel held a solemn consultation with the friars, and the two lovers were united.
						Shortly afterward a marquis begged the same privilege concerning another girl. Joutel,
						the young gardener, concerned at such an abasement of nobility, refused, and deprived
						the lovers of all communication with each other. Meanwhile great discontent became
						manifest. Duhant, the greatest villain in the company, declared that La Salle had left
						them to their fate, and would never return.
					One night a knocking was heard at the gate. It was La Salle. Out of twenty men only
						eight had lived to return. They had journeyed far, incurring almost every peril and
						disaster of which one can conceive. At last La Salle took sick. This delayed them two
						months, and by exhausting their ammunition and strength, forced them to return to the
						fort. The colonists, of whom only forty-five remained, murmured loudly. La Salle had a
						heavy task to make them contented with the dreary weather-beaten palisade and fort. He
						was about to renew his effort to reach Canada, when he was attacked with hernia. His
						constitution seemed badly shattered.
					It was in January, 1687, before the start could be made. Joutel this time was to
						accompany his chief. La Salle made a farewell address, in an unusually kind, winning and
						hopeful manner. With heavy hearts, both of those going and those remaining, the little
						band took up its slow march, followed by straining eyes, until it disappeared from view
						forever. The company was full of discord. Liotal, the surgeon, had sworn revenge on La
						Salle for having on one occasion sent his brother on a trip, during which he was killed
						by Indians. Duhaut had long hated La Salle, and both men alike despised Moranget, La
						Salle's nephew. Several quarrels took place. One day Duhaut, Liotal, Hiens, a buccaneer,
						Teissier, l'Archevêque, and Nika and Saget, two Indian servants of La Salle, were out
						hunting buffalo. Having killed some, they sent word to the camp. Moranget and DeMarle
						were dispatched with horses,  which had been bought of
						Indians, to bring in the meat. When Moranget arrived he abused the men violently because
						the meat was not smoked properly, and quarreled fiercely with Duhaut because he claimed
						the marrow bones. Moranget ended by seizing them.
					It was too much. The men who might in France have lived and died respected citizens,
						embittered by disappointment, and crushed by disaster, were no longer men. They were
						wild beasts. That evening Duhaut and Liotal took counsel with Hiens, Teissier, and
						l'Archevêque. A bloody plot was laid. The supper over, the pipes smoked, each man rolled
						himself in his blanket. Then the conspirators arose. Duhaut and Hiens stood with guns
						cocked, to shoot any who might resist. The surgeon stole forward, and, with hurried
						blows from an axe, clove the skulls of the sleeping Moranget, Nika, and Saget, the
						nephew, the friend, and the servant of La Salle.
					It was quickly done. Their victims lay weltering in pools of blood, while the night
						wind sighed through the lonely forest. The red demon of murder, which had entered the
						hearts of the conspirators, pointed with bloody finger at La Salle, six miles away.
						Hatred and self-preservation alike demanded his death.
					That evening Moranget had not returned, and La Salle seemed to have a presentiment of
						evil. He questioned Joutel closely as to whether Duhaut had any bad designs. Joutel knew
						nothing except that he had complained about being found fault with so much. La Salle
						passed an uneasy night. In the morning he borrowed the best gun in the party, and taking
						a friar for a companion and an Indian for his guide, started in search of the missing
						men. As he walked, he talked with the good friar, only "of piety, grace, and
						predestination; enlarging on the debt he owed God, who had saved him from so many
						perils, during more than twenty years of travel in America." "Suddenly," says the friar,
						"I saw him overwhelmed with a profound sadness, for which himself could not account. He
						was so moved I scarcely knew him." His approach was 
						perceived by the murderers. Duhaut and the surgeon, crouched in the long grass, with
						guns cocked. L'Archevêque remained in sight. La Salle called to him, asking where was
						Moranget. The man replied in a tone agitated but insolent, that he was strolling around
						somewhere. La Salle rebuked him, and continued to advance. At that moment two shots were
						fired from the grass, and the great La Salle, the hero of a thousand exploits, dropped
						dead with a bullet in his brain.
					The toiler had found rest at last. The toilworn body was rudely thrown into the bushes,
						and became the food of vultures and of wolves.
					Thus, at forty-three years of age, fell one of the greatest explorers of all time. That
						he had grave faults is most true. He was often impractical. His movements seem sometimes
						the result of hasty and inconsiderate resolve. His fierce temper, and gloomy, unsocial
						nature brought on him the dislike of his men. He attempted too much. Yet, it is clear
						that he far surpassed his age in his foresight of the future of the Mississippi valley.
						His dream of the interior empire was to what has really come to pass, as the first faint
						blush of dawn in eastern skies is to the blazing radiance of noon. If his material
						resources were too small for his vast undertaking, he possessed a will like that of a
						god. The vast and continuous stream of energy, proceeding for twenty years from the
						brain of La Salle, was superhuman. His sensibilities were weak or wholly wanting. His
						intellect and will place his name above that of every other explorer.
					It is impossible to find anywhere an equal for La Salle's undertakings and efforts, his
						sufferings and toils. Yet for it all he received no reward save the bullet of an
						assassin. Like many another hero, La Salle was ignored and cast out by mankind.
						Unfortunate in life, he was still unfortunate in death. His countless throng of enemies
						each made a stab at his memory. The only thing we, who enjoy the fruits of his terrific
						toil, can do for La Salle, is to accord him the praise of history.
					
					We have said he was one of history's loneliest characters. It is true. He was and is a
						solitary of the solitaries. In life his lonely, retiring, secretive nature forced him,
						as he himself said, to abandon various employments in which, without it, he would have
						succeeded, and to choose a life more suited to his solitary disposition. We see him
						driven to the wilderness by his own solitariness. Still he was not enough alone. He shut
						out from his confidence even the handful of men with whom he traversed the silent and
						uninhabited forests of America. His was the solitude of genius. "Buzzing insects fly in
						swarms; the lion stalks alone." He was separated from his nearest friend by fathomless
						abysses. Solitary in life, he is also solitary in history. He can not be classed with
						nor compared to any other. His name is a star which belongs to no constellation. The
						Chevalier de La Salle is like no one but himself. His very greatness makes it so.
					After the murders, Joutel, and one or two companions, who had been faithful to their
						leader, expected nothing but death. The conspirators would never allow the witnesses of
						their crime to reach the settlements alive. But the way was strangely cleared. The
						murderers fell out among themselves, and Hiens and his friends deliberately shot and
						killed Duhaut and Liotal. Thus these heralds of civilization instructed the savages in
						its lessons. Joutel and his friends were allowed to depart on condition of giving the
						murderers certificates of their innocence of the crime. They made their way to Fort St.
						Louis, on the Illinois, where the brave Tonty still held his own, and thence to Canada
						and France. When Tonty had learned that La Salle had landed on the shores of the gulf,
						he had gone to meet him. But though he explored the coast for sixty miles from the
						mouth, failed to find him. La Salle, at that moment, was seeking the fatal river in the
						plains of Texas. The brave Tonty remained for some years at Fort St. Louis trading in
						furs. The king finally ordered the post to be abandoned, and his subsequent career is
						unknown.
					
					The colony on the gulf was left to its fate by Louis XIV. In his gorgeous palaces at
						Versailles, he turned an ear of stone to the account of Joutel concerning the
						unfortunates left behind. One day a Spanish ship, guided by one of La Salle's deserters,
						sought out the spot where the colony had been, intent on its destruction. But the
						destroyers found the place as silent as death. The weather-beaten palisade was out of
						repair. The roof of the store-house had tumbled in. The dismounted cannon lay scattered
						around in the mire. The whole place had fallen into decay. Looking a little farther, the
						fierce Spaniards found a cluster of human skeletons, lying as if they had fallen there
						in death. Around the bony finger of one was a little ring. Its possessor had been a
						woman. Awed by the mystery of the place, the strangers were about leaving, when two men,
						apparently Indians, came up. They said the colony had been attacked by small-pox. Many
						had died. The rest were murdered by the Indians. The speakers were l'Archevêque and
						Grallet. They alone remained to tell the tale. They were made prisoners of war, and
						sentenced to a life imprisonment in a Spanish dungeon. The last of La Salle's colonies
						had disappeared from the face of the earth!
				
				
				
					
						TORTURE OF A PRISONER BY THE IROQUOIS.
					
					
					
						DEATH OF BRADDOCK.
					
					
					CHAPTER III.
						ROGERS'S RANGERS.
					AMONG the colonial recruits raised for the British army in the year
						1755, after the awful defeat of Braddock, was Captain Robert Rogers, who was at the head
						of a small company of rough fellows from New Hampshire. He was over six feet high,
						physically the most powerful man in the army. He had been virtually brought up in a
						hunter's camp. From boyhood he had, with gun, blanket, and kettle, some ammunition, and
						a little sack of parched corn, ranged the untrodden forests of New England and Canada in
						search of furs and game. He had slept with the savages in their wigwams, wrestled and
						gambled with their warriors, ogled their squaws, shot the rapids with them in their
						frail bark canoes, until the Indian character and methods hid no secret from him. When
						the recruits assembled at Albany, New York, General Johnson, knowing Rogers by
						reputation, employed him from time to time on important scouts. His head-quarters were
						at Fort William Henry, a new fort erected by the British at the southern extremity of
						Lake George.
					Taking four or five trusty men with him, he would proceed up the lake to a convenient
						point, hide the canoe in the rushes, and push his way through the forest, penetrating
						the sentry lines to the very camp of the enemy. At Crown Point, one of the French forts,
						his men, under cover of night, concealed  themselves in
						the willows only three hundred yards from the fort. When morning dawned, Rogers, holding
						some bushes in his hand, crawled nearer. While making his reconnoissance, numbers of
						soldiers and Indians came out of the fort and engaged in drilling or shooting at marks
						so near that Rogers could not rejoin his men, nor could the latter retreat without
						discovery. As he lay behind a small log, a Frenchman left his companions and walked
						directly toward the spot of concealment. Rogers sprang at him with his gun, offering
						quarter. The stranger, instead of submitting, whipped out a dirk, and made a quick lunge
						at Rogers, but the latter shot him dead. The report instantly gave the alarm. The
						Frenchmen ran to the spot where lay the bleeding corpse, but no sign was there of the
						hand which had done the deed. If Rogers and his men had suddenly evaporated, the
						mystery, understood only by themselves, could not have been more perfect.
					Soon after their safe return, with information of the enemy gained on the above scout,
						Rogers took thirty men and two small cannon in four bateaux, and, pushing down the lake,
						discovered the enemy in an open camp in the forest. Runners bore the information to Fort
						Henry asking for re-enforcements. The delay caused them to be discovered. The British
						moved forward to surprise the French, when they perceived a fleet of hostile canoes
						coming down the lake. No doubt a similar force was advancing by land to catch the
						British between two fires. Rogers at once threw fifteen men into canoes to decoy the
						French within range of the two cannon. He steered as if meaning to escape. The French at
						once headed diagonally toward the shore, to cut him off. The stratagem succeeded. Two
						cannon shots sunk as many canoes, and the remainder fled, pursued unsuccessfully by the
						entire force of British, who had swiftly embarked for the chase.
					In another scout, toward Fort Ticonderoga, Rogers and two companions were discovered on
						the lake by the enemy. Determined not to retreat, the scouts quickly assumed the guise
						of  fishermen. All day they coolly floated within gunshot
						of the French, dropping hook and line into the placid lake, and at evening actually sold
						their catch to the French. When night came on the adventurers pushed on toward their
						destination. Their reconnoissance at Ticonderoga, rendered difficult by the intense
						cold, was about completed, except as to capturing a prisoner, when a snow began to fall.
						No art could conceal their trail, if they lingered till the snowfall ceased. So the
						return trip was hastily begun. By Christmas Lake George was entirely frozen from shore
						to shore. But Rogers and his tireless woodsmen, instead of remaining idly in the warm
						quarters at the fort, equipped themselves with skates, and braved the wintry tempest in
						many an expedition. Their success was unvarying. Taking a force of from ten to fifty
						men, on skates, Rogers would skim along the icy floor of the lake surface to a point
						opposite Ticonderoga or Crown Point, order his men to change their skates for
						snow-shoes, and move swiftly to some ambush along the roads leading to the fort. Here
						they would lie in the snow, exposed to the bitter cold, sometimes for two or three days,
						with no shelter but a few pine boughs hastily thrown together, and without a spark of
						fire, the smoke of which would instantly reveal them to the neigboring fort. Here they
						intercepted the sledges carrying fresh beef, venison, and corn to the fort, captured the
						drivers, and appropriated the provision. When they had caught several prisoners, they
						would glide into the French settlement, cut the throats of the cattle, set fire to the
						barns full of grain and to the houses of the villagers, and just as the red flames shot
						upward into the winter night, throwing their angry glare far across the whitened
						landscape, the mysterious and deadly Rangers would disappear in the forest as suddenly
						as they came.
					
						VICINITY OF LAKE GEORGE.
					
					So valuable were the services of Rogers and his hardy 
						woodsmen, that, in the spring of 1756, he received a special commission from the
						commander-in-chief to raise an independent corps of experienced foresters, men whom he
						was to choose himself, of the most approved courage and fidelity, and of the greatest
						physical inurement to exposure. The corps was to be known as ROGERS'S
							RANGERS, the men receiving the pay of regular soldiers, but
						carrying on warfare as scouts in their own brave fashion. This famous corps became the
						right arm of the British troops. Their official instructions were "to use their best
						endeavors to distress the French and their allies, by sacking, burning, and destroying
						their houses, barns, barracks, canoes, bateaux, etc., and by killing their cattle of
						every kind; and at all times to endeavor to destroy their convoys of provision, by land
						and water, in every part of the country."
					On the way to Fort Henry, with his new Rangers, Rogers made an elaborate scout around
						Crown Point. After killing large numbers of cattle, the tongues of which were carefully
						removed for the Rangers' use, they were discovered and closely pursued by an
						overwhelming force of French and Indians. In this emergency, Rogers executed a masterly
						maneuver. Appointing a rendezvous at a distant point on the lake shore, the Rangers
						suddenly separated, every man taking his own course. Where there had been five minutes
						before a stout body of men, the enemy found no one. The Rangers had dispersed and left
						only thin air. From this point on, their history is a succession of thrilling and
						successful exploits, of which we may only take an occasional glimpse. Not a week passed
						without some daring scout or victory. The Rangers only had to go out in order to catch a
						net full of birds, as they called their prisoners. These Rogers would examine separately
						and with great care, to see if their stories agreed, concerning the strength, movements,
						plans, supplies, and situation of the enemy. Keen and sagacious in these examinations,
						able at a glance to separate the truth from falsehood, and wonderfully skillful in
						reading character, Rogers kept the British head-quarters more accurately posted  with regard to the enemy than were the French and Indian
						commanders themselves. From time to time, during the war, the "Rangers" were gradually
						increased from their original strength of sixty-two men, to more than a thousand.
					One night in July, 1756, while on a lengthy scout, the Rangers prepared to attack a
						French schooner, lying one mile from the lake shore. Just then two lighters, laden with
						provision and strongly guarded, came in sight, and made for the shore as if to encamp,
						it being about ten o'clock at night. As they drew close to land, the Rangers fired from
						the forest, and Rogers offered quarter to the enemy. The latter, however, put about, and
						made every effort to reach the opposite shore. Before they reached it the terrible
						Rangers had made prisoners of the entire party, and sunk and destroyed both cargoes,
						consisting of wheat, flour, wine and brandy. At this time the French were offering the
						Indians sixty francs for every English scalp, and prisoners were sold in Canada for
						sixty crowns. Rogers's first-lieutenant was John Stark, afterwards major-general of the
						American army in the Revolution.
					The fall and winter of 1756 were busily employed in harassing the enemy in the
						neighborhood of Lake George. On the 21st of January, 1757, Rogers had a company of
						eighty men with him, equipped with skates and snow-shoes. They were encamped three miles
						from the lake, on elevated ground, near Ticonderoga, from which they commanded a view of
						the snowy landscape for many miles. Far off on the glittering ice, they saw a small
						object moving across the lake. The keen eye of Rogers pronounced it to be a sled laden
						with provision. Lieutenant Stark set out with ten men to head it off, while Rogers and
						the others moved swiftly to intercept the retreat.
					Soon after Stark had departed, Rogers detected ten other sleds following the first. It
						was too late to warn Stark of the fact. The latter struck out for the first sled, and
						the other sleds, still at a distance, discovering him, instantly put about. Pursuit was
						the only thing possible. The sleds were  made of a long
						board, turned up in front, and with high racks at the side and end to hold the load.
						They were as light as egg-shells, and drawn each by two horses, rough shod, and, urged
						to the top of their speed by relentless drivers, sped over the ice with the velocity of
						the wind. Quick as thought, Rogers's men clapped on their skates and began the chase.
						The nearest sleds were a half a mile away. It was a race between swift and powerful
						horses and the swiftest skaters in the world. On flew the foaming horses, their manes
						flying and eyeballs strained, scattering showers of ice as their ponderous feet dug into
						the glittering surface. Wildly the hoarse drivers shouted and plied their rawhide lashes
						upon the reeking steeds. Behind them came the shaggy and powerful Rangers, seeming as
						they whirled over the ringing ice like superhuman creatures. The pursuers had the
						shorter path. The sleds must cross it. Whoever reached the intersection first would win
						the deadly race.
					As the steel of the pursuers' skates flashed in the sunlight, it could be seen that
						they were gaining. Stark and his men had overtaken the rear sled, but the other Rangers
						paused not in their impetuous career. Still, it was evident, that some of the sleds
						would escape. One after another of those farthest in advance crossed the point where met
						the paths of pursuer and pursued. All but two of the sleds had passed the line of
						safety. Suddenly Rogers, who was six yards ahead of the nearest Ranger, was seen to
						unsling his gun. Without slackening his terrific speed, or removing his eye from the
						enemy for a moment, just as the second sled from the rear crossed his path he threw his
						gun to his shoulder and fired.
					The nearest horse was seen to lunge forward and fall, thrown by his momentum, a hundred
						feet along the ice. His mate, frightened and entangled, lost her footing. In a moment
						the Rangers were upon their foes. The last sled fell an easy victim. The race between
						man and brute had been won by man.
					It was evident that the sleds which had escaped would carry the news to the fort, and
						rouse instant pursuit. Rogers ordered  his men to take the
						seven prisoners, and return at once to the camp fires they had left three hours before.
						So sudden had been their departure, that the men had not removed the priming in their
						guns since the previous day. Every thing was made ready for a fight, and a retreat
						commenced. They had just crossed a little valley, and were nearing the opposite ridge,
						when the woods blazed with a deadly volley of bullets. Several Rangers fell dead, Rogers
						himself being wounded in the head. The Rangers retreated to the opposite ridge, where,
						sheltered by trees, they were enabled to fight to advantage. From two o'clock till
						sunset the battle raged. Three times the French and Indians tried to flank the British,
						but as many times were driven back. Rogers received a wound in his wrist, and many of
						his brave men, scorning the idea of a surrender, lay helpless and bleeding in the snow.
						At dark the enemy withdrew.
					Worn out with the exciting events of the day, many of their number badly wounded, the
						exhausted Rangers still felt it necessary to retreat farther from the enemy's
						neighboring fort. For six weary miles they groped their way through the forest. Once
						they caught sight of a camp fire, and made a wide detour for fear of Indians. At last, a
						comfortless camp was pitched for the night. In the morning the wounded were unable to
						proceed farther without assistance. Lieutenant Stark offered to go to the fort on
						snow-shoes, a distance of forty long miles, and procure sleighs for them.
					In spite of the many difficulties and hardships of the way, he traversed the entire
						forty miles by sundown, and dispatched a relief party with sleighs for the wounded, so
						that they reached the suffering men before morning. Just as the sleighs arrived the
						Rangers perceived a black object, at a great distance, crawling over the ice. Supposing
						it to be one of their stragglers, a sleigh was sent to investigate. It proved to be
						Joshua Martin, who had been shot through the hips. He had been left for dead on the
						field of battle, but managed to crawl back into the woods and build the fire which his
						companions saw and avoided.  Feebly and with great pain,
						crawling through the snow, he followed their track to the lake, and then moved along the
						ice. When relief reached him he fainted away, but afterward recovered and fought all
						through the war.
					The French made several attempts to capture Fort Henry, but as long as the Rangers were
						there these efforts failed. Rogers, suffering greatly from his wounds, had gone to
						Albany for surgical aid, soon after the events last recorded. While there he was
						attacked with the small-pox, that scourge alike of the wilderness and of the city. So it
						happened that on the 16th of March, 1757, Stark was acting commander of the Rangers at
						Fort Henry. On that evening, as he made his round of inspection, he noticed the men
						standing in little knots, engaged in busy conversation, interrupted with many laughs. It
						was the eve of St. Patrick's day. These lonely fellows were planning their celebration.
						Stark at once gave orders to the sutler to issue no rum to his men without written
						permission from him. The men, not to be foiled, at once applied to him for it, but Stark
						put them off, on the ground that his hand was lame and he could not write. The Rangers
						were not in the best of humors, when they saw the Irish troops, who composed the
						remainder of the garrison, freely filling their bumpers with fiery draughts in honor of
						St. Patrick's wife, and making the fort ring with their hilarious songs and carousals.
						That night the French, knowing the habit of the Irishmen, to celebrate the occasion,
						made a terrific attack on the fort. But instead of surprising a set of intoxicated
						fellows, they were met at the first onslaught by the cool and invincible Rangers. These
						men bravely fought the enemy hand to hand, repelling assault after assault, until their
						drunken companions could come to their senses. The Rangers had saved the fort.
					In May the Rangers were ordered to Halifax, to join in an expedition against Louisburg.
						Their versatile talents were employed during harvest, while the preparations for the
						expedition were going on, in making hay for the horses. The  expedition was afterwards abandoned and the Rangers ordered to Fort Edward.
					On the 18th of December, 1757, Rogers led his men on a lengthy scout. On their way,
						they for the first time since their previous departure in April looked on Fort William
						Henry. Then it had been a solid log structure, occupied by a large garrison, and
						supplied, as Rogers says, "with every thing they could desire for their comfort and
						convenience."
					We smile at a rough Ranger's notion of "comfort and convenience." It was filled by a
						rude frontier fort, with its long barrack rooms, the walls of logs, the floor of
						puncheon; no ceiling but a smoky thatch, the cracks stuffed with mud and straw to keep
						out the winter; no windows except openings, closed with heavy shutters; no light or fire
						except from an immense fire-place at one end, from which the heat was dissipated long
						before it reached the frosty region at the opposite end; no fare but salt pork, soup,
						and black bread, eaten at greasy log tables, twenty inches wide, set with a gloomy array
						of battered iron plates and cups. Yet to the Ranger, accustomed as he was to sleep often
						in the snow, and pass days and nights without fire or shelter, the rough fort, with its
						rougher company, was "every thing he could desire for comfort and convenience." Looking
						back to the luxury of their life in Fort William Henry, it was with keen regrets that
						the Rangers now beheld it, a deserted ruin, covered with half-burnt rafters and
						fragments of exploded cannon.
					With a British army of six thousand men only fifteen miles away, the French had, in the
						previous August, while the Rangers were away, been allowed to besiege Fort Henry. After
						a brave defense of six days, during which time the steady cannonade from the besiegers'
						batteries had dismounted their guns and rendered the palace no longer tenable, its
						defenders had surrendered on condition of quarter. Whatever may have been the wishes of
						the French commander, the Indian allies, of whom was composed the principal art of his
						army, could not be restrained from violating the condition. Many prisoners were  massacred outright. Others were led away to suffer the
						exquisite agonies of the stake. Worse and more horrible still, an Indian tribe called
						the Cold Country Cannibals, who were present at the siege, roasted their prisoners and
						ate them. For this statement there is unquestionable authority.
					In spite of these terrible associations, the sturdy Rangers entered the ruin, scraped
						away the heavy snow, and built fires in the partial shelter of a corner which was yet
						standing, and passed the night "comfortably," as Rogers says. As they continued their
						scout, the Rangers met with fine success, and on their return to Fort Edward, December
						27th, they were enabled to present the commandant with a fine Christmas gift of several
						prisoners, who gave full and accurate information of the enemy. During this winter a
						company of regular soldiers were placed in Rogers's hands to learn Ranger tactics. For
						their benefit he drew up a written code, which was published with his memoirs.
					On the 10th of March, 1758, Rogers received orders to march with one hundred and eighty
						Rangers to the neighborhood of Ticonderoga. He protested that the force was too small,
						and asked to be allowed to take four hundred men, but his requests were refused. The
						march was made along the solid ice of the lake, the party lying concealed on shore
						during the day and marching by night. Since the capture of Fort Henry, the enemy had
						been exceedingly active, strong forces of Indians scouring the country in every
						direction.
					The nights were as dark as pitch, and while fifteen Rangers on skates acted as an
						advance guard, the main body marched as closely together as possible, to avoid
						separation. When within eight miles of the French army, an advanced guardsman skated
						swiftly to the rear with word to halt. The men were instantly ordered to sit down on the
						ice. Rogers went forward. The advance guard were called in, and thought they had seen a
						fire on the east shore. The sleighs and baggage were hastily pulled ashore, guards
						posted, and the main body marched swiftly forward to attack the supposed camp. No light
						was to be seen.  At last, concluding that the guard had
						mistaken a patch of snow or some rotten wood, which in the night has a phosphorescent
						glow, for a hostile camp fire, the Rangers returned to their packs, and passed the night
						on shore, without fire. The truth was, the guard had seen a real camp fire, which had
						been extinguished on the approach of the Rangers, and a hasty message sent to the fort
						of their presence. In the morning it was thought best to push on by land with
						snow-shoes, the snow being now four feet deep.
					Toward night word was brought that a band of ninety-six Indians was approaching. On the
						left of the line of march, was a small rivulet, and on the right a steep mountain. The
						Rangers extended their line, and at the first fire killed fifty Indians. Supposing this
						to be the entire force of the enemy, the Rangers pressed on in pursuit, when suddenly
						they were attacked by over six hundred well armed Indians and Canadians, who on receipt
						of the news of the Rangers' approach had set out to attack them. Rogers shouted to his
						men to fall back quickly to their former ground, but before they reached it the
						life-blood of fifty gallant Rangers reddened the snow where they had fallen.
					With cool desperation they continued to fight for an hour, against the overwhelming
						numbers of the foe. Small detachments were thrown out on the right and left to prevent
						flanking. But the contest was too unequal. One hundred and eight out of the one hundred
						and eighty Rangers were killed on the spot. Of these, ten men under Lieutenant Phillips,
						on the left flank, had been surrounded and captured. They were tied to trees in sight of
						their friends, and deliberately hacked to pieces by the savages.
					At last, Rogers cried to his men to fly, every one for himself. Rogers himself, with
						twenty men, rushed to an icy precipice, over a hundred feet high, which sloped abruptly
						down to the lake. Turning and firing on their pursuers, Rogers and his followers
						deliberately jumped over the perilous precipice and  slid
						down to the lake with terrific force. The spot is still pointed out as "Rogers's Leap."
						By this exploit, these men, though severely injured, escaped alive, one of their number
						making his way to Fort Edward, and sending out a relief party with sleighs and
						blankets.
					But others were not so fortunate. Accompanying the Rangers had been two British
						officers, Captains Creed and Kent, who had gone out to study their mode of warfare. At
						the beginning of the fight Rogers had advised them to retire, but being unused to travel
						on snow-shoes, ignorant of the country, and seeing their friends attacked by such a
						multitude of yelling savages, painted in the most gaudy colors, they chose like brave
						men to remain and fight. At the retreat, Rogers shouted to them to fly with him, but in
						their efforts to escape their snow-shoes came off, and the poor fellows sunk breast deep
						in the soft surface. By the strangest good fortune the savages overlooked them in the
						fury of their pursuit after Rogers. Not till the moon arose did they venture to stir.
						Then with fluttering hearts they stole through the forest, knowing nothing of their
						course, but hoping that it took them farther from the Indians. When morning dawned, it
						found them still struggling on through the snow, along the shore of some body of
						water.
					As the fear of savages departed, another dreadful apprehension laid hold of them. Which
						way was the fort? The dangers of death from exposure or starvation stared them in the
						face. Suddenly they saw a man. He came towards them. He proved to be a servant of
						Rogers, and claimed to know their whereabouts and the way to the fort. He affirmed that
						they were on South Bay and not Lake George. All day they followed their guide, at first
						on the ice and then on foot, through the slavish snow.
					At night they halted. Creed and Kent had thrown off their coats and fur caps in the
						battle, and had on only their vests. Over their heads they tied handkerchiefs. For a
						single blanket they would have given worlds. The third day the guide  promised that the fort would be reached. But at sunset
						their weary eyes beheld nothing but the same vast expanse of whiteness. The fourth day
						he said it would be impossible to fail, but the day passed with the prophecy
						unfulfilled. Again and again their snow-shoes broke. Again and again, with benumbed
						fingers they tried to tie and patch them up. Every few paces they sank up to the breast
						in the snow. The hardships were intolerable. They scrambled up mountains full of
						dangerous chasms and hidden holes. They made detours to avoid impassable forests of
						fallen timber, prostrated by some tornado.
					At the outset their entire stock of food had been a link of bologna sausage and a
						little ginger. This had long since been exhausted, and for two days they had lived on
						some frozen berries and water. Their nights had been passed without cover, and with the
						scantiest fires; for without a hatchet, by their utmost efforts, they could only wrench
						a few twigs from the frozen trees for fuel. During the fifth day they struggled along a
						dreadful road in the mountains, with only one snow-shoe apiece.
					Towards noon on the sixth day they came once more to the ice. At a single
							glance the unfortunate men perceived it to be the same spot which they had left four
							days before. This terrible discovery paralyzed them with horror. Their only
						chance was to throw themselves into the hands of the French at Fort Carillon. All day
						and night the wind blew hard, and a freezing rain incrusted their clothes with ice. The
						remainder of the sad story we give in Captain Creed's own words.
					"We traveled a few miles, but the snow driving full in our feces,
							made every thing appear as dark as the fog upon the banks of Newfoundland. As the
							storm cleared up we looked in vain for the fort. Proceeding onward by land we came to
							a large waterfall. I attempted to ford the stream above it, and had almost gained the
							opposite shore where the water reached my breast, when the rapidity of the stream
							hurried me off the slippery rocks and plunged me under water. I lost my fusee,  and narrowly escaped being carried over the fall. Mr.
							Kent and the guide fared no better, but the hopes of reaching a fire made us think
							lightly of the matter.
						"As night approached we labored through the snow, being now certain that the fort was
							near; but our guide now confessed for the first time that he was at a loss. We plainly
							perceived that his brain was affected; he saw Indians all around him, and, though we
							have since learned that we had every thing to fear from them, yet that was a danger we
							did not think of. We even shouted to give notice where we were, but could neither see
							nor hear of any one to lead us right. If we halted we became pillars of ice. We
							therefore resolved to make a fire, though the danger was apparent. We had one dry
							cartridge on hand, but in trying to catch a fire with a little of it, by means of my
							pistol, Mr. Kent held the cartridge so near as to have it blow up in our faces, almost
							blinding him and causing great pain. This appeared to be the last stroke of
							fortune.
						"We had now no hopes of fire and were not anxious for life, but wished to carry the
							scene out in a manner becoming to soldiers. We made a path round a tree and there
							exercised all night, though scarcely able to stand or to prevent each other from
							sleeping. Our guide, notwithstanding repeated cautions, strayed from us, sat down, and
							died immediately. On the morning of the 20th we saw the fort, and approached it with a
							white flag. The officers ran violently toward us, and we were saved from a danger we
							did not apprehend, for we were informed that if the Indians, who were close after
							them, had seized us first, it would not have been in the power of the French to have
							prevented our being hurried to the camp, and perhaps the next day to Montreal, or
							killed for not being able to march."
					The prisoners were afterwards exchanged by the French.
					From this time on in the war the Rangers operated in larger bodies and in more
						important movements. All the companies were concentrated at Fort Edward. Rogers was
						raised to the rank of major. Their history during the years of 1758 and 1759 is  full of romance, adventure, and excitement. When we pass it
						over, we leave out their heroic service in the fatal attack of the British on Fort
						Ticonderoga, from which the army retreated, leaving two thousand of their number slain.
						We omit, too, the thrilling story of their exploits in the triumphant expedition against
						Crown Point. In these movements the Rangers formed a part of the general army, whose
						defeats and victories are a part of history.
					When the British occupied Crown Point, they dispatched a messenger with a flag of truce
						and proposals of peace to the St. Francis Indians. They dwelt in the heart of Canada,
						mid-way between Montreal and Quebec, at a point three miles from the St. Lawrence River.
						They were notoriously attached to the French, and no other six tribes of Indians
						combined had done the English more injury than the single one of St. Francis. Their
						unspeakable ferocity, their exhaustless hatred and malicious industry, had resulted in
						the murder of over six hundred colonists during the years of the war. On the 13th of
						September the commandant of Crown Point learned that his messenger, bearing the flag of
						truce, had been coolly take prisoner and subjected to insult and indignity. Shortly
						after receipt of this news an orderly handed Major Rogers the following: 
							
								
									"You are this night to take a detachment of two hundred picked Rangers and
										proceed to Missisqui Bay, from which you will proceed to attack the enemy at the
										settlements of the St. Francis Indians, on the south side of the St. Lawrence
										River, in such a manner as shall most effectually disgrace and injure the enemy
										and redound to the honor and success of his majesty's arms. Remember the
										barbarities committed by the enemy's Indian scoundrels on every occasion where
										they have had opportunities of showing their infamous cruelties toward his
										majesty's subjects. Take your revenge, but remember that, although the villains
										have promiscuously murdered women and children of all ages, it is my order that
										no women or  children should be killed or hurt.
										When you have performed this service, you will again join the army, wherever it
										may be.
									"Yours, etc.,
										"JEFF. AMHERST.
									"Camp at Crown Point,
										Sept. 13, 1759. "TO MAJOR ROGERS."
								
							
						
					What a commission! Two hundred men ordered to make a journey of more than three hundred
						miles, through a country barren of provisions, and occupied by the whole French and
						Indian army of fifteen thousand men; when at that distance from support and their base
						of supplies, to attack and destroy by stealth a powerful tribe of Indians, which had
						been a terror through the whole war, and after all this to effect a retreat by the same
						tremendous journey, only through a hostile country aroused by a knowledge of their
						presence, and exerting every effort to destroy them.
					That night as the moon arose the little band sallied from the fort, and, with firm
						tread and rigid countenances, swiftly embarked in a fleet of canoes. Their progress down
						the lake was itself one of difficulty and danger. Its waters were patrolled incessantly
						by hostile schooners, armed with cannon, and other mischievous engines of war, for the
						discovery and destruction of the English. By night only did the Rangers advance.
					On the fifth day a keg of gunpowder exploded in their camp, injuring a number of men,
						who, together with some sick, were forced to return to Crown Point, making a defection
						of forty-four men, one fourth of the entire company. At the end of ten days, Rogers,
						having successfully eluded the enemy, landed at Missisqui Bay. Here he stored the boats
						and provisions enough to take the Rangers back to Crown Point. Two trusty Indians were
						left in charge, with orders to remain until their return, unless the enemy should
						discover the boats and strike the trail of the Rangers. In this case the two guards were
						to follow the Rangers at the top of their speed, bringing the fatal news.
					
					On the evening of the second day, as the Rangers went into camp, the two Indians left
						behind came running in, breathless and excited. Four hundred French and Indians had
						discovered the boats and destroyed them, and two hundred of them were now in pursuit of
						the Rangers. "This," says the dauntless Rogers, "caused us some uneasiness. Should the
						enemy overtake us, and we have the advantage in an encounter, they would be immediately
						re-enforced, while we could expect no assistance, being so far advanced beyond our
						military posts; and our boats and provision likewise being taken, cut off all hope of
						retreat by the route we came."
					A hurried council of war was held. The situation was desperate. But the motto of Rogers
						was, "In boldness lies safety." It was determined to push on to their destination, at
						the highest possible speed, avoiding all encounter, simply by out-marching their
						pursuers, strike their blow at the St. Francis settlements, and retreat quickly. The
						survivors were to make their way back by the roundabout route of the Connecticut River.
						Lieutenant McMullen was dispatched to Crown Point, to inform General Amherst of the
						disaster, and have him send relief and provisions at the Ammonoosuck River, "that being
						the way we should return, if we ever did return at all."
					These arrangements were quickly made. McMullen, with a small sack of food, started back
						on his lonely journey to Crown Point; the others hurriedly prepared for the race with
						their pursuers. No sleep that night; the sunrise must find them many a mile on their
						way. Much of the time they advanced in double quick time, the hardy Rangers being able
						to run for hours in a sort of dog-trot. After the first night's march they uniformly
						began their day's advance one hour before dawn, and continued it without halt, their
						meals being eaten as they marched, until one hour after dark.
					Nine days they marched through a spruce bog, where the ground was low and swampy, the
						greater part being covered with water a foot deep. When the weary Rangers encamped  at night, it was necessary to go into the darkened forest
						and cut boughs from the trees and construct a kind of hammock to protect themselves from
						the water. The day before their destination was reached, they came upon the St. Francis
						River, with its swift current. Placing the tallest men up stream, and joining hands in a
						single line, the entire company passed the ford in safety. Their only loss was a few
						guns, which were recovered by diving to the bottom of the river. Towards evening of the
						twenty-second day from their departure from Crown Point, when the scout, as usual,
						climbed a tall tree for reconnoissance, he saw at a distance of three miles the
						unconscious village of the St. Francis Indians, over which hung the lightning-charged
						clouds of doom.
					The Rangers were ordered to refresh themselves, and prepare for action on the following
						morning. Every gun was carefully dried and freshly loaded; ammunition bags were
						replenished, and such readjustment of clothing made as was possible. While the men
						rolled themselves in their blankets for a sound sleep, Rogers and two trusty companions
						stole out under the starry sky towards the fated settlement. As they drew softly near,
						wild shouts of merriment issued from the wigwams. Around enormous fires were dancing in
						frantic glee hilarious circles of warriors and maidens. It was a wedding dance. These
						wild Indians had turned aside, for the moment, from thoughts of war and bloodshed to the
						mild gentleness of love. A noble brave had chosen to himself a dusky bride. The chord of
						sentiment touched at the incident still trembled responsive in the savage breasts. Their
						festivities were bright, innocent, and happy, shining like a star in the midst of all
						the gloom and blackness of their lives.
					All unconscious of their danger, the dance went on, each moment with madder, merrier
						glee. The squaws ran about, serving to all who wished the rare bounties of the wedding
						feast. The old men stood apart from the revelers, smoking their pipes. Ever and anon
						their stately dignity gave way to  unwonted outbursts of
						hideous laughter. Within the wigwam of the bride and groom, was dispensed with careless
						hand the blazing draughts of rum to the happy throng.
					At last these potations began to have their effect. One after another of the braves
						staggered to his wigwam, and sunk into drunken slumber. The fires burned lower. The
						circle of dancers grew smaller, until only a handful of uproarious fellows and their
						girls kept up their shrieking orgies. At two o'clock in the morning Rogers and his
						companions returned quickly to their camp. A shake of the shoulder and a whispered
						command roused each sleeping Ranger to his feet. Blankets were hastily rolled up, packs
						adjusted, and guns examined. A frugal meal was eaten standing.
					By three o'clock the Rangers were in motion for the village. With stealthy step they
						advanced to within a quarter of a mile. Another halt was made. Rogers crawled forward to
						make another reconnoissance. Meanwhile the men lay flat on their faces. At five o'clock
						Rogers returned. The feast had ended. The last reveler was wrapped in oblivion, and the
						entire settlement was asleep. The Rangers were disencumbered of all their packs. Weapons
						formed their only load. The men were formed in three columns. They were to fall on the
						settlement on three sides at once.
					The first faint flush of dawn reddening the east had only obscured a few stars as the
						men moved rapidly forward through the frosty air. When the settlement was reached each
						man knew his work. The nearest wigwams were entered. In a moment the throat of every
						sleeping warrior was cut from ear to ear. The knife only was used as yet. No guns were
						fired. In this way the deadly Rangers had massacred two-thirds of the warriors in the
						settlement before a single note of alarm. Many children and squaws, who slept soundly,
						were left undisturbed. Such was the case with the new bride, whom they found locked in
						her husband's arms. Poor sleeper; too soon, alas, too soon, would she awaken to find all
						joy, all light, all 
						
							ROGER'S RANGERS ON LAKE GEORGE.
						
						 love, gone out from life. If, perchance, a child's wide
						wondering eyes opened as the glittering knife swept across its father's throat, it was
						the work of an instant to gag its mouth and hand it over as a prisoner.
					At last, the groans of some dying brave, or the screams of an awakened squaw, gave the
						alarm. Small time was there for the warriors to reach for weapons. Their only safety lay
						in flight. Only one side lay open; that was the river. But as the canoes of the
						frightened savages pushed out into the current, the swift messengers of lead sped from
						the gun of the destroyers and stilled every noble form in death. Five English captives
						were found and rescued. The scalps of more than six hundred murdered white men hung from
						the wigwam poles. These sights were not unnoticed by the Rangers. Snatching brands from
						the smouldering embers of the wedding fires, the wigwams were ignited. Black volumes of
						smoke, pierced by forked tongues of flame, rolled upward to the peaceful sky of the
						morning, and draped its blue canopy with the mournful color which all the world has
						chosen for the sign of sorrow.
					By seven o'clock, with the exception of three wigwams, preserved for their own shelter,
						the Rangers had utterly destroyed the village and its inhabitants. Two hundred wariors
						had been slain, while of their own number but one had been killed and two or three
						wounded. From their prisoners, who, excepting two Indian boys and three girls, were
						shortly set at liberty, Rogers learned that his pursuers had missed him; but that their
						messengers had sent word of his approach; that only four miles down the river were a
						force of five hundred French and Indians, waiting at a settlement which was supposed to
						be Rogers's destination, instead of the St. Francis settlement. While this examination
						took place, the Rangers supplied themselves with corn from the granaries of the village.
						A council of war determined that instant retreat by way of the Connecticut River and
						Number Four must be begun.
					The hardships of the retreat far exceeded those of the 
						advance. The way led over barren mountains and through endless swamps. In one of these
						morasses, trusting an Indian squaw for guidance, they were led about three days, and
						brought back to their own tracks, to gain time for their pursuers. After eight days'
						travel, provisions gave out, and the Rangers divided into small companies of eight or
						ten each, for procuring subsistence from roots and berries.
					One of these detachments, lingering behind the rest, was surprised by the enemy, and
						seven of their men taken prisoner. Two other detachments, similarly attacked, had nearly
						all their number slain. Some of the men, being still in fair condition, preferred to
						make their way directly to Crown Point. The bulk of the company, however, was to
						rendezvous at the mouth of the Ammonoosuck River, a hundred miles above Number Four (now
						Charleston, New Hampshire), where Rogers confidently expected provisions and relief, in
						accordance with the message sent to Crown Point by McMullen, after the news of the
						destruction of their boats.
					When at last the straggling companies of wretched men reached the rendezvous, they
						found camp fires still burning, but no succor. They fired their guns, and shouted for
						help, but only the mocking echoes of the forest answered them. Not till some time later
						did they learn that in accordance with McMullen's message provisions had been sent to
						this spot in charge of a Lieutenant Stevens. Arriving there and not finding Rogers, the
						fellow thought proper, after waiting only two days, to return, taking his provisions
						with him. His departure took place just two hours before the exhausted and famished
						Rangers arrived. The signal guns fired by the latter were heard by Stevens, but only
						served to hasten his march, as he believed them to be fired by Indians.
					The disappointment was cruel. It was evident that the men who, nerved by the hope of
						succor, had exhausted all their little remaining strength to reach this point, could
						proceed no farther. Relief must be had, or the whole party die in the  wilderness. "In this emergency," says Rogers, "I resolved
						to make the best of my way to Number Four, leaving the remainder of the party, now
						unable to proceed any farther, to obtain such wretched subsistence as the wilderness
						afforded, until I could relieve them, which I promised to do in ten days. Captain Ogden,
						myself, and a captive Indian boy, embarked upon a raft of dry pine trees. The current
						carried us down the stream in the middle of the river, where we kept our miserable
						vessel with such paddles as could be split and hewn with small hatchets.
					"The second day we reached White River Falls, and very narrowly escaped running over
						them. The raft went over, and was lost, but our remaining strength enabled us to land
						and march by the falls. At the foot of them Captain Ogden and the Ranger killed some red
						squirrels, and also a partridge, while I attempted to construct another raft. Not being
						able to cut the trees, I burnt them down, and burnt them at proper lengths. This was our
						third day's work after leaving our companions.
					"The next day we floated down to Nattoquichie Falls, which are about fifty yards in
						length. Here we landed, and Captain Ogden held the raft by a withe of hazel bushes,
						while I went below the falls to swim in, board, and paddle it ashore; this being our
						only hope for life, as we had not strength sufficient to make a new raft should this be
						lost. I succeeded in securing it, and next morning we floated down within a short
						distance of Number Four. Here we found several men cutting timber, who relieved and
						assisted us to the fort. A canoe was immediatly dispatched up the river with provisions,
						which reached the men at Coos in four days after, which, according to my agreement, was
						the tenth after I left them. Two days afterwards I went up the river with two other
						canoes to relieve others of my party who might be coming that way."
					Relief parties were also sent out in other directions to hunt up stragglers. Slowly the
						haggard men were gathered at the fort at Number Four. It was two months before they had
						recovered sufficiently to proceed to Crown Point.
					
					With this story of the unfortunate expedition against the St. Francis Indians, a
						military exploit which, for boldness and dexterity, is hardly equaled in the history of
						our country, our recital of the story of Rogers's Rangers must close. They continued
						their operations until the close of the war in 1760, when they were directed to take
						formal possession of all the French forts west of the Alleghanies, in accordance with
						their surrender by France.
					After performing this duty with approved success, Major Rogers went to England, where
						he resided till the opening of the Revolutionary War. He then returned to America, and
						visited the American camp, but was refused admission by General Washington, who
						suspected him as a British spy. Rogers was, however, visited by Colonel Stark, and other
						old Rangers, who had since enlisted in the cause of the colonies. He seemed greatly
						chagrined by Washington's treatment, and soon after joined Lord Howe, who commanded the
						British army. In a short time, however, he returned to England, and never again visited
						the land in which he had won undying fame. It was the opinion of General Stark, and
						other friends, that Washington misjudged Rogers, and that he would have proved a true
						and valuable soldier in the American army had he not been mistrusted. He was denounced
						as a Tory before he had declared his principles.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IV.
						THE AMBITION OF PONTIAC.
					THE web of history is woven from the countless threads of individual
						lives. Its pattern is controlled by the genius of great men.
					Pontiac was the chief of the mighty confederacy of the Ottowas, the Ojibwas, and the
						Pottawotamies, which had its center of power in what is now the State of Michigan. But
						the genius of the mighty chief had spread his fame and influence, not merely through the
						confederacy, nor yet alone to the surrounding tribes, but over the greater part of the
						continent.
					On the east his name was respectfully mentioned among the Indians of the Mohawk Valley
						as that of their greatest foe. Far to the South, the wandering tribes of Florida and
						Louisiana, had heard of the unapproachable prowess of Pontiac, and looked up to him as
						the greatest of all the Algonquin chiefs. His intellect was broad, powerful, and
						far-seeing. In him were combined the qualities of a great leader, a great warrior, and a
						great statesman. His plans continually reached out beyond the narrow limits of his
						tribe. His ambitions vaulted far beyond the scope of those of common chieftains. His
						understanding rose to higher generalizations, broader comprehensions, than those of any
						other Indian mind. In 1760 he was fifty years old, just at the meridian of all his
						splendid powers.
					Great minds require great opportunities. The world is full of wasted genius. "Hands
						that the rod of empire might have  swayed," are to be
						found holding the plow-handle and the plane. Cromwell without the English Revolution,
						Washington without the Revolutionary war, Grant without the Civil war, would have been
						indistinguishable from the common throng of men.
					Pontiac was great. He also had great opportunities. Let us take a survey.
					The English had conquered America. The French, the idols of the Indian heart, to
						support whose cause the remotest tribes of the north and west had furnished quotas of
						warriors, traveling hundreds upon hundreds of miles to strike a blow at the English,
						were humiliated, driven from the continent.
					From the small and widely separated forts along the lakes and in the interior the red
						men had, with sorrow and anger, seen the fleur-de-lis disappear and
						the cross of St. George take its place. This took place, although the Indian power was
						unbroken. Toward the intruders, victors over their friends, patrons, and allies, the
						Indians maintained a stubborn resentment and hostility.
					We have already noticed the difference in the policies of the French and English. The
						abundant supplies of rifles, blankets, gunpowder, beads, pipes, and brandy, which had
						for so many years been dispensed from the forts with lavish hand, were abruptly stopped.
						When the Indians visited the forts, instead of being treated with politic attention and
						politeness, they were received gruffly, subjected to indignities, and not infrequently
						helped out of the fort with the butt of a sentry's musket or a vigorous kick from an
						officer.
					In addition to these things the wilderness was overrun with brutal English traders, who
						plundered, cheated and cursed the warriors, dishonored their squaws, and indulged in
						every form of profligacy. The best settlers tried to break this up, sometimes stopping a
						mad revel by force of arms. Such a scene is presented in the opposite picture. Meanwhile
						France, still smarting under her defeats, dispatched emissaries to almost  every council house and wigwam from the lakes to the gulf,
						saying that French armies were already on their way to drive out the English, and
						inciting the Indians to inflict swift and bloody revenge upon the foes of France.
					Lashed almost into frenzy by these agencies, still another disturbing influence
						appeared in a great Indian prophet, who arose among the Delawares, preaching the
						recovery of the Indian's hunting grounds from the white man, and claiming to have
						received a revelation from God. Vast throngs listened to his wild eloquence, his
						audience containing hearers who had come from distant regions to hear him. The white man
						was driving the Indians from their country, he said, and unless the Indians obeyed the
						Great Spirit, and destroyed the white man, then the latter would destroy them.
					This was the state of affairs among the Indians in 1761 and 1762. Everywhere was
						discontent, sullen hatred, and explosive passion. The shadows of the forest were not
						blacker than the ominous darkness which pervaded the Indian breast. This was not local,
						but was far more nearly universal, spreading from the lakes to the gulf, than any other
						Indian disturbance before or since.
					It is impossible to say how much of this state of affairs was due to Pontiac's
						designing intrigue and instigation, and how much of it arose spontaneously. We can not
						tell whether Pontiac made it, or whether it made Pontiac. Certain it is that Pontiac
						maintained close relations with the great Shawanese prophet. However this may be, we are
						certain of two things, that it constituted Pontiac's opportunity, and that but for his
						genius the whole mighty ferment would have evaporated in a few scattering Indian
						raids.
					While these things moved the common Indian, the vision of the great and wise Pontiac
						took a wider scope, and was inspired by loftier notions than a mere resentment at the
						failure of the presents and the summary treatment of idle loungers about the forts. He
						saw that as long as France and England had been  opposed
						to each other in America, the Indians had held the balance of power, and received the
						treatment which their importance merited. But now that England had no longer a rival,
						the Indians were spurned and crowded to the wall. This he saw must result in the
						destruction of the race, unless France could regain her foothold on the continent. This
						became his ambition. To this end he conceived and concerted the most wonderful
						conspiracy, taking into view the surroundings and circumstances, upon which the
						historian's toil has shed the light of day.
					Toward the close of 1762, dark messengers from Pontiac, bearing the war belt of wampum,
						broad and long as the importance of the occasion demanded, threaded their way through
						the forest to the farthest shores of Lake Superior, and the distant delta of the
						Mississippi. On the arrival of these ambassadors among a tribe, the chief warriors would
						assemble in the council house. Then the orator, flinging down the red-stained tomahawk
						before his audience, would deliver, with energetic emphasis and action, the message from
						his lord. The keynote was WAR! On a certain day in May, after so many
						moons, the Indians from lakes to gulf, were to take the war-path simultaneously, destroy
						the English fort nearest them, and then throw themselves on the unprotected
						frontier.
					The bugle call of such a mighty leader as Pontiac roused the remotest tribes.
						Everywhere they joined the conspiracy, and sent lofty messages to Pontiac of the deeds
						they would perform. The ordinary pursuits of life were given up. The warriors danced the
						war-dance for weeks at a time. Squaws were set to sharpening knives, moulding bullets,
						and mixing war-paint. Children caught the fever, and practiced incessantly with bows and
						arrows.
					For the one time in their history, a thousand wild and restless tribes were animated by
						a single inspiration and purpose. That which was incapable of union, united. Conjurors
						practiced their arts. Magicians consulted their oracles. Prophets avowed  revelations from the Most High. Warriors withdrew to caves
						and fastnesses, where, with fasting and self-torture, they wrought themselves into more
						fearful excitement and mania. Young men sought to raise their courage by eating raw
						flesh and drinking hot blood. Tall chieftains, crowned with nodding plumes, harangued
						their followers nightly, striking every chord of revenge, glory, avarice, pride,
						patriotism, and love, which trembled in the savage breast.
					As the orator approached his climax, he would leap into the air, brandishing his
						hatchet as if rushing upon an enemy, yelling the war-whoop, throwing himself into a
						thousand postures, his eyes aflame, his muscles strained and knotted, his face a
						thunderstorm of passion, as if in the actual struggle. At last, with a triumphant shout,
						he brandishes aloft the scalp of the imaginary victim. His eloquence is irresistible.
						His audience is convulsed with passionate interest, and sways like trees tossed in the
						tempest. At last, the whole assembly, fired with uncontrollable frenzy, rush together in
						the ring, leaping, stamping, yelling, brandishing knives and hatchets in the firelight,
						hacking and stabbing the air, until the lonely midnight forest is transformed into a
						howling pandemonium of devils, from whose fearful uproar the startled animals, miles
						away, flee frightened into remoter lairs.
					The time for the bursting of the storm drew near. Yet at only one place on the frontier
						was there the least suspicion of Indian disturbance. The garrisons of the exposed forts
						reposed in fancied security. The arch conspirator, Pontiac, had breathed the breath of
						life into a vast conspiracy, whose ramifications spread their network over a region of
						country of which the north-western and south-eastern extremities were nearly two
						thousand miles apart. Yet the traders, hunters, scouts, and trappers who were right
						among the Indians, and were versed in the signs of approaching trouble, suspected
						nothing wrong. Colossal conspiracy! Stupendous deceit!
					On the 27th of April, 1763, Pontiac met the chiefs of the  allied tribes, from far and near, in a grand war council, on the banks of the little
						river, Etorces, not far from Detroit. Parkman gives a vivid picture of the assembly, as
						band after band came straggling in before the appointed time. "Here were idle warriors,
						smoking and laughing in groups, or beguiling the lazy hours with gambling, with
						feasting, or with doubtful stories of their own exploits in war. Here were youthful
						gallants, bedizened with all the foppery of beads, feathers, and hawks' bills, but held,
						as yet, in light esteem, since they had slain no enemy, and taken no scalp. Here also
						were young damsels, radiant with bears' oil, ruddy with vermilion, and versed in all the
						arts of forest coquetry; shriveled hags, with limbs of wire, and voices like those of
						the screech owls; and troops of naked children, with small, black, mischievous eyes,
						roaming the outskirts of the woods.
					"On the long expected morning, heralds passed from one group of lodges to another,
						calling the warriors in loud voice to attend the great council before Pontiac. In
						accordance with the summons they came issuing from their wigwams—the tall, naked
						figures of the wild Ojibwas, with quivers slung at their backs, and light war-clubs
						resting in the hollow of their arms; Ottawas, wrapped close in their gaudy blankets;
						Wyandots, fluttering in painted shirts, their heads adorned with feathers, and their
						leggins garnished with bells. All were soon seated in a wide circle upon the grass, row
						within row, a grave and silent assembly. Each savage countenance seemed carved in wood,
						and none could have detected the deep and fiery passions hidden beneath that immovable
						exterior.
					"Then Pontiac rose. According to tradition, not above middle height, his muscular
						figure was cast in a mould of remarkable symmetry and vigor. His complexion was darker
						than is usual with his race, and his features, though by no means regular, had a bold
						and stern expression, while his habitual bearing was imperious and peremptory, like that
						of a man accustomed to sweep away all opposition by the force of his  impetuous will. His ordinary attire was that of the
						primitive savage, a scanty cincture girt about his loins, and his long black hair
						flowing loosely at his back; but on occasions like this he was wont to appear as
						befitted his power and character, and he stood before the council, plumed and painted in
						the full costume of war. Looking round upon his wild auditors, he began to speak, with
						fierce gesture and loud impassioned voice."
					Parkman's story of the council reminds one of the council of infernal peers in
						Pandemonium, as described by Milton. One naturally expects Pontiac, this Moloch of the
						forest, to begin, "My sentence is for open war," and the expectation is fulfilled. He
						inveighed against the arrogance, rapacity, and injustice of the English, and contrasted
						them with the French, whom they had driven from the soil. He recounted the neglect, the
						insults, the outrages, which he and his braves had suffered at their hands. He pointed
						out how the English, no longer having the French to contend with, had not only ceased to
						treat the Indians with respect, but had stolen their hunting-grounds, and awaited only a
						chance to destroy them. Next he showed them an immense belt of wampum, saying that he
						had received it from the French king, whose armies and war-canoes were already on the
						way to sail up the St. Lawrence, and retake the forts from the English. The Indians and
						their French brothers would again fight side by side against the common foe, whose
						waving banners had long, long ago been trailed in the bloody mire of defeat on the
						Monongahela.
					The orator having lashed his audience into fury, quickly soothed them with the story of
						a Delaware Indian, probably the prophet before mentioned, who had had a dream, in which
						it was revealed to him that, by traveling in a certain direction, he would at length
						reach the abode of the Great Spirit.
					After many days of journeying, full of strange incidents, he saw before him a vast
						mountain of dazzling whiteness, so precipitous that he was about to turn back in despair
						when a beautiful woman, arrayed in white, appeared to him, and told  him that, in order to proceed he must throw away his gun, ammunition,
						provision and clothing, and wash in a stream of crystalline purity, flowing near by. He
						obeyed, but again failed to climb the mountain, when the vision reappeared and told him
						he must climb with one hand and foot. So doing, he succeeded, and at last came to a city
						of splendid dwellings. Hesitating which to enter, a man, gorgeously attired, took him by
						the hand, and led him into the largest one, where, astonished by the unspeakable
						splendor which surrounded him, the poor Delaware found himself in the presence of the
						Great Spirit.
					The Great Spirit bade him to be seated, and addressed him, saying that he was the Maker
						of heaven and earth, that he had made this country for the Indian, and not for the white
						man; that as for the English, "these dogs dressed in red," the Indians must lift the
						hatchet against them, and destroy them from the face of the earth. Many other things did
						the Great Spirit say to the Delaware before the latter found his way back to his
						brothers. Pontiac next told the wide-laid plans for the outbreak during the next moon,
						urged his auditors to go to war, and, finally, laid before the vast council a stratagem
						for the capture of Detroit.
					He ended. A deep roar of applause burst forth. No one was hardy enough to venture
						opposition to the proposal of their great leader. Chief after chief arose, and with
						solemn emphasis, entered his approval of the great Pontiac's conspiracy.
					
								"The bold design
								Pleased highly those infernal states, and joy
								Sparkled in all their eyes. With full assent
								They vote."
							
					"With this conclusion the assembly dissolved, and all the evening the women were busily
						employed in loading the canoes, which were drawn up on the bank of the stream. The
						encampments broke up at so early an hour, that when the sun rose, the swarm had melted
						away, the secluded scene was restored to its wonted silence and solitude, and nothing
						remained but the  slender frame-work of several hundred
						cabins, with fragments of broken utensils, pieces of cloth, and scraps of hide,
						scattered over the trampled grass, while the smoldering embers of numberless fires
						mingled their dark smoke with the white mist which rose from the little river."
					In 1763, the site of the city of Detroit, Michigan, was occupied by a settlement of
						some twenty-five hundred people. In the center of the long line of dwellings, with their
						little gardens, straggling along the river shore for several miles, stood what was known
						as the Fort. It was, in fact, a fortified part of the town. It consisted of a palisade
						twenty-five feet high, with a bastion at each corner, and block-houses over the gates.
						Within this palisade were crowded a hundred small, wooden, straw-thatched dwellings,
						crowded closely together, along narrow streets. Besides these incommodious dwellings,
						there was a little church, a council-house, and a well-built range of barracks. A wide
						roadway separated the houses from the palisade.
					The garrison of the fort consisted of one hundred and twenty English soldiers, under
						Major Gladwyn. Besides these, were forty fur-traders, and the ordinary Canadian
						residents of the fort. Several light pieces of artillery peeped out from the bastions,
						and two earned schooners, the Beaver and the Gladwyn, stood motionless in the stream. The settlement outside the fort,
						stretching out more than eight miles along both sides of the river, consisted of the
						dwellings of Canadians, and three Indian villages.
					It was the afternoon of the 5th of May. A Canadian woman from the fort crossed the
						river to the Ottawa village, to buy some maple sugar and venison. She noticed some
						warriors in a strange occupation. They were filing off their gun-barrels. This left the
						entire weapon, stock and all, only a yard in length. Such a weapon could easily be hid
						under a blanket. That night the woman mentioned it to a neighbor. "Oh," said he, "that
						explains it." "Explains what?" "The reason why so many Indians have lately wanted to
						borrow my files."  He was a blacksmith. No more attention
						was paid to either circumstance.
					The next afternoon a plump and pretty Ojibwa maid came to the fort. She was Gladwyn's
						mistress. But this time Catherine's eyes no longer sparkled with pleasure and
						excitement. Her face was anxious, and her look furtive. She lingered long at the gate
						till she could speak to Gladwyn alone.
					The major at once saw that the girl knew something which she feared, yet longed to
						tell. He caressed her, and sought to 
							CATHERINE REVEALS THE CONSPIRACY TO GLADWYN.
						 win her secret, but it was not for a long while, and under solemn promises
						that she should not be betrayed, that the dusky sweetheart spoke. She said that on the
						morrow Pontiac would come to the fort with sixty chiefs, and demand a council. Each
						would be armed with a gun, cut short and hidden under his blanket. When all were
						assembled in the council-house, at a given signal from Pontiac, the chiefs would fire on
						the officers, then rush out and massacre the garrison. Gladwyn believed the maid.
					She went back to her people. The guards that night were doubled. At times the watchers
						on the walls heard unwonted  sounds, borne to them on the
						night wind from the distant villages of the Indians. They were the steady beat of the
						Indian drum, and the shrill choruses of the war-dance.
					At the expected hour, Pontiac came, followed in single file by his sixty chiefs. Each
						was wrapped to the throat in his gaudy blanket, his face smeared with paint, and his
						head adorned with nodding plumes. The leader started as he saw the soldiers drawn up in
						line, and heard the ominous tap of the drum.
					The council took place, but under the encircling guns of the soldiers. Pontiac saw that
						the plot was discovered. The signal for attack was not given. After a short and uneasy
						sitting, he and his chiefs withdrew with marked discomfiture and apprehension. Better
						far had it been if Gladwyn had made prisoners of the chiefs of the conspiracy. But he
						knew nothing of the extent of the plot. He supposed it to be a fit of bad temper. He
						allowed his enemies, and the arch-conspirator, Pontiac, to slip through his fingers.
						Enraged at his defeat, and shrewdly perceiving Gladwyn's ignorance of the real
						situation, Pontiac returned the next day, to remove the suspicions of the garrison by
						smoking the pipe of peace.
					On the 9th of May a great throng of Indians appeared before the fort. Pontiac was told
						that he might enter, but his company must be excluded. Instantly the savage threw off
						the mask of deceit he had worn so long, and, casting one look of unspeakable rage and
						hate at the fort, he strode away across the plain. At his approach, the whole horde of
						savages rushed to an exposed cabin, where lived an old English woman and her family. The
						doors were beaten in, and the inmates tomahawked. On a neighboring island lived an
						Englishman named Fisher. In a few moments he, too, was murdered.
					That night, while the garrison watched with sleepless apprehension, the whole Ottawa
						village was removed to that side of the river on which stood the fort. "We will be
						nearer them." said Pontiac. A messenger arrived at the fort with news. Two  Englishmen had been murdered on Lake St. Clair, and Pontiac
						had been re-enforced by the whole war strength of the Ojibwas.
					The garrison passed the night in feverish anxiety. Not till the blush of dawn tinged
						the eastern sky did the fierce Indians, yelling with infernal power, come bounding naked
						to the assault; but when they came it was not the Ottawas alone, but the Wyandots, the
						Pottawattamies and Ojibwas as well. For six hours the cautious Indians, from behind
						trees, logs, and cabins, showered their rifle-balls upon the fort with slight effect;
						and for the same time the garrison ineffectually returned the compliment. When the
						disappointed savages withdrew, Gladwyn, believing the affair ended, dispatched La Butte,
						a neutral interpreter, accompanied by two old Canadians, to open negotiations. Numbers of
						the Canadian inhabitants took this opportunity of leaving the place.
					Pontiac received the three ambassadors politely, and heard their offers of peace with
						apparent acquiescence. La Butte hastened back to the fort, reporting that a few presents
						would fix up the difficulty, but when he returned to Pontiac he found the negotiation
						had made no progress. After a consultation with his chiefs, the treacherous Pontiac said
						that he desired Major Campbell, the veteran soldier, second in command at the fort, to
						come. When the word reached Campbell, he prepared at once to go, in spite of Gladwyn's
						fear of treachery. The officer's companion was Lieutenant McDougal. A Canadian met them,
						and warned them that they were advancing into the lion's jaws, but the brave officers
						refused to turn back.
					As they entered the camp, a howling mob, armed with clubs and rocks, surrounded them,
						but Pontiac quelled the tumult, and conducted them to the council-house, where they were
						surrounded by sinister faces. Campbell made his speech. There was no reply. For an hour
						he waited in dead silence before the steady gaze of his dark-browed enemies. Not a chief
						deigned to open his mouth.
					At last Campbell rose to go. Pontiac made an imperious gesture for him to resume his seat. "My father," said the wily traitor, "will sleep
						to-night in the lodges of his red children." Campbell expostulated, he argued the matter
						to Pontiac with enforced calmness. Useless—he was a captive. Late that night La
						Butte returned with anxious face to the fort. Some of the officers suspected him, no
						doubt unjustly, of a share in the treachery. Feeling the suspicion, he stood in the
						narrow street, gloomy and silent, refusing all efforts at conversation.
					Pontiac proceeded to redistribute his forces. One band hid in ambush along the river
						below the fort. Others surrounded the fort on the land side. The garrison had only three
						weeks' provisions. The Indians intended that this stock should not be replenished. Every
						house in the fort was searched for grease, tallow, or whatever would serve for food.
						Whatever was found was placed in the public storehouse.
					The Indians, unused to protracted sieges, also suffered from want of provisions. The
						Canadian settlers were ruthlessly despoiled of their stores. Aggravated beyond
						endurance, they complained to Pontiac. He heard them. After that, each settler was
						required to contribute a certain quantity of food daily to the Indians, but it was to be
						deposited in a certain place. If any Indian entered a Canadian's premises, he was
						shot.
					These dispositions on the part of Pontiac reveal his genius for command. He was an
						Indian Napoleon. He did another thing. After he had visited the house of each Canadian,
						examined the property, and assigned the amount of provision to be furnished by the
						owner, he found he had nothing with which to pay for it. In this emergency he hit upon a
						remarkable expedient. He issued promissory notes, drawn upon birch bark, and signed with
						the figure of an otter, the totem to which he belonged. These notes were afterwards
						faithfully redeemed. This incident is wonderful. The whole principle of paper money, the
						great resource of modern statesmanship, was utilized by this savage. It was an issue of
						greenbacks—a war measure.
					Pontiac kept two secretaries, one to write letters, one to read 
							ROGER WILLIAMS OPPOSING THE PEQUOT EMISSARIES
						
						 those received. Neither secretary knew what the other
						transacted. It is to be remembered that Pontiac maintained his ascendancy among the
						Indians by the sheer force of his genius. Accident, birth, fortune, laws, institutions,
						the power of the government—all these things which make and help the leaders in a
						civilized country, were wanting. One day a bottle of whisky was sent Pontiac as a
						present by our old friend, Rogers, of Rogers's Rangers, who was in the fort. His
						counselors urged him to let it alone, for fear of poison. As usual, he listened
						respectfully to them. Then he at once drank a large cupful, saying the man had no power
						to kill him.
					Weeks rolled by with no change in the situation. Unawares of any trouble at Detroit,
						the British commander-in-chief at New York, had, as usual in the spring, sent a
						detachment up the lakes with food, ammunition, and re-enforcements for the forts along
						the lakes. In order to hasten this flotilla the schooner Gladwyn was
						dispatched down the river. On the 30th of May some faint specks appeared on the watery
						horizon. They grew larger and blacker. The sentry in the bastion called aloud to the
						officers, who eagerly ran to look with spy-glasses. They recognized the banner of St.
						George, under cover of which advanced the expected fleet of canoes. Quick, joyous
						commands were given for a salute of welcome.
					When the sound of the booming cannon of the fort died away, every ear was strained to
						catch the response. It came, faint but unmistakable—a war-whoop, and not a salvo
						of artillery. The faces of the watchers grew pale. The approaching flotilla was watched
						with breathless anxiety. When it was well in view, a number of dark and savage forms
						rose up in the leading canoe. The truth was manifest. The flotilla was in the hands of
						the Indians. In the foremost of the eighteen canoes, there were four prisoners and only
						three Indians. In each of the others there were more savages than white men. These
						latter were forced to row.
					Just as the leading canoe was opposite the small schooner,  which lay at anchor before the fort, one of the white men was seen to seize the first
						savage by the hair and throw him overboard. The Indian clutched his adversary's clothes,
						and stabbing him again and again, dragged him into the river, and locked in a death
						embrace, the two floated down the stream. The two remaining Indians jumped overboard,
						while the prisoners pulled desperately toward the schooner, which they succeded in
						reaching, amid showers of bullets from the pursuing canoes.
					The poor fellows told the story of their misfortune. After coasting for days, without
						seeing a sign of life, the soldiers had landed for a night encampment, when they were
						surrounded by savages, and, after a desperate fight, overpowered. As was afterwards
						discovered, only three, including the commander, Lieutenant Cuyler, escaped.
					The Indians besieging Detroit now had two causes for rejoicing. One was the whisky of
						which the canoes, among other supplies, of course, brought large quantities for the
						garrisons. The other source of pleasure was the captives. Every Indian took his choice,
						either to become drunk with liquor or intoxicated with the fiercer frenzy of massacre.
						It was a puzzling alternative. Many chose the latter. After every species of torture and
						butchery, the poor, mutilated corpses were thrown into the river, with knives sticking
						in their hearts. Floating past the fort, they were seen by its defenders. The gloom of
						despair settled upon them. At any time the slender palisade might be cut or burned
						through, and then——!
					Throngs of Indians, having proceeded to get blindly drunk on whisky, sought consolation
						for their sorrow at not being participants in the massacre. This they found in biting
						off each other's noses, a cheerful and amusing sport. But even this hilarious fun grew
						monotonous. Then they organized a massacre of their own. Having no captives to kill,
						they killed each other.
					One afternoon the famished and anxious garrison heard the dismal death-cry. A line of
						naked warriors extended across the  plain. Each savage was
						painted black, and carried a pole. At the end of the poles were small, fluttering
						pennants. An officer ran for a spy-glass. The pennants were discovered to be the scalps
						of white men. What had happened?
					That night a Canadian crossed the river to the fort, bearing the tidings. Fort Sandusky
						was about seventy miles south-east of Detroit. Its garrison was commanded by Ensign
						Paully. About dark, on the evening of May 16th, there had been a knocking at the gates.
						It proved to be a few Indians. It was a time of peace. The Indians were well known to
						Paully. What was more natural than to admit them? The dark visitors were seated in a
						circle in the council-house. The pipe of peace was being handed from mouth to mouth.
						Suddenly the guests sprang up, and in a hand to hand conflict butchered or overpowered
						the garrison. As the commander was hurried away in a canoe, he saw the fort wrapped in
						flames, where he had, fifteen minutes before, commanded in as he supposed monotonous
						security.
					Twenty-five miles south of the present town of Erie, then Presqu 'Isle, stood a heavy
						block-house, known as Fort Le Bœuf. Simultaneously with the treachery at Sandusky, a
						multitude of howling savages surrounded the little post. By means of blazing arrows the
						roof was fired. As the flames swept through the structure, the savages poured in a
						continuous storm of balls, expecting each moment that the garrison must be driven from
						the building.
					The brave men, however, chopped a hole through the heavy logs in the rear of the
						building, and escaped, while the Indians were still covering the doors and windows with
						their guns. The refugees made their way to Fort Venango, to find only a heap of red-hot
						coals. Of this post, not a single white man survived to tell the story of its fate.
						Overcome with suffering and starvation, most of the desolate band from Le Bœuf perished.
						Only seven haggard and weary men succeeded in reaching Fort Pitt.
					The magnitude of the Pontiac conspiracy and the powers 
						of combination which its creator possessed are demonstrated by the widely separated
						points at which the smoldering flames of Indian hostility simultaneously burst through
						the thin crust of peace. Fort St. Joseph stood on the river of that name near the
						southern shore of Lake Michigan. Here the priests of the Roman Catholic Church had, for
						many years, maintained a rude temple of worship. Here, in the solitude of the
						wilderness, the toil-worn fathers labored, without recompense, to plant in the savage
						heart the germ of Christian faith.
					One May morning a crowd of Indians pushed their way into the fort under various
						pretexts. At a sudden signal, they ran to the gates, tomahawked the sentinels, and threw
						them open to a host of savages without. The little band of fourteen soldiers made a
						fluttering attempt to rally, but in less than two minutes, as an eye-witness says,
						eleven of them were corpses, and the remaining three made captives.
					Everywhere the Indian attack was made by stratagem and treachery. Everywhere their
						devilish ingenuity was successful. Fort Ouatanon, situated on the Wabash river, a short
						distance below the present flourishing and aristocratic city of Lafayette, was captured
						in this way. The Indians, however, did not massacre the garrison. They were merely made
						captives. About midway between Sandusky, St. Joseph, and Ouatanon, that is, about one
						hundred and twenty-five or fifty miles from each of them, on the Maumee river, stood
						another one of these lonely and isolated wilderness posts—Fort Miami.
					One morning an Indian girl, a favorite of the commanding officer, Holmes, came to the
						fort. Unlike the Ojibwa maid at Detroit, this girl came to lure her lover into a trap.
						An old squaw, she said, was lying sick in a wigwam, a short distance from the fort, and
						she begged Holmes to come and see if he could do any thing for her. The unsuspecting
						officer yielded to the request. As he entered the lodge where the sick squaw was
						supposed to lie, a dozen rifles were discharged, and he fell dead. A sergeant, hearing
						the shots, ran out of the fort to see what  was the
						matter, and met a similar fate. The panic-stricken garrison, possessing no longer a
						leader, threw open the gates and surrendered.
					The news of these disasters poured in thick and fast upon the horror-stricken garrison
						at Detroit. It seemed to them that the whole fabric of English supremacy in the
						wilderness was falling around them. In the great San Domingo insurrection of slaves,
						Toussaint L'Ouverture, their great leader, took a cup full of gunpowder, and placed a
						few grains of rice on top. Showing it to his officers, he said: "The black grains of
						powder are the multitudes of negroes on the island. The few white grains of rice on top
						are the few white men who are our masters." Shaking the cup, the rice was quickly
						overwhelmed and covered by the powder. "This," said he, "is the negro rebellion." The
						illustration applies equally to the situation of the defenders of Detroit at the time of
						which we write. But the worst news was yet to come.
					Fort Presqu 'Isle, standing near the present site of Erie, was constructed on the lake
						shore, at the mouth of a small brook. At one angle of the fort was a heavy block-house.
						Its roof was of bark, and easily fired, but on the comb was an opening, with a small
						bulwark of plank, where the guard could, from behind this partial protection, pour water
						on the flames. One lovely June morning, just as the rising sun shot his horizontal rays
						far across the blue expanse of Erie, tipping each wave with gold, hideous yells broke
						the silence of the lonely spot. The soldiers, catching the alarm, ran to the
						block-house.
					Two hundred Indians had surrounded the post, and from behind some neighboring ridges of
						land discharged their guns at every opening visible in the walls of the block-house. In
						a short time fire arrows were showered on the roof. Again and again it burst into
						flames. Again and again they were extinguished. The tireless savages rolled logs to the
						summit of the ridges, and from these loftier barricades were enabled to command every
						point in the parade ground. Hour after hour the  soldiers
						returned the shots of the savages. About two o'clock the besiegers could be seen
						throwing up vast heaps of earth and stone behind their breastworks. What did it mean? A
						mine?
					The garrison had no time to speculate on this problem. A more pressing danger was at
						hand. It was no longer possible to procure water from the well in the parade ground. The
						water barrels in the block-house were almost empty. Yet almost every moment the flames
						curled upward from the bark roof. The only resource was to dig a well in the
						block-house. While a part of the men discharged their heated muskets from the
						port-holes, the rest, with a strength inspired by the emergency, dug a hole in the
						ground. Before the well was finished the last drop of water was poured on the roof. It
						caught again. A soldier said, "I will put it out." He crawled out on the roof, amid a
						storm of balls, and tore the blazing shingle from its place.
					Night came, but it brought little respite for the worn men. Some slept, while the
						others watched. All night long the flash of the enemy's guns startled the darkness. By
						morning the well was finished. It was fortunate! The savages had dug a mine to the
						commandant's cabin, which stood in the parade-ground. The building was fired. So close
						did it stand to the block-house, that the walls of the latter scorched, blackened, then
						burst into flames. Still the men passed water up from the well, and choked and blinded
						with the hot, sulphurous air of their wooden redoubt, fought with all the fury of the
						first repulse.
					All day the storm raged, and nightfall brought no interruption. At midnight there was a
						sudden lull in the Indian fire. In a moment a voice was heard from the breastworks,
						calling for a surrender, saying that the speaker was an Englishman, who had been taken
						captive in childhood, and had espoused the Indian cause; that the besiegers had now
						completed a mine to the block-house itself, making its destruction certain; that a
						surrender would save the garrison's lives, while further resistance  would result in certain death. At daybreak, the pale and haggard defenders
						of the block-house looking, after their fiery ordeal, almost like blackened specters,
						marched out and surrendered. They were made captive, but not massacred.
					The news at Detroit of the fall of Presqu 'Isle was only surpassed in tragic importance
						by that of the fall of Michillimackinac.
					The pleasure seeker who spends a summer on the lovely Island of Mackinaw, with its
						white cliffs, its piny woods, its "Tower Rock," and "Devil's Kitchen," its old fort and
						venerable hotels, its meandering drives, and all the quiet scenes which go to make up
						the Mackinaw of to-day, is impressed with a sense of its antiquity. The prevailing air
						of decay, the old-time buildings of the Old Mission and Island House hotels, the quaint
						manners of the resident population, the rotting sail boats, which lie at abandoned
						wharves, all tend to make this impression.
					The old fort looks as if it had been built in some remote age. Every thing is antique,
						quiet, un-American. Our summer traveler is completely shut in from the roar and bustle
						of the busy world. Mails come twice a week, or rather did a year or two ago, when the
						writer spent a summer there. The only event of the day is the arrival of some steamer.
						One feels as if the clock had been turned back a hundred years.
					Drinking in the pure and bracing atmosphere, indulging in such quiet sports as the
						place affords, he soon learns to love the island. Sometimes he spends a day in fishing.
						More often he wanders with some friends through the woods. Now he joins his lady
						friends, and visiting the few little stores, inspects the stocks of Indian ware. Birch
						bark canoes, from six inches to three feet long, pipes, bows and arrows, birch baskets,
						all these he finds in immense quantities.
					Lower down on the island he will find the shanties of the Indians who manufacture these
						articles. Stolid, copper-colored men, with straight, black hair, everlastingly smoking
						tobacco pipes, lounge around on benches in the open air on a summer  day. Now and then a grunt or a guttural ejaculation breaks the silence. That
						is all. They look sullen and sad. Too infinitely lazy to do any work, they seem simply
						to be waiting, waiting the extinction of their race. Yet these are the descendants of
						the fierce Ojibwas, whose principal village occupied the Island of Mackinaw in the year
						1763.
					So the air of antiquity which hangs about Mackinaw is an illusion. In 1763 no white man
						resided on the island. It was the home of the terrible Ojibwa chief. Fifteen miles to
						the south, across the beautiful straits, in which the blue waters of Michigan meet and
						mingle with the fresh tides of Huron, near the site of old Mackinaw, stood the fort of
						Michillimackinac, at the time of which we write.
					This post was in 1763 nearly a hundred years old, while the Island of Mackinaw was yet
						only the seat of an Indian town. Parkman describes the post as it was on the eventful
						morning of June 4, 1763. The houses and barracks, containing thirty families, and a
						garrison of thirty-five men, were arranged in a square, inclosing a considerable area.
						Outside of this square was a larger one, formed by the high palisades. "In the vacant
						space inclosed by the houses, appeared the red uniforms of British soldiers, the gray
						coats of Canadians, and the gaudy blankets of Indians, mingled in picturesque confusion.
						Women and children were moving about the doors; knots of Canadian voyagers reclined on
						the ground, smoking and conversing; soldiers were lounging listlessly at the doors and
						windows of the barracks, or strolling in undress about the area."
					There was absolutely no suspicion of danger. Yet the garrison had had warnings plain
						enough to put the British on their guard. Several Canadians had warned them that the
						Indians were plotting their destruction. The commander of the fort, Captain Etherington,
						did not overlook these warnings. He threatened to send the next alarmist in chains to
						Detroit! Only the day before the tragic fourth of June an Indian named Wawatam, who had
						taken a fancy to Alexander Henry, a trader,  who was in
						the fort, came over and first advised, then urged, and finally begged Henry, on his
						knees, to leave the fort that night. In vain!
					All that day unusual throngs of Indians had visited the fort. Their special demand was
						for guns, hatchets, and knives. Valuable articles of jewelry were also called for, the
						place of their keeping carefully marked, and then the treacherous customers would leave,
						saying, "We will call to-morrow." This remark was deeply significant. What was the real
						state of affairs?
					The news of Pontiac's attack on Detroit, at the head of the Ottawas and their
						neighbors, had inflamed the Ojibwas of Mackinaw. With the exception of the tribes around
						Detroit, the State of Michigan was occupied by the Ottawas and Ojibwas. Their territory
						was separated about equally by a line running south from Michillimackinac. The western,
						or Ottawa, tribe had their principal village, L'Arbre Croche, on what is now Little
						Traverse Bay. At the head of this lovely inlet now stands the bustling town of Petosky,
						while a pocket in the shore of the bay forms a quiet harbor which the wildest storm
						scarcely ripples. The spot where now stands the microscopic settlement of Harbor Springs
						was once occupied by the populous lodges of the Ottawas.
					The original plan was for the warriors of L'Arbre Croche to unite with the Ojibwas of
						Mackinaw in the attack on the fort. But so jealous were the latter that they resolved on
						carrying out the plot without telling their neighbors.
					The scene outside the fort on the morning of June 4, 1763, was quite different from
						that we have described within the palisade. The plain in front was covered by throngs of
						Indians engaged in ball playing. The gates of the palisade were wide open. Groups of
						soldiers stood in the shade of the palisade looking at the sport. Most of them were
						without their arms. Sober Indian chiefs stood as if intently watching the fortunes of
						the game. In fact, however, their thoughts were far otherwise employed. Large numbers of
						squaws also mingled in the  throng, collecting chiefly
						near the open gates. In spite of the warm day they were wrapped to the throat in
						blankets. The game of ball or baggattaway was between the Ojibwas and the neighboring
						Sacs. At either extremity of the open ground stood a post, which constituted the station
						of one of the parties. Except that the ball was smaller and that a bat much like those
						used in lawn tennis served instead of the kick, the game was identical with our well
						known foot-ball.
					The ball was started from the middle of the ground, and the game was for each side to
						keep it from touching their own post, and drive it against that of their adversaries.
						The game was played on this morning with unprecedented fury and abandon. Hundreds of
						naked Indians were running, jumping, bounding over each other, turning hand-springs,
						executing aerial somersaults, striking with the bats, tripping each other up, every way,
						any way, to get at the ball and foil the adversary. Now they surged together in a
						knotted mass, struggling furiously for the ball; now the sphere rose high in air, with
						the players bounding after it like hounds, with hilarious uproar.
					Suddenly the ball rose high, and descending in a wide curve, fell near the gate. It was
						no chance stroke. The players instantly bounded toward the ball, but just as they
						reached the neighborhood of the gates the shouts of sport changed suddenly to the
						ominous war-whoop. The squaws threw open their blankets, and withdrawing therefrom guns,
						hatchets, and knives, the players instantly flung away their bats, seized the weapons,
						and fell upon the defenseless garrison and traders. Fifteen of the garrison were
						butchered outright.
					The story of Alexander Henry, the trader, is full of interest. At the time the
						war-whoop was raised, he was in his room writing letters.
					"Going instantly to my window, I saw a crowd of Indians within the fort, furiously
						cutting down and scalping every Englishman they found.
					"I had in the room in which I was a fowling-piece, loaded  with swan-shot. This I immediately seized, and held it for a few minutes, waiting to
						hear the drum beat to arms. In this dreadful interval I saw several of my countrymen
						fall, and more than one struggling between the knees of an Indian, who, holding him in
						this manner, scalped him while yet living.
					"At length, disappointed in the hope of seeing resistance made to the enemy, and
						sensible, of course, that no effort of my own unassisted arm could avail against four
						hundred Indians, I thought only of seeking shelter. Amid the slaughter which was raging,
						I observed many of the Canadian inhabitants of the fort calmly looking on, neither
						opposing the Indians, nor suffering injury; and from this circumstance I conceived a
						hope of finding security in their houses.
					"Between the yard-door of my own house and that of M. Langlade, my next neighbor,
						there was only a low fence, over which I easily climbed. At my entrance I found the
						whole family at the windows, gazing at the scene of blood before them. I addressed
						myself immediately to M. Langlade, begging that he would put me into some place of
						safety, until the heat of the affair should be over, an act of charity by which he might
						perhaps preserve me from the general massacre; but while I uttered my petition, M.
						Langlade, who had looked for a moment at me, turned again to the window, shrugging his
						shoulders, and intimating that he could do nothing for me,—'Que
							voudriez-vous que j'en ferais?'
					"This was a moment for despair; but the next, a Pani woman,* a slave of M. Langlade's, beckoned to me to
						follow her. She brought me to a door, which she opened, desiring me to enter, and
						telling me that it led to the garret, where I must go and conceal myself. I joyfully
						obeyed her directions; and she, having followed me up to the garret-door, locked it
						after me, and with great presence of mind took away the key.
					"This shelter obtained, if shelter I could hope to find it, I *Usually written Pawnee. This tribe lived west
							of the Mississippi, and was frequently at war with the northern nations. This woman
							was a captive of war.
						 was naturally anxious to know what might still be passing
						without. Through an aperture, which afforded me a view of the area of the fort, I
						beheld, in shapes the foulest and most terrible, the ferocious triumphs of barbarian
						conquerors.
					"The dead were scalped and mangled; the dying were writhing and shrieking under the
						unsatiated knife and tomahawk; and from the bodies of some, ripped open, their butchers
						were drinking the blood, scooped up in the hollow of joined hands, and quaffed amid
						shouts of rage and victory. I was shaken not only with horror, but with fear. The
						sufferings which I witnessed, I seemed on the point of experiencing. No long time
						elapsed before, every one being destroyed who could be found, there was a general cry of
						'All is finished!' At the same instant I heard some of the Indians enter the house in
						which I was.
					"The garret was separated from the room below only by a layer of single boards, at once
						the flooring of the one and the ceiling of the other. I could therefore hear every thing
						that passed; and the Indians no sooner came in than they inquired whether or not any
						Englishmen were in the house. M. Langlade replied that 'he could not say; he did not
						know of any;' answers in which he did not exceed the truth; for the Pani woman had not
						only hidden me by stealth, but kept my secret and her own. M. Langlade was therefore, as
						I presume, as far from a wish to destroy me as he was careless about saving me, when he
						added to these answers, that 'they might examine for themselves, and would soon be
						satisfied as to the object of their question.' Saying this, he brought them to the
						garret-door.
					"The state of my mind will be imagined. Arrived at the door, some delay was occasioned
						by the absence of the key, and a few moments were thus allowed me in which to look
						around for a hiding-place. In one corner of the garret was a heap of those vessels of
						birch-bark, used in maple-sugar making, as I have recently described.
					"The door was unlocked and opening, and the Indians 
						ascending the stairs, before I had completely crept into a small opening which presented
						itself at one end of the heap. An instant after, four Indians entered the room, all
						armed with tomahawks, and all besmeared with blood upon every part of their bodies.
					"The die appeared to be cast. I could scarcely breathe; but I thought that the
						throbbing of my heart occasioned a noise loud enough to betray me. The Indians walked in
						every direction about the garret, and one of them approached me so closely that at a
						particular moment, had he put forth his hand, he must have touched me. Still I remained
						undiscovered; a circumstance to which the dark color of my clothes, and the want of
						light in a room which had no window, and in the corner in which I was, must have
						contributed. In a word, after taking several turns in the room during which they told M.
						Langlade how many they had killed, and how many scalps they had taken, they returned
						down stairs, and I, with sensations not to be expressed, heard the door, which was the
						barrier between me and my fate, locked for the second time.
					"There was a feather-bed on the floor; and on this, exhausted as I was by the agitation
						of my mind, I threw myself down and fell asleep. In this state I remained till the dusk
						of the evening, when I was awakened by a second opening of the door. The person that now
						entered was M. Langlade's wife, who was much surprised at finding me, but advised me not
						to be uneasy, observing that the Indians had killed most of the English, but that she
						hoped I might myself escape. A shower of rain having begun to fall, she had come to stop
						a hole in the roof. On her going away, I begged her to send me a little water to drink,
						which she did.
					"As night was now advancing, I continued to lie on the bed, ruminating on my condition,
						but unable to discover a resource from which I could hope for life. A flight to Detroit
						had no probable chance of success. The distance from Michillimackinac was four hundred
						miles; I was without provisions; and the  whole length of
						the road lay through Indian countries, countries of an enemy in arms, where the first
						man whom I should meet would kill me. To stay where I was, threatened nearly the same
						issue. As before, fatigue of mind, and not tranquillity, suspended my cares, and
						procured me further sleep.
					"The respite which sleep afforded me during the night was put an end to by the return
						of morning. I was again on the rack of apprehension. At sunrise I heard the family
						stirring, and presently after Indian voices, informing M. Langlade that they had not
						found my hapless self among the dead, and that they supposed me to be somewhere
						concealed. M. Langlade appeared, from what followed, to be by this time acquainted with
						the place of my retreat, of which, no doubt, he had been informed by his wife. The poor
						woman, as soon as the Indians mentioned me, declared to her husband, in the French
						tongue, that he should no longer keep me in his house, but deliver me up to my pursuers;
						giving as a reason for this measure, that, should the Indians discover his
						instrumentality in my concealment, they might revenge it on her children, and that it
						was better that I should die than they.
					"M. Langlade resisted at first this sentence of his wife's, but soon suffered her to
						prevail, informing the Indians that he had been told I was in his house, that I had come
						there without his knowledge, and that he would put me into their hands. This was no
						sooner expressed than he began to ascend the stairs, the Indians following upon his
						heels.
					"I now resigned myself to the fate with which I was menaced, and regarding every
						attempt at concealment as vain, I arose from the bed, and presented myself full in view
						to the Indians who were entering the room. They were all in a state of intoxication, and
						entirely naked, except about the middle.
					"One of them, named Wenniway, whom I had previously known, and who was upward of six
						feet in height, had his entire face and body entirely covered with charcoal and grease,
							 only that a white spot, of two inches in diameter,
						encircled either eye. This man, walking up to me, seized me with one hand by the collar
						of the coat, while, in the other, he held a large carving-knife as if to plunge it into
						my breast. His eyes, meanwhile, were fixed steadfastly on mine. At length, after some
						seconds of the most anxious suspense, he dropped his arm, saying, 'I won't kill you!' To
						this he added that he had been frequently engaged in wars against the English, and had
						brought away many scalps; that on a certain occasion he had lost a brother, whose name
						was Musinigon, and that I should be called after him.
					"A reprieve upon any terms placed me among the living, and gave me back the sustaining
						voice of hope; but Wenniway ordered me down stairs, and there informing me that I was to
						be taken to his cabin, where, and indeed every where else, the Indians were all mad with
						liquor, death again was threatened, and not as possible only, but as certain. I
						mentioned my fears on this subject to M. Langlade, begging him to represent the danger
						to my master. M. Langlade, in this instance, did not withhold his compassion, and
						Wenniway immediately consented that I should remain where I was, until he found another
						opportunity to take me away. Thus far secure, I re-ascended my garret-stairs, in order
						to place myself the farthest possible out of the reach of drunken Indians."
					In an hour a rough voice again summoned Henry from his hiding-place. The savage ordered
						him to strip, and then follow him. The fellow owed Henry for some goods, and as he
						carried a dangerous knife, Henry feared that he was to be murdered. The Indian conducted
						his prisoner some distance, when Henry, finding that their way led to a lonely and
						hidden spot behind some sandhills, stopped and told the Indian he believed it was a plot
						to murder him. The savage coolly replied that it was, and raising his knife, was about
						to suit the action to the word, when Henry turned and ran with all his might to the
						fort. The savage followed with uplifted knife, but the 
						trader regained the house from which he had been taken, and the pursuit was
						abandoned.
					The next morning Henry, with two other prisoners, was placed in a canoe, to be taken by
						several Indians to the Isles du Castor. When well out of the straits and into Lake
						Michigan, a heavy fog and stormy weather caused them to hug the gloomy coast. When
						within twenty miles of L'Arbre Croche, a hundred Indians suddenly jumped out of the
						woods into the surf, dragged the canoe ashore, and while making captives of the guards,
						explained to the three Englishmen that their lives had been saved by the Ottawas, as the
						Ojibwas were going to eat them. In a short time the Ottawas embarked for the fort, and
						Henry started back, arriving at Michillimackinac, the Ottawas coolly took possession of
						the fort and proceeded to abuse the Ojibwas for springing the trap without notifying
						their brothers. Henry hoped to be freed, but the two tribes patched up the quarrel, and
						he again found himself a prisoner of the Ojibwas.
					The latter removed the disappointed man to a neighbor town. Here, by strange good
						fortune, the trader met his friend Wawatam, who had given the unheeded warning. The
						Indian possessed more than the ordinary nobility of the human heart. He at once asked
						the council to set his friend free, and his eloquent appeal was emphasized at every
						pause by presents, which literally impoverished the savage. His request was granted, and
						Henry found himself established in an Indian family, on the footing of a brother of
						Wawatam.
					On the morning following his release, Henry, whose fears were by no means quieted, was
						alarmed by a noise in the prison lodge from which he had been removed. "Looking through
						the openings of the lodge in which I was, I saw seven dead bodies of white men dragged
						forth. Upon my inquiry into the occasion, I was informed that a certain chief, called by
						the Canadians Le Grand Sable, had not long before arrived from his winter's hunt; and
						that he, having been absent when the war began,  and being
						now desirous of manifesting to the Indians at large his hearty concurrence in what they
						had done, had gone into the prison-lodge, and there with his knife put the seven men
						whose bodies I had seen, to death.
					"Shortly after, two of the Indians took one of the dead bodies, which they chose as
						being the fattest, cut off the head, and divided the whole into five parts, one of which
						was put into each of five kettles, hung over as many fires, kindled for this purpose, at
						the door of the prison-lodge. Soon after things were so far prepared, a message came to
						our lodge, with an invitation to Wawatam to assist at the feast. An invitation to a
						feast is given by him who is the master of it. Small cuttings of cedar wood, of about
						four inches in length, supply the place of cards; and the bearer by word of mouth states
						the particulars.
					"Wawatam obeyed the summons, taking with him, as is usual, to the place of
						entertainment, his dish and spoon.
					"After an absence of about half an hour, he returned, bringing in his dish a human
						hand, and a large piece of flesh. He did not appear to relish the repast, but told me
						that it was then and always had been the custom among all the Indian nations, when
						returning from war, or on overcoming their enemies, to make a war-feast from among the
						slain. This he said inspired the warrior with courage in attack, and bred him to meet
						death with fearlessness."
					Soon after this agreeable information, Henry learned that the Indians were going to
						remove to the Island of Mackinaw, which was accordingly done. One day the Indians
						captured a couple of canoes from Montreal, carrying a quantity of liquor. The savages
						began to drink heavily, a proceeding full of danger to every one near. Wawatam told
						Henry that he was bound to get drunk, and that it would not be safe for the Englishman
						to remain where he was during the debauch. Wawatam therefore conducted him to a cave in
						the center of the island, where he was to hide himself until the liquor was all
						gone.
					Henry broke some branches from the trees, and spreading 
						them down in a corner of the cave for a bed, went to sleep. During the night he felt
						some hard substance under him, and groping for it, seized some kind of a bone, and threw
						it away. Not till morning did he discover that "he was lying on nothing less than a heap
						of human bones and skulls, which covered all the floor." He remained in this cheerful
						apartment a day or two without food, until Mr. Wawatam, with swollen eyes and thick
						utterance, staggered up to the cave, and told him the drunk was over. For more than a
						year Henry lived with his protector, Wawatam, hunting through the gloomy forests of
						Michigan, before he finally succeeded in making his way to Montreal.
					When Henry had met with his friend Wawatam, and been adopted into his family, the other
						survivors of the massacre were still kept by the Ottawas at Fort Michillimackinac,
						whence they were removed to L'Arbre Croche. Captain Etherington dispatched a letter to
						Lieutenant Gorell, the commander of the little post of Green Bay. The latter was
						requested to bring all his force to the relief of the prisoners. Gorell was on the point
						of obeying and abandoning his post, when the neighboring Indians intimated that his
						departure would be prevented. The threat might have been carried out had not a messenger
						from the terrible Dakota nation, with its thirty thousand braves, arrived with words of
						loyalty to the English, and denouncing with threatenings and slaughter, every tribe
						which was unfaithful to them. This sentiment must be attributed to no loftier source
						than the ancient hostility of the Dakotas to the Ojibwas. Gorell was now allowed to
						depart, and making his way to the Ottawa village, negotiated the release of the
						prisoners.
					On July 18, 1763, they embarked in their canoes for Montreal, reaching there more than
						a year sooner than Henry. With the fall of Michillimackinac, and the abandonment of
						Green Bay, the Detroit garrison found itself left alone in the wilderness. There was not
						a British soldier west of Fort Niagara, except those behind the palisades of
						Detroit.
					
					We have wandered far from the story of the defenders of Detroit. The news of the
						disasters which we have related was received by the despairing garrison with sad
						punctuality. Meanwhile, though we have neglected to follow their fortunes or
						misfortunes, events crowded each other in this remarkable siege.
					One night some friendly Canadians, from the other side of the river, reported at the
						fort that there were rumors among the Indians that the schooner Gladwyn was coming up the river. This vessel had gone down to hasten Cuyler's
						ill-fated expedition. Having passed the flotilla, which was yet voyaging prosperously,
						she held on her way to Niagara. She was still riding at anchor in the smooth river above
						the falls, at the time when Cuyler and two companions, haggard and exhausted, reached
						the fort with the story of the disaster, and of themselves alone being left to tell the
						tale.
					A force of sixty men was at once placed on board the schooner, with such ammunition and
						supplies as could be spared from the fort. She had made her way up the river, and was
						about to undertake the few dangerous miles which separated her from the fort. The
						garrison fired two guns to let the crew know that the fort still held out. This done,
						they waited.
					The schooner, meanwhile, weighed anchor and started up the narrow channel between the
						shore and Fighting Island. Just as she reached the narrowest part, the afternoon breeze
						grew more and more gentle, and at last died away, leaving the white sails drooping idly
						in the air. Nothing is so absolutely helpless as a sail-vessel without a favoring wind.
						It is hardly possible to understand how the commerce of the globe was carried on
						entirely by means of them until within the present century. The anchor chain rattled off
						rapidly from the capstan. The great iron fluke disappeared in the water, and
						energetically grabbed the bottom of the river. The vessel was standing still, within
						gunshot of an Indian ambush.
					As the sun sank to rest in his couch of flame, the guards on board the vessel were
						doubled. Hour after hour their  strained eyes sought to
						penetrate the darkness. At last, the plash of mulled oars was heard. Dark objects came
						moving swiftly down the river toward the vessel. Every man was silently summoned on
						deck. A blow of a hammer on the mast was to be the signal for firing. The long black
						canoes approached the dark and silent schooner. The Indians thought the prize was
						theirs. At last the hammer struck the mast. The slumbering vessel burst into a blaze of
						cannon and musketry. The hostile fleet was demoralized. Many Indians were killed. Some
						canoes were sunk outright. As the enemy opened fire from their barricade, the schooner
						weighed anchor, and, drifting with the river's tide, floated down out of danger.
					The following day the passage was again attempted, this time with success. The
						beleaguered garrison received the much-needed supplies of men, ammunition, and
						provision.
					Pontiac was disappointed. Everywhere success had crowned the conspiracy except that
						part of it which he superintended himself. For forty days his genius and resolution had
						held his restless followers to the dull monotony of the siege. How much longer could he
						do it? His uneasiness manifested itself. One thing which showed it was his attempt to
						force the neighboring Canadians to lend active assistance. He called them together in
						council, made a long speech, told them that he fought for the king of France, their
						sovereign; that if they were loyal Frenchmen they must lend their help; that if they
						were friendly to the English, and would not join in the war against them, then he would
						make war on them as enemies of France.
					All men can, on occasion, be hypocrites. Some of the Canadians pretended to take up the
						hatchet and join in the siege. This accession required a celebration. Pontiac ordered a
						feast—of dogs. In every one of all the numberless wigwams which formed the
						besieging lines, a dog was slain, and the flesh eaten. If an Indian happened to dislike
						the dish, it was so much the worse for him. An enormous piece of the delicacy was placed
						before him. By all the laws of Indian society and etiquette,  he was not allowed to rise from the repast till he had eaten every bit of
						the meat.
					Another incident revealed Pontiac's rage. It is hard even for a great leader to hide
						his real feelings from his followers. At first he had protected Major Campbell from
						Indian cruelty. But his red retainers now read a new lesson in his imperious eye. The
						captive was murdered in his prison.
					The two schooners in the bay were regarded by the Indians with mingled rage and
						superstition. The broadsides with which their camps were bombarded, the white wings
						which they spread, the mysterious control of their movements by the sailors, the
						knowledge that the schooners served to connect the otherwise isolated garrison with the
						rest of the world, inspired the savages with apprehension and fury.
					One night in July, the lookout on one of the schooners saw a glowing speck of flame far
						up the river. It came nearer, growing brighter and brighter as it approached. The white
						beach along the river front, the dark pine trees in the background, were lit up by the
						illumination, revealing dense throngs of Indians crowded along the water's edge. The
						palisades of the fort, and the spars and rigging of the vessels, glowed like fire
						itself. Far across the harbor the waves were reddened with the light. The anxious
						soldiers of the garrison could be seen, watching with anxiety the singular apparition.
						As the flaming object came nearer, it was discovered to be a fire-raft. The inventive
						genius of Pontiac had caused a number of canoes to be lashed together, and a vast
						quantity of combustibles to be piled on the structure. A torch was applied, and the
						thing of destruction was pushed off into the current.
					But fortune or providence protected the schooners. The blazing monster, sending up vast
						volumes of roaring flames, missed them by a hundred feet, and floated harmlessly down
						the river, consuming nothing but itself. As the relieved soldiers and sailors watched it
						receding into the night, the light grew fainter and fainter, until, at last, with a
						mighty hiss, the demon  of fire plunged into the watery
						depths, as if to drown its sorrow at the wretched failure. This attempt was made again
						and again, but the crews of the vessel arranged a barricade of boats and chains, which
						foiled every effort.
					Unknown to the garrison, Captain Dalzell was on his way to Detroit with two barges, two
						hundred and eighty men, several small cannon, and a fresh supply of provision and
						ammunition. Under cover of night and fog, they reached the fort in safety, having been
						attacked only once, a conflict which, however, resulted in the loss of fifteen men. Boat
						after boat discharged its loads on shore amid the cheers of the soldiers and the booming
						of cannon. Among the arrivals was Major Rogers, of Rogers's Rangers, with twenty of his
						old followers.
					Captain Dalzell, on the day of his arrival, much against Gladwyn's advice, insisted on
						attacking the Indians. These had been forced, by the cannonading from the schooners, to
						remove their camp to the rear of a great marsh, several miles from the fort.
					At two o'clock on the morning of July 31st, the gates of the palisades were noiselessly
						opened, and two hundred and fifty men marched down the road along the river shore. Not a
						sound was heard in the still night but the muffled footfalls of the soldiery and the
						occasional rattle of an officer's sword. Close to the river shore, keeping pace with the
						troops, two bateaux, each carrying a swivel gun, were rowed with stealthy stroke. The
						starlit sky was moonless. But for the fresh lake breeze, which sighed among the foliage
						of the overhanging forest, the midsummer night would have been intolerably sultry. On
						the right of the winding road lay the river, with its dark and restless tide; on the
						left, the houses and farms of Canadian settlers.
					A mile and a half from the fort the road wound over a narrow, wooden bridge which
						spanned a small stream, and then crossed a succession of ridges lying parallel with the
						rivulet. These ridges were crowned with low barricades. The spot had 
						
							ARRIVAL OF DALZELL WITH SUPPLIES.
						
						 been Pontiac's old camp. On either side of the road were
						vast piles of firewood, cut by the Canadians, and stumps of trees from which the fuel
						had been cut. Here was a long line of heavy picket fence, inclosing several orchards.
						There, on rising ground, stood the house of a Canadian named Meloche. Over it all hung
						the pall of darkness and mist from the river which made the various objects
						indistinct.
					The soldiers supposed their attack would be a complete surprise to Pontiac. Yet, in
						spite of this, the men shuddered as they filed down the descent which led across the
						narrow, wooden bridge. The ravine looked lonely and suspicious. The spot seemed fit for
						a massacre.
					The advance guard had proceeded half-way across the bridge. Suddenly there was a wild
						war-whoop in the darkness, and the ridges, the intrenchments, the orchard fence, the
						black woodpiles, the half-chopped logs, whatever could afford a shelter to a savage,
						burst into flame. Half the advanced guard fell at the first fire. The unhurt men fled to
						the rear, and in a moment the whole column wavered. Dalzell dashed to the front. His
						clear voice rang out above the infernal din. The men rallied, and in a spasm of rage,
						charged across the bridge and up the opposite slope. It was sad folly. Before one-third
						of the way up the slope, every howling Indian had fled to another spot, from which he
						could fire upon the English. The latter pushed on with the courage of insanity. The
						charge which they maintained so stubbornly was a bloody mockery. The lines were broken
						and entangled in a labyrinth of fences, outhouses, trees, and woodpiles, from behind
						which the red foes kept up a murderous fire.
					To advance was madness. To halt was folly. To retreat was a necessity. One company,
						under Captain Grant, hurried back across the bridge, and taking possession of the road
						prepared to cover the retreat. The two bateaux had been rowed up the creek to the
						bridge, and the dead and wounded were hurriedly placed on board. A heavy fire was poured
						in upon  the English during this last office of
						friendship. All at once a concentrated volley was received from another direction. The
						men of Grant's company turned to find a body of Indians strongly posted on their left
						flank about the house of Meloche and the neighboring orchards. To stop the deadly
						cross-fire, Grant's men charged up the hill, and, at the point of the bayonet, drove the
						savages from the orchards and house. In the latter were two Canadians. They said the
						English should retreat at once to the fort, as large numbers of Indians had posted
						themselves on the road in the rear.
					The situation was critical. The men retreated rapidly and without serious opposition
						for a half mile. At this spot the road again ran through a region thickly planted with
						houses and fences. Here, also, was a newly dug cellar for a house. This pit was near the
						road. It was full of Indians. As the center of the column arrived opposite the
						ambuscade, a heavy volley of balls was discharged at the soldiers.
					Already unnerved by the disaster at the bridge, the men were well-nigh panic-stricken
						at this new surprise. They started down the road in wild confusion, breaking ranks,
						trampling on each other, throwing away their weapons, any way, every way, to fly from
						the storm of bullets. Dalzell, with drawn sword, shouted at the men, and forced some to
						stop. Others he seized by the shoulders and held. He was twice wounded, but paused not
						till his panic-stricken command was rallied.
					It was almost daybreak. But a dense fog from the river, illuminated by incessant
						flashes from the enemy's guns, nevertheless concealed the enemy. Finally it grew light
						enough to discern the shadowy outline of a house, of which the Indians had taken
						possession, and from the windows of which they poured murderous volleys upon the little
						band of Englishmen. This house commanded the road along which the men must pass to reach
						the fort. Major Rogers, with his handful of Rangers, burst in the door of the house with
						an ax, and, in a  fearful hand-to-hand conflict, killed
						every Indian in the house who did not fly. Another detachment charged a line of fences
						behind which the savages were concealed. This, too, was in the main successful.
					In the lull that ensued after these two advantages, Dalzell at once ordered the retreat
						to recommence. The column had not moved twenty feet when the Indians came running from
						every direction with wild yells, and fell upon their rear and flank. Dalzell was shot
						and killed. The loss of their leader threatened the battered and unnerved command with
						total destruction.
					In the crisis Major Rogers and his Rangers took possession of another house which
						commanded the road. Some of the terrified regulars followed him, in frantic eagerness to
						gain shelter from the tempest of destruction without. The building was large and strong.
						The Canadian women and children of the neighborhood had already fled to it for refuge.
						They were crowded into the cellar.
					As the Rangers entered the building, its owner, an old man named Campan, resolutely
						planted himself on the trap-door leading to the cellar, and thrust back every soldier
						who sought to lift it. No time was to be lost. Rogers's stentorian voice shouted to the
						men to barricade the windows. In a moment the yells of two hundred Indians, surrounding
						the house, mingled with the shrieks and cries of the half-stifled women and children in
						the cellar. With skilled hands, the Rangers piled the windows full of furs, bedding,
						clothes, whatever would serve to shelter them from the bullets of the savages, which now
						rattled against the building like the roar of a hailstorm.
					While Rogers and his men boldly risked their lives to cover the retreat of the others,
						Captain Grant hurried forward for another half mile, and posted a squad of men in a
						strong situation, from which base of operations he sent forward other detachments, as
						they came up, to occupy other points along the road within supporting distance of each
						other, until by these  tactics he had a complete line of
						communication with the fort. Each squad in turn, commencing with the farthest, then
						guardedly retreated to the fort, till all were in.
					The gallant Rogers and his handful of Rangers, who had by their courage saved the
						command from complete destruction, were yet defending themselves in Campan's house
						against a vast multitude of savages, who had concentrated their force upon this isolated
						band of heroes. To relieve these brave fellows from their imminent peril, Grant ordered
						the bateaux to ascend the river to a point opposite the house. The swivel-guns were
						brought to bear, and in a short time the assailants were driven to the rear of the
						house. Rogers and his men seized the opportunity to rush out, just as the savages burst
						in at the rear door. Under cover of the cannonade, the Rangers made their way to the
						fort. At eight o'clock in the morning, after six hours of fighting, the last man entered
						the sheltering palisade. The fight at Bloody Run, as the creek was known from that time,
						had cost the English a loss of fifty-nine men.
					The news of the Indian victory spread far and wide through the north, and bands of
						painted warriors arrived daily to re-enforce the besiegers. The siege resumed its old
						monotony, which was at last disturbed by a thrilling attack on the schooner Gladwyn. This vessel, the smaller of the two, was returning from a trip to
						Niagara. She had on board ten sailors and six Iroquois, who were supposed to support the
						cause of the English. One morning these wily children of the forest asked to be put
						ashore. In a moment of folly the request was complied with. That they repaired at once
						to Pontiac with reports of the weakness of the crew, there can be no doubt.
					That night the schooner attempted the narrow river channel below the fort, but was
						caught midway in a dead calm. The pitchy darkness concealed from the eyes of the anxious
						lookouts a fleet of canoes, with three hundred and fifty Indians, which floated
						unobserved to within a few yards of the schooner. One cannon-shot was fired, but before
						its echoes had ceased the  savages swarmed over the sides
						of the vessel by scores. A fearful hand to hand conflict ensued.
					But resistance was useless. Ten or fifteen savages surrounded each sailor. Just as all
						was about over the mate shouted, "Boys, fire the magazine, and blow her up!" A moment
						more and the vessel would have been a dismantled wreck. But some Wyandots understood the
						words. With a wild cry of alarm the Indians leaped from the vessel into the water,
						swimming away at the top of their speed. The deck was cleared instantaneously. The
						astonished crew found not an Indian on board, where a minute before they had been by
						scores. The savages ventured no more near the vessel. The next morning a stiff breeze
						filled the languid sails, and the plucky little schooner made her way safely to the
						fort.
					We can not follow the detailed story of the siege further, but turn to view other
						fields which the ambition of Pontiac desolated with the horrors of war. When the weak
						line of frontier forts was overwhelmed, the news of the successive disasters was
						carried, not alone to the starving garrison of Detroit, and the great chieftain who sat
						watching it like an Evil Genius, but the same tidings spread like wild-fire along the
						defenseless frontiers, and among the wild Indians of the west, who yet hesitated to take
						up the hatchet. Venango, Sandusky, Le Bœuf, St. Joseph, Miami, Ouatanon,
						Michillimackinac, Presqu' Isle, these were the fated names which flashed over the
						frontiers, carrying dread and terror to every cabin.
					It is to be remembered that the defenseless frontiers of Virginia and Pennsylvania bore
						the recent scars of the fearful desolation of the French and Indian War, which ensued
						after Braddock's defeat. Their sufferings were recent. The memory of the mighty panic
						which desolated vast stretches of settled country, and of the awful fate of hundreds and
						thousands of settlers, who, with dogged courage, faced the savage hordes, was fresh and
						vivid.
					The imaginations of the terror-stricken pioneers dilated with  horror as the black-winged rumors flew from cabin to cabin, and from
						settlement to settlement. Nor were these apprehensions untimely. The very worst came to
						pass. The most exaggerated fears were those which most nearly foretold the truth. The
						war-parties of savages, with reddened tomahawk and flaming torch, followed swiftly after
						the tidings of the fall of the forts.
					It was the French and Indian war over again. This statement must be received with some
						qualifications. It was more extended. It was bloodier. It was more sudden. It was more
						fearful in its details. In these respects the war of Pontiac was worse than that of the
						French and Indians. From the tall Creeks, who dwelt among the palms and magnolias of the
						sunny south, to the wiry savages who shivered around frosty Halifax, the war-cry
						resounded through the unending forests, and the tomahawk was uplifted by cruel
						hands.
					The details of the fearful conflict may not be followed in this place. Only a few of
						the most striking incidents can be mentioned. In three months more than two thousand
						families were driven from their homes in Pennsylvania and Virginia to the settlements
						and cities of the east, and more than a thousand persons were massacred or taken
						captive. As in the former war, vast sweeps of settled country were absolutely abandoned
						by the flying inhabitants. As before, the multitudes of unhappy refugees were crowded
						together in the towns to which they had hurried, seeking shelter in barns, hovels, and
						temporary huts of bark, where they were confronted by all the horrors of penury and
						famine. As before, the Quaker government sat with folded hands, extending to the
						bleeding frontiers no comfort but counsels to non-resistance, and no aid but pious
						maxims. From every valley of the Alleghanies rose black columns of smoke from burning
						cabins and blazing hay-stacks.
					The commander-in-chief of the British army was reluctantly forced to believe in a
						wide-spread Indian insurrection. From the meager resources at his command, two relief
						expeditions  were organized for the two posts, which were
						thought to be in imminent peril. The story of the one designed for Detroit, under the
						brave but incautious Dalzell, we have already traced. The other expedition, under Henry
						Bouquet, consisting of five hundred emaciated and feeble regulars from the West Indias,
						was designed for Fort Pitt.
					Day after day the weak, little band pressed on their errand of succor. Now they passed
						the charred ruins of desolated settlements in some lovely valley; now they came to some
						lonely little block-house, from which a swarm of beleaguering Indians fled at their
						first approach; now suffering from the heat of the July sun, they toiled, panting up the
						long slopes of the Alleghanies; now from the crest of some range they looked out over
						the landscape, with its purple mountain ranges, its shimmering rivers, and its deep
						valleys, embowered in all the luxuriance of midsummer foliage.
					The fate of Braddock's army, of more than ten times the strength of this little command
						of regulars, already wasted by disease contracted in the burning atmosphere of the
						Indias, and wholly unused to Indian warfare, hung constantly before the eyes of the men.
						Every possible precaution against ambuscade was taken. They were within twenty-five
						miles of Fort Pitt, descending a hill through a dense forest, when a volley of shots at
						the head of the column announced to every startled soldier that they were attacked. A
						command to charge was given, and company after company dashed down the hill. Before the
						impetuous onset the Indians fled.
					Just at the moment of victory, a heavy fire in the flank and rear announced that the
						enemy were by no means all in the front, and that the provision wagons, carrying the
						precious stores for Fort Pitt, as well as the supplies for the troops, had been
						attacked. No time was to be lost. The men turned and hurried back up the hill to the
						relief of the convoy. A circle was formed about the wagons right on the hill-side. It
						was none too soon, for the Indians at once flung themselves on this  protecting ring of soldiers. The forest rang with the war-whoops of the
						savages. Every tree and log served as a shelter from which they peppered the British
						regulars, who were wholly unused to bush fighting. The fight was kept up for seven
						hours, until night hid the combatants from each other.
					The English were forced to encamp on the hill where they were. To attempt a remove was
						certain destruction. Yet not a drop of water could be had in their camp. After seven
						hours of fighting in a scorching midsummer sun, the men were almost insane with thirst.
						The gloom of the night could hardly darken the prospect which confronted the command.
						Sixty of their number had been killed and wounded. The latter were placed behind a low
						barricade of sacks of flour from the wagons. Fever lent its flames to intensify the
						fearful sufferings from thirst.
					Bouquet, cool, competent commander, saw so little hope for the morrow, that he wrote a
						concise report of the engagement to his commander-in-chief, that the latter might be
						informed concerning it, "whatever our fate may be." The dream-haunted slumbers of the
						restless men were broken as the first gray light came stealing through the damp forest.
						It was the struggle of the previous day renewed. Yet some changes could be noticed. The
						Indians, confident of victory, dashed more openly and boldly upon the lines. The
						soldiers, on the other hand, fought with less hope, and some demoralization from their
						sufferings.
					At ten o'clock in the morning there was no further alteration in the situation. Bouquet
						saw that it was only a question of time until his men were overpowered, unless a change
						came soon. The savages pressed harder and harder upon the distressed soldiery. The
						horses picketed in the circle near the barricade for the wounded, received many shots,
						and maddened with pain, added to the uproar of battle their own wild and unearthly
						cries, or sometimes breaking loose they would bound through the lines of friends and
						foes, and run up and down the mountains screaming with agony.
					
					One thing was true. If the Indians could be collected into a body and stand long enough
						to fight it out, Bouquet might yet achieve a victory. He resolved on a desperate
						stratagem. Two companies, forming a part of the line hotly pressed, were ordered to fall
						back quickly, while the troops on either side were to rapidly cover the gap by a thin
						extension of their own lines, as if to cover the retreat.
					The maneuver was executed successfully. The savages, as Bouquet had foreseen, mistook
						the movement for retreat. They sprang forward at the gap from all directions, and
						throwing themselves on the slender line, were on the point of breaking into the very
						heart of the camp, when the aspect of affairs underwent a sudden change. The two
						companies which had withdrawn made a quick flank movement, hidden by the forest, and
						just as the Indians were on the point of victory, discharged a fearful volley into their
						flank at point-blank range.
					The astonished savages turned at bay, and fought like tigers to extricate themselves
						from the trap. Before they could do so, and break out of the circle which they had
						fought so long to break into, two other companies were precipitated upon the Indians. At
						this new onslaught they broke and fled, pursued by the English and overwhelmingly
						routed. The exhausted troops collected their wounded, and, by the following evening,
						reached Fort Pitt.
					This place had been in peril, but on the report of the defeat of their warriors at
						Bushy Run, near which the battle had been fought, the besiegers fled. The defenders of
						the fort had taken every precaution possible. They had cleared the land around it so
						that the savages might have no shelter. They had raised the palisade, strengthened the
						barracks, and even constructed a rude fire-engine to be used in case the savages
						succeeded in firing the buildings.
					On the other hand, the Indians had displayed equal ingenuity. Under cover of night,
						they had crawled up the open river banks, under the ramparts, and by incredible industry
						had dug  out innumerable rifle-pits with their knives.
						Each one of these burrows held one or two warriors, whose deadly aim was certain to
						bring down every exposed soldier. The peril of the fort, thus closely invested, arose
						from famine. The arrival of Bouquet, however, happily averted it.
					Bouquet's victory caused only a temporary lull in the desolation of the frontiers in
						its immediate neighborhood. The history of the time is full of fearful incidents. A
						party of twenty-four soldiers, in charge of a train of provision wagons, was ambuscaded
						three miles below Niagara Falls, where the narrow road ran close to the brink of the
						gloomy precipices and black abysses of Devil's Hole. Such as were not killed on the spot
						were thrown over the cliff, and were shattered beyond recognition far below upon the
						rocks. A relief party started out from Fort Niagara on hearing the sound of rifles, but
						fell into an ambuscade not less terrible than the first, leaving over fifty of their
						number slain.
					In the war on the Pennsylvania border one incident stands out unmatched in its cruelty.
						In the center of a lonely forest stood a small school-house. This building was attacked
						by Indians just as the master was about to begin the daily round of study with prayer.
						He was killed with the open Bible in his hand, and an agonized plea for the safety of
						his scholars on his lips. At nightfall, when the little fellows who attended the school
						failed to return home, anxious searchers made their way to the school-house, where they
						found the lifeless remains of the teacher, surrounded by the corpses of his nine
						scholars.
					Before the winter closed in, another attempt was made to relieve Detroit. Major
						Wilkins, with a force of six hundred regulars, collected with painful effort from the
						colonies, started up the Niagara River. Before proceeding far they were attacked by
						Indians and driven back in confusion to Fort Schlosser.
					A second time the ill-fated expedition set out, and succeeded in reaching Lake Erie.
						The inland lake of azure, as deceitful as a coquette, had been almost traversed. The
						broad mouth of  the Detroit River was already in sight.
						The tired garrison were just on the point of being relieved. But the sailors in the
						flotilla shook their heads with misgiving, and talked in low voices, as they saw rising
						in the north-western sky the dark battalions of the Storm King. With inconceivable
						rapidity, the little line of blue vapor which hung lazily on the horizon expanded and
						dilated until the blue canopy was obscured with dark and thunderous clouds. The ragged
						rain line advanced swiftly. A heavy gale of wind arose. The helpless bateaux were rocked
						more and more uneasily on the rising waves.
					The surface of the lake grew black as ink, and was flecked with angry white-caps. The
						bright day was succeeded by the greenish darkness of the tempest. Every muscle was
						strained by the crew of each canoe to make the shore. It had been four miles away when
						the first signs of the approaching storm were detected. For fifteen minutes they had
						been headed for land. Yet it was still two miles and a half away.
					The gale rose higher and higher. Now a rolling wave lifted the prow of a canoe five
						feet in the air, now plunged it as far below the surface of the lake, and broke athwart
						the bow, deluging the rowers with spray and water. Red lightnings shot zigzag across the
						angry sky, and terrific peals of thunder exploded like the trumps of doom. As the
						tempest grew heavier and wrought the mobile lake into more perfect reflection of its own
						fury and violence, the bateaux heaviest laden began to fill and sink. Some of the crew
						would be taken on board other boats; others, with white faces upturned, and piercing
						screams for help, sank out of sight forever in the raging depths. Great drops of water
						began to fall. The oarsmen pulled with swollen arteries an knotted sinews.
					At last, as the flood-gates of the sky were opened, the flotilla attempted to land. The
						frail vessels were caught in the arms of giant breakers and flung again and again with
						remorseless violence against the beach. The men jumped overboard, and abandoning
						provisions, weapons, and ammunition to the greedy  waves,
						fought their way through the seething surf to the land so many had failed to reach. The
						equipment of the expedition was utterly lost. To proceed to Detroit was only to treble
						the number behind the palisade which must be fed, without replenishing the scanty supply
						of provision. With misery and hardship the men struggled back to Niagara. Detroit was
						still left alone.
					Before the news of this disaster reached the garrison, information of a very different
						kind had filled the spirit of the mighty Pontiac with bitterness and rage. While Pontiac
						had been maturing the far-reaching plans of his ambitious conspiracy in the winter of
						1762-1763, to overthrow the English, re-establish France in the military dominion of the
						west, and seat the Indians, the aboriginal lords, upon the throne of the balance of
						power between the two European nations, these latter had been maturing a counter
						movement, culminating on the 10th of February, 1763, in the treaty of Paris, by which
						France resigned all claim to the territory east of the Mississippi.
					The news of this treaty reached Pontiac when the siege of Detroit was but a month old.
						But with iron-headed skepticism the dark-browed king of the forest refused to believe
						it, and threatened death to every person who ventured to bring such news. As the summer
						rolled away, with Detroit still unsubdued, and the expected war canoes of the French
						king, which he had promised his followers months before were already on their way to
						strike the English, were yet as far off as ever, Pontiac stamped his foot with rage, and
						dispatched a fierce, haughty demand for weapons, provisions, and re-enforcements to the
						French commandant of Fort Chartres, in the Illinois country.
					The reply to this demand reached the haughty Pontiac about the time of the Lake Erie
						disaster. It was to the effect that the French king had made peace and resigned all
						claim to her territory in America; that instead of expecting help for war, Pontiac
						should himself lay down the hatchet.
					On receipt of this message, of which the authenticity could  not be doubted, Pontiac's fierce spirit was wrought into unspeakable fury.
						For hours no man or woman dared go near him, so terrible was his rage. He sat raving and
						cursing, like an "archangel fallen." There are fiercer storms than those of wind and
						wave. This was one. It was a tempest in a brain. At last he rose, and with imperious
						gesture ordered the frightened squaws to take down the wigwams. That night the dark
						conspirator withdrew to the tribes along the Maumee River. The siege of Detroit,
						however, though practically suspended during the winter, was renewed the following
						spring, but with less pertinacity and zeal. The eye of the master was no longer there to
						oversee it.
					Though Detroit still baffled the fierce tribes of the north, the defenseless borders of
						Pennsylvania and Virginia ceased not to be desolated with fire and blood. Farther and
						farther to the east the savages pushed their depredations. Nearer and nearer to the
						quick of the nation did the assassin's knife cut its way. To these things the Quaker
						Assembly of Philadelphia refused to make any resistance. With placid obstinacy and
						undisturbed countenances, they heard the horrible tales of border massacre and
						bloodshed, and then declared that resistance would be sinful! The poor frontier people
						flooded the assembly with memorials, pleas, petitions, prayers, and supplications,
						imploring, begging, demanding protection. To these things the good Quakers turned an ear
						of stone.
					So the frontiersmen, as is always the case where the government fails to discharge its
						duty and enforce the law, took the law and its execution into their own hands. Bands of
						maddened and desperate men organized for protection and revenge. As the report of their
						telling blows against the savages reached Philadelphia, the Quakers raised a fearful
						clamor of denunciation. As the majority of the frontiersmen were Presbyterians, the gall
						of sectarianism was added to the wormwood of political strife over the issue of
						resistance or non-resistance—which?
					The bold borderers fought well, shouting their notes of 
						defiance to the citizens of the Quaker capital. Among them, our old friend James Smith,
						whose fortunes in captivity we traced in a former chapter, was one of the most notorious
						and successful leaders. Of course this irregular warfare, a sort of unlicensed
						murdering, led to excesses. One of these has become historic. It illustrates the stormy
						time.
					Near the broad and mirror-like Susquehanna, and at no great distance from the town of
						Lancaster, at a spot known as the Manor of Conestoga, lived a small band of Indians. The
						settlement was old, and in former years had been prosperous, but at the time of which we
						write had dwindled, till nothing remained of it but a cluster of squalid hovels,
						inhabited by twenty wretched Indians, regarded in the neighborhood simply as lazy, but
						harmless vagabonds. On the east bank of the Susquehanna, and some distance farther up,
						stood the town of Paxton. It had been burnt by the Indians in the French war. Of this
						burning and the massacre which followed, the inhabitants carried in their hearts the
						memory. For the Indians they had no mercy, but only black hate and an undying thirst for
						revenge. For some time, as the horrors of Indian warfare again swept along the
						frontiers, they had watched the poor vagabonds of Conestoga with an eye of fierce
						suspicion. The verdict of history is that one or two of the Conestoga Indians were
						guilty; the rest innocent.
					One night word was brought to Paxton that an Indian, known to have committed
						depredations, had been tracked to Conestoga. The Paxton blood was fired. Fifty men,
						athirst for blood, mounted on horses, proceeded to the Indian settlement and surrounded
						it just before daybreak. As they drew near to the hovels, an Indian overheard them and
						looked out. One of the men thought or pretended that he recognized him. "Curse him! he
						is the one that killed my mother," he shouted, and firing at the instant, the poor
						wretch fell dead. With wild shouts, the ruffians burst into the cabins, and shot,
						stabbed, and butchered the inmates. As it happened, there were only six  Indians in the settlement, the rest, vagabonds that they
						were, being scattered over the surrounding country. After firing the cabins, the fierce
						Paxtonians rode rapidly away, freely scattering the news.
					In an hour or two the sheriff of Lancaster arrived on the ground. He at once proceeded
						to collect the fourteen other Indians who had escaped the massacre by being absent, and
						lodged them in the Lancaster jail for safety. On receipt of the news at Philadelphia,
						the government at once offered a reward for the apprehension of the murderers. This
						measure inflamed the Paxton men beyond all control. On December 27, 1763, they started
						to Lancaster, against the protests of the cooler-headed people of the community, with
						the purpose, more or less understood among them, of breaking into the jail and killing
						the Indians who had escaped the first massacre.
					About three o'clock in the afternoon the rioters, all heavily armed, galloped into the
						little town and up to the jail, quickly burst in the door, and made their way to the
						Indians. The latter gathered billets of wood for self-defense. At sight of resistance
						the rioters fired into the crowd. "In a moment more," says Parkman, "the yard was filled
						with the ruffians, cursing and firing upon the cowering wretches, holding the muzzles of
						their pieces, in some instances, so near their victims' heads that the brains were
						scattered by the explosion. The work was soon finished. The bodies of men, women, and
						children, mangled with outrageous brutality, lay scattered about the yard, and the
						rioters were gone."
					The whole country was thrown into an uproar by this event. On the one hand, the
						government was offering rewards for the apprehension of the murderers; on the other
						hand, the hardy frontiersmen threatened to destroy a government which left them to their
						fate, and branded them as murderers if they but defended themselves. The sectarian
						quarrel, and political disputes concerning inadequate representation, and taxation
						without protection, filled the country with agitation and clamor.
					
					To Philadelphia there had been removed, a few weeks before the Lancaster affair, a
						community of Moravian Indians from Bethlehem, in order to save them from the fate which
						afterwards befell the Conestogas. All along the line of march the refugees had been
						insulted, and a howling mob assaulted them in the streets of Philadelphia. They were
						protected by the Quakers, and afforded shelter and food. This thing was remembered as
						the agitation over the Paxton matter grew greater and greater. Far and wide through the
						frontier borders, the notion sprang up of proceeding to Philadelphia, destroying these
						poor savages, and overturning the government.
					Towards the close of January, a force of from five hundred to fifteen hundred desperate
						borderers started on this mission to Philadelphia. They expected co-operation from the
						city mob. Rumor had anticipated their movement by several days, and thrown the city of
						Philadelphia into a panic of fear.
					The first resolution was to send the Indians away to New York. The execution of the
						timid plan was hastily begun. Before daybreak, one bitter cold January morning, the
						half-clad Indians filed mournfully through the streets of the City of Brotherly Love.
						The report of their removal had filled the streets with a howling mob, even at that
						hour. Under the protection of soldiers little less hostile than the mob itself, the
						unfortunate and shivering Indians commenced their march on foot to New York.
					Greeted everywhere by the curses of the people, the sad children of the forest
						proceeded as far as Amboy, where they were notified by the governor of New York that
						they would not be allowed to enter that province, and that an attempt to do so would be
						resisted by force. For some days the poor Indian converts remained in the barracks at
						Amboy, engaged almost constantly in singing and praying. But there seemed to be no
						resting-place for them in the land of their fathers. The governor of New Jersey sent a
						message requiring them to leave 
							PANIC OF THE PHILADELPHIANS AT THE APPROACH OF THE PAXTONS.
						
						 that province forthwith. Beaten from pillar to post, the
						unhappy Indians again turned their faces to Philadelphia.
					The return of the Indians, together with the news of the approach of the Paxton men,
						again convulsed the city with apprehension, discord, and fright. A large element in the
						city openly declared that they would espouse the cause of the borderers if it came to an
						armed conflict. The rest of the inhabitants took active measures for defense. The
						Quakers said no more about non-resistance. Barricades were thrown up in the streets,
						cannon were mounted, patrol guards posted, and a citizen soldiery hastily organized.
					At two o'clock one morning the wild clangor of the alarm bells sent a shudder to every
						heart. By previous arrangement, every window was filled with candles. A vast multitude
						of armed citizens surged up and down the streets of the city. The alarm proved
						groundless. The rioters, learning the reception prepared for them, advanced no nearer
						than Germantown. Here they were visited in camp by many citizens.
					A compromise treaty was drawn up. The Paxton men contented themselves with presenting
						elaborate memorials to the assembly, which were never acted on. They withdrew to their
						homes without having accomplished any thing further than to demonstrate the weakness of
						the provincial government, and the folly of all doctrines of non-resistance. As for the
						city, as soon as the external danger was removed, the rival factions engaged in a war of
						pamphlets and newspapers, which at the time was one of the most serious, but now appears
						as one of the most laughable, disputes in American history.
					With this outline of the border wars of the time we must be content. The year 1764
						witnessed serious military efforts commensurate with the undertaking to crush the Indian
						power. Bradstreet in August of this year effected the relief of Detroit. The weary
						garrison, after a siege of fifteen months, during which they had been cut off from
						communication with the rest of their race, had been pent up in rigorous and wearisome
						confinement,  had contended with a sleepless and powerful
						foe, had subsisted on scanty and wretched food, and had worn their clothes threadbare,
						were at last relieved, and permitted to step outside the worn and hard beaten inclosure
						of the palisade, and return to a world from which they had been so long banished.
					In the south, Bouquet, at the head of a strong army, pushed westward from Fort Pitt,
						compelled the Indian tribes everywhere to submit, make treaties of peace and surrender
						their captives.
					On a certain day the Indians from far and near brought their captives, taken during
						many years of warfare, to an appointed rendezvous for their surrender. Thither also
						repaired anxious throngs of settlers, whose relatives and friends had long been missing.
						The scene was tragical. The long lost were restored. Friend recognized friend; mothers
						clasped their children to their eager breasts. There was great joy. There was also great
						grief. Many persons failed to find the faces of the loved ones sought. Some of the
						captives had their hopes crushed, their hearts broken by failing to meet a single
						familiar face.
					As his gigantic conspiracy crumbled into ruins, Pontiac, furious as a lion at bay,
						unconquered, because in spirit unconquerable, placed himself in person among the Indians
						of what are now the States of Indiana and Illinois, rousing them by his individual
						influence into a state of frenzy and warlike wrath. To defend this region, over which
						still waved the flag of France, into which no English foot had dared to penetrate, he
						resolved to devote all of his great and desperate energies. French traders, hostile to
						the advance of the English which would destroy their occupation, practiced on his
						ignorance and favorite belief. By means of forged letters, purporting to be written by
						the king of France, they again inspired in him that belief which was the corner-stone of
						his conspiracy, namely, that France would lend him her powerful aid and
						re-enforcement.
					Bent on this idea, Pontiac presented himself to the French commander at St. Louis, and
						demanded arms and ammunition.  The Frenchman tried to
						soften his refusal by presents of a less warlike character. But Pontiac had one
						absorbing, overmastering ambition. Whatever ministered to that ambition he desired and
						demanded. Whatever did not minister to it he flung aside as unworthy his attention. So
						he refused the presents with angry scorn and bitter words.
					Still the resources of this Napoleon of the forest were not exhausted. He dispatched an
						embassy all the way to New Orleans to demand help from the French Government. These
						ambassadors also carried war-belts to the distant warriors of Louisiana, to whom the
						name and fame of the mighty Pontiac were as the sun at noon. These tribes were urged at
						every cost to prevent the English from ascending the Mississippi, which Pontiac's
						military genius foresaw they would attempt. In this he was right, and their attempts to
						ascend the river were completely foiled.
					The principal mission of the ambassadors was, however, a complete failure. The French
						rule was just about to give way to that of Spain, to whom France had by the treaty of
						Paris resigned Louisiana. The governor interviewed them and explained the true
						situation. From France no help was to be expected.
					To this announcement the Indian orator made a reply full of the most cutting sarcasm.
						"Since we last sat on these seats, our ears have heard strange words. When the English
						told us they had conquered you, we always thought they lied; but now we have learned
						that they spoke the truth. We have learned that you, whom we have loved and served so
						well, have given the lands that we dwell upon to your enemies and ours. We have learned
						that the English have forbidden you to send traders to our villages to supply our wants,
						and that you, whom we thought so great and brave, have obeyed their commands like women,
						leaving us to starve and die in misery. We now tell you once for all that our lands are
						our own; and we tell you, moreover, that we can live without your aid, and hunt, and
						fish,  and fight as our fathers did before us. All that we
						ask of you, is this, that you give us back the guns, the powder, the hatchets, and the
						knives which we have worn out in fighting your battles. As for you," hissed the orator,
						shaking his long forefinger at some English officers who were present,—"as for
						you, our hearts burn with rage, when we think of the ruin you have brought on us."
					When the report of this embassy reached Pontiac, he saw that all was lost. The
						foundation of all his ambitious schemes was French interference. He had rested on a
						delusion. He had believed in a lie. His solitary will, which had controlled and combined
						into co-operation a thousand restless tribes, had breathed life into a conspiracy
						continental in its proportions, and had exploded a mine ramifying to forts, isolated by
						hundreds of miles of unbroken wilderness, could no longer uphold the crumbling fabric.
						His stormy spirit had warred with destiny, and had been conquered.
					For the proud Pontiac there remained but two alternatives, destruction or submission.
						With a hell of hate in his heart, he chose the latter. Near the site of Lafayette,
						Indiana, he met an English officer and formally tendered the traditional calumet of
						peace. He proceeded to Detroit with his diminished retinue, and, in the old
						council-hall, where he and his blanketed chiefs had attempted to destroy the garrison,
						the terms of the peace were arranged. The following spring he visited Sir William
						Johnson, at his castle in the Mohawk valley, and finally concluded the peace, renouncing
						forever the bold ambition by which he expected to avert or retard the ruin of his
						race.
					From this time he disappears from the historic page, only to reappear in the last scene
						in the eventful drama of his life. Of his movements during the intervening years no
						record exists. He is known to have planted his lodge, and to have hunted and fished like
						a common warrior, through the region which now forms the great States of Indiana and
						Illinois.
					In April, 1769, he appeared at St. Louis, and made a two 
						days' visit on his old friend, St. Ange, who was still commandant, though by that time
						his command was in the interest of Spain. On the second day, word came that the Indians
						of an Illinois town, across the river, were having a dance and carousal, and Pontiac
						announced his intention of going over. He drank deeply, and, marching down the street
						into the forest, sang the medicine song.
					An English trader named Williamson, apprehensive of the proximity of such a mighty
						chieftain and conspirator as Pontiac, and especially suspicious on account of his visit
						to the French at St. Louis, resolved to dispatch him while he was in his power. A
						drunken Illinois Indian was bribed with liquor to watch Pontiac as he left the place,
						and stealing after him through the forest, to kill him. The assassin carried out the
						plan, and buried a tomahawk in the mighty brain in which all ambitions were dead
						forever.
					Parkman, the great chieftain's biographer, thus closes his work: "The dead body was
						soon discovered, and startled cries and wild howlings announced the event. The word was
						caught up from mouth to mouth, and the place resounded with infernal yells. The warriors
						snatched their weapons. The Illinois took part with their guilty countryman, and the few
						followers of Pontiac, driven from the village, fled to spread the tidings and call the
						nations to revenge. Meanwhile, the murdered chief lay in the spot where he had fallen,
						until St. Ange, mindful of former friendship, sent to claim the body, and buried it with
						warlike honors near his fort of St. Louis.
					"Thus basely perished this champion of a ruined race. But could his shade have
						revisited the scene of murder, his savage spirit would have exulted in the vengeance
						which overwhelmed the abettors of the crime. Whole tribes were rooted out to expiate it.
						Chiefs and sachems whose veins had thrilled with his eloquence, young warriors whose
						aspiring hearts had caught the inspiration of his greatness, mustered to revenge his
						fate; and, from the north and east, their united bands descended on the  villages of the Illinois. Tradition has but faintly
						preserved the memory of the event; and its only annalists, men who held the intestine
						feuds of the savage tribes in no more account than the quarrels of panthers or wildcats,
						have left but a meagre record. Yet enough remains to tell us that over the grave of
						Pontiac more blood was poured out in atonement than flowed from the hecatombs of
						slaughtered heroes on the corpse of Patroclus; and the remnant of the Illinois who
						survived the carnage remained forever after sunk into utter insignificance.
					"Neither mound nor tablet marked the burial-place of Pontiac. For a mausoleum, a city
						has risen above the forest hero; and the race whom he hated with such burning rancor
						trample with unceasing footsteps over his forgotten grave."
				
				
				
					CHAPTER V.
						JOSEPH BRANT AND THE MOHAWKS.
					THE traveler along the New York Central railroad may have pointed out
						to him, near the town of Amsterdam, a heavy stone mansion, half hidden from view by a
						grove of locust trees. The building is "Johnson Castle," a name which its owner gave it
						one hundred and forty years ago. Its walls are thick and massive, its windows small and
						deep-set. Though extremely odd in its architecture, its size and durability still give
						it just rank as a fine residence. A century and a half sit lightly on its shoulders,
						and, barring accidents, it will survive two or three times that period. A few miles
						away, in the edge of Johnstown, the curious visitor will find "Johnson Hall." It is
						twenty years younger than the castle.
					A visitor describes the place as follows: "Although both house and grounds have been
						greatly altered and modernized, we can even now judge well what they must have been
						originally. The hall is a two-storied double mansion, built of wood, in the most
						substantial, conscientious manner, with raised panels on the outside in imitation of
						stone. It was, without doubt, in its day the most spacious and elegant edifice in the
						colony outside of New York City. The hall is fully fifteen feet wide, and the ceilings
						over twelve feet high, surrounded with massive wooden cornices of carved work. The sides
						of the rooms are elegantly wainscoted with pine panels and heavy carved work. A broad
						staircase, of easy ascent, leads from the lower to the 
						upper hall, ornamented with massive mahogany balustrades, which still, at every foot,
						bear the marks of the tomahawk's hacking, said by tradition to have been notched there
						by Chief Brant himself, when he fled the valley with Sir John Johnson, in 1776, "to
						protect the house from the torch of Indians, who would understand and respect these
						signs."
					"Of the garden and nursery, situated to the south of the hall, and which in the olden
						times were the delight of their owner, and the pride of the surrounding country, no
						vestige remains. Some of the poplars, however, which he planted, still stand, green and
						vigorous. The hall was formerly flanked by two stone block-houses, with sundry
						loop-holes for musketry cut directly under the eaves. But one of these—now
						converted into a servants' dwelling—yet stands, the other having been burned down
						many years ago. Of the stone wall which surrounded the whole place as a protection
						against attack, but little now remains.
					"A subterranean passage formerly led from the main building to the block-house on the
						left, and thence another communicated with the block-house on the right flank. These
						passages, however, as well as the port-holes in the remaining block-house, have been
						filled up. Although the building never experienced a siege, yet it was twice fortified;
						once, as stated, by a strong stone rampart in 1763, and again in 1776."
					The builder and original proprietor of these singular and romantic looking mansions was
						Sir William Johnson, Baronet. He came to this country when a young man, without title or
						fortune. Engaging in traffic with the Indians, Johnson, by dint of great natural
						abilities, which were assisted rather than retarded by a coarse nature, made money in
						large quantities. In 1742 he bought from the Mohawk Indians a large tract of the richest
						land in the world, lying in the very heart of the far-famed Mohawk valley. To this he
						added by yearly purchases, until he became the wealthiest man, and, next to the Penns,
						the largest landed proprietor in America. The "castle" was his residence throughout the
						year, until he built the "hall,"  in 1763, which he
						occupied as a summer residence, using the older mansion only in winter.
					Four or five years after he built the castle, the wife of Colonel Johnson, as he was
						then called, a plain, fair-haired German girl, of humble lineage, died, leaving her
						husband one boy, John, and two baby daughters. One day the widower attended a muster of
						the county militia. As an officer came riding by on a prancing steed, a bright-eyed,
						red-cheeked Indian girl of sixteen, a real beauty, with her white teeth, long, flowing,
						black hair, and a form of rare symmetry and grace, laughingly bantered him for a ride.
						The officer told her she might jump on if she could. Quick as flash the agile girl
						leaped on the horse behind the gallant rider, and clinging to him, her hair and ribbons
						blowing wildly in the breeze, rode round and round on the flying steed before the
						applauding crowd. One man took more than ordinary interest in the incident. It was the
						susceptible and lonely widower. That night Mollie Brant, for such was the name of the
						dusky beauty, went home with the baronet to Johnson Castle, becoming thenceforth the
						mistress alike of it and its proprietor.
					The two motherless daughters were assigned apartments of their own, where they lived in
						complete seclusion under the care of a devoted friend of their mother, an officer's
						widow. Their time was occupied with needle-work or study. Their library consisted of the
						Bible and prayer-book, a lot of the ponderous romances, which mark the beginning of the
						English novel, and Rollin's "Ancient History." A game of chess, a walk in the park or a
						drive up the valley, constituted their only amusements. At the age of sixteen they had
						never seen a lady other than their governess. Occasionally some gentleman visitor found
						his way to Johnson Hall. This was a rare treat to the lonely girls, to whom such a guest
						was always presented. They married early, and their father built for them two elegant
						stone residences a few miles from the castle.
					Far different from this conventual life of the two sisters was that led below stairs by
						the baronet. From the first, Sir  William, as we will call
						him, though the title was not conferred by the king until the French and Indian War,
						acquired great influence over the warriors of the far-famed Six Nations. He had located
						himself in the heart of the territory of the Mohawks, the most easterly of the Iroquois
						nations. Thoroughly understanding the Indian character, he won their confidence and
						attained an ascendancy in their councils which no other white man ever approximated. The
						negotiations of the British Government with the Iroquois were all carried on through
						him. The castle was his store-house, where all the wonderful supplies of guns,
						ammunition, and trinkets were kept for trade. Around the castle were clusters of cabins
						for the accommodation of Indians who came to trade.
					Sir William kept a bounteous table, open to every comer, and dispensed his hospitality
						in lord-like style. The Indians would visit him day and night, sleeping in the halls, on
						the steps, or in the cabins, as suited their fancy, and faring on their host's sumptuous
						provision for days at a time. The natural genius of the man for controlling the restless
						red men, and bending their rigid natures to his will, was powerfully supplemented by his
						rather questionable alliance with Mollie Brant. She was immensely popular, possessed a
						shrewd intelligence, and herself acquired great influence over her people.
					The baronet, moreover, by this connection, for it was not a marriage, won the hearts of
						the warriors. His castle, to which they were always delighted to come, was looked up to
						as the splendid establishment of one of their own people. As they exchanged their
						valuable furs for the wares of the baronet, the heavy profit which went into his pocket
						was, they felt, well earned by the free and easy manner with which he treated them. In
						winter, the baronet often humored them by arraying himself in Indian
						disguise—war-paint, feathers, and tomahawk, complete—and living with them
						for weeks at a time as one of their own braves. His word once given them, whether a
						threat or a promise, was kept inviolate.
					
					His vast landed estate was parceled out among Dutch and Highland tenantry, who were as
						devoted to his interests as the Indians themselves. "Nature had well fitted him," says a
						writer, "for the position in which his propitious stars had cast his lot. His person was
						tall, erect, and strong; his features, grave and manly. His direct and upright dealings,
						his courage, eloquence, and address were sure passports to favor in Indian eyes.
					"He had a singular facility of adaptation. In the camp or at the council-board, in
						spite of his defective education, he bore himself as became his station; but at home he
						was seen drinking flip and smoking tobacco with the Dutch boors, his neighbors, talking
						of improvements or the price of beaver-skins; and in the Indian villages he would feast
						on dog's flesh, dance with the warriors, and harangue his attentive auditors with all
						the dignity of an Iroquois sachem. His temper was genial, he encouraged rustic sports,
						and was respected and beloved alike by whites and Indians.
					"His good qualities, however, were alloyed with defects. His mind was as coarse as it
						was vigorous; he was vain of his rank and influence, without any scruples of delicacy as
						to proclaiming them. Eager and ambitious in pushing his own resistless way, he trampled
						beneath his iron heel whomsoever might cross his pathway."
					Before proceeding to the story which forms the more immediate subject of this chapter,
						it may be well to speak more at length than we have heretofore done of the far-famed
						Iroquois, among whom Sir William Johnson lived, and over whom he exerted such a
						commanding influence. Francis Parkman gives the following eloquent summary of their
						tragic history:
					"Foremost in war, foremost in eloquence, foremost in their savage arts of policy, stood
						the fierce people called by themselves the Hodenosaunee, and by the French the Iroquois,
						a name which has since been applied to the entire family, of which they formed the
						dominant member. They extended their  conquests and their
						depredations from Quebec to the Carolinas, and from the western prairies to the forests
						of Maine. On the south, they forced tribute from the subjugated Delawares, and pierced
						the mountain fastnesses of the Cherokees with incessant forays. On the north, they
						uprooted the ancient settlements of the Wyandots. On the west, they exterminated the
						Eries and the Andastes, and spread havoc and dismay among the tribes of the Illinois;
						and on the east, the Indians of New England fled at the first peal of the Mohawk
						war-cry.
					"Nor was it the Indian race alone who quailed before their ferocious valor. All Canada
						shook with the desolating fury of their onset; the people fled to the forts for refuge;
						the blood-besmeared conquerors roamed like wolves among the burning settlements, and the
						youthful colony trembled on the brink of ruin.
					"The Iroquois, in some measure, owed their triumphs to the position of their country;
						for they dwelt within the present limits of the State of New York, whence several great
						rivers and the inland oceans of the northern lakes opened ready thoroughfares to their
						roving warriors through all the adjacent wilderness. But the true fountain of their
						success is to be sought in their own inherent energies, wrought to the most effective
						action under a political fabric well suited to the Indian life; in their mental and
						moral organization; in their insatiable ambition and restless ferocity.
					"In their scheme of government, as in their social customs and religious observances,
						the Iroquois displayed, in full symmetry and matured strength, the same characteristics
						which in other tribes are found distorted, withered, decayed to the root, or, perhaps,
						faintly visible in an imperfect germ. They consisted of five tribes or nations, the
						Mohawks, the Oneidas, the Onondagas, the Cayugas, and the Senecas, to whom a sixth, the
						Tuscaroras, was afterwards added.
					"To each of these tribes belonged an organization of its own. Each had several sachems,
						who, with the subordinate 
							THE BARONET IN COUNCIL WITH THE MOHAWKS.
						
						 chiefs and principal men, regulated all its internal
						affairs; but when foreign powers were to be treated with, or matters involving the whole
						confederacy required deliberation, all the sachems of the several tribes convened in
						general assembly at the great council-house in the valley of Onondaga. Here ambassadors
						were received, alliances were adjusted, and all subjects of general interest discussed
						with exemplary harmony. The order of debate was prescribed by time-honored customs; and,
						in the fiercest heat of controversy, the assembly maintained its iron self-control.
					"But the main stay of Iroquois polity was the system of totemship. It was this which
						gave the structure its elastic strength; and but for this, a mere confederacy of jealous
						and warlike tribes must soon have been rent asunder by shocks from without or discord
						from within. At some early period, the Iroquois must have formed an individual nation,
						for the whole people, irrespective of their separation into tribes, consisted of eight
						totemic clans; and the members of each clan, to what nation soever they belonged, were
						mutually bound to one another by those close ties of fraternity which mark this singular
						institution.
					"Thus the five nations of the confederacy were laced together by an eight-fold band;
						and to this hour their slender remnants cling to one another with invincible tenacity.
						The Iroquois had no laws, but they had ancient customs, which took the place of laws.
						Each man, or rather each clan, was the avenger of its own wrongs; but the manner of the
						retaliation was fixed by established usage. The tribal sachems, and even the great
						council at Onondaga, had no power to compel the execution of their decrees; yet they
						were looked up to with a respect which the soldier's bayonet or the sheriff's staff
						would never have commanded; and it is highly to the honor of the Indian character that
						they could exact so great an authority where there was nothing to enforce it but the
						weight of moral power.
					"The superiority of the intellect of the Iroquois was as 
						marked as that of their political organization. The energy of their fancy displayed
						itself in that peculiar eloquence which their wild democracy tended to call forth, and
						to which the mountain and the forest, the torrent and the storm, lent their stores of
						noble imagery. That to this imaginative vigor was joined mental power of a different
						stamp, is witnessed by the caustic irony of Garangula and Sagoyewatha, and no less by
						the subtle policy, sagacious as it was treacherous, which marked the dealings of the
						Iroquois with surrounding tribes.
					"Their dwellings and works of defense were far from contemptible, either in their
						dimensions or in their structure; and though by the several attacks of the French, and
						especially by the invasion of De Nonville, in 1687, and of Frontenac, nine years later,
						their fortified towns were leveled to the earth, never again to reappear; yet in the
						works of Champlain and other early writers, we find abundant evidence of their pristine
						condition. Along the banks of the Mohawk, among the hills and hollows of Onondaga, in
						the forests of Oneida and Cayuga, on the romantic shores of Seneca Lake, and the rich
						borders of the Genesee, surrounded by waving maize fields, and encircled from afar by
						the green margin of the forest, stood the ancient strongholds of the confederacy. The
						clustering dwellings were encompassed by palisades, in single, double, or triple rows,
						pierced with loop-holes, furnished with platforms within, for the convenience of the
						defenders, with magazines of stones, to hurl upon the heads of the enemy, and with water
						conductors to extinguish any fire which might be kindled from without.
					"The area which these defenses inclosed was often several acres in extent, and the
						dwellings, ranged in order within, were sometimes more than a hundred feet in length.
						Posts, firmly driven into the ground, with an intervening frame-work of poles, formed
						the basis of the structure; and its sides and arched roof were closely covered with
						layers of elm bark. Each of the larger dwellings contained several distinct families,
						whose separate fires were built along the central space, while  compartments on each side, like the stalls of a stable, afforded some degree
						of privacy. Here rude couches were prepared, and bear and deer skins spread; while
						above, the ripened ears of maize, suspended in rows, formed a golden tapestry.
					"In the long evenings of midwinter, when in the wilderness without the trees cracked
						with biting cold, and the forest paths were clogged with snow, then, around the
						lodge-fires of the Iroquois, warriors, squaws, and restless, naked children were
						clustered in social groups, each dark face brightening in the fickle firelight, while,
						with jest and laugh, the pipe passed round from hand to hand. Perhaps some shriveled old
						warrior, the story-teller of the tribe, recounted to attentive ears the deeds of ancient
						heroism, legends of spirits and monsters, or tales of witches and
						vampires—superstitions not less rife among this all-believing race than among the
						nations of the transatlantic world.
					"The life of the Iroquois, though void of those multiplying phases which vary the
						routine of civilized existence, was one of sharp excitement and sudden contrast. The
						chase, the war-path, the dance, the festival, the game of hazard, the race of political
						ambition, all had their votaries. When the assembled sachems had resolved on war against
						some foreign tribe, and when, from their great council-house of bark, in the Valley of
						Onondaga, their messengers had gone forth to invite the warriors to arms, then from east
						to west, through the farthest bounds of the confederacy, a thousand warlike hearts
						caught up the summons with glad alacrity. With fasting and praying, and consulting
						dreams and omens; with invoking the war-god, and dancing the frantic war-dance, the
						warriors sought to insure the triumph of their arms; and, these strange rites concluded,
						they began their stealthy progress, full of confidence, through the devious pathways of
						the forest.
					"For days and weeks, in anxious expectation, the villagers await the result. And now,
						as evening closes, a shrill, wild cry, pealing from afar, over the darkening forest,
						proclaims the  return of the victorious warriors. The
						village is alive with sudden commotion; and snatching sticks and stones, knives and
						hatchets, men, women, and children, yelling like fiends let loose, swarm out of the
						narrow portal, to visit upon the miserable captives a foretaste of the deadlier torments
						in store for them. And now, the black arches of the forest glow with the fires of death;
						and with brandished torch and firebrand the frenzied multitude close around their
						victim. The pen shrinks to write, the heart sickens to conceive, the fierceness of his
						agony; yet still, amid the din of his tormentors, rises his clear voice of scorn and
						defiance. The work is done; the blackened trunk is flung to the dogs, and, with
						clamorous shouts and hootings, the murderers seek to drive away the spirit of their
						victim.
					"The Iroquois reckoned these barbarities among their most exquisite enjoyments; and yet
						they had other sources of pleasure, which made up in frequency and in innocence all that
						they lacked in intensity. Each passing season had its feasts and dances, often mingling
						religion with social pastime. The young had their frolics and merry-makings; and the old
						had their no less frequent councils, where conversation and laughter alternated with
						grave deliberations for the public weal. There were also stated periods, marked by the
						recurrence of momentous ceremonies, in which the whole community took part—the
						mystic sacrifice of the dogs, the wild orgies of the dream-feast, and the loathsome
						festival of the exhumation of the dead. Yet, in the intervals of war and hunting, these
						multiform occupations would often fail; and, while the women were toiling in the
						cornfields, the lazy warriors vainly sought relief from the scanty resources of their
						own minds, and beguiled the hours with smoking or sleeping, with gambling or
						gallantry.
					"If we seek for a single trait pre-eminently characteristic of the Iroquois, we shall
						find it in that boundless pride which impelled them to style themselves, not inaptly as
						regards their own race, 'the men surpassing all others.' 'Must I,' exclaimed one of
						their great warriors, as he fell wounded among a crowd  of
						Algonquins,—'must I, who have made the whole earth tremble, now die by the hands
						of children?' Their power kept pace with their pride. Their war-parties roamed over half
						America, and their name was a terror from the Atlantic to the Mississippi; but, when we
						ask the numerical strength of the dreaded confederacy, when we discover that, in the
						days of their greatest triumphs, their united cantons could not have mustered four
						thousand warriors, we stand amazed at the folly and dissension which left so vast a
						region the prey of a handful of bold marauders. Of the cities and villages now so
						thickly scattered over the lost domain of the Iroquois, a single one might boast a more
						numerous population than all the five united tribes."
					Before leaving the history of the Iroquois, it is possible to give the account of their
						terrible destruction of the Eries, which is said to have been handed down by their
						traditions. This mighty tribe, which, prior to their subjugation, far exceeded in
						strength any other single tribe of Indians, lived at the lower end of the lake which
						bears their name. Their chief town, Tushuway, occupied the site of the modern city of
						Buffalo. Jealous of the great confederacy to the eastward of them, the proud Eries sent
						a challenge to the Senecas, their nearest neighbors, for a game of ball between one
						hundred young men from each tribe. The great council of the Five Nations deliberated
						upon the challenge, and decided to decline it.
					The next year the "Lords of the Lake" renewed the challenge. It was again declined. A
						repetition of it the third year so inflamed the younger warriors of the Five Nations,
						that the challenge was reluctantly accepted. One hundred braves, the very flower of the
						confederacy, armed with nothing but the small bat, used in ball-playing, and commanded
						by a chief of approved experience, marched away through the forest to the city of the
						Eries. A vast pile of furs, bracelets, beads, silver, and copper was to be the
						stake.
					The eventful day arrived. The great Eries far excelled the more timid young men from,
						the Five Nations in their  self-confidence. But the
						superiority went no farther. After a desperate contest the Iroquois bore off the prizes.
						The chief of the chagrined Eries at once challenged the visitors to a foot-race, with
						ten runners on a side. The Iroquois accommodated him, and were again victorious. As a
						last trial of skill, the Erie chieftain proposed to select ten wrestlers to be matched
						against an equal number from the ranks of the visitors, the victorious antagonist, in
						each case, to dispatch his adversary on the spot, by braining him with a tomahawk and
						scalping him. This bloody proposal was assented to by the Iroquois with altered
						countenances.
					The first pair of wrestlers struggled furiously. The Iroquois finally threw his
						opponent on the ground, but refused to kill him. In a moment the angry chief of the
						Eries flung his own tomahawk revolving through the air and with unerring aim scattered
						the brains of his defeated kinsman on the soil of the arena. Another pair of champions
						from the rival sides then grappled for the conflict. Again victory was achieved by the
						strangers. Again the victor refused to strike his fallen foe. Again the Erie chieftain,
						black and choking with a tempest of rage, killed the vanquished brave with his own hand.
						A third time the singular scene took place. This was the last. At a signal from their
						leader, the well-disciplined Iroquois suddenly withdrew from the field, and, taking
						their canoes, returned home to relate their victories and the strange customs of their
						hosts.
					The Eries at once resolved on war. The confederacy, on the other hand, prepared for
						defense. Three thousand warriors and a thousand reserves rode with nodding plumes into
						the forest, to meet their foes. The two armies met half-way between Canandaigua Lake and
						the Genesee River. The battle raged with indescribable fury. The Eries saw too late that
						their enemies, too weak to cope with them single-handed, had combined against them, and
						that it was no longer a fight for glory, but a struggle for existence. Hour after hour,
						far into  nightfall, the awful carnage proceeded. With
						unyielding courage and invincible obstinacy the doomed Eries, like the Spartans of old,
						refused to fly, but fought to the bitter end, preferring death on the battle-field to
						survival of defeat. The battle was lost.
					The victors, like avenging demons, pushed on to the Erie strongholds. Using their
						canoes for scaling ladders, the maddened Iroquois, insane with the delirium of victory,
						leaped down like tigers, and butchered the defenders without mercy. For the Eries it was
						not merely defeat. It was destruction. The proud people were literally destroyed from
						the face of the earth. To-day nothing remains to tell us that they ever existed, except
						the name of ERIE, which the generations of men still give to the blue
						inland sea along whose shores they flourished and then fell forever.
					Such also was the fate of the noble Hurons, the Neutral Nation, and the Wyandots.
					Thus, within less than a quarter of a century, four nations, the most brave and
						powerful of the North American savages, sank before the arms of the confederates. Nor
						did their triumphs end here. Within the same short space they subdued their southern
						neighbors, the Lenape or Delawares, the leading members of the Algonquin family, and
						expelled the Ottawas, a numerous people of the same lineage, from the borders of the
						river which bears their name. In the north, the west, and the south, their conquests
						embraced every adjacent tribe; and meanwhile, their war-parties were harassing the French
						of Canada with reiterated inroads, and yelling the war-whoop under the very walls of
						Quebec.
					They were the worst of conquerors. Inordinate pride, the last of blood and dominion,
						were the mainsprings of their warfare, and their victories were stained with every
						excess of savage passion. That their triumphs must have cost them dear; that, in spite
						of their cautious tactics, these multiplied conflicts must have greatly abridged their
						strength, would appear inevitable.  Their losses were, in
						fact, considerable; but every breach was repaired by means of a practice which they, in
						common with other tribes, constantly adhered to.
					When their vengeance was glutted by the sacrifice of a sufficient number of captives,
						they spared the lives of the remainder and adopted them as members of their confederated
						tribes, separating wives from husbands and children from parents, and distributing them
						among different villages, in order that old ties and associations might be more
						completely broken up. This policy, as Schoolcraft informs us, was designated among them
						by a name which signifies "flesh cut into pieces and scattered among the tribes."
					With two explanations, we resume the thread of the story, interrupted to relate the
						history and character of the Iroquois. A southern tribe, the Tuscaroras, having been
						expelled from their former home, came north, upon the invitation of their old allies,
						the Five Nations, and were received into the confederacy, which, from that time, became
						the "Six Nations." Although the Iroquois had been such as we have related, it is to be
						remembered that they had been greatly weakened by successive wars, and at the time of
						Sir William Johnson, though still powerful, the "Six Nations" were very far from being
						what they had once been.
					From early times the Iroquois were allies of the English and Dutch colonists of the
						coast. Through them the confederacy procured fire-arms and ammunition far earlier than
						other nations, and by this means their power was infinitely increased. In return they
						constituted themselves a sort of police for the colonies against other tribes of
						Indians. They had early come in conflict with the French, as we have seen in the story
						of La Salle, and their prejudices were for the English. But the latter, by long years of
						neglect and aggression, lost their advantage.
					When the French and Indian war broke out, the Six Nations were strongly disposed to
						join their red brethren in a war which was to drive the white man out of the country
						which he had  wrongfully invaded. That they did not do so
						was solely owing to the ascendancy and influence, the earnest eloquence, the tireless
						efforts, the superb diplomacy of Sir William Johnson. For his sake they buried the
						hatchet. Such an important figure did the British Government find him, that he was
						appointed Indian commissioner for the North, a position which he held for twenty years,
						rendering heroic and invaluable service to England. He was further made baronet, and
						received vast grants of land, as a reward for his work during the war. When Pontiac,
						"the archangel fallen," planned his gigantic conspiracy, the baronet again needed all
						his influence and resources to hold the confederacy to its alliance with England.
						Indeed, the Senecas, farthest removed from his influence, did get away from him and join
						the conspiracy.
					From 1763 Sir William lived in ease, his immense possessions multiplying year by year.
						But a struggle was coming, in which it would have been as difficult for him to choose
						his own side as for his Indian allies themselves. The volcanic fires of the AMERICAN REVOLUTION were, at the time of which we
						write, shooting their forks of flame upward through the fissures in the political and
						social crust. Which side should he take? Should he, on the one hand, turn traitor to the
						government which he had served so long, and from which he had received such abundant
						favors? Or should he, on the other hand, let loose the thunderbolts of savage warfare
						which he held within his grasp, upon the struggling colonists, his neighbors, friends,
						and countrymen, who were so clearly in the right? He never gave his final decision.
					Deeply disturbed at the approaching crisis, and perhaps lacking the nerve which had
						belonged to the earlier years of his strange life, the great baronet gave way to his
						anxieties, and died suddenly in the summer of 1774. The belief was widespread at the
						time that his sudden death was the work of his own hand.
					The zeal of Sir William Johnson for the improvement of his  Mohawk neighbors had planted churches and sent missionaries among them. More than
						this, he selected promising youths from the Mohawk nation, and sent them to be educated
						at a school in Lebanon, Connecticut.
					Women are often designing, and use their influence over men for their own purposes. It
						is natural to find that Mistress Mollie Brant made use of her influence with the baronet
						to further the interests of her brother Joseph. He was born about 1742, and became a lad
						of unusual precocity. Of course he became the recipient of Sir William's bounty. He was
						sent to the school at Lebanon. He was employed by the baronet in the discharge of his
						multitudinous duties as Indian commissioner. Hie acted as interpreter, he labored to
						carry out his master's notions concerning his people, and he was often sent on long
						journeys to the wild Indians of the west. In this work he early exhibited rare
						diplomatic ability.
					Nor was this all. His precociousness and talent were turned to the assistance of the
						missionaries. The smart heathen helped to prepare translations of portions of the Bible,
						and of the prayer book and ritual, into the Mohawk tongue. With a readiness which is
						suspicious, he joined the Episcopal Church. So zealous was Joseph in the observance of
						the forms of worship, and in partaking of the sacraments of the Church, that
						enthusiastic friends pointed him out as a model Christian.
					As he took the rank which his lineage and his native abilities alike insured him, these
						good missionaries predicted that he would absolutely lift his people out of their savage
						state and transform them into solid citizens. No doubt they expected the wild Mohawk
						warriors to lay aside their filthy blankets, and don knee-breeches, silk stockings,
						knee-buckles, and powdered wigs, all on account of Joseph. He lived much of the time
						with Sir William, and was devotedly attached to him. His Indian name was Thayendanegea,
						of which "Brant" was a translation.
					At the time of the baronet's death, Brant was a powerful Mohawk sachem. The title and
						much of the property of Sir  William went to Sir John
						Johnson, the only so of the dead baronet. Guy Johnson, the son-in-law, became Indian
						commissioner. To him Joseph Brant became private secretary. By means of their great
						wealth and family prestige, Sir John and Guy Johnson naturally inherited much of the
						influence of Sir William over the Six Nations. This influence was greatly strengthened
						by the attachment of Brant.
					Meanwhile, the colonies were hurrying forward to a crisis. The spirit of patriotism
						entered into and possessed the people. Resistance to tyranny, free-trade, and
						self-government became the catch-words of the hour. The struggling colonies, hitherto a
						mere outlying and uninfluential province of a great empire, suddenly felt themselves
						assuming a vast and startling importance before the eyes of mankind.
					Political discussion became loud and heated. The people found themselves ranged into
						two hostile parties. The great majority were patriots. They believed in the colonies
						having justice, though the heavens fell. These were the Whigs. There was also another
						party, a minority, who retained their old attachment to England. They justified the home
						government. They abused the Whigs. They were opposed to revolution and even to
						agitation. They were the Conservatives, or Tories. The lines between these two parties
						were very clearly marked out. The warfare was bitter. The same party lines exist in
						every epoch of progress. They are the Radicals and Conservatives. The one demands a
						change, a reform, a revolution. The latter cries out, "Let be; let well enough alone;
						peace! peace!" when there is no peace.
					These party dissensions extended to the Mohawk valley. As elsewhere, there were Whigs
						and Tories. The majority of the people were enthusiastic Whigs. They wished to better
						their condition. They were therefore Radicals.
					The Johnsons, however, were Tories. Property and aristocracy are conservative. The
						wealthy few who are on top are comfortable. They are averse to change. They desire only
							 that things remain as they are. If you touch them they
						scream. This is natural, but it is selfish. On the other hand, the many who are
						underneath, want to take the risk and make a change. They have nothing to lose and every
						thing to gain. This also is natural, but selfish.
					Sir John Johnson held a title of nobility under the British crown. Guy Johnson held the
						lucrative office of Indian commissioner under the same government. They had vast
						possessions. They lived in baronial splendor in magnificent stone castles, from whose
						turrets the eye swept over an estate, stretching many miles along the lovely valley, and
						supporting a vast tenant population. These gentlemen, therefore, were strongly
						conservative. What cared they for a tax of a few cents on tea? Their dinner table would
						not be thereby deprived of the steaming tea-pot. What was it to them if troops were
						quartered in Boston? It cost them nothing. So they wanted things to continue as they
						were.
					As the times became more violent and explosive, the colonists instinctively felt,
						rather than foresaw, that war was inevitable. In case this should come to pass, the
						leading men also rightly foresaw that the western tribes of Indians, always ready to
						strike a blow at the white invaders, would seize the opportunity to assail the colonies
						on the west, while England would levy war on the Canada frontier and along the coast.
						While the attitude of the western Indian was thus certainly hostile and dangerous, that
						of the Six Nations was more a matter of doubt. From the earliest times, the Iroquois,
						with the single exception of the Senecas, during the war of Pontiac, had been allies of
						the colonies and therefore of England. To which would the Indian allies incline if the
						colonies engaged in war with England?
					Both parties to the contest saw that the alliance of the Six Nations was a strategic
						point. The powerful influence of the Johnsons and of Brant might be confidently counted
						on by England. The colonies relied mainly on the old friendship, and  the influence of the patriotic missionaries. They hoped
						simply that the Iroquois would remain neutral. The Oneidas early took this position. In
						May, 1775, their chiefs wrote to the governor of New York, "You are two brothers of one
						blood. We are unwilling to join on either side in such a contest, for we bear an equal
						affection to both Old and New England. Should the great king of England apply to us for
						aid, we shall deny him; if the colonies apply we shall refuse. The present situation of
						you two brothers is new and strange to us. We Indians can not find, nor recollect, in
						the traditions of our ancestors, the like case or a similar instance."
					Both British and Americans were busily engaged in feverish preparations for war. Sir
						John Johnson constructed heavy fortifications around his castle. Guy Johnson, alarmed at
						the popular threatening, raised a band of several hundred Mohawk warriors, headed by
						Brant, and re-enforced by the leading chiefs of the Senecas, Cayugas, and Onondagas.
						With this force he fled to Oswego and then to Canada, leaving his splendid mansion
						desolate and unoccupied.
					The colonies, on the other hand, issued a call for a grand council at Albany, in
						August. The meeting was attended very thinly, except by the Oneidas, and the Lower clan
						of the Mohawks. However, the representatives of the colonial congress made speeches,
						urging the Six Nations to remain neutral. A treaty to that affect was made, but it
						amounted to little.
					On their return home, a plague broke out among the Mohawks. Like all ignorant people,
						they regarded it as a visitation from the Great Spirit. They believed that he was angry
						for their desertion of the cause of the king. Superstition is both blind and deaf. It
						has neither eyes to look at facts, nor ears to listen to argument. It transforms a man
						into a mummy. The Mohawks were superstitious. Many of them at once joined Brant's
						forces. A few, however, of the Lower clan still remained neutral. Probably they were not
						much troubled with the plague.
					
					As a price of their neutrality they demanded one thing, that Sir John Johnson be left
						at his house in peace. This gentleman on his part bound himself by agreement to remain
						neutral. This promise was a sham. He remained in his fortified castle with a strong
						force of Indians and tenantry. He intrigued incessantly to excite the remaining Iroquois
						to a revolt. He carried on constant correspondence with leading Tories. In other words,
						he was a spy.
					The colonies resolved to arrest him. Troops were dispatched up the Mohawk Valley for
						that purpose. A messenger was sent in advance to quiet the nerves of the excitable
						Iroquois. In this way Sir John heard of the plan for the seizure of his person. He
						hurriedly buried his treasure in the garden, and, regretfully leaving his splendid home,
						plunged into the wilderness with a band of retailers, to make his way to Canada. After
						nineteen days of hardship and suffering the proud baronet, ragged, footsore, and
						starved, with such remnant of his famished followers as had not fallen by the weary
						wayside, arrived at Montreal. Such are the vicissitudes of war!
					Meanwhile, Joseph Brant had been advanced to the position of principal war-chief of the
						Six Nations. Around his standard rallied the dark warriors of the great confederacy, in
						whose veins ran the blood of the most terrible fighters among the American Indians.
						Thayendanegea was a fit leader for them. He was tall, erect, and majestic, with the
						manners and bearing of a king of men. He was distinguished alike for his courage and his
						intelligence, for his prowess as a warrior and his skill as a diplomat. His name was a
						tower of strength among the nations of the confederacy. While in native genius and
						originality of intellect he was inferior to Powhatan, Philip, and Pontiac, he knew more
						of the world than either of his great predecessors. If he was not inspired by the
						burning loyalty to his race, by the lofty ambitions and purposes of the two latter, he
						at least had a much wider education and range of ideas. If he was less of an Indian, he
						was more of a white man.
					
					Although Thayendanegea had pledged himself to the cause of the king, he still hesitated
						to take up the hatchet. The Americans opened the campaign in Canada with a brilliant
						victory. Our Indian friend had an eye to the main chance. He sailed for England in the
						winter of 1775-6 to interview the king, and, no doubt, with a view to forming an
						estimate of the war strength of the English. The wily war-chief wanted to be on the
						winning side.
					On his arrival in London he was conducted to a rather obscure inn, called "The Swan
						with the Two Necks." Statelier lodgings were soon provided for the great "Indian king,"
						as the Englishmen called him. But Brant politely declined, declaring that the kind
						treatment of his host at "The Swan" had won his heart, so that he could not think of
						leaving him.
					In this Joseph showed his innocence. He mistook the broad smile and hearty handshake,
						which forms such an important part of the landlord's stock in trade, for the genuine
						article. If he was taken in by the patronizing airs of the shrewd tavern-keeper, Brant
						showed no other sings of verdancy. He dressed in European clothing. His courtly manners
						and clear-cut English caused the throng of titled men and jeweled women who sought his
						company and pressed upon him the honors of the capital to lose sight of the fact that
						this lordly gentleman of foreign accent and distinguished air was, in fact, a red-fisted
						savage, accustomed to lead his yelling band of braves to midnight massacres, a man whose
						flashing tomahawk eagerly brained the fallen foe, and whose nervous fingers had often
						clutched the bloody scalps of his victims.
					When he appeared at court on visits of business or ceremony, he laid aside his European
						habit, and wore a gorgeous costume of the fashion of his own people. Bands of silver
						encircled his sinewy arms. Tall plumes adorned his head-dress, and highly colored
						fabrics, hung with copper pendants, formed his clothing. A glittering tomahawk and a
						scalping-knife dangled  carelessly from his belt. On such
						occasions he attracted the greatest attention.
					Of course, the magnificent entertainments and presents which were pressed upon the
						war-chief of the Six Nations, together with the material splendor of England, the
						dazzling pageantry of the court, and the soldiery, with their equipment of cannon, small
						arms, ammunition, uniforms, and all the accoutrements of war, made a profound impression
						on his mind. When he sailed for America in April, he had pledged himself and his people
						to the cause of England in her conflict with the colonies.
					He and his six hundred warriors in Canada at once joined the British army, and
						commenced vigorous hostilities. The great majority of the Iroquois still remained in
						their ancient seats in the Mohawk valley, and seemed peaceably inclined to the
						colonists. The people of the frontier built block-houses and organized parties of
						rangers for self-defense. They kept scouts constantly on the watch for an Indian
						outbreak. The isolated settlers moved into towns. At Cherry Valley, the most exposed
						point, the inhabitants, daily excited by the news of the battles of the Revolution, were
						deeply anxious about the Indians. But month after month rolled by, and the Iroquois
						still lingered idly in their wigwams.
					In the spring of 1777 Brant reappeared in the Mohawk valley. The influence of the great
						war-chief at once made itself felt in the remotest wigwam. Carefully concealing his
						plans, he commenced collecting an enormous war-party at the Indian town of Oghkwaga.
						There were further indications, as the excited and patriotic Whig settlers thought, of a
						Tory uprising in connection with Brant's movement. On June 15th, General Herkimer
						reached Cherry Valley with a force of three hundred local militia. He was an old
						acquaintance of Brant, and determined to have an interview with him. The meeting was
						near Unadillo.
					On the first day Brant threw off the mask, and declared himself as a soldier of the
						king. By agreement, the conference  was to be resumed in
						the morning. That night Herkimer laid a dark plot to massacre the chief and his few
						attendants when they returned to his camp the following day. Brant, however, was up to
						such tricks. At the appointed hour he appeared in Herkimer's camp with five hundred
						picked warriors, plumed and painted for war. The raw recruits with Herkimer were
						completely in the power of the Indians. With a haughty gesture Brant said, "You may go."
						The colonists took the hint, and went—at the highest possible speed.
					At Cherry Valley the people selected the strongest house for a fort, surrounding it
						with embankments. Near this place the road ran along the edge of a precipice. A hundred
						and fifty feet below lay a gloomy glen, filled with a dense growth of evergreens. In
						this lonely spot, Brant and a half-dozen braves hid in ambush. Late one afternoon, a
						gallant young colonial officer, "well-mounted, and clad in a suit of ash-colored
						velvet," spurred out of the settlement along the road by the glen on some errand of war.
						A few moments after the gentleman had left the village, the sharp crack of rifles was
						heard from the direction of the glen, and shortly the young officer's horse came
						galloping back, riderless, and the saddle crimsoned with blood.
					A party of armed men at once started out to solve the mystery. Not till the following
						day, however, did they find the lifeless body of the gay lieutenant, gay no longer, but
						rather pale, mangled, and bloody. Brant, however, withdrew after this murder, without
						attacking Cherry Valley. He was deceived as to the strength of the place by some false
						dispatches found by him on the person of a captive whom he secured near the settlement.
						The man carried double dispatches, and, when captured, was smart enough to destroy the
						genuine and surrender the bogus documents.
					While the settlers were being daily horrified by these and a hundred other isolated
						deeds of violence, information was brought them by friendly Indians and scouts of an
						impending danger of much greater magnitude. As Burgoyne descended  from the north along Lakes Champlain and George, Colonel Barry St. Leger,
						with Thayendanegea's wild warriors was to rendezvous at Oswego, and then sweep down the
						Mohawk valley from the west, conquering and destroying, and form a junction with
						Burgoyne at Albany, whence the united armies would descend the Hudson. At the upper end
						of the valley, on a strategic spot on the carrying path which led from the Mohawk River
						to Wood Creek, stood Fort Schuyler. Wood Creek flowed into Oneida Lake, from which the
						Oswego river led into Lake Ontario. The carrying path between the Mohawk and Wood Creek
						was thus the only interruption which the war canoes of the Iroquois would meet in their
						voyage from Oswego to Albany. The carrying path was the door to the Mohawk valley. Fort
						Schuyler was the lock on the door. To unlock that door was the first task of Colonel
						Barry St. Leger and Thayendanegea.
					Fort Schuyler was an old fortification, originally built by the British during the
						French and Indian War, at an enormous expense. It was not a mere block-house, nor a
						stockade, but, as originally laid out, was a regular fort, costing over a quarter of a
						million of dollars. It was square, with a bastion at each corner. It had had the
						traditional moat or ditch, the glacis or earth embankment, and the draw-bridge. A
						covered way led to a spring. In the center of the ditch had been planted rows of
						pickets. In the interior was constructed what was supposed to be a bomb-proof citadel.
						On one side, the fortification was further protected by a swamp. But at the outbreak of
						the Revolution the old fort was a miserable ruin. The ditch was filled up. The
						draw-bridge had fallen to pieces. The rows of pickets consisted of nothing but rotten
						stumps, projecting a foot or so from the ground. The ground about the fort, which had
						been cleared with infinite trouble of every obstruction which might afford a cover to
						the enemy, was once more overgrown with a dense forest, which flung its shadows over the
						decaying fortification.
					
					In the spring of 1777, Colonel Gansevoort took command of the feeble and sickly
						garrison. Such men as were able to work were employed in placing the fort in a
						defensible state. But their feeble labors made slight impression on the old ruin. The
						commandant ceased not to write for re-enforcements and supplies. On the 4th of July,
						when St. Leger's plan was already made known, the place was still in a deplorable
						condition. Cannon there were, but not a ball in the magazine. The rifle balls on hand
						were too large for the fire-locks, and there were no moulds to make others. The supply
						of powder was dangerously small. As for provision, a quantity of spoiled beef,
						sufficient, perhaps, for six weeks, formed the larger part of the supplies.
					From time to time, small re-enforcements had reached the fort, until the garrison was
						something over five hundred men. Of these, a hundred and fifty were employed in cutting
						and hauling timber to repair the fort and to build an obstruction in the channel of Wood
						Creek. As many more were required to keep guard over the workmen, for the woods were
						infested by hostile Indians. Others still were out on scouting and foraging parties, so
						that the fort proper was left with scarcely a man behind the ramparts.
					One morning two officers went gunning, to secure, if possible, some untainted meat. A
						mile and a half from the fort they were fired upon. Madison was killed outright, but
						Gregg was only wounded. The Indians sprang forward to secure the scalp. Gregg, with
						incomparable grit, feigned death, and endured the horrible pain of being scalped,
						without the quiver of a muscle, or the utterance of a groan.
					Some fishermen, a quarter of a mile distant, were that afternoon disturbed by a dog,
						who bounded toward them, and by lamentable howls, and every sign of distress, attracted
						their attention. The poor animal would run a short distance into the forest, and seeing
						they did not follow, would return and pull at their clothing, as if asking them to come
						with him. The men's suspicions were aroused, and they started to follow the dog,  who at once gave a yelp of joy. Every time the men stopped
						he would resume his supplications.
					At last the men reached the spot where lay the dog's fallen master, Captain Gregg,
						still breathing, but stupefied from pain and loss of blood. They bore him to the fort,
						with the corpse of his companion, followed by the faithful dog, who had seen his
						master's need. Gregg afterwards recovered.
					On another day sixteen of the garrison were out cutting turf, about three-quarters of a
						mile away. All at once they discovered a party of thirty or forty Indians coming toward
						them at a rapid run. The men turned to fly. Only nine men reached the fort. Of these,
						two were badly wounded; a third was dying in the arms of his companions.
					This was not all. On the 3d of July, a little girl ran screaming toward the fort, with
						a basket in her hand, and her calico frock stained with blood. She and two others of her
						age had been picking berries in the neighborhood. The other children had been killed,
						while she herself was wounded, though slightly.
					While the garrison of Fort Schuyler were thus preparing, as well as they could, for the
						coming storm, of which the indications were so clear, the friendly Oneidas looked on the
						approach of Brant with as much uneasiness as the whites themselves. Their neutrality had
						incurred the wrath of the other tribes, and they feared, not without reason, that the
						indiscriminate fury of the invaders might involve them in destruction. They ceased not
						to urge the colonies to send prompt and powerful succor to Fort Schuyler. Ticonderoga
						had fallen before Burgoyne without the firing of a shot. "The chiefs" wrote the Oneidas,
						with cutting directness, "desire the commanding officers of Fort Schuyler not to make a
						Ticonderoga of it."
					On the 2d of August, a re-enforcement of two hundred men, with two bateaux of
						provision, reached Fort Schuyler. The supplies were hurried into the fort as fast as
						possible, for the enemy was expected at any moment. All scouting and  repairing parties had been called into the fort. The time
						for further strengthening their defenses was gone. The siege was about to begin. As the
						boats were just emptied of their cargoes, and the last armfuls were being hurried into
						the fort, the savages burst from the forest with loud yells. The captain of the
						expedition, with drawn sword, hurried his men forward. Too brave to enter the fort
						before his men, he remained to the last, and was unfortunately made prisoner.
					The siege was begun. Inside the fort were seven hundred and fifty men, with supplies
						and ammunition for six weeks, and no longer. But the garrison was without a flag! In
						this emergency stripes of white from officer's shirts, of blue from a cloak captured
						from the enemy, and of red from some ragged sashes, were sewed together, and the
						patchwork run up on the flag-staff. The besieging army numbered some seventeen hundred,
						composed of one thousand warriors under Thayendanegea, together with some Hessian and
						Canadian troops. They at once threw up redoubts for their batteries and commenced active
						hostilities.
					Meanwhile, General Herkimer was marching to the relief of the defenders of Fort
						Schuyler, at the head of eight hundred militia-men, from the anxious settlements farther
						down the valley. Thayendanegea was kept constantly informed of Herkimer's movements. He
						repeated the stratagem which had resulted in the destruction of Braddock's army and
						brought Bouquet's entire command so near to death.
					A few miles below the fort, the Albany road, along which Herkimer was advancing,
						crossed a low marsh by means of a causeway. Just at this point the road was intersected
						by an immense lateral ravine, or depression. Here, with devilish sagacity, Thayendanegea
						ambushed his dark followers. They were arranged in a circle, in which a narrow segment
						was left open at the bridge, for the militia-men to enter the trap. As soon as the main
						body had crossed the bridge, a band of warriors rushed in to close the gap of the
						circle, completely  inclosing the colonists, with the
						exceptions of the rear guard, consisting of about sixty men, and the supply train, which
						had not entered the causeway.
					A frightful struggle ensued. Herkimer was wounded at the first fire. Propped against
						the foot of a tree, with a pipe in his mouth, the brave old man continued to command his
						men. From 
							THE BATTLE NEAR FORT SCHUYLER.
						 every side the savages poured in the most galling fire. Everywhere that the
						men attempted, like wild beasts at bay, to break through the fatal lines which encircled
						them, they were beaten back with fearful slaughter. The men got stuck in the mire, and
						the vast boa-constrictor, which had wound its fearful coils about them, began to
						tighten. Yet many of the men fought bravely.
					Observing that a savage, waiting till a colonist had discharged his gun from behind
						some tree, would rush forward and tomahawk him before he could reload, they placed two
						men behind each tree, one reserving his fire. Finding themselves  pressed on all sides, the militia-men disposed themselves in a circle. It
						was a small wheel within a larger one.
					Just as the Indians charged on their foes with desperate valor, to conquer them at the
						point of the murderous bayonet, a fearful thunder-storm broke over the dark field of
						battle. The trees of the forest writhed in the fury of the tempest. Unearthly bolts of
						lightning, followed by peal after peal of sky-splitting thunder, lent horror to the
						scene. In a moment a mighty flood of waters burst forth from the surcharged clouds. The
						conflict of men became puny in comparison with the conflict of the elements. The noise
						of battle was but a stillness contrasted with the awful roar of the storm. The awed
						combatants desisted. The dark clans of Thayendanegea withdrew in sullen rage to the
						sheltering distance.
					The tempest, however, gradually subsided. Not so the fierce passions of the men. The
						Indians renewed the onset, re-enforced by a detachment of Johnson's "Greens." These were
						American Tories. Many of them were friends, or even relatives of the members of the
						colonial militia. In the close hand to hand fighting these foes recognized each other.
						With the fiercest rage these enemies flew at each others' throats like tigers.
					War is horrible. Civil war is awful. These neighbors and acquaintances grappled each
						other, kicking, biting, stabbing, each refusing to let go of his antagonist until, at
						last, some fatal thrust opened the ruddy door through which the spirit took its flight.
						As a ruse de guerre, another detachment of Greens hurried forward to
						the front with hats disguised as Americans. The men were about to receive them as
						friends from the fort, when the counterfeit was at the last moment discovered.
					A militia-man ran forward to give his eager hand to an acquaintance. The hand was
						grasped, but not in friendship. The Tory sought to make his verdant friend a prisoner.
						In the struggle, Captain Gardenier, of the colonial forces, sprang forward and felled
						the would-be captor to the ground. Several Greens set on him, the first falling dead,
						the second severely  wounded. His spur catching in the
						clothes of one, threw Gardenier to the ground. A bayonet was just entering his breast,
						when the brave man seized it, and, with a terrific effort, dragged his opponent down,
						and used him as a shield from the blows of two other assailants. One of the militia-men
						now ran to his relief. As his foes turned on the new enemy, Gardenier sprang to his
						feet, and buried his sword in the body of the man whom he had dragged down. This was but
						one of a thousand individual combats.
					The militia-men fought hand to hand with the Indians and Greens. "Let me recall,
						gentlemen, to your recollection," said the eloquent Gouverneur Morris at a later time,
						"that bloody field in which Herkimer fell. There was found the Indian and the white man,
						born on the banks of the Mohawk, their left hand clenched in each other's hair, the
						right grasping in a gripe of death the knife plunged in each other's heart. Thus they
						lay frowning."
					At last Thayendanegea reluctantly called off his braves, of whom so many were falling.
						The colonists could not be driven from the field. They had determined to die in their
						tracks rather than yield. Two hundred of the Americans had been killed, and twice as
						many more wounded or taken prisoner. Hardly a cabin in the valley was there from which
						some father or son had not gone forth to return no more. Many of the unfortunate
						captives were tortured and put to death by the Indians. The direct reason for the
						withdrawal of the enemy was a spirited sally by the garrison of Fort Schuyler. So well
						conducted was the sortie that nearly the entire camp equipage of St. Leger fell into
						their hands.
					Thus ended one of the bloodiest battles of the Revolution. Thayendanegea had commanded
						the enemy in person. Heavy as was the loss of the Americans, that of the enemy was still
						heavier. Two or three days afterward a solitary scout chanced to come upon the field of
						battle. "There I beheld the most shocking sight I had ever witnessed. The Indians and
						white  men were mingled with one another just as they had
						been left when death had first completed his work. Many bodies had also been torn to
						pieces by wild beasts."
					General Herkimer did not long survive the battle. His wounded limb was unskillfully
						amputated. The flow of blood was not properly staunched. As the hemorrhage renewed again
						and again, the hero calmly called his friends about him. With mind unclouded, and a body
						almost free from pain, he read the thirty-eighth Psalm aloud, while the red tide ebbed
						fast away. "Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation." As the closing words of the
						psalm died away on his pallid lips, the light of an unseen morning momentarily lit up
						his eye, and then it closed in eternal sleep.
					Meanwhile the siege was resumed. One day an Indian entered St. Leger's camp. His
						clothes were riddled with shot. He was a half-crazy fellow, regarded by the Iroquois
						with considerable awe and superstition. With knowing looks and a few significant words,
						he led them to believe that a vast army of Americans was on the way to Fort Schuyler. He
						had, he said, been informed in a dream. A panic seized the Indian camp. Wigwams were
						hastily taken down and preparations made to decamp. St. Leger persuaded, threatened, and
						expostulated. In vain. The whole Indian army abandoned the siege, and fled in
						precipitation before nightfall. For St. Leger no alternative was left but retreat. As it
						turned out, the dreamer was a liar. Having been captured by the Americans and condemned
						to death, he was offered his liberty if he could frighten the Indians away from Fort
						Schuyler. His brother stood as hostage while the knave went on his errand, and, as we
						have seen, achieved success.
					During the winter of 1777-78 Brant kept his head-quarters at Niagara, from which point
						he maintained constant communication with the western Indians, inciting them to
						co-operate with the Iroquois. As the spring advanced, he again returned suddenly to his
						old haunts at Unadillo on the Susquehanna.  This was
						sufficient to cause innumerable patriotic hearts to pop into their owners' mouths.
						Brant, with a large force of warriors, secure enough behind his fortifications,
						forthwith inspired and directed incessant raids up and down the defenseless valley.
					Besides their Indian foes, the people were also torn by political animosities. In one
						locality the male settlers capable of bearing arms were summoned from far and wide to
						meet the king's commissioners at the house of Captain Mann, a wealthy loyalist. At the
						appointed day a large assemblage met. Numbers of Indians came, impressed by the warlike
						preparations. Each man was required to take the oath of allegiance to the king, and wear
						a scarlet badge on the hat. Earnest loyalists wore red caps. Less zealous ones pinned on
						a small piece of red cloth. Others, who were at heart Whigs, through fear of
						confiscation and arrest, contented themselves with a bit of red yarn. Two men refused
						absolutely to take the oath. Just as they were about to be arrested, a thick cloud of
						dust down the road betokened the approach of horsemen. In a moment a strong body of
						American cavalry, with drawn swords flashing in the sunlight, dashed up, and ordered the
						loyalist gathering to disperse.
					Captain Mann made his escape. The orders were to take him alive, if possible, but dead,
						if not. Late at night, a young patriot, a neighbor lad, found him in a wheat-stack. He
						summoned Mann to surrender on pain of instant death. The latter answered with entreaties
						to be spared. The country boy hesitated to shoot down the richest man in the locality.
						He wavered. It was midnight. A heavy rain was falling. Perhaps, in the pitchy darkness,
						he did not see Mann edging away. Perhaps his heart softened, and at the crisis his nerve
						became weak. The loyalist got away.
					The whole country turned out to hound him down. In the search a party ran across a
						stray Indian. He wore a bit of scarlet cloth in his hat. Unstrung by excitement, the
						whites 
							THE SUMMONS AT CAPTAIN MANN'S.
						
						 absolutely butchered the poor fellow. The badge may have
						been that of a loyalist. More likely the bright color had caught the barbarian's eye,
						and he wore it as an ornament. After fifteen days' search, Mann was captured in the
						mountains. He was thrown into a prison at Albany, and detained until the war was
						over.
					During the year 1778 the valley was filled with a thousand frightful rumors. Many of
						these were true. Innumerable lonely farm-houses were plundered and burned, and their
						occupants massacred. Rage is often near-sighted. In their indiscriminate fury the
						Indians massacred a woman and six children. She was the wife of a Tory.
					But a greater enterprise was at hand. The valley of Wyoming, in North-eastern
						Pennsylvania, is one of the loveliest spots of earth. It is a second Eden. It has been
						the burden of the poet's song and of the historian's admiration. Yet from the earliest
						time this paradise had been the scene of the bloodiest contentions. Indian tribes had
						warred over it, until both of the contending parties were extinct. A civil war had
						broken out there between rival settlers from Connecticut and Pennsylvania, and again
						drenched its soil with blood. But in the year 1778, the sounds of violence had long
						since died away in this sequestered vale, and the crimson foot-prints of war had been
						effaced. From many a rude cabin chimney the blue smoke curled peacefully upward toward
						the sky. Around many a fireside sat happy families.
					Towards this lovely spot the English commanders at Niagara turned their cruel eyes. A
						large force of whites and Indians pushed across the country on their mission of
						destruction. Two or three days before the 1st of July wild reports of their approach
						were carried down the valley by galloping horsemen. These reports were followed by
						others even more dreadful. Nine men at work in a field had been murdered. Two forts near
						the upper end of the valley had been captured and burnt. Colonel Zebulon Butler at once
						toiled day and night to collect  a force of settlers to
						resist the enemy. The country was already drained of its men to fill the ragged, but
						heroic, ranks of the American army. Still, from far and near, they came, with their
						fire-locks and ammunition, until about three hundred men assembled in Fort Forty.
					The name of this fort is a history in itself. At one time, in the earlier border wars,
						it had been defended by forty men against fearful odds. Hence its name. The enemy took
						possession of Fort Wintermoot, farther up the valley. The impatient and undisciplined
						militia-men, roused by the unusual occasion to a fever of martial excitement, demanded
						that they advance to attack the foe. Of course, the attempt at a surprise failed. The
						whites, under Colonel John Butler, fought the settlers from the front. In this
						engagement the militia gained a slight advantage. They were pressing forward to pursue
						it.
					Suddenly a terrific yell from hundreds of savage throats, just in their rear, thrilled
						every patriot with horror. The Indians, under their leader, for a long time supposed to
						have been Brant himself, had passed around to the rear of the Americans. The latter
						fought with boldness. But it was useless. They were being crushed between the two
						forces. Besides this, some one blundered. The drummer beat a retreat when the order was
						an advance. They broke and ran—ran for life. The Indians leaped after them,
						flinging down their rifles, and using only the tomahawk. They pursued every straggling
						runner. Only sixty out of the noble three hundred escaped unhurt. Some of these did so
						by swimming the river, others by fleeing to the mountains.
					This was not a battle. History calls it a MASSACRE. An eye-witness,
						an Englishman, slightly changes these figures. He says there were three hundred and
						forty Americans, and that forty only escaped. The other statement was
						frightful enough. But for this latter unquestionable testimony, the former report would
						have been regarded as an exaggeration.
					As the news of the defeat was carried down the valley by 
						the hunted fugitives, the women and children fled panic-stricken into the wilderness.
						Colonel Zebulon Butler managed to make a stand in Fort Wyoming, where large numbers of
						settlers were huddled together. Concerning what followed, there is a bitter historical
						dispute. The earliest writers relate the following: On the morning of July 4th, the
						invaders demanded surrender of the fort. A parley was proposed. A large body of
						Americans marched to the appointed place. Instead of the truce being respected, the
						Indians suddenly sprang, howling, upon them from the shadowy recesses in the forest, and
						commenced a second and more horrible massacre, slaughtering nearly all in cold blood.
						"A remnant only regained the fort. A demand was sent in for surrender, accompanied by
						one hundred and ninety-six bloody scalps, taken from those who had just been slain. When
						the best terms were asked, the infamous Butler replied, the hatchet."
						It will be observed that the hostile commanders bore the same name. They were cousins
						and old friends.
					Some of the occupants of the fort, including Colonel Zebulon Butler, managed to escape
						to the wilderness. The rest, with those who were found in the settlement—men,
						women, and children—were locked up in the houses, which were set on fire, and "the
						whole consumed together." This was not all. Another fort was near by with seventy
						soldiers. They surrendered, under solemn promises that their lives would be spared. They
						were butchered to a man. Some details have been handed down to us. "One of the
						prisoners, a Captain Badlock, was committed to torture, by having his body stuck full of
						splinters of pine knots, and a fire of dry wood made around him, when his two
						companions, Captains Rauson and Durkee were thrown into the same fire and held down with
						pitchforks until consumed. One Partial Terry, the son of a man of respectable character,
						having joined the Indian cause, with his own hands, murdered his father, mother,
						brothers, and sisters, stripped off their scalps, and cut off his father's head!"
					
					These were the earliest reports of the Wyoming tragedy. Later and more critical
						authorities deny them. It is creditable to human nature to disbelieve them. Whether the
						particular incidents recorded took place or not is of no importance. All agree that a
						Reign of Terror was inaugurated in the peaceful valley. At the best, history is only
						approximately true. Froude, Gibbon, Macaulay, Bancroft, have alike drawn on their
						imagination for details. The outline of history only is correct. The "historical
						imagination" is what makes history readable. It furnishes one a picture of the past.
					Whether the particular details are true is immaterial. The scene, as a whole, may be
						true, nevertheless. Who doubts that one of Dickens's novels presents us with a better
						view of English life and manners than any history can do? Yet the whole book is a tissue
						of fiction. The truth or falsity of history is not to be determined merely by the
						pictorial and graphic details, which give life and animation to the scene. The real test
						is, whether the general outline, the perspective, the tone, proportion, and coloring is
						true to the original. Any thing else is impossible. No two witnesses will ever agree as
						to the exact details of a street brawl. Yet a hundred will substantiate each other as to
						the general and obvious facts.
					One of the disputes over the Wyoming tragedy was, the leadership of the Indians. Early
						reports charged it to Brant. The poet Campbell, acting on this authority, gave him an
						immortality of shame in his "Gertrude of Wyoming." In his later years, however, Brant's
						son went to England and charged the poet with traducing his father. Indeed, the proofs
						strongly indicate that Brant was not present at the invasion of Wyoming.
					If Brant was not at Wyoming, there were enough raids, burnings, ambushes, fights, and
						massacres which did take place during this summer under his leadership. One incident
						must suffice. German Flatts was the very flower of the Mohawk valley. A settlement of
						some sixty-five houses, was distributed equally on either side of the river. On one side
						stood the  massive stone residence of the Herkimer family,
						used as a fort. One evening, half an hour before sunset, a scout brought word that Brant
						and several hundred warriors was on his way to this settlement. There had been four in
						the scout's party. The other three were killed. As the great and solemn sunset flung its
						dying splendors across the evening sky, there was alarm and terror in every household,
						for ten miles along the valley. The poor people piled their most valuable furniture into
						canoes, and hurriedly made their way to Fort Herkimer, and Fort Dayton, on the opposite
						side of the river. All night the fugitives continued to arrive. Their houses and flocks
						had been abandoned. A heavy rainstorm occurred after midnight, adding to the misery of
						the unhappy people, who were dragging their things up the river bank to the forts.
					Brant arrived, and halted in a neighboring ravine, little suspecting that his approach
						was known. Anxious eyes kept watch from the fort. At the first flush of dawn, the
						Indians could be seen swarming through the settlement. The black smoke and flames from
						the incendiary torch rolled up at nearly the same moment from every house in the place.
						The Indians waited, in the morning air, with drawn tomahawks, impatient for the roasting
						inmates to rush forth. But they were disappointed. Not a scalp graced their victory. The
						unhappy settlers were forced to see every house and barn, one hundred and twenty in
						number, with the contents, and five mills burnt, and nearly a thousand head of live
						stock driven away.
					Linked by a common fate with the melancholy Wyoming, is Cherry Valley. On the 10th of
						November, 1778, Brant and Walter N. Butler appeared suddenly before the place. No alarm
						had reached the settlement. For this there was a reason. All the scouts had been taken
						prisoners. The settlers were sleeping quietly in their houses. Even the officers of the
						fort were staying at the houses of the neighbors.
					Just before daybreak the savages, a name which belongs equally to the Tory rangers and
						to Brant's Indians, dashed into  the settlement. The house
						of Mr. Wells was first surrounded. The family was awakened by the bursting in of the
						door. Mr. Wells, his mother, his wife, three sons, and a daughter, were butchered in
						their beds. His sister Jane, a lovely girl, managed to get out of the house. She sought
						refuge in a wood-pile, but was killed in the act of reaching it. The guards in the house
						were either killed or taken. Here too, was Captain Alden, commandant of the fort. He
						fled down the hill, pursued by an Indian. Refusing to stop, the savage hurled his
						tomahawk, with fatal accuracy. This was but a specimen of the horrid scenes.
					Every house in the settlement was burnt. Thirty-two inhabitants, largely women and
						children, were slain, besides sixteen soldiers. In addition to this, some forty persons
						were taken prisoners. Most of the women and children were set free, but the rest were
						taken to Niagara.
					For the atrocities at Cherry Valley, Brant's biographer claims, with much plausibility,
						that he was not responsible, that Walter N. Butler had entire command of the expedition.
						Indeed, there are many authentic instances where Brant interposed to save women and
						children from outrage. In this regard he differed from nearly all of the great Indian
						chiefs. He was always sensitive to any charge of cruelty.
					There were other raids by Brant during this season. But they hardly deserve mention.
						Not more than twelve or fifteen firesides were desolated by each attack. What place can
						such small massacres find in history? One with fifty victims will do, but five hundred
						is better.
					The whites managed to extract some sport out of affairs themselves. About this time the
						Onondagas were suspected by the Americans of infidelity. An expedition, under Colonel
						Van Schaick, fell upon their principal village, the capital of the confederacy,
						destroying it and numbers of the inhabitants. The immemorial council-fire was
						extinguished. The faithful Oneidas trembled in their moccasins at the fearful vengeance
						wreaked upon their neighbors. They at once sent an embassy  to ask what it meant. "Was it done by mistake or design," they asked. "If our
						brethren, the Americans, mean to destroy us also, we will not fly—we will wait
						here and receive our death." "They were cut off by design. I was ordered to do
						it—it is done," was the reply. For the injury the Onondagas took ample revenge.
						Three hundred of their warriors fell upon the settlement of Schoharie, and destroyed
						it.
					Another of Brant's exploits was the destruction of Minisink. In the massacre large
						numbers of whites suffered death. One man, Major Wood, was about to be killed when,
						either by accident or design, he made a Masonic signal, though he did not belong to the
						order. Brant was an enthusiastic Freemason, and at once rescued him. When the Indian
						leader found out the deception, he boiled over with rage, cursing the man terribly, but
						yet sparing his life.
					In the summer of 1779, the colonies resolved on a united effort to crush the power of
						the Six Nations by an invasion of their country. The army for that purpose was strong
						and well equipped. Brant, on the other hand, rallied all his forces for the defense of
						his country. The battle took place on the site of the present city of Elmira, New York.
						It raged all day. The Americans gradually forced the enemy back. So many Indians were
						killed, that "the sides of the rocks next the river appeared as though blood had been
						poured on them by pailfuls."
					All was lost. The Indian warriors fled, taking women and children with them, and
						leaving their smiling country, with its populous and regularly laid out villages, its
						vast acreage of waving grain, its numerous orchards, in which the ruddy fruit was
						already peeping from among the clustering leaves, open to the destroyers' advance. Town
						after town was laid in ashes. Of Kanadaseagea, the capital of the Senecas, not one
						wigwam was left standing. Genesee, the principal western town, containing all the winter
						stores of the confederacy, was completely obliterated. The fields of grain were burnt.
						The very gardens were uprooted, and the harmless apple trees hewn down.
					
					Yet the wrath of the invaders wreaked itself alone upon these inanimate objects. The
						Indians fled at their approach, leaving their villages silent and deserted. Fires were
						still burning in the wigwams. Iron pots, with their noonday meal, were still simmering
						away over the coals. The rude cradle was still warm from the babe which had lain there.
						But no human being could be found. The hand which built the fire was invisible. The cook
						who had prepared the pot of broth was nowhere to be seen. The mother of the babe was out
						of sight. All were gone. The women and children were sent to Niagara. The warriors
						remained lurking in the forest, insane with wrath at the destruction of their lovely
						country, sometimes venting their rage in nameless tortures upon unfortunate stragglers
						whom they captured, but otherwise offering no resistance to the invaders.
					The flight of the Iroquois on this occasion reminds one of the flight of the Russians
						on Napoleon's march to Moscow. But in one regard it is different. Napoleon found himself
						in a frozen wilderness. These invaders found themselves in a blooming garden. A soldier
						took the trouble to measure an ear of corn which he plucked from the rustling stalk. He
						found it to be twenty-two inches long. Another soldier made a rough count of the number
						of apple trees in a single orchard which was on the point of destruction. He estimated
						that there were fifteen hundred bearing trees. This was not unusually large. Of the
						number of orchards, the men said they were "innumerable." This, probably, included those
						of peach and pear trees. They were the product of the toil and care of countless
						generations of Iroquois. "A wigwam can be rebuilt in two or three days,"the Indians
						sadly said; "but a tree takes many years to grow again."
					Their sorrows became the source of dissension. There arose a peace party. Among the
						Senecas was a young orator named Red Jacket. He had the gift of eloquence. He became the
						leader of the peace party. He spoke with thrilling earnestness  of the folly of a war which was driving them forever from the lovely valley
						which they had inherited from their fathers; a war, too, in which they fought, not for
						themselves, but for the English. "What have the English done for us," he exclaimed,
						drawing his proud form to its fullest height, and pointing with the zeal of despair
						toward the winding Mohawk, "that we should become homeless and helpless wanderers for
						their sakes?" His burning words sank deep into the hearts of his passionate hearers. It
						was secretly resolved by his party to send a runner to the American army, and ask them
						to offer peace on any terms.
					Brant was the leader of the war party. All his tremendous prejudices and masterful
						abilities were enlisted in behalf of England. He hated the young and eloquent Red
						Jacket. Moreover, Brant was no orator. He could not contend with his gifted rival in
						mere words. He was rather a man of action, a Cromwell of great executive ability and
						possessing a will of iron. He heard of the plot to make peace. He kept his own council.
						The runner left the camp. Two confidential warriors were summoned by Brant. In a few
						stern words he explained to them that the American flag of truce must never reach the
						Indian camp. Its bearers must be murdered on the way, yet with such secrecy that their
						fate should not be known. The expectant peace party, waiting for the message in vain,
						were to believe that the Americans had scornfully refused to hear their prayer for
						peace. The plot was carried out. The man of words was vanquished. The man of deeds
						triumphed. The flag of truce never arrived.
					General Sullivan had now destroyed the home of the proud Iroquois, and driven their
						families abroad to strange and inhospitable regions. More than forty populous towns had
						been literally blotted out from the map of the country. The landscape was no longer
						variegated with fields of golden grain, with burdened orchards, staggering beneath their
						tinted fruitage, with verdant pastures, dotted over with sleek and peaceful herds, nor
						with  waving forests of ancient trees, whose emerald
						foliage formed such a rich contrast with the sunny sky and the winding river. As far as
						the eye could stretch, the prospect presented a single ominous color. That color was
						black. It was a landscape of charcoal! The American general was happy.
					Instead of pressing on to Niagara, and destroying the military head-quarters of the
						north-west, he turned about. Only one ambition remained unfulfilled. He had no captives.
						Casting about in his mind, he remembered a few families of the Lower clan of the
						Mohawks, who, as will be recollected, had refused to follow Brant. They had remained
						peacefully at home in their wigwams and fields. They were neutral. They expected no
						danger. As General Sullivan thought of them his eye brightened. He would add the missing
						plume to his hat. He would take these Mohawks prisoners. Happy thought! Brilliant idea!
						It was carried into execution. The peaceful tillers of the soil were rudely torn from
						their homes. It is hardly necessary to add that they were soon released, by order of
						Sullivan's superiors. The general himself soon found it convenient to resign on account
						of ill-health.
					The winter of 1779-80, was one of unprecedented rigor. The shivering Iroquois, at
						Niagara, suffered severely. But the fire of hate burnt in the heart of Brant as hot as
						ever. Long had he been meditating a terrible revenge upon the Oneidas, who had refused
						to follow his leadership, but had persisted in neutrality. Upon them he laid the blame
						of all his disasters. That winter he led his warriors across frozen rivers, and through
						snowy forests, to the home of the unsuspecting Oneidas. Of what followed we have no
						detailed history. The Oneidas had no historian. Their sufferings have passed, like the
						sufferers themselves, into the unremembered past. It is only known that Brant fell upon
						them without mercy, that their villages and wigwams, their storehouses, and castles,
						were suddenly destroyed, that vast numbers of them were slain, and that the survivors
						fled to the white men for protection.
					
					
							STRUGGLE OF A FRONTIER MILITIAMAN WITH A MOHAWK BRAVE.
						
					
					The poor refugees, stricken for a fault which was not their own, were allotted rude and
						comfortless quarters near Schenectady, where they were supported by the government till
						the close of the war. Their misfortunes did not end with their dispersion. Driven from
						their homes, reduced to want, dependence, and abject poverty, they lapsed from their
						regular and industrious habits. They became intemperate and idle. Of the proud and loyal
						Oneidas, a few lazy drunkards came in time to be the only representatives.
					In pursuing Brant's larger enterprises we omit wild fields of incident and individual
						adventure. One brave man, Solomon Woodworth, lived all alone, in a block-house, eight
						miles from Johnstown. He was repeatedly attacked in his lonely stronghold, and managed
						not only to repulse such small bands as came that way, but on one occasion, at least,
						pursued the Indians, and killed several. Another dramatic incident was the burning of
						Ellis's mills. They were located at the wild waterfall, where the foaming Mohawk plunges
						through a rocky gorge into the lower valley. Since the burning of the mills at Fort
						Herkimer, these were resorted to by the settlers from miles around, with their bags of
						grain carried on horseback. The mill was garrisoned by twelve men. The Indians attacked
						it at dead of night. The building was in flames before its defenders knew their danger.
						A brief and hopeless resistance was made, and then every man sought safety by flight.
						Six or seven were quickly captured.
					Two of the men plunged into the race above the mill, leaving only their faces above
						water, and hoping to escape discovery in the darkness. Before long, however, the red
						tongues of flame were thrust out through the windows. The glare became brighter and
						brighter. Glowing seams appeared between the logs, through which shone the fierce fires
						within the doomed building. The roar grew louder and louder. The yells of the shrieking
						savages mingled with the crackling of the flames. Snatching brands in their hands, they
						ran up and down the  shore, eagerly watching for lurking
						whites. At last, the roof tree fell in with an infernal crash. Millions of sparks
						flitted upward, followed by dense volumes of smoke. The surroundings grew darker for a
						moment. But suddenly the pall lifted. Mighty billows of seething fire burst upwards into
						the heavens, as if furious at their confinement. In a moment the race became as light as
						day. The poor fellows were discovered, and put to death.
					Two others, Cox and Skinner, had sought a more dangerous and yet a safer hiding place.
						They were under the great water wheel, nearly choked with the dashing spray. The great
						embers from the conflagration above them dropped down, but were knocked off by the
						revolving water wheel. The savages sought for them in vain. When at last the mill was a
						smoking ruin, the Indians rode away with hideous yells. Then the poor fellows came out.
						They were severely burnt where coals had fallen on them. But they were safe.
					From the beginning of 1780 the sufferings of the settlers of the lower Mohawk Valley
						steadily increased. It will be remembered that at the time of Sir John Johnson's hasty
						flight to Canada, he had secretly buried his papers and treasure. His estates were
						confiscated, and his splendid mansion passed into the possession of another. One
						morning, a year or so previous to the time of which we are writing, the owner was
						disturbed to find a hole dug in his garden walk, the marks of many footprints, and a
						number of papers scattered through the garden. A small band of Johnson's followers had
						recovered his chest of papers.
					In the spring of '80, Sir John, incredible as it seems, made his way with five hundred
						men from Montreal to Johnstown, without his approach being discovered. His avowed object
						was the recovery of his treasure, which was still buried in the cellar. This expedition
						was one of the most impudent as well as brutal occurrences of the war. Entering
						Johnstown at dead of night, the ruffians proceeded to murder large numbers of the old
							 acquaintances, neighbors, and friends of Sir John, and
						apply the torch to their homes. The treasure was recovered, the outrages consummated,
						and the strangers coolly made their retreat without a straw of opposition from the
						terrified people. On this occasion Jacob and Frederick Sammons were taken prisoners, of
						whose adventures more hereafter.
					On the 2d of August harvesters in the fields around Johnstown noticed dark columns of
						smoke from the direction of Canajoharie. A company was at once collected to march to the
						relief of the settlers, who were undoubtedly attacked by Indians. The place had, for
						defense, at block-house, called Fort Plain, but on this occasion the fort was without a
						garrison.
					For some time the valley had been filled with rumors to the effect that Brant intended
						to attack a convoy of boats, carrying supplies to Fort Schuyler. To prevent this the
						militia from the lower part of the valley were withdrawn and dispatched up the river. As
						soon as this was done, the wily Brant led his warriors by swift marches to Canajoharie,
						which, in common with the rest, had let her garrison go up the river. The scenes of
						slaughter and destruction which took place on this raid of Brant's were almost a
						duplicate, though, perhaps, covering a smaller territory, of those which had marked
						General Sullivan's great invasion of the Indian country during the previous year. In one
						regard it was much worse. The settlers were taken by surprise and had no time for
						flight. Great numbers of them were killed, and immensely more taken prisoner.
					But still Brant's appetite for vengeance was unabated. Again he raised a force for a
						third invasion of the Mohawk Valley within a year. It was not enough to have equaled the
						work of Sullivan. It must be surpassed. To this end he and Sir John Johnson united their
						savages. To be sure, Johnson's men were white. History's verdict is that they were more
						savage and brutal and cruel in their warfare than the wild children of the forest by
						whose side they fought. The summer had brought a rich harvest to the glad settlers. When
						the  season of the sere and yellow leaf approached it
						found granaries almost bursting with their golden treasures, and barns stuffed to the
						rafters with the sweetest hay and oats.
					On the morning of October 16, 1780, the occupants of the little mud fort at Middleburg,
						far down the Mohawk Valley, and the settlers of the lovely region looked out at sunrise
						on a startling sight. In every direction barns, hay-stacks, granaries, and many houses
						were on fire. The product of the summer's toil was mounting to the skies in chariots of
						flame. Everywhere the people fled, abandoning all their effects, in the madness of fear.
						Their alarm was justifiable. Brant's army of fifteen hundred warriors and Tories was
						upon them without a single note of warning. At first, the enemy mounted their little
						cannon, and prepared to besiege the fort. But the little mud redoubt held plucky
						men.
					Finding that the siege would delay them, Brant, a true master of guerrilla warfare,
						gave up the notion of taking the fort, and swept on down the valley with his terrible
						band of destroyers. In their course the whole valley was laid in ruins. Houses and barns
						were burned, the horses and cattle killed or taken, and those of the inhabitants who
						were not safely within the walls of their little fortifications were either killed or
						taken captive. The very churches were fired.
					But the torch of war was not applied to the property of Tories. Wherever lived a
						loyalist to England, the horde of destroyers stayed its ruthless hands. They passed by,
						leaving the property untouched. Then one of the strange sides of human nature displayed
						itself. The settlers, furious at their own wrongs, and aflame with passion at the sight
						of their disloyal neighbors' immunity from harm, issued from the forts, and, with their
						own hands, completed the desolation of the valley, destroying every bit of Tory
						property.
					As the invading army hurried on, transforming, with its breath of flame, the verdant
						valley into a mighty cinder, many a cabin became the scene of a tragedy, more thrilling
						than those  performed behind the flashing footlights of
						any theater. The humble pioneers and their clinging families were enrolled in the
						terrible dramatis personæ.
					John Vraoman was on a scout some miles from his home. An Indian jumped out of a bush.
						Vraoman killed him. A second Indian bounded forward, his long and sinewy fingers
						reaching to clutch the white man's throat, but a lightning blow with the clubbed musket
						stretched the savage senseless on the sod. At that moment a swarm of savages started up
						in the forest. Vraoman fled. By great skill and marvelous endurance he eluded his
						pursuers. After hours of strenuous exertion, he neared his cabin. His heart leaped for
						joy at the thought that his wife and children were saved from the lonely, unprotected,
						and poverty-stricken life of the widow and the fatherless. Nearing the spot, he caught a
						smell of burning. His tired steps were quickened with anxiety. Too late! The cabin was a
						heap of glowing coals, the wife and children captives. He suffered but a few days of
						anguish. Brant sent back the captives, with a note on birch bark, giving them sweet
						liberty.
					A farmer was unloading a wagon of corn at his granary. Hearing a shriek from the house,
						he looked about to find a swarm of Indians and Tories surrounding it on all sides. "The
						enemy, my boys!" shouted the father, but, as he leaped down from the wagon, a rifle ball
						pierced his patriotic breast. The shriek came from his wife, who was tomahawked. Her
						five-year old boy ran screaming to his fallen mother, his childish heart bursting with
						the frantic agony of sorrow. He knelt down in the crimson pool about the form he loved
						so well. In a moment a tomakawk ended his grief and life together.
					An aged man in the fort at Middleburg owned a mill two miles away. His son had passed
						the night there alone. At the first discovery of the Indians, the white-haired father,
						knowing they would speedily attack the mill, started, regardless of earnest
						remonstrances on account of the danger of the attempt, to warn his son of his peril. He
						hoped to reach the mill before  the savages, and
						succeeded. The father and son then hurried back to the fort, to find it already
						attacked. By a bold move they managed to get inside of the sheltering redoubt. Of the
						havoc wrought by Brant, one instance was the suffering of the large and prominent
						Vrooman family, three of whom were killed and nine carried captive to Canada.
					These incidents are but a few drops from the bloody deluge. The invaders divided into
						two parties. One marched down one side of the Mohawk. The other division kept pace on
						the opposite side. In this way the country was laid waste in every direction. The goal
						of the expedition was Schenectady. It was never reached. Flying horsemen had long since
						carried the news of the invasion to Albany. Too much time had been taken up in the
						advance. General Van Rensselaer, with a strong army, was on the way to meet the enemy.
						Brant and Johnson began a retreat. It was too late. A heavy battle was fought. At sunset
						the advantage was with the Americans, but they failed to push it, and fell back to
						encamp. That night the enemy fled, without the rustle of a leaf or the rattle of a
						bayonet.
					Some funny things occur in a forced retreat. Nine Tories were hurrying through the
						forest, each trying to outdo the other in the speed of retreat. Suddenly a stern voice
						cried out in the darkness, "Lay down your arms." They obeyed with precipitation, and
						were made prisoners. They could not see their hand before them. Of the number of their
						captors they had no idea. Every Tory was securely pinioned and led away. In the morning
						they found themselves in a little block-house. Their captors were seven militia-men. The
						nine had surrendered to the seven!
					An incident of the invasion is worth relating. The Senecas were led by a half-Indian
						named Corn Planter. His father was a white trader, who had, many years before, on one of
						his trips, been enamored of a pretty Seneca maiden. Corn Planter became one of the
						living evidences of his affection.  The son was not
						ignorant of his father's name and whereabouts. With a dozen trusty followers, he sought
						the old man's cabin, where he lived in peace with his family, and took him prisoner.
						After proceeding a few miles the proud Seneca stepped up, and said: "I am your son. You
						are my father. I am a warrior. Many scalps have I taken. Many a captive have I tortured.
						Yet you have nothing to fear. If you will come with me to the distant lodges of my
						people, I will cherish you in your old age, and give you plenty of venison. If you scorn
						the simple life of the children of the forest, and prefer to return to the arms of your
						pale-face squaw and the caresses of your pale-face children, my brothers, it is well.
						You are free to choose."
					It may be imagined that the old man, who was or wished to be ignorant of his near
						relationship to he stalwart savage, chose pretty quickly, and scampered off home as fast
						as he could. The young chief bowed to his wishes, and sorrowfully turned to hide himself
						in the forest.
					The common name of John Shell, a Dutch settler who lived with his family in a lonely
						block-house four miles from Fort Herkimer, has been embalmed in an incident which comes
						down to us. A band of sixty or seventy Mohawks suddenly surrounded the little fortress
						one day, and laid siege. Mrs. Shell loaded the rifles, while her husband and sons fired
						them. The attack lasted from two o'clock until sunset. McDonald, the leader of the
						enemy, made repeated efforts to break in the door of the structure. He was in the act of
						using a heavy iron crowbar when he received a shot in his leg. He fell. None of his men
						were just at hand. The bold Dutchman, Shell, flung open the door and dragged him
						in—a prisoner. The cartridges found on him were greedily seized by the defenders,
						whose stock of ammunition was dangerously low.
					Enraged at the capture of their leader, the enemy made a furious assault. Five guns
						were stuck through the port-holes. Quick as flash, Mrs. Shell seized an ax and ruined
						every gun by bending the barrels. As the Indians fell back, Shell ran up  to the second story and calling out to his wife told her
						Captain Small was at hand from Fort Dayton with re-enforcements. Then, in a loud voice,
						he shouted to the imaginary Small to march his men around the left side. It was a ruse,
						and it succeeded. The Indians fled, supposing that a heavy force was at hand. Shell
						hastily collected his family, and placing such food as they had, within reach of their
						wounded prisoner, set out for Fort Dayton, leaving McDonald in solitary possession of
						the block-house. He was removed the following day, but died from an unskillful
						amputation.
					
						JOSEPH BRANT.
					
					The war of the American Revolution at last came to an end. For Brant's wonderful raids
						there was no longer opportunity. He received from the British government for his tribe a
						new home on the Grand River, Canada. Here he devoted himself to the work of civilizing
						and improving his people. He made another trip to England, being received with more
						splendor and ceremony than before. This was in consideration of his eminent services in
						the Mohawk valley.
					
					During the Indian wars of the west, his prejudices were all against the United States,
						though he never actually took the field. He translated a number of devotional books into
						English, and sought to induce his people to give up the uncertainties and
						demoralizations of the chase and substitute agriculture. His own opinion, as expressed
						at a dinner party given him by the distinguished Aaron Burr, was that the civilization
						of the Indians must take place through their intermarriage and mingling of blood with
						the whites. His correspondence, of which much is yet extant, reveals a rugged and
						powerful intellect, on which his associations with white men had exerted a marked
						influence. He encouraged missionaries to come among his people, and renewed his
						Christian professions, which had, perhaps, been suspended or eclipsed while he was
						hurling his warriors like destroying lightnings upon the defenseless inhabitants of the
						Mohawk valley. His letters reveal a proud, sensitive spirit, jealous of its dignity, and
						which could not brook the slightest imputation of dishonor. Nothing escaped the
						attention of his eminently diplomatic mind, whether it transpired in the cabinets of
						ministers or around the council fires of the distant tribes of western Indians. He
						erected for himself a fine mansion on the western shore of Lake Ontario, where he lived
						in unprecedented splendor. Here he held his barbaric court, "with a retinue of thirty
						negro servants, and surrounded by gay soldiers, cavaliers in powdered wigs and scarlet
						coats, and all the motley assemblage of that picturesque era."
					Two or three times Brant condescended to visit the eastern cities, receiving every
						attention from the great men of the day. That "uneasy lies the head which wears a crown"
						was freshly demonstrated by his career. On one of his trips east, he was followed by an
						assassin, a Dutchman, from the Mohawk valley, whose entire family had been murdered by
						Brant's warriors. The man shadowed him day and night, seeking a convenient opportunity
						to kill him. Brant knew his danger, and took unusual precautions. One day the assassin
						had well-nigh  accomplished his purpose. Brant had taken a
						room in a New York hotel, which fronted on Broadway. Looking out of the window, he saw
						his enemy on the opposite side of the street, aiming a gun at him. The alarm was given,
						and the Dutchman taken care of.
					On the way home, after this or a similar trip, Brant wanted to go by way of the Mohawk
						valley, a region so dear to him by reason of its associations, older than the dreadful
						scenes of the war. There as a boy he had been employed at the baronial hall of his
						friend and patron, Sir William Johnson. There, too, his people had from time immemorial
						lived, and loved, and died. But the people of the valley confronted this sentiment of
						Brant with a widely different one. If any man was ever hated with all the abhorrence of
						which human nature is capable, such was the feeling with which Brant was regarded
						throughout the length and breadth of the Mohawk valley. When word came that the monster
						was to pass through the country, the settlers prepared, with exultant curses, to kill
						him. A rumor of the danger reached Brant in time for him to change his route and escape
						secretly by another way.
					Brant's ascendancy among the Iroquois was not maintained without some heart-burnings.
						His old enemy, Red Jacket, gathered a number of malcontents around his standard, and at
						a pretended meeting of the sachems of the confederacy, during Brant's absence, he was
						impeached and formally deposed from the head chieftancy of the Six Nations. When the old
						warrior returned he confronted his enemies in public council, boldly defied and denied
						their calumnies and charges, and demanded a fair hearing before his people. For reasons
						which Americans of the present generation will readily understand, the military fame and
						prestige of the great war chief overcame even the burning invectives of Red Jacket, and
						Brant triumphed over all opposition.
					One unfortunate affair made a terrible impression on his mind, and he was never really
						himself again. One of his sons  was in the habit of
						getting drunk. While on one of his sprees he entered his father's room and commenced a
						storm of cursing and abuse. The exact circumstances are unknown, but Brant, in a sudden
						heat, stabbed his son, from the effects of which he died. The old man never ceased to
						lament the deed, and it is said would lie awake at night and cry by the hour.
					On November 24, 1807, as the shrill winds of winter began to whistle through the
						forest, and the first light snow spread a delicate mantle over the earth, the old chief
						looked out upon the whitened landscape for the last time. He had been in ill-health for
						quite awhile. That day a sudden change for the worse took place. After several hours of
						suffering, Thayendanegea, Joseph Brant, turned his face to the wall, and died. Among his
						latest words were those to his adopted nephew, in which he uttered the burden of his
						heart. "Have pity on the poor Indian; if you can get any influence with the great,
						endeavor to do them all the good you can."
					In 1876, William Cullen Bryant, the poet, whose lyre is now attuned to celestial
						harmonics, visited the old house of Brant. His description will form a pleasant
						conclusion to our story.
					"To visit this quaint old mansion and find it untenanted for the moment, as chanced to
						the writer one sunny day last June, is like stepping backward from the nineteenth
						century into the last quarter of the eighteenth. You enter a spacious hall, and turning
						to the right, find yourself in a large old-fashioned drawing-room, whose front windows
						look out upon the blue expanse of Burlington Bay.
					"On the opposite side of the room is a grate, surmounted by an absurdly tall mantel,
						and flanked on each side by a curious, arched recess. Life-size oil portraits of Brant,
						in his paint and war-dress; of John Brant, the ideal of an Indian hero; of Sir William
						Johnson and members of his family, in stiff wigs and scarlet coats, richly laced, stare
						down upon you from the walls.
					"Upon the mantel lies Brant's dagger, which drank the blood  of his ruffianly son Isaac; carelessly disposed upon a table are a pair of
						richly ornamented dueling pistols, the gift of the Duke of Northumberland; there lies
						his tomahawk, yonder hangs the queer conch-shell medal, which he wore, and in the corner
						is flung his small sword, its ivory handle studded with gems, a testimonial from his
						sacred majesty, George the Third, to his gallant and faithful ally. So carelessly are
						these and other relics strewn about the room as to lend encouragement to the fancy that
						the old chief had hurriedly thrown them down, expecting momentarily to return and claim
						them. A dreamy atmosphere pervades the apartment, disposing the mind to reverie and
						rendering it hospitable to visions of the past.
					"The writer, on the occasion mentioned, instinctively cast a look toward the door,
						expecting to hear the tread of moccasined feet, to catch a glimpse of those swarthy
						features, and be transfixed by a glance of the basilisk eyes which are reproduced in the
						portrait over the mantel. But the spell was broken by the hum of approaching voices, and
						a peal of childish laughter, proceeding from three bright little elves, descendants in
						the fourth generation from Joseph Brant.
					"I can readily credit the rumor reported to me in good faith by a neighboring farmer,
						that Brant house is haunted."
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VI.
						THE CONFLICT IN THE OHIO VALLEY.
					WHAT changes have been mirrored in the blue Ohio during the last
						hundred years! The waters of the river itself have not been more changing than the
						landscape. This is the true age of magic. Who is there that does not see that the Lamp
						of Civilization far surpasses the dull luminary of one Aladdin? Not a single palace, but
						whole cities have sprung into existence, as it were, in a single night. Instead of
						transforming towns into lakes, and their inhabitants into blue, green, and yellow fish,
						by our magic, swamps and reedy lakes are transformed into cities, and in the place of
						innumerable suckers, cats, and minnows, behold thronging populations of men. Unnumbered
						generations of wide-eyed children have wondered at the enchanted horse, which, by the
						turning of a peg, in a single day transported the Prince of Persia and his lady love to
						his distant dominions. But we have enchanted horses which travel at the rate of a mile a
						minute, able to carry, not merely two persons, but whole populations. Yet we do not
						wonder. The author of the "Arabian Nights' Entertainments" thought his fancy had
						transcended the bounds of all that was possible. But the creations of his imagination
						are tame and dull beside the marvelous handiwork of the real Genie, the Spirit of
						Civilization.
					It is still possible to imagine the past. We can conjure up faint visions of the
						majestic river rolling on in everlasting solitude. The winding shores lie wrapped in the
						mantle of  perennial forests. Not a sound is heard above
						the muffled roar of the flood.
					It is evening. At points where the shore slopes gradually to the water, stand shadowy
						herds of mild-eyed deer, now drinking from the cooling current, now lifting their
						graceful necks, and watching with timid anxiety some spot along the shore, from which
						had come the suspicious sound of rustling leaves. Lying hid in the thicket is a phantom
						canoe. A dusky form steals cautiously through the underbrush toward the gentle denizens
						of the forest. He obtains a view of the lovely sight. His eye flashes, his nostril
						quivers, but not with admiration of the beautiful.
					There is a whirring sound, as a light shaft whistles through the air. The startled deer
						leap toward the shadow of the forest. Too late. The arrow-head is buried in the heart of
						a noble buck. His leap was unto death. The crimson tide spurts forth in hot jets upon
						the brown leaves of the wild wood. His large and intelligent eye is slowly covered with
						a film which shuts out forever the view of his forest home. His slender form stiffens.
						The head is partially lifted, as if to look with mild reproachfulness upon the enemy
						whom he had never harmed. Then it sinks back upon the spreading antlers. The agony is
						ended.
					The dim picture quickly fades. Where stood the shadowy outlines of the forest, now
						stately buildings and the stony expanse of a great city's public landing, covered with
						vast piles of merchandise, force themselves upon the vision. Along the shore stretches a
						mile of stately steamers. From some just landed, streams of busy passengers pour forth
						over the wharf-boat. Others are about to depart. Dozens of drays thunder down the stony
						slope with freight for the out-going vessels. Gangs of deck-hands are hurriedly carrying
						aboard the last of the cargo. The voice of the master is heard above the din,
						incessantly urging the hands to greater exertions, now cursing them for clumsiness or
						abusing them for laziness, now  threatening them with
						discharge and no pay, now promising various glittering rewards for more speed.
					At last the cargo is loaded. The last barrel is rolled aboard. The last consignment of
						brooms and wooden buckets is stowed away. The smoke, which has been rising from the
						steamer's chimneys in thin, idle currents, now rushes upward in black volumes. The
						gangway is hauled aboard, the hawser cast off. There is a hasty jingling of various
						signal bells. A heavy puff from the engines, and the roaring swash of the paddle-wheels
						is heard as the steamer slowly draws off from the dock.
					If we turn from the din and confusion of the landing, we hear above us the roar of the
						Queen City. Miles upon miles of bowldered streets stretch on between tall rows of gloomy
						buildings. The air is heavy with the smell of groceries, and tremulous with the clangor
						of metropolitan activity. The street lamps are being lighted, and as we look up the long
						avenue their yellow flames on either side extend in a narrowing vista, until, far up the
						hill, the walls of the street seem to come together.
					How came the change? Whence is the marvelous transformation? Few of us think of it. The
						cities are here—it is enough. What care we for the struggles of our fathers? No
						doubt they were gentlemen, loving quiet, and, following their tastes, they left the
						settled towns and cities of the east to build rude homes in the peaceful valley of the
						Ohio. Unmolested by any disturber, we think they quietly plowed the glebe, harvested
						crops, reared their children, and were gathered to their graves.
					What a mistake! The peace we now enjoy is the offspring of war. Our fathers were not
						peaceful, timid men. They were bold adventurers. They were scouts. They were Indian
						fighters. The Ohio valley was won from the savages only after the longest, the bloodiest
						struggle on record. It was a war which raged without perceptible intermission from the
						breaking out of Lord Dunmore's war, in 1774, to the battle of Fallen  Timbers, in 1794, a period of twenty years. During that
						time the pioneers of the magnificent valley knew no peace. The battles of the Revolution
						were fought and won, but in the struggle with the savages there was no victory for the
						brave colonists. The independence of the New Republic was achieved by force of arms in
						spite of the greatest military nation on earth, but against the redskins of the Ohio the
						arms of the colonies prevailed not.
					Peace was made with England, but with her Indian allies no armistice took place.
						Treaties were concluded with every European government, but the outraged red man still
						shook aloft the gory tomahawk. Years rolled by. Expedition after expedition was sent
						against the Indians of the west, only to end in rout and massacre. Children grew to be
						men and women, middle-aged men and women grew gray in the ceaseless conflict, yet they
						fought with all the zeal of the bygone years.
					The prize was worth the struggle, and the combatants knew it. The region of Ohio,
						Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, and Tennessee is the finest part of the American continent.
						The Indians of the west for unnumbered generations knew it as the best hunting-ground
						between the oceans. The white settlers saw in it a seat of empire for their posterity,
						unequaled in Europe or America. Midway between the extremes of temperature, with mild
						winters and cool summers, with the richest soil, moderate rain-fall, a rolling surface,
						and abundant forests, it is evident at this day that the pioneers did not overestimate
						the prospect. There is hardly any limit to the population which the region is capable of
						sustaining. Delightful for residence, it is also the natural home of trade, agriculture,
						and manufacture.
					As a nursery of great men, the Ohio valley has long since distanced any other portion
						of the country. Henry Clay, Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, Joseph E. McDonald, John
						Sherman, James A. Garfield, Rutherford B. Hayes, Hugh McCulloch, Robert G. Ingersoll,
						Oliver P. Morton, Stephen A. Douglas, Thomas A. Hendricks, Allen G. Thurman, Benjamin
						Harrison,  Matthew Simpson, E. S. Ames, Tom Corwin, Thomas
						Marshall, George D. Prentice, Robert Dale Owen, Henry Ward Beecher, William T. Sherman,
						Henry Bascom, A. E. Burnsides, Stonewall Jackson—these are the men whom the valley
						of the Ohio has already furnished to the Republic. Where can be found any other portion
						of the country, which, within less than a hundred years after the first settlers found
						it a silent wilderness, has given to the world such a constellation of statesmen,
						orators, military commanders, and writers?
					The Ohio valley then was won by war, by twenty years of conflict. Reserving for
						separate chapters the stories of the different expeditions and the most famous Indian
						fighters, in this chapter we will collect the crumbs which fall from the table of the
						feast.
					The greater part of the romantic stories of Indian adventures have been buried with the
						daring actors in oblivion. Besides, the few tales which happened to be preserved in
						manuscript or print, there yet linger in certain old families shadowy traditions of
						their ancestors' struggles and adventures. Gray-haired men are yet to be found in warm
						chimney corners, who can repeat many romantic stories told them by their mothers. But in
						another generation these dim traditions will be gone, as will be the men who tell them.
						Even with a recountal of the feats of which the stories have been preserved, many
						volumes could be filled. Here we can only outline some representative deeds and
						dangers.
					
						THE ESCAPE OF McCONNEL.
						People will eat. Alexander McConnel, of Lexington, Kentucky, though no philosopher,
							had observed this. So it came to pass that he went hunting one spring morning in 1780,
							and killed a fine deer. It was necessary to procure a horse to transport the game.
							Five Indians happened to find the fallen buck, understood the situation, and, from a
							neighboring thicket prepared a reception for the hunter. Presently McConnel, careless
							of danger and chuckling over his good luck, appeared on 
							his horse. The Indians fired, killed the horse, but not the rider, and took the latter
							captive.
						His captors turned out to be jolly fellows, in spite of the deep melancholy which is
							supposed to haunt the heart of the savage. They let McConnel have his gun, and he
							chimed in with the fun by killing game for them with fancy shots. About the fourth
							evening the travelers encamped on the shore of the Ohio. McConnel concluded the fun
							had gone far enough. He resolved to escape before they crossed the river. He
							complained that the cords with which they tied him at night were painful. Being polite
							gentlemen, they tied him loosely, passed the ends of the buffalo tug around their own
							bodies, and went to sleep. McConnel lay quiet till midnight.
						Then he made his right hand as small as possible, and tried to draw it out of the
							loop. Impossible! He tried the left hand with the same result. He attempted to reach
							the knot with his mouth. It could not be done. Heretofore he had borne his light
							captivity with considerable resignation. Now he became frantic. His veins grew swollen
							with rage. He strained and pulled with the energy of despair. Useless! He thought of
							his home, of perpetual captivity, of a death by torture, of suicide.
						As he lay almost bursting with fury, something on the ground, glittering in the
							firelight, caught his eye. He studied it attentively. At last he made it out. It was a
							knife. How could he reach it? He could not move his hands two inches without waking
							his sleeping guards. It lay nearly two yards from his feet. He commenced to slowly
							move his body toward the foot of his rude pallet, under the cover of buffalo skin. As
							this singular movement continued, he gradually drew his hands upward, leaving them in
							the same relative position. Now they were over his face, now above his head; now
							stretched at full length toward the head of the bed. His head was covered with the
							buffalo robe. It could no longer be lifted. Unable to see the knife he sought it with
							his foot. He felt everywhere for  it. He could not find
							it. With his great toe he made a mark in the ground. Then he drew himself up. He
							raised his head. The knife was there. The mark made by his toe was eleven inches this
							side of it. Eleven inches between liberty and a death by torture!
						McConnel thought. In a little while he commenced moving his head from side to side.
							At each movement he seized the edge of the buffalo skin in his teeth and dragged it a
							little. Presently the skin was partially pulled off the savage on the right. He got
							cold. He turned over in his sleep to warm his cold side. This threw him much nearer
							McConnel. But, it also gave considerable play to the prisoner's hands. Again the
							latter cautiously wriggled toward the foot. Again he extended his hands above his
							head. Again the foot sought for the precious knife.
						It was reached, grasped firmly between the toes, and drawn upward. In a moment
							McConnel had it in his hand and severed his bonds. He rose. Instead of fleeing, he
							deliberately sat down by the fire. Strange conduct for a fugitive! Too well he knew
							that to fly without killing his captors meant certain pursuit and recapture. The trail
							he would leave would be as plain to their eyes as a plow furrow. He might succeed in
							cutting the throats of one or two. But the death rattle must rouse the rest.
						At last he took all but two of the guns of the savages and hid them in the forest. Of
							the two he carefully examined the loads. They appeared satisfactory, for he
							noiselessly laid the barrels across a log, and aimed each at a savage. The flickering
							light of the camp fire revealed his calm but determined face. Bang! Bang! The guns
							were fired almost simultaneously, killing two of the savages outright. At the report
							the other three sprung to their feet. McConnel rushed instantly to the spot where he
							had hid the guns. As his enemies bounded towards him, he fired again. The ball passed
							through the body of the foremost Indian and wounded the one behind him. The fifth  and last savage instantly fled. McConnel clubbed the
							wounded brave, shouldered his gun, and made his way home in safety.
						The surviving Indian paused not till he reached his people. Among them was a white
							captive, Mrs. Dunlap. Afterward she escaped, and told McConnel of this Indian's
							account of the affair to his people. He related that he and his companions had
							captured a fine young hunter at Lexington, and had brought him as far as the Ohio;
							that, while there encamped, a large party of white men had fallen upon them in the
							night, and killed all his companions, together with the defenseless prisoner, who lay
							bound hand and foot, unable either to escape or resist.
					
					
						A RACE FOR LIFE.
						One July evening in 1781, as the tired harvesters of what is Hardin County, Kentucky,
							were trudging to their cabins, a war party of Indians burst into the settlement with
							wild yells, murdered no less than twelve persons, and withdrew as swiftly as they
							came. The stricken pioneers started in pursuit. In their party was Peter Kennedy, a
							young Indian fighter, known as the swiftest runner in Kentucky. This talent caused him
							to be looked on as a very brilliant fellow. In the fury of pursuit the settlers ran
							into an ambuscade. Better had it been for the anxious women and children, left behind
							in the cabins, if the brave ones had never gone from them. The savages fired from
							ambush, killing every white except Kennedy. He jumped behind a tree. As an Indian ran
							at him with uplifted tomahawk, the runner fired, killed the savage, and ran. Nine
							rifles were discharged. A ball in his leg disabled him. It also cost him two years'
							captivity in the wigwams along the Wabash River in Indiana.
						The time came at last when his wound healed and his captors were off their guard. He
							made his way to the Ohio River, built a raft, and crossed it. He felt pretty safe. A
							fat deer was shot by him, and, building a fire, he proceeded to roast a delicious
							haunch of venison. The savory roast was just done,  and
							the hungry man was putting the first rare morsel to his lips, when a rifle was fired
							from the thicket, and Kennedy felt a sharp sting on his leg. Hurt, but not disabled,
							he seized his gun and started at the top of his speed for the mountains. Thirty miles
							away was Gooden's Station. That point he must make.
						The Indians started in hot pursuit. Now Kennedy summoned to his aid all the skill and
							endurance which had won his fame as a runner. Up-hill, down-hill, through underbrush,
							over fallen logs, across stony ground, and in the midst of quagmires, he sped like an
							arrow. He gained on his pursuers. At the end of five miles he was out of gun-shot. But
							still they followed. At the end of ten miles the perspiration streamed from his brow.
							His face and neck were swollen till the blood seemed ready to burst forth. Still he
							ran on without the least abatement of speed. Fifteen miles were accomplished. He found
							himself at the summit of a ridge of hills, near Rolling Fort. He paused for a moment.
							The pursuers were no longer in sight. He leaned against a tree for a whole minute.
							This seemed to refresh him immensely.
						With redoubled speed he bounded down the rugged hillside, leaping from rock to rock,
							momentarily planting his flying feet on spots which seemed to furnish no foothold. A
							vast plain was before him. He was a mile from the ridge before he heard the yells of
							his pursuers. He looked over his shoulder. They had paused on the summit. At the
							moment Kennedy saw the Indians they caught sight of him. Far away on the hill-top he
							saw their gestures of rage outlined against the sky. Suddenly they leaped down the
							slope as he had done.
						Kennedy redoubled his exertions. Mile after mile was accomplished. Hour after hour he
							maintained his terrific speed. At times he could see his pursuers crossing the open
							country two miles behind him. Once, losing sight of them, he thought the pursuit was
							abandoned. He threw himself on the ground. His limbs trembled violently. His chest
							heaved up and down in convulsive respiration. In a moment more stupor would  have seized him. Just then the wind bore to his ears a
							faint yell. They were still after him, only much nearer. He had not been able for an
							hour to hear their voices.
						Once more he started. The speed was no longer so great. His gate was stumbling and
							irregular. Twice he fell headlong over trifling obstacles. But he was nearing his
							goal. Twenty-five miles were completed. Kennedy again lost sight and sound of his
							pursuers. Twenty-six miles—they were hopelessly in the rear. Twenty-seven
							miles—the flaming disk of the afternoon sun sank behind the tree-tops.
							Twenty-eight miles—Kennedy felt he had won the race. Thirty miles—and he
							sank exhausted, but victorious, on the floor of the fort. He gasped out an
							explanation. A party was organized. Almost within gunshot of the fort lay the savages.
							When discovered, they tried to run. But their strength was exhausted. They had run
							their race only to meet death at the end.
						It was several weeks before Kennedy recovered from the effects of his fearful
							exertions. His race is without parallel in frontier chronicles.
					
					
						A FIGHT IN A FOG.
						Bryant's Station was a fort. It was on the bank of the Elkhorn Creek, between
							Lexington and Maysville, Kentucky. Being exposed and liable to frequent attack, it was
							strongly built, containing forty cabins, in parallel rows, connected by heavy
							palisades. From this shelter no man dared to venture alone. The garrison of fifty men
							required food. But the hunting parties never went out with less than twenty men.
						It was in May, 1781, that such a party sallied forth, under command of William
							Bryant. The men picked their way cautiously through the overhanging branches of the
							forest. No enemy was seen. A ravine, which had been the site of many a bloody
							ambuscade, was passed in peace. What reason was there for further caution? Why not
							divide the party, sweep a large tract of country, and gather a heavy supply of game
								 while they had the opportunity? Ten men, under James
							Hogan, took the north bank of the creek and Bryant the south bank. They were to meet
							and join camps at night-fall. Hogan's men were proceeding on their way, when they were
							startled by a loud cry of "Stop!" in good English. In their rear a party of Indians
							was to be seen in rapid advance.
						The whites at once turned loose a pack-horse, put spurs to their animals, and
							galloped into the forest at a break neck speed. After a run of several miles they
							reined in, and held a hurried consultation. That their flight had been premature was
							evident. The strength of the attacking party was unknown. Bryant's men might be in
							great peril. To cross the creek, and lie in ambush till the Indians came along, learn
							their numbers, then either fight, join Bryant, or fly to the fort in case of
							overwhelming force, seemed the best way to remedy the mistake. It was three hours
							before the crunching of twigs across the creek announced the footsteps of the
							enemy.
						It was already night. The starlight revealed an Indian starting to cross the stream.
							Hogan fired. There was a yell, and a mighty splash of waters. The bullet had made its
							home in his heart. At once all became still. After an hour's waiting, the hunters
							mounted and made their way to the fort. Bryant and his little company were still out.
							Long before daylight, Hogan and his men, ashamed at their flight and anxious about
							Bryant, started once more down the creek to join him. The morning was very foggy.
							Objects were invisible at a distance of ten feet.
						While they were thus on their way, Bryant met with a sad disaster. He had gone into
							camp the night before at the appointed time, but Hogan came not. The men prepared and
							ate their supper. They sat around the camp fire, speculating anxiously on his absence.
							Usually, these hunting parties were jolly crowds. The evenings in camp were filled
							with rough fun and jokes. But on this evening the men were in no humor for levity. The
							horses were picketed more closely than usual.  The men
							grouped themselves in a narrower circle. They talked in anxious whispers. A dozen
							times Bryant left the circle and went out into the forest to listen for Hogan's
							approach. As many times he returned with his anxiety unalloyed. It was far in the
							night before the men rolled themselves in their buffalo robes for sleep.
						The night passed uneasily. In the morning the men rose, and were preparing breakfast.
							Just then the faint tinkle of a bell was heard through the fog. Every one listened. In
							a few moments it was heard again. This time Bryant recognized it. It was the bell of
							Hogan's pack-horse. Believing Hogan to have missed the camp and to be wandering in the
							fog, Bryant and Grant mounted their horses and rode to the spot where the bell was
							still giving irregular tinkles. Just as they had about reached it, a dozen Indians
							started up in the fog and fired. Both men were wounded, Bryant mortally. The bell was
							the bell from Hogan's pack-horse, which the Indians had captured. But instead of being
							on the horse's neck, the bell was held by a savage, and shaken slightly from time to
							time. Both men retained their seats and managed to make their way to the fort, where
							Bryant shortly expired.
						The Indians at once charged on the camp, killed some, and dispersed the rest. They
							proceeded to occupy the camp, and lounged about the fire, smoking their tobacco. At
							this moment Hogan's party rode upon them, unseen in the fog. The surprise was equal.
							Each side sought shelter, and a sharp battle was fought, lasting half an hour, at the
							end of which time the Indians fled, leaving several dead behind them. The camp
							trappings of Bryant's party were found by Hogan in the camp. His suspicions were at
							once aroused concerning the fate of their owners. After a vain search for them, he and
							his men sadly returned to the fort, to find their worst apprehensions realized.
							Bryant, the leader of the fort, the man for whom it was named, the hero of a hundred
							fights, was lying cold in death amid the corpses of the men who fell in the same
							attack.
					
					
					
						A SETTLER'S SELF-DEFENSE.
						Not in Kentucky alone, but throughout the length of the Ohio valley, raged the
							conflict with the red man. David Morgan occupied a cabin on the Monongahela River,
							several miles from the nearest neighbor. He was seventy years of age, but still braved
							the dangers of his situation.
						One morning two of his younger children went to plow a field a mile away from the
							cabin. Morgan became uneasy from some cause, and taking his trusty rifle, determined
							to go to them. He found the boys all right. Taking a seat on the top rail of the worm
							fence, he was giving some directions about the work, when he suddenly became aware of
							the fact that he and his children were not alone. In the edge of the forest he
							perceived two Indians gliding stealthily and rapidly upon the boys. Morgan called to
							the latter to fly to the house. For himself, he determined to cover their retreat. The
							children, having two hundred yards the start, and being fleet runners, were soon out
							of reach.
						The old man also ran with considerable activity for a short distance, but as his
							strength failed, his pursuers gained on him. He turned at bay, to contend with the two
							powerful and well-armed savages. The woods were thin. Morgan planted himself behind
							the only large tree in the locality. His pursuers instantly sought cover behind some
							saplings, but old Morgan, seeing a little of the person of the nearest savage exposed,
							fired with unerring skill and killed him. The other Indian at once rushed on Morgan,
							whose gun was of course empty. The latter ran, but in a moment his pursuer, less than
							twenty steps behind him, fired. By great fortune, the ball missed its mark. Morgan
							again turned at bay, clubbing his musket, while the Indian raised his tomahawk. Both
							blows took effect, the gun stock being broken on the Indian's skull, and the tomahawk,
							shattered by striking the gun-barrel, having cut off two of Morgan's fingers. The
							savage reached for his knife, but the old man grappled with him, hurling him to the
							ground.
						
						An awful struggle took place, but the youth and superior strength of the Indian
							availed to turn Morgan. The savage planted his knee on his opponent's breast, and
							again reached for his knife. Again his luck turned. He had lately stolen a woman's
							apron. It was tied around his waist, covering the knife handle, so he could not
							readily get at it. Old Morgan, however, was game to the last. He managed to get one of
							the savage's fingers between his teeth. This maneuver caused the Indian to howl with
							rage, and struggle furiously to get loose, but Morgan's jaws were locked on that
							finger with the grip of a steel vise.
						Seizing his little advantage, Morgan reached for the Indian's knife himself. Both
							grasped it at the same instant, Morgan getting a small grip on the handle, the savage
							a better one on the blade. At this juncture, Morgan gave the finger a terrific bite,
							and with swift dexterity twitched the knife out of his adversary's hand. Quick as
							thought he plunged it into the Indian's side, then into his stomach, blade, handle,
							and all. The latter fell over on his side.
						Old Morgan rose, greatly exhausted by the exertion and excitement of the struggle,
							and feebly made his way home. A party of neighbors was raised within an hour or two,
							who found that the old man's antagonist had crawled some little distance to a clump of
							bushes. When discovered, he held out his hand, and feebly uttered "Brothers!" The
							whites, however, failed to acknowledge this claim of relationship. He was killed,
							scalped, and skinned, the hide being tanned by the settlers for bullet-pouches.
					
					
						AN AMERICAN MEG MERRILES.
						The genius of Walter Scott has immortalized the character of old Meg Merriles
							throughout the world. Her character was drawn from life, the original being a certain
							Jean Gordon, a famous gypsy of the Scottish border. Great novelists must have
							appropriate subject-matter on which to base their stories. The border lore and
							legendry from which Scott drew his  treasure, is
							popularly supposed to be unparalleled. Nowhere is the error of this notion, to which
							we have called attention in our preface, better shown than in the fact that in the
							conflict of the Ohio valley, there arose a woman, if such she might be called, more
							remarkable in career, more strange and wild in character, than Jean Gordon ever was.
							"Mad Ann Bailey," as she was known among the settlers, though of vastly different
							origin and surroundings, bears a general resemblance to the immortal Meg Merriles of
							"Guy Mannering."
						The strange creature of whom we write was born in Liverpool, England, about 1750. Her
							maiden name was Hennis; her husband being Richard Trotter. Along with other
							adventurous spirits of the time, she and her husband emigrated to America, and, as if
							by instinct, sought the perils and excitement of border life. Trotter was an Indian
							fighter. He became a volunteer in Dunmore's war, and was killed in the bloody battle
							of Point Pleasant. From that day his widow lead that strange career which spread her
							name far and wide through the border settlements, and which will perpetuate it so
							long as the stories of the border struggles are read among men.
						Thenceforth she followed but one pursuit—that of fighting the Indians. She
							unsexed herself, wore men's clothes, and instead of household tasks, she took upon
							herself the toilsome life of a scout. She became a dead-shot with a rifle. She learned
							to throw the tomahawk with all the accuracy and strength of an Indian warrior. As a
							hunter, she had no superior on the border. Wherever prizes were offered in contests in
							rifle shooting, tomahawk throwing, or other athletic sports, far or near along the
							border, this strange and solitary woman always appeared at the last moment as a
							contestant, and carried off the prize. She rode a powerful black horse, called
							"Liverpool," after her birthplace. It was the only living creature she loved. Her
							horse and rifle were her constant companions.
						She spent her time as other scouts, roaming the forests in search of game, or
							stealthily watching in ambush for some 
							
								CAPTURE OF DAVID MORGAN'S ASSAILANT.
							
							
								THE END OF VENGEANCE.
							
							 wandering Indian. Amid storms of rain and sleet, beset
							by the rigors of winter, followed by wild beasts, or pursued by Indians, her immense
							frame of iron strength knew no fatigue, her restless rancor no slumber. As she
							bestrode her horse, her male attire, her weather-beaten features, her black, wiry
							hair, cut short in men's fashion, her cold, gray eyes and grating voice, her rifle
							easily thrown over her shoulder, revealed the AMAZON. No service in
							behalf of the settlers was too arduous, no mode of injury to the savages too cruel or
							bloody for her fierce zeal.
						The story of one incident has come down to us. She was making her head-quarters at
							Charleston Fort, in West Virginia, when the fort was besieged by an overwhelming force
							of Indians. Unable to subdue it by force, the besiegers undertook to reduce it by
							famine. The brave pioneers defended it resolutely until their hearts were chilled to
							find the supply of ammunition nearly exhausted. The nearest point from which supplies
							could be had was more than a hundred miles away. The way lay through dense forests,
							bottomless morasses, vast ranges of mountains, terrible precipices, and rushing
							rivers. Worse than all this, the whole country was overrun with war-parties of
							savages. Great as was the peril of the fort, great as was the peril of the journey,
							this bold woman alone would undertake the task of procuring supplies. Avoiding all
							trails, roads, and regular passes, she took her way directly across the mountains of
							West Virginia for more than a hundred miles.
						Reaching her destination in safety, she procured lead and gunpowder, loaded it on a
							pack-horse, and commenced the fearful return journey. Followed by raving packs of
							wolves, at every step beset by hissing serpents which still infest the mountains of
							Virginia, discovered and pursued by Indians, hardly daring to sleep a moment, she
							recrossed the mountains by a different route, swam her two beasts across foaming
							mountain torrents, and, after exposure to every conceivable peril, and escape from
							all, delivered her precious load to the beleaguered garrison. This service became
							famous throughout the border.  On her return she again
							took her place among the resolute defenders of the fort, doing guard duty, or sharing
							in the fray of every attack.
						At some period in her career, this strange, unsexed creature, with her disordered
							intellect, was actually wooed and won by a man named Bailey, but this marriage made no
							change in her life, except that, instead of being known as "Mad Ann," she was
							thereafter "Mad Ann Bailey." Her numerous services to the settlers caused her to be as
							much loved by the whites as she was feared and hated by the Indians. In the latter
							part of her life, when times had become more settled, she used at times to visit the
							families she had known and served in her earlier years. From such visits she never
							failed to return laden down with presents.
					
					
						THE GREAT FIGHT OF POE AND BIG FOOT.
						"No man ever took more satisfaction in hunting deer, bear, wolves, and buffalo than I
							have, but the greatest enjoyment I ever took was in hunting Indians." The speaker was
							an old man, of gigantic frame and shrunken muscles. He sat by an open fire-place, with
							its great andirons and blazing back-logs. Around him sat a group of younger people,
							his family and friends. A hush was upon the little circle. The old man was still
							quivering with excitement, as if he had gone through some violent exertion far beyond
							his strength. He had sat silent for a few moments, as if recovering his breath, and
							then uttered the sentence give above.
						The old man was Andrew Poe, a man whose name was known in every cabin in the Ohio
							valley during the twenty years' conflict. His excitement and apparent exhaustion had a
							cause. He had just been relating to the company for the hundredth time the thrilling
							story of his fight with Big Foot. As he set himself afloat in the current of the
							story, he illustrated it by action. He went through all the fury and effort of a
							death-struggle with an imaginary adversary. Not a detail of  the fight had been omitted. With flashing eye, tense and knotted muscles,
							almost choked with frothing rage, he had re-enacted the scene with all the spirit of
							the original conflict, for the benefit of the little group.
						We have entered the room too late to hear the old man tell it himself, too late to
							see him reproduce the conflict in all its vividness. All we can do is to learn the
							story from others who heard old Poe relate it.
						In 1781, there stood on Harmon's Creek, twelve miles back from the Ohio River, in
							what is Washington County, Pennsylvania, a small settlement of white people.
						Among the settlers were two brothers, Andrew Poe, then thirty-nine years of age, and
							his brother Adam, six years younger. The elder was a man of large build and splendid
							muscular development. He and his brother were both Indian fighters, and were looked on
							as the chief defenders of the settlement. Andrew, especially, by reason of his great
							strength, his matchless agility, and rare courage, was the pride of the valley. In the
							spring of the year of which we write, the settlement, in common with the rest of the
							valley, had suffered heavily from Indian attacks. On one occasion, while the Poes and
							their nearest neighbor, Kennedy, were off on a scout, a party of Indians had burst
							into Kennedy's house, and murdered his young wife and child.
						A short time afterwards, probably in June, a band of seven bloody Wyandots stole into
							the settlement at midnight, broke into a lonely cabin, in which lived William Jackson,
							all alone. He was an old man, sixty years of age. Having made Jackson a captive, they
							attempted to enter another house, but aroused the inmates, who gave the alarm. The
							seven Indians made off with their prisoner. The men of the settlement were quickly
							collected. Jackson was discovered to be missing.
						Arrangements were made for pursuit. In the morning, as soon as it was light enough to
							see the trail of the marauders, which was tolerably distinct in the high dewy grass,
							the settlers  set out to save their friend. Twelve of
							them rode at full speed toward the river. At the top of a steep descent to the river,
							down which the trail led, the horses were hitched, and the men pressed forward on
							foot. At the foot of the hill the trail turned down the river. It led across a shallow
							rivulet that entered the Ohio. The waters of the stream were muddied. They had been
							recently disturbed. Andrew Poe called the attention of the men to it, as a suggestion
							that the game was near. He had been convinced by the indications of the trail that the
							Indians were led by a person no less distinguished than the renowned "Big Foot," chief
							of the Wyandots, so called from the size of his feet, which, however, were not out of
							proportion to his immense stature and Herculean proportions.
						Poe was not unwilling to measure his strength with such a famous adversary, should
							opportunity occur. For some reason, after crossing the rivulet, while the others
							followed the trail leading away from the river bank, Poe turned to his right, and kept
							on alone through some heavy willows along the shore. Suddenly he discovered, about
							twelve feet below him on the slope toward the water, two Indians, crouching behind a
							small bluff or elevation in the river bank. They had guns cocked and were looking
							intently towards a spot from which they had heard a noise. One Indian was of enormous
							size, and Poe at once conjectured that he was no other than Big Foot. The other,
							though smaller, was fully the equal of Poe, who was himself the boast of the
							settlements.
						To take in the situation at a glance, to level his gun at the breast of Big Foot, and
							draw the trigger was the work of an instant. But the much vaunted weapons of the
							pioneers were clumsy affairs to those of to-day. The gun missed fire. The Indians
							yelled. Poe hastily drew back into the bushes. Just then the rest of the party had
							overtaken the other five Indians a hundred yards down the river. The shots momentarily
							attracted the attention of Poe's adversaries. He a second time attempted to fire.
						
						A second time, as if reluctant for its task, the gun missed fire. Poe flung it down,
							boldly jumped over the bluff, throwing one arm around Big Foot's neck, and the other
							around his companion, throwing both to the ground by his weight and momentum. Big Foot
							fell on his back, with Poe on top of him, on his left side, his left arm around the
							Indian's neck. The smaller Indian fell to the right of the other two, but with his
							head caught in the vise-like grip of Poe's right upper arm and side. From this
							embarrassing situation the smaller savage struggled to withdraw his head, but in
							vain.
						Poe felt that in order to save his life he must kill one of his opponents, before
							either disengaged himself from him. If one of them should get free while he still held
							down the other, he saw little hope. To kill Big Foot, however, he must get at his
							knife. This was in its scabbard, pressed tightly between his left side and Big Foot's
							body. Nor could he use more than his fore right arm in his effort to disengage it. He
							pulled and tugged frenziedly to get the knife out, but Big Foot's hand was also on it.
							While Poe and his larger antagonist tugged at the knife, the other lunged and twisted
							to free himself. At last Poe gave a furious wrench to the knife, and Big Foot suddenly
							letting go, the weapon came out suddenly. Poe's arm pulling at the knife, and
							unexpectedly released, jerked back, releasing the smaller Indian from its grip, the
							knife at the same time slipping from Poe's fingers, and flying into the river.
						Almost at the same moment Big Foot threw his long arm about Poe, and hugged with all
							his strength. The latter struggled to free himself. The smaller Indian overlooking,
							or, perhaps, for fear of shooting Big Foot, afraid to use a cocked gun lying just at
							Poe's head, ran to a canoe, ten feet away, seized a tomahawk, and running back, gave a
							terrific hack at Poe's head. The latter, however, though still a prisoner in the iron
							embrace of Big Foot, managed, just as the Indian delivered the stroke, to give his
							wrist a terrific kick with his right foot, diverting the blow, and flinging the
							tomahawk into the river.
						
						At this Big Foot bellowed furiously at his companion in his own tongue. The latter
							procured the other tomahawk, and, carefully avoiding Poe's heels, again struck at him.
							This time Poe threw up his right arm, received the blow in his wrist, one bone and the
							cords of three fingers being cut, and the hand practically disabled. Giving his arm a
							jerk, the tomahawk, which was caught in the sinews, was snatched from the Indian's
							hand, and Poe in turn threw it into the river.
						At this moment Big Foot's embrace relaxed. Poe tore himself loose, snatching up the
							cocked gun with his left hand as he rose, and in a moment shot the smaller Indian
							through the body. Just as the bullet left the barrel, Big Foot, who had risen only
							less quickly than Poe, seized him by the neck and leg, and pitched him toward the
							river as if he were a chip. Poe, however, could not be excelled for activity. Though
							too late to prevent this, he threw his left hand back, caught the Indian's buckskin
							breech clout firmly, and, as he fell, dragged Big Foot with him over the bank into the
							river.
						The water was deep. Each man struggled with unearthly fury to drown the other. The
							water was lashed into angry foam by their conflict. First one and then the other
							obtained the advantage. At last, Poe got his fingers on the Indian's scalp-lock, and
							held him under, as he supposed, till he was strangled. But the Indian had deceived him
							by keeping quiet. As Poe let go the scalp-lock to get his knife and end the contest,
							the latter seized Poe, and in turn put him under.
						But Poe was still full of resources; though half strangled, he managed to struggle
							toward deeper water. The current seized them, carried both beyond their depth, and the
							Indian, as well as Poe, was obliged to let go his hold and swim for life. There was
							yet one loaded gun on shore. To get that weapon each adversary put forth every
							exertion. Poor Poe, however, having only one hand to swim with, saw Big Foot beating
							him in the race. He therefore turned again to mid-stream, intending to dive. Big Foot
							gained the shore, picked up the loaded gun, but  in
							cocking it broke the hammer. Throwing it down he snatched the empty rifle, and ran to
							the canoe for ammunition.
						At this moment Adam Poe came running down the shore, to find out what was the matter.
							Andrew shouted to him to "shoot the big Indian on shore." Adam's gun was empty. Just
							as Big Foot was loading his gun, Adam began the same act with his. Each felt that his
							life depended on completing the charge first. Big Foot would inevitably have been
							ready to fire first, had not another mishap befallen him. In withdrawing his ramrod
							too hastily, it slipped from his hand. The time it took to pick it up gave Adam Poe
							the advantage. Just as Big Foot raised his gun, Poe fired, and killed him.
						The fight was ended, but not its mishaps. Another white man following Adam Poe down
							the bank, seeing that the latter had shot an Indian on shore, and perceiving Andrew
							Poe, with bloody face, swimming rapidly from the shore, mistook him for an Indian,
							fired and shot him in the shoulder. Adam Poe, alarmed for his brother, started to swim
							to his help, but the latter shouted to him to let him alone, and "scalp the Indian."
							Adam, however, refused, thinking more of his brother's safety than of the trophy. Big
							Foot, mortally wounded, exerted his failing strength to roll himself into the river
							and keep his triumphant antagonist from winning the glory of taking Big Foot's scalp.
							As the two brothers started to the shore, the swift current of the Ohio swept the body
							of Big Foot, scalp and all, out of sight.
						It may be easily understood how the story of this fight spread throughout the border
							settlements, and made Andrew Poe the most famous man in his part of the country.
					
					
						FIVE KENTUCKY BOYS AND THEIR PLUCK.
						It is easy to see what sort of men the pioneers were. But what about the children?
							Nothing is more interesting than the influence of border life upon boys. There is
							something in it which summons forth all the latent heroism of the youthful  heart. We yet see this trait in the boys of our Middle
							and Western States. Books of adventure, of pioneering, of Indian fights, of
							explorations, form their chosen literature. No matter how quiet and attentive they may
							be in school, one may be certain that stuffed away in some corner of their desk is a
							dog-eared book of adventure, a book in which scouts perform impossible exploits, in
							which one man whips a dozen red Indians, and rescues a pretty girl whom they have made
							a captive; in which abound hair-breadth escapes, and bold adventures of boys of their
							own age, who either by chance or by choice live in that mysterious and wonderful
							region known as THE BORDER.
						Many of these books no doubt are vicious. We pause not to moralize. We simply call
							attention to the fact that this appetite for adventure is in a boy, in such strength,
							that no vigilance of parents, nor instruction of teachers can prevent him from
							gratifying it. He will have and will read books of adventure—the best, the
							worst. "The Last of the Mohicans," and "Long Haired Jack, the Mountain Avenger,"
							alike. If there is a public library in the community, it is the books of this sort
							which are seized and read with appalling voracity. If not, then each boy furtively
							lends his treasure to every other boy, until the worn volume has gone the rounds,
							whereupon, if no other be at hand, the same book is read over again. Whence comes this
							appetite? Is it not an inheritance from our fathers who fought the wars of the real
							border, and which is only overwhelmed and destroyed by contact with the practical side
							of life?
						Let it be remembered that America has been colonized and populated by the boldest
							spirits of every clime, men and women who spurned the quiet comfort of their homes in
							the "old country," and chose rather the excitement and dangers of the wilderness. Then
							we may understand how natural it is for the American boy to love books of adventure.
							Then we may see whence comes that restless longing, which, unsatisfied with the quiet
							life of home, and the rigid discipline of school—in short,  finding no scope or outlet in real life—seeks vent and gratification
							in imaginary adventures and exploits.
						The children of the pioneers were offspring worthy of their sires. It was about 1785
							that a group of five Kentucky boys afforded a splendid illustration of this. Colonel
							Pope was a leading citizen in a settlement near Louisville, Kentucky. Feeling keenly
							the total absence of educational facilities for his two sons on the frontier, he
							employed a tutor for them. He generously invited several of the neighbor's lads to
							share the privileges of instruction. Among them were two sons of Colonel Linn, a
							famous scout, who had been killed by Indians. To them Colonel Pope sustained the
							relation of guardian.
						The little school had no session on Saturdays. On these days the boys were accustomed
							to have their fun. One Saturday in February five of these school-boys went out for a
							hunt. In the party were the two Linns, William Wells, Brashear, and a fifth whose name
							is not preserved. They were little fellows, ranging from ten to fourteen years old.
							Yet they were marksmen who might well put to blush many of the best shots of the
							present day. They made a trip of several miles from home, to a region of ponds and
							swamps, in which abounded ducks, geese, and swans. They had a rare day, and, delaying
							until too late to return home, they decided to encamp for the night on the spot. As to
							the proper method of building a hut and spreading boughs for their beds, they were
							thoroughly posted. During the night a light snow covered the ground.
						Rising early, they prepared their breakfast, and made ready to return home, when
							suddenly a party of Indians burst into their little camp with unearthly yells. Two of
							the boys attempted to run. Of these, the elder Linn being fat and clumsy, and
							encumbered with some game he had hung over his shoulder, stumbled and fell. For this
							the Indians called him "Fat Bear." Brashear, however, was fleet of foot, and came near
							escaping. He, however, like all the rest, was captured, but his agility won him the
							name of "Buck Elk."
						
						Having secured their boy captives, the Indians demanded to know where they came from.
							"From Louisville," said Brashear. "You lie," was the gentle response of the leading
							Indian. But the boys stuck to the falsehood, and by their sagacity and firmness
							prevented the savages from advancing upon the defenseless settlement in which they
							lived.
						When they found themselves prisoners the boys took it coolly enough. Their captors at
							once started on the journey to their distant wigwams. They crossed the Ohio River and
							moved northward through what is the State of Indiana. Every day took the five plucky
							little fellows farther from home, and decreased their chances for rescue. Yet they
							kept quiet, ate heartily of the game and other food provided by the Indians, and above
							all remained cheerful. Their journey did not end till they reached an Indian village
							on the Little Calumet River, near the present town of Valparaiso, in north-western
							Indiana.
						On entering the village they were compelled to run the gauntlet. This, however, they
							knew exactly how to do, having heard about it all their lives, and having prepared
							themselves in mind for the ordeal. Two rows of Indian boys, some smaller, many larger
							than themselves, were drawn up. The young Indians had their hands full of clubs,
							tomahawks, dirt, salt, and stones.
						At the word, away dashed the five spirited little Kentuckians at the top of their
							speed. They were met with showers of filth, missiles, and blows, but by rapid running
							and skillful dodging, they were in a fair way to get through all right. Just as the
							younger Linn, who was in front, was three-quarters down the ranks of howling redskins,
							an Indian boy, much larger than himself, hit him a stunning blow with his fist. Linn
							was a hot-blooded and fiery-tempered fellow at best. Resenting the insult with all the
							fury of his impetuous nature, he knocked the ruffian down by a left-handed stroke. At
							this clever feat, the assembled crowd of warriors gave vent to a huge uproar of
							laughter, but the squaws sympathized with their own blood.
						
						
								CONFLICT OF THE LINN BOYS WITH THE INDIANS
							
						
						Young Linn quickly planted himself with his back to the council-house, and with
							clenched fists uplifted, and his eyes blazing with rage through his heavy, tangled
							hair, which in the mèlée had fallen over his forehead, awaited the onslaught which he
							knew was sure to come. A large and brawny young Indian, with a sinister countenance,
							ran at him. Linn received him with the same left-handed stroke which had been so
							effective before, and knocking him down, sprang on him with the ferocity of a panther,
							kicking, biting, pinching, and pounding till, in a moment, his formidable foe was
							completely demoralized.
						The ring of warriors shouted and danced with delight at this sport, which was so much
							better than any gauntlet running. But the whole crowd of juvenile Indians, seeing
							their champions vanquished, now became pugnacious, and rushed upon him to demolish
							him. At this, the other four Kentuckians came to their friend's rescue, and fought the
							howling mass of Indian youth with the fury of tigers turned at bay. They fought
							against great odds, but being far superior to their enemies in athletic and pugilistic
							skill, they overthrew them one by one, until the rest were glad to run off.
						The warriors here intervened, and proudly carried the boys into the council-house, to
							be adopted into the tribe as Indians. Four of the boys were adopted into the families
							of the leading warriors of the village. Poor Wells, however, fell to the lot of an
							Indian living in a remote village. With sad hearts the boys parted from him as he went
							from them, and they never saw him again. For many years he lived with the Indians,
							marrying a sister of Little Turtle, one of their celebrated chiefs, and fighting with
							his tribe against the whites. He afterwards rejoined the whites, and became a rioted
							scout under General Wayne.
						The other boys, becoming gradually accustomed to the loss of their friend, rapidly
							adapted themselves toward their new mode of life. They soon excelled in all Indian
							sports, and seemed so well satisfied with the pleasures of savage life,  fishing and hunting, wrestling, racing, riding Indian
							ponies, and romping with the maidens, that their captors no longer entertained any
							suspicion of their disloyalty, and they were allowed to roam about as they pleased.
							The boys, however, were playing a deep game, and were only biding their time to
							escape.
						The chance came at last. In the autumn after their capture the warriors went off on
							their annual hunt, roaming far and wide over the country in quest of game, leaving the
							village inhabited only by old men, squaws, and children. One day the four boys
							arranged to go fishing some miles from the village. An old Indian and his wife alone
							accompanied them.
						The boys felt this to be their opportunity for escape. But a serious problem had
							first to be solved. Did they dare to leave the old Indian and his squaw alive? The
							struggle in their minds was painful. The old people were kind to them in their way. To
							kill them seemed terrible. Yet to leave them alive meant speedy discovery of their
							flight, pursuit, and probably recapture, as the long journey to their homes lay
							through a wilderness of which they were ignorant, while their pursuers were thoroughly
							familiar with it. These boys, it must be remembered, had been brought up to regard the
							Indians as their most abhorred enemies. Frontier life was a constant warfare with
							them. The father of two of them had been killed by savages only four years before.
							These things decided them.
						At dead of night the boys rose stealthily, armed themselves with tomahawks, and two
							of them placed themselves at the head of each sleeping Indian. At a signal from
							Brashear, they all struck at the skulls of the sleepers, killing them instantly.
							Hastily collecting the little stock of provisions in the camp, the boys set out in the
							darkness for home. Happy thought! With the skill of a band of Indian warriors
							themselves, they pursued their flight, traveling by night, guiding their course by the
							north star, lying by, hid in bushes and deep grass by day. They subsisted on nuts,
							wild berries, roots, and occasionally a squirrel or rabbit, which they succeeded in
							killing with a stone.
						
						Their journey lay through a vast wilderness of gloomy swamps, lonely forests,
							solitary rivers, and silent prairies, which is now thickly populated with the citizens
							of Indiana. Their journey must have taken them over the site of the present splendid
							city of Indianapolis, the capital of the State, a city of fine public buildings, of
							wide, well-paved and brilliantly lighted streets and avenues, lined with tall business
							blocks, a city with miles of elegant residences, with numerous churches, handsome
							theaters, large manufacturing establishments, modern school-houses, and more railways
							than any other strictly interior city on the globe. The site of all this was, at the
							time of the boys' journey, a bottomless marsh. Besides this, our young heroes' path
							led them through the sites of innumerable flourishing county towns, such as
							Logansport, Franklin, Columbus, Seymour, New Albany, and Jeffersonville. Yet, in all
							their journey, they saw not a white man's clearing, nor a single cabin, nor a
							settlement.
						After a three weeks' journey, they reached the shores of the Ohio, opposite
							Louisville. Here they tried by shouts and gestures to induce their friends to come
							over for them. But the Indians had been very troublesome that summer, and moreover,
							the young pioneers were dressed and disguised until they looked for all the world like
							four young Indians. So the good people of Louisville remained on their own side.
						Nothing disheartened the boys went up the river some distance, and, with no tool but
							a small knife, constructed a raft. Their haste to finish it was so great, and the
							thing was so rickety, that it would only bear the weight of three. The elder Linn,
							being a splendid swimmer, swam by its side while the others paddled. In this way they
							reached the Kentucky shore. Just as they landed, their pursuers appeared on the
							opposite shore, mad with rage at their escape. Linn was nearly exhausted by his long
							swim in the chilly waters. But they soon found Colonel Pope, who had been driven from
							his settlement by Indians, and was living in Louisville. He gave them  a hearty welcome, supplied their wants, and listened to
							their thrilling story with the joy of a loving father. The only cloud in the sky was
							the absence of poor Wells, whose fate remained unknown to his companions.
					
					
						WHO WAS HE?
						It was one morning in 1780, that the inmates of a cabin in what is Bourbon County,
							Kentucky, were startled by strange yells from the outside. The door was slightly
							opened, and, while no person was in sight, the yells were discovered to proceed from a
							dense clump of underbrush. The bushes were violently shaken, and in a moment there
							stepped into view a man. His features were European, but his complexion, costume, and
							speech were Indian. He continued to jabber in a loud voice, rolling his eyes and
							gesticulating in a frightful manner. In a short time all the people in the little
							settlement had formed in a circle around him.
						From his jargon, the settlers, who knew a little of the Indian language, made out
							that, when a little child, he had been captured by the Indians and had been reared by
							them; that of his home or parents he remembered nothing; that he had gone out on a
							hunt with his Indian father and brothers, and had accidentally come within sight of
							the white men's cabins. The view had acted like a magician's wand. In an instant all
							the associations and attachments of the long years of life in the wigwam had been
							swept away. He was seized with an overwhelming desire to rejoin the people of his
							birth, and now he begged them to receive him. His Indian father would miss him, but he
							wanted to rejoin the white people, and, if possible, learn something of his own birth
							and parentage.
						The settlers conversed in a low tone among themselves, and, fearful lest he should be
							a decoy, asked him many questions. Among other things he said that he and his
							companions had ascended the Licking River in a canoe, and burying it, had struck into
							the woods. The cautious pioneers, therefore, as a  test
							of the truth of his story, proposed that he conduct them to the spot where the canoe
							lay concealed.
						As soon as he understood the request, the stranger protested most vehemently against
							it. He said, that while he desired to leave his Indian father and brother, yet they
							had raised him and been very kind to him for many years; that they were the only
							friends he could remember having ever had, and he would not on any account betray
							them. The suspicion of the group of listeners deepened at this answer. They demanded
							that he lead them to the canoe at once, or they would treat him as a prisoner. With
							the strongest reluctance he set out to guide the company of twenty mounted men to the
							buried canoe.
						Perhaps, with the hope of giving his Indian friends time to escape, the wild stranger
							nervously explained that he would first lead the white men to a spot where he and his
							father and brother had encamped, and where he said they would find a kettle hidden in
							a hollow log. As they approached the spot from a distance they discovered two Indians
							in the camp, an old man and a boy, sitting by the fire, roasting some venison. At the
							sight the stranger burst into tears, and falling on his knees, begged and implored the
							white men in the most vehement and frenzied manner, to spare his Indian father and
							brother.
						Moved by his entreaties, the pioneers formed a circle to surround the two Indians,
							with the notion, real or pretended, of taking them captive. The old man, however,
							fought with such desperation that they killed him, while the boy, with incredible
							agility, escaped into the forest. Seeing the old Indian fall, the stranger leaped from
							his horse, and running, threw his arms around the neck of the dying savage, begging
							his forgiveness for having unwittingly betrayed him to death. The aged Indian
							evidently recognized him, giving him a pressure of the hand, but he was too far gone
							to speak.
						The settlers at once called loudly to the stranger to lead them at a gallop to the
							buried canoe. He wrung his hands in bitter agony, begging them to see that he had
							already given  proof of his honesty at the cost of his
							father's death, and beseeching that they might spare his younger brother. The only
							response was a peremptory demand to lead them to the canoe without delay. They rightly
							surmised that the young Indian would hasten thither. Overwhelmed with grief, the
							stranger again mounted his horse. In two hours they reached the spot. No footprints
							were visible. The young Indian had not arrived.
						The men at once hid themselves in the bushes to wait. In ten minutes the young savage
							came running to the spot, and commenced hastily to dig up the canoe. In a moment he
							fell, pierced by a dozen balls. With a mournful cry the strange white man hid his face
							in his hands. They took him back to the settlement, but he mourned all the day long,
							saying over and over to himself in the Indian tongue, "I betrayed my best friends. I
							killed my father. I killed my brother. Oh, me!"
						One morning the strange and unhappy man was missing. He appears only for this single
							act in the drama of history. That act is tragedy. Whether he sought out the white
							settlements of the east, or returned to the smoky wigwam which he had deprived of both
							its support and its hope, or whether, maddened with grief, Judas like, he went out
							into the solitary wilderness, and there, alone with his God, expiated his crime with
							the act of self-destruction, will never be known.
					
					
						THE FIRST CHICKAMAUGA.
						Horse-stealing is in the frontier code the worst of all crimes. This is because it is
							the one against which there is the least protection. In the spring of 1784, a small
							Kentucky settlement suffered this depredation from Indians. The pursuing party failed
							to overtake the thieves. Three of the pursuers, all hot-blooded fellows, named
							McClure, Davis, and Caffree, determined to push on south to some Indian village, make
							reprisals of other horses, and thus balance the account.
						One day, traveling along a trail, the three white men fell in  with three Indians. It was in the vicinity of the Tennessee River,
							probably south of it, and near an Indian village called Chicacaugo, or Chicamaugo. It
							seems not improbable that this was near the field of the great battle of Chickamauga,
							in the civil war, to which the name was given from the creek near which it was fought.
							The two parties were equal in numbers. After a moment's thought each seemed to come to
							the same conclusion. Instead of fighting, they made signs of friendship, and agreed to
							travel together. The three white men walked in single file on one side of the path;
							the three Indians walked in single file on the opposite side of the path.
						For a while this interesting procession held its way along the forest trail without
							incident or delay. It was observed at the end of a quarter of an hour that the Indians
							were marching very close together. Moreover they were, without turning their heads,
							whispering to one another. The white men saw danger. Each selected his man. Caffree,
							the most powerful of the party, leaped upon one Indian. Davis, at the same instant,
							fired at the second Indian, but missed him. McClure, with better success, killed his
							man.
						Leaving Caffree still wrestling with his foe, his two companions jumped behind trees.
							The other Indian fired at Caffree, inflicting a mortal wound, and was in turn shot by
							the cool-headed McClure, who had reloaded his weapon. Caffree, poor fellow, struggling
							now not only with the Indian, but with the arch-enemy Death himself, called for help.
							Davis ran towards him, but when half-way to him, the Indian threw off Caffree's
							weakening grasp, seized his gun, and took aim at Davis. The latter dropped his gun,
							still unloaded, and ran off into the forest.
						McClure, the coolest man of the trio, having already killed two Indians, shouldered
							Davis's gun, and ran after him. Strange as it may seem, in the short instant of
							picking up the gun, he lost sight of both pursuer and pursued. On he ran into the
							thick shadows of the southern forest, but not a trace could he  discover of their flight. He stopped to listen. Not a sign was audible,
							but the steady plash of the little creek of Chicamaugo, or the twittering of the
							birds. He ran on a little further, and called aloud. No answer came, but the mocking
							echo, which rang in thousand-voiced responses, each fainter than the last, from every
							direction in the forest. He shouted with all his power. It only seemed to wake a
							thousand fiends, who took up his words and hurled them back and forth. The fate of
							Davis is unknown to this day.
						McClure, left alone in the Indian country, resolved to make his way home at once, if
							possible. No more fine notions in him about running off a whole herd of Indian ponies
							from their masters. Still carrying Davis's rifle as well as his own, our brave young
							friend set his face to the north. He had only pushed forward for a mile or two, when
							he discovered approaching him, an Indian warrior, on a horse with a bell around its
							neck, and a boy walking by his side. A ready wit is valuable anywhere. McClure dropped
							one of his rifles, lest it excite suspicion, and boldly advanced, making signs of
							peace. The fellow returned them, dismounted, seated himself on a fallen tree, and
							producing a pipe, drew a few puffs, then handed it, following true Indian etiquette,
							to McClure.
						Just then another tinkle was heard in the forest, followed by quite a troop of gayly
							attired Indian horsemen. McClure's companion now informed him that the Indians
							intended to tie him on a horse, and carry him off as a prisoner. To illustrate the
							thing, Mr. Indian, in the excess of his politeness, bestrode the fallen tree, and
							locked his feet beneath. As the dusky gentleman twined his legs about the log, the
							white man raised his rifle, and shot him dead. The Indian boy jumped on the horse and
							rode away. McClure ran in the opposite direction. A lot of small Indian dogs took
							after him, harmless in themselves, but succeeding in tripping him up. He fell several
							times with terrific force, but scrambled to his feet and ran on, until an unlucky fall
							filled his eyes with dust.
						
						Blinded and exhausted, he lay still, expecting each moment to be seized by savage
							hands. Several minutes passed. No foe more formidable than the snapping dogs appeared.
							The silence of the woods was unbroken by a single foot-fall. His path homeward was
							open. Still anxious, but inspired with hope, he regained his feet, and again commenced
							the journey which brought him safely to his Kentucky cabin.
					
					
						A WIDOW'S CABIN.
						The homely name of "Widow Scraggs" has survived the death of its obscure bearer only
							by reason of her fate. Her home was an isolated cabin in Bourbon County, Kentucky. The
							structure contained two rooms, separated by a porch or passage-way, which was covered
							by the same roof as the rooms. In summer months on this porch was spread the frugal
							meal of the widow's family. In winter, but little use was made of it except for piles
							of firewood. One room was occupied by the old lady, two grown sons, a widowed daughter
							and her infant child. The other room was used by two unmarried daughters, one twenty
							years old, the other just blooming with all the blushing beauty of sweet sixteen, a
							girl living with the family, and the children.
						It was twelve o'clock, on the night of April 11, 1787. In one room the elder daughter
							was still spinning flax at the old-fashioned spinning-wheel; in the other, one of the
							young men still busied himself with the humble task of cobbling his shoes by the
							flickering firelight. The remainder of the family were asleep. From time to time, the
							young cobbler raised his head, and, with awl arrested in mid-air, seemed to listen
							with anxiety to some sounds in the forest, which now and then disturbed the silence of
							the cabin.
						These noises, to the ordinary listener, were no reason for the apparent apprehensions
							of the young man. They were but the hooting of owls and the restless neighing of a
							couple of horses in the barnyard. The young spinner in the other room seemed not  to notice them. Probably the noise of the spinning-wheel
							or the preoccupation of her mind explained this. The shoes were almost mended, when a
							footfall was heard from the porch, followed by a knock on the door. "Who keeps house?"
							the person knocking inquired in good English. The young man, supposing it to be some
							belated settler, rose to unbar the door. At that moment his mother, roused by the
							unusual disturbance, screamed, "Keep the door shut! They are Indians!"
						The other young man, till then asleep, sprang from his bed, and the two prepared for
							defense. The Indians, of whose character there could now be no doubt, set up terrific
							yells, and attempted to batter down the heavy door. A shot from a port-hole in the
							cabin caused them to fall back quickly, only to discover the door to the other room,
							in which were the three defenseless girls. This door was out of range of the rifles of
							the young men. The fence supplied the savages with heavy rails. Using these as
							battering rams against the door, the savages filled the air with wild yells and
							discordant clamor, mingled with the heavy thuds of the rams, and the sharp sound of
							splitting wood and breaking hinges as the door began to give way.
						At last the frail defense fell inward, and the savages leaped with exultant cries
							toward the frightened girls. The eldest, pale and desperate, braced herself against
							the door, but a savage hand and arm, thrust through a breach, buried a knife in her
							back. The second girl was captured without a struggle. The youngest one, in the
							uproar, slipped under a bed and out of the door. Instead of escaping, however, the
							little girl ran to the door of the other room, screaming that her sisters were
							murdered. The young men were about to attempt her rescue, when the mother firmly
							interposed, declaring that she must be left to her fate, as to open the door would be
							the death of all. At that moment a piercing scream announced that she lived no
							longer.
						But a new horror was at hand. The room filled with smoke, 
								THE DEFENSE OF THE SCRAGGS CABIN.
							
							 the crackling of flames was heard. The dreadful truth
							was plain. The cabin had been fired. The inmates were forced to flight. Their plans
							were quickly made. The door was flung open. The widow, supported by her eldest son,
							ran in one direction; the daughter, with her child and the younger son, ran in another
							direction. The mounting flames lighted up the yard with the brightness of day. The
							widow was shot as she reached the fence; her son, by strange fortune, escaped. The
							other party also reached the fence, but were attacked in the act of crossing, by
							several Indians.
						The younger brother, careless of his own safety, and seeking only that his sister and
							her child might have time for escape, fought with all the fury of despair and the
							sublime courage which is inspired by a consciousness of self-sacrifice. He had placed
							one foot on the fence. A spring, and he would have been over. Instead, he withdrew his
							foot. He resolved to remain on the side where he was. The foremost Indian he shot
							dead. Then, with clubbed musket, he beat back his swarming foes, till his sister and
							her child were well out of the way.
						But the unequal contest ended. Wounded unto death, he fell into the fence corner,
							where the ground was stained with the ebbing life tide. Four members of the family had
							been killed on the spot and one, the second daughter, taken prisoner. The fugitives
							carried the dark tidings to their neighbors. There were hurried preparations, eager
							inquiries, and dreadful maledictions among the settlers. By morning, a company of
							thirty men was raised for pursuit. They tracked the foe easily through the light snow.
							The latter, finding themselves hard pressed, tomahawked the young girl, taken captive.
							While the main band fled, two of their number posted themselves on a woody ridge,
							where, by terrific yells and incessant darting among the trees, they deluded the
							whites into thinking that a large force of Indians occupied the hill. Such is
							heroism—to die for others. The two dusky braves suffered death to aid their
							friends' escape.
					
					
					
						A TYPICAL HEROINE.
						John Merril was a white settler in Nelson County, Kentucky. One night, about the time
							of the last incident, he and his wife had retired to bed. The glow of coals from the
							fire-place alone illuminated the rude apartment, and the loud tick of an old-fashioned
							clock measured off the flight of time, while the sleepers dreamed of other days.
							Suddenly the dogs without the cabin set up a furious barking. Mr. Merril, but half
							awake, rose to see what was the matter. As he opened the door, he was shot dead,
							receiving seven bullets in his body. His wife sprang forward, and closed and barred
							the door, which the Indians at once began to chop down with their tomahawks. A breach
							was soon effected. But Mrs. Merril was of great strength and invincible courage. Her
							hard life on the frontier had done much to prepare her for this crisis. As the Indians
							sought to enter the breach, the daring woman, with fearful exertion, successively
							killed or disabled four of the enemy.
						Foiled in this, the savages climbed on the roof and commenced to descend the chimney.
							Again the courage and address of the solitary woman confronted them. Snatching up a
							feather-bed, she flung it on the fire. In a moment the volumes of flame and stifling
							smoke overcame two of the Indians, who fell helplessly down into the fire. Seizing an
							ax, the now widowed woman quickly dispatched them, and then, with a quick side stroke,
							inflicted a fearful gash upon, the head of the last savage, who was again attempting
							an entrance by the breach. This fellow escaped. The story of the immense strength and
							valor of the "long knife squaw" agitated many a barbarous audience in the wigwams of
							his tribe.
					
					
						THE SUFFERINGS OF MASSY HARBISON.
						Two hundred yards from Reed's block-house, which was itself about twenty-five miles
							from Pittsburgh, stood, in the year 1792, the rude cabin of an Indian fighter, named
							Harbison. At sunrise, one morning, while Harbison was absent on a scout,  the horn sounded at the block-house. Not thinking the
							bugle blast a danger signal, Mrs. Harbison fell asleep again. Dreaming of trouble, she
							awoke, to find a huge savage dragging her from the bed by her foot, and the house
							swarming with Indians. After ransacking the house, they forced her to come along with
							them. She carried in her arms her infant child, and led by the hand her little boy of
							five years.
						There was yet a third child, three years old. For the little fellow the mother had no
							hand. To relieve her of this embarrassment, an Indian took him by the feet, whirled
							him through the air, and brained him against the cabin wall. To relate these details
							is sickening. The mother fainted at the awful sight. For this the murderers had a
							cure. It deserves the attention of medical men. In her story the mother describes it.
							"The savages gave me a blow across my head and face, and brought me to sight and
							recollection again."
						With this delicate attention the procession marched on. In a few minutes the path led
							down a steep hill. The little five-year-old boy fell. It hurt him. He was but a child.
							With uplifted voice and face filled with liquid grief, he sought consolation from the
							mother's heart, which had never failed. As she put forth her hand in gentle caresses,
							such as only a mother can give, her arm was seized and she was jerked back. Instead of
							the soft maternal touch, an Indian's hand seized the little fellow. His crying was
							stopped forever. The toy which quieted him was a tomahawk. Her babe alone was left to
							the mother.
						All day she marched with her captors. At night, they spread a blanket on the ground,
							and, tying her hand and foot, said "Go sleep." Two Indians lay down on each side of
							the poor woman. The next day the march was continued. This day she had food. It was a
							piece of dried venison, "about the bulk of an egg." One of the Indians went away for a
							few hours. In his absence another savage busied himself with making a small hoop. At
							first the captive watched him with languid curiosity. Then, full of wretchedness, she
							turned her  head to look upward into the waving foliage
							of the forest, and the vast illimitable sky-dome. When her eyes fell on the savage
							again, he had something in his hand. A flash of horror-struck recognition flickered in
							the woman's eyes. It was the scalp of her boy. The savage was stretching it on the
							hoop.
						The second night was passed like the first. Towards morning one Indian rose and left
							the camp. The wakeful mother managed to slip loose from her bonds. With a step,
							noiseless as a spirit, she fled with her babe in arms on and on, pausing not to look
							behind, breathless, frantic, "over rocks, precipices, thorns, and briers, with bare
							feet and legs," as she says pathetically.
						She was a pioneer woman, the wife of a scout. At two o'clock in the afternoon she
							could no longer keep up her flight. She waited. At night, when the north star
							appeared, she marked out the course for the next day. Long before sunrise she was on
							her way, resting not. It rained all day. She had no food for herself or child. Yet she
							bravely pushed on. At dark she made a bed of leaves in the forest. The child was
							hungry. The little creature wept aloud. "Fearful of the consequences," writes the
							mother, "I put him to my breast, and he became quiet. I then listened, and distinctly
							heard footsteps. The ground over which I had traveled was soft, and my footprints had
							been followed.
						"Greatly alarmed, I looked about for a place of safety, and providentially discovered
							a large tree which had fallen, into the top of which I crept. The darkness greatly
							assisted me, and prevented detection. The savage who followed me had heard the cry of
							the child, and came to the very spot where it had cried, and there he halted, put down
							his gun, and was at this time so near that I heard the wiping-stick strike against his
							gun distinctly. My getting in under the tree and sheltering myself from the rain, and
							pressing my boy to my bosom, got him warm, and, most providentially, he fell asleep,
							and lay very still during that time of extreme danger. All was still and quiet; the
							savage was listening to hear the cry again. My own heart was 
								MRS. HARBISON AND HER CAPTORS.
							
							 the only thing I feared, and that beat so loud that I
							was apprehensive it would betray me.
						"After the savage had stood and listened with nearly the stillness of death for two
							hours, the sound of a bell and a cry like that of a night-owl, signals which were
							given to him by his companions, induced him to answer, and after he had given a most
							horrid yell, he started off to join them. After his retreat, I concluded it unsafe to
							remain there till morning.
						"But by this time nature was so nearly exhausted that I found some difficulty in
							moving; yet, compelled by necessity, I threw my coat about my child and placed the end
							between my teeth, and with one arm and my teeth I carried him, and with the other
							groped my way between the trees and traveled on, as I supposed, a mile or two, and
							there sat down at the root of a tree till morning. The night was cold and wet, and
							thus terminated the fourth day and night's difficulties, trials, and dangers!"
						After two days more of incredible suffering, the unfortunate woman made her way to a
							settlement. So changed was she by the six days of hardship, that her nearest neighbor
							failed to recognize her. "Two of the females, Sarah Carter and Mary Ann Crozier, took
							out the thorns from my feet and legs, which Mr. Felix Negley stood by and counted, to
							the number of one hundred and fifty, though they were not all extracted at that time,
							for the next evening there were many more taken out. The flesh was mangled dreadfully,
							and the skin and flesh were hanging in pieces on my feet and legs. The wounds were not
							healed for a considerable time. Some of the thorns went through my feet and came out
							at the top."
						Thus the pioneers of the Ohio valley endured for the sake of the hope which was set
							before them. Forty years they wandered in the wilderness that their children might
							enter into and possess the land of promise. What honor is due them by the thoughtless
							thousands who eat the fruit of their toil! Yet the shores of the Ohio contain no
							monument to their memory!
					
					
					
						MOREDOCK'S REVENGE.
						Nature is full of compensations, of balances. Light and darkness; heat and cold; love
							and hate; positive and negative; more and less—these are but a few instances of
							a law running through the universe. Indian massacres made Indian fighters. In the
							shadow of the murderer skulks the avenger. There was a woman named Moredock, who lived
							about 1793, at Vincennes, Indiana, the oldest and, historically, the richest town in
							the State. She had had several husbands, all of whom had fallen victims of Indian
							hostility. She had lived for twenty years on the extreme frontier. Husbands, children,
							neighbors, all these she had seen slain by the red destroyers. Yet with calm heart,
							stony face, and tearless eye, she faced the danger. She did more. She resolved to move
							farther west, that her boys might have a chance to grow up with the country.
						The party of twenty-five or thirty voyagers, of which she and her family were
							members, journeyed easily down the Ohio and up the Mississippi. One noon they went
							ashore at what is Grand Tower, to tow the boats around a high cliff, by which the
							foaming river rushed with furious current. It was their last landing before reaching
							their destination. Every one was cheered at the happy prospect. At that moment a dark
							and dreadful band of warriors burst upon the little company. The surprise was too
							great, the force too overwhelming for the emigrants to rally. Only one man escaped.
							John Moredock, the widow's son, more lucky than the others, hid in a fissure in the
							rock. When the murderers left, glutted with the feast of blood, he climbed down and
							found the corpses of his family and friends. He buried them. Looking out over the
							majestic river, he lifted his hand heavenward, and with dark and rigid countenance,
							hissed out between clenched teeth, "Before God, I will have revenge."
						That night the lonely youth started for the Kaskaskia settlements. By daylight he
							reached them. He told his story. Bold frontiersmen, hardy scouts, appalled by the
							extent of the horror,  inspired by the suppressed fury
							of Moredock, vowed to help him track the murderers. The flower of the frontier joined
							the expedition. They set out. It was days before they came within reach of the fleeing
							murderers.
						At last they were discovered. Their camp was on the banks of the Missouri River. But
							Moredock refused to allow an attack. Why? Did his heart fail him? No. Were he and his
							companions, after all their tremendous pursuit, going to let the Indians escape? Yes,
							and no. Moredock's determination was to kill every Indian in the party. Their camp was
							so pitched that some might escape. He contained himself. Almost bursting with hatred,
							he was as calm and cool as a marble statue. He said to his men, "We will wait." For
							several days the avengers shadowed the band of warriors. Their patience was
							inexhaustible; their pertinacity tireless.
						At last they were rewarded. At last, the Indians, unconscious of danger, stepped into
							a trap. They encamped on a little island in the middle of the Mississippi. Moredock
							said, "We have them." At midnight the white men landed on the island. They were as
							noiseless as specters. The canoes of the Indians were floating at the water's edge.
							These were cut adrift. This made escape for the Indians impossible. Moredock stepped
							to the canoes from which he and his men had disembarked. With a face of cast-iron, he
							cut them adrift also. What did this mean? It meant that escape for the
								white men was also impossible. "We will fight to the death!" said Moredock.
						The struggle which followed on the island was terrible. The Indians, surprised, ran
							to their canoes. They were gone. With a howl of despair, the red sons of the forest
							turned to fight to the death. Out of thirty, twenty-seven were slain. Was not
							Moredock's revenge complete? No! Three had escaped, by swimming. His appetite for
							vengeance was unappeased. He dismissed his friends with thanks. They returned to their
							settlements. For himself, he struck out into the wilderness. For two years he followed
							the three Indians like  shadows. Across mountains, down
							rivers, over prairies he pursued them, day and night. One by one they fell before the
							avenger.
						At the end of two years he returned to Kaskaskia with their scalps. His revenge was
							complete. He settled down. He was known as a quiet, peaceable man, strongly domestic
							in his tastes. This was his true character. Such men, once roused, make the deadliest
							of all foes. Moredock lived to be not only a respected, but a leading, citizen. He was
							chosen to hold offices of honor and profit. With it all, he spoke but seldom of the
							past. Many of the people among whom he lived and moved little suspected him of being a
							blood avenger. Yet it was the case. Such is our ignorance of our neighbors!
					
					
						THE WIZARD'S PUNISHMENT.
						Early in this century, a strange Indian appeared in a white settlement, near what is
							now the capital of Ohio. He seemed to be continually apprehensive of some danger, but
							otherwise acted as any Indian of the better sort. Gradually the white men won his
							confidence. He explained why he was always so watchful to see that no pursuer was
							after him. He was a Wyandot. His tribe had taken up a notion that he was guilty of
							witchcraft. His life was in peril. He fled to the wilderness. For a long time he had
							eluded them. But his tribe ceased not to pursue him with undying malignity. He was
							growing old. He needed a more settled habitation as he advanced in years. He had
							thrown himself upon the mercy of the white man, his father's foe.
						One June morning he was sitting in a chair in his cabin. Suddenly a band of Wyandots
							entered the room. They had tracked him to his retreat. He made no effort to escape.
							With calm disdain and unruffled courage, he submitted quietly to be bound and carried
							away. The settlers asked his captors what it meant. With dark and bigoted looks they
							replied that he was a bad Indian, that he had caused horses, dogs, and even the  people of his tribe to fall sick. For this crime he must
							die. The settlers labored to convince them that their captive had no power to achieve
							such wonders. To this the savages obstinately shook their heads. The white men
							exhausted their powers of argument and persuasion. The victim could only be saved by
							force of arms. This was out of the question. The band of savages greatly outnumbered
							the population of the settlement.
						Finding that he must die, the suspected wizard asked that he might be arrayed in his
							finest clothes and ornaments. Gorgeously decked out in his gay trappings of silver,
							gold, and scarlet cloth, he took his place in a ring, and asked that a paper, which he
							handed them, be read aloud, and then fastened to a tree. It was done. The document was
							only a recommendation from a prominent settler. With much emotion he bade farewell to
							his white friends; and then obediently took up his march to a lonely wood, chanting
							the while the Indian death-song. Arriving at his destination, he was made to kneel
							before a shallow grave. His relentless executioners formed a circle about him. There
							was a pause. Then a young warrior stepped briskly forward. His uplifted tomahawk
							glittered for a moment in the light of the afternoon sun, then sank to the heft in the
							skull of the victim.
						Herein Indian haters may find a text. The barbarism, the cruelty, the
							blood-thirstiness, the ignorance, the superstition of the savage! Softly, friend, if
							you please. Yonder, on the stormy New England coast, sits an old town, with its single
							street and its queer old houses, which look as if they were haunted. In the town
							museum you may see the wooden pegs which witnesses swore had been suddenly and
							mysteriously thrust into the flesh of tender babes, without any visible agency, except
							it was through the black art of the culprit at the bar. Near by is Witches' Hill,
							where innocent women and men were executed, under sentences rendered on just such
							testimony. Not ignorant savages were the witnesses, the jury,  the judge, the approving crowd; but intelligent, educated, New England
							Puritans, from whom is said to flow the best blood in America. When we remember the
							Reign of Superstition in Salem, when we open to the black pages of the witchcraft
							persecutions, let us withhold our obloquy from the wretched Indian.
						Why do we look with such intense aversion, such anger, such disgust upon these
							crimes, which were committed in the name of justice? It is because it is a part of
							this age to abhor superstition. We know that the poison flower sheds a fatal perfume.
							We see that nothing so enervates the intellect, corrupts character, and demoralizes
							society as this denial of the laws of cause and effect, this belief in a lie, which we
							call superstition. We hate it. But the place for us to attack superstition is right
							here and now, and not in the past. There are historical reasons for the witchcraft
							persecutions of New England. There are reasons, too obvious to be named, for the rank
							superstition of the Indians. Those reasons do not exist for us. Let us tear from our
							hearts every cherished bit of superstition. Let us not merely not believe in witches.
							Let us also trample under our feet every vague belief in table-tipping spirits, in
							luck, in good and bad omens, in fortune-telling, in the infallibility of the past.
							This is our work. But it is not out work to abuse the Indians or the Salemites, or any
							other people under heaven because they believe or believed in superstitions at which
							we smile with scorn.
						Let us pause. This chapter and others, both before and after it, deals with the
							massacres, the bloodshed, the midnight surprises, the deadly combats, the decoys, the
							ambushes of the Indian wars in the Ohio valley. These terrible records cover a period
							of twenty years, from 1774 to 1794. During all that time the frontier was a line of
							battle.
						The history of the time is a history of murders, of cruelties, of tortures. It
							recites the slaughter of children, the tomahawking of women, the burning alive of men.
							It recites captivities, 
								WITCHCRAFT AT SALEM VILLAGE.
							
							 starvations, and wanderings. It tells of ruined homes,
							of desolated lives, of suffering hearts. The midnight sky is forever red with the
							glare of blazing cabins; the forest is forever filled with blood avengers; yelling
							Indians are forever battering down the doors of lonely dwellings. Little bands of
							devoted pioneers are constantly being shut up to starve in block-houses. Strong men,
							brave women, and tender girls are alike ever running the gauntlet of the encircling
							foes, to secure food, ammunition, and relief. Lion-hearted men, maddened by the
							outrages, the murders, the cruelties of the foe, are giving up their farms, their
							settlements, to roam the forests with the dark occupation of the Indian scout. This is
							but another name for Indian killer.
						Young men, snatched away when children from the arms of agonized mothers, and reared
							in the squalid wigwams of the savage, remembering not the loving parents who bore
							them, but knowing only their filthy and ignorant captors, are ever returning, when
							they reach years of maturity, to the habitation of the white man. They feel themselves
							strangely moved. Faint memories of their real parents are pictured on their minds.
							They forever search, without success, to find that early home, and carry with them
							through life a dull sorrow in the heart. All this, and much more, enters into the
							story of the time. Seated in our comfortable homes, we read this history. The Indian
							hater says, "I told you so." Their baseness, their brutality, their wickedness made
							and makes it just that the red men should be destroyed from the face of the earth.
						Let us take a wider view. Let us turn from the silent forests, the majestic rivers,
							the unpopulated landscapes of the wilderness during the years of this war, to the
							sunny cities of France, with their cathedrals and palaces, with their gay nobility,
							their thronging populations, their courts, their literature, their civilization. View
							them as they were during these same years which the wild Indians of the west marked
							out upon the historic calendar with the emblems of death and destruction. Need we to
							be reminded that these very years were the years  of the
							French Revolution; that at the very time when a few half starved Indians were
							attacking some cabin in the beautiful valley, infuriated thousands were thronging
							through the streets of Paris, crying "Bread or Blood?"
						The past rises before us. The red panorama of the Revolution, with its sacked cities,
							its burning chateaux, its wild orgies of massacre, its streams of blood, its
							guillotine blades rising and falling with the regularity of heart beats, severing the
							heads of the bravest, the tenderest, the noblest, the loveliest, the truest sons and
							daughters of France, all these move in lurid procession before our startled eyes.
							Mirabeau, Danton, Robespierre, rise before us now, terrible phantoms, but once, more
							terrible realities. Charlotte Corday, the peasant girl, leaving her rural home,
							seeking admittance to Marat's chamber, thrusting the dagger into his guilty heart, and
							then calmly waiting for her own execution, which came so soon; the awful tan-yard,
							where the skins of the guillotine's victims were transformed into a "fine soft
							leather, which made excellent breeches;" the Hall of the Jacobins; the procession of
							black tumbrils winding daily through the streets of Paris, bearing poets, nobles,
							statesmen, even the silly king and the sorrowful queen, to the place of public
							execution; these are but a few of the flame-lit scenes of the Reign of Terror.
						Yet all this was civilization, progress, political birth-throes, the regeneration of
							the French, the richest, the gayest, the most brilliant, the most highly civilized
							people of Europe. How much worse was the '92 of the Ohio valley than the '93 of
							France? Upon the surface, the savages of the Revolution were blacker, bloodier than
							the red men of America. The Philosophy of History steps in, and laying her hand alike
							upon the raging madmen of France and the untutored savages of America, says to us,
								JUDGE NOT!
						
						
							KILLING AN INDIAN SCOUT IN OHIO VALLEY.
						
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VII.
						THE COURAGE OF KENTON.
					FAITHFUL, rugged, and bold, the character of Simon Kenton is rarely
						equaled among the pioneers of the Ohio valley. He was by birth a Virginian, born in
						1755, the long-remembered year of Braddock's defeat. He was reared an ignorant farm boy.
						The doors of a school-house were never opened to him, and labor early marked him for her
						child. Beneath the rough youth's exterior throbbed a warm and affectionate heart.
					In the neighborhood of Kenton's home lived a young lady, whose spirited manners,
						personal charms, and coquettish arts had fascinated many a less susceptible young man
						than Kenton. The maiden of the frontier, like others of her sex in gentler situations,
						is full of stratagems. This belle of the border pretended to be interested in Kenton,
						who was but sixteen years old, and in another young fellow named Leitchman, some years
						Kenton's senior. All her ingenuity was exerted to bring about a conflict between these
						two suitors. She succeeded. Kenton sent a challenge to his rival. He repaired to the
						appointed spot alone, and was surprised to find Leitchman accompanied by a number of his
						friends, who at once assailed him with a volley of insults. Kenton, burning with
						jealousy and wrath, stripped himself of all but his pants and prepared to fight. The
						combat had proceeded but a few moments when Kenton's superior skill became manifest.
						Seeing their friend about to be punished severely, Leitchman's companions jumped upon
						Kenton and pounded, beat, and kicked him until he was nearly dead.
					
					Kenton recovered from his injuries, but not from the insult. In the following spring he
						went over to Leitchman's house, and announced that he was ready to fight it out. In the
						combat which followed, Leitchman, more wary than before, succeeded in throwing Kenton to
						the ground, and at once sprang on him with malignant fury. Kenton lay still, enduring
						this severe punishment till his eye caught sight of a bush growing near by. He at once
						conceived a terrible revenge. He managed to lure his rival, who had remarkably long
						hair, to the spot where the bush grew. Watching his opportunity, he made a sudden and
						violent effort, sprang to his feet, pushed his foe into the bush, and quickly wrapped
						his long hair around its thick, tangled branches. Leitchman gave an unearthly roar of
						pain.
					In that moment the long-suppressed rage burst forth from Kenton's heart. He took
						revenge terrible and complete for all his injuries, and leaving Leitchman for dead, he
						cast a last glance at his gasping foe, and then fled. Fled, he knew not whither, but any
						place to escape the pursuers with which his imagination peopled the woods through which
						he sped. Day and night passed, and he paused not.
					In time he reached a region where the settlers were talking about the wonderful country
						of Kantuckee. In their stories it was an earthly paradise, an Eden in the wilderness. He
						fell in with two explorers, Yager and Strader. Yager had been a captive among the
						Indians, and claimed to have visited this El Dorado of the west. Fired by his glowing
						descriptions, his two companions resolved to join him in his search for this wonderful
						region, where fruits blushed unseen on the branches of trees which the hand of man had
						never planted; where fields of golden grain sprang spontaneously from the fertile soil
						and ripened untended beneath the summer sun; where the forests were stocked with
						supplies of rare and noble game, exhaustless and unequaled.
					A boat was built, provisions gathered, and the trio of excited adventurers commenced
						their journey down the Ohio. Days  went by, but the Land
						of Promise did not appear. For weary weeks they journeyed, but Yager, whose memory of
						the beauty and luxuriance of the region was so vivid, was unable to locate it. Worn out
						with searching for a country which was a myth, they turned their attention to hunting
						and trapping on the great Kanawha. This profitable occupation they followed for two
						years, exchanging their furs with the traders at Fort Pitt for such things as they
						needed.
					One evening in March, 1773, they were lying around their camp-fire in the forest, when
						a dozen shots were fired at them from the darkness. Strader was shot dead. Kenton and
						Yager took to flight, leaving behind them guns, ammunition, and all the accumulation of
						the two years' work. For five days they wandered through the woods, tortured with hunger
						and benumbed with cold. At sunset on the last day, to their great joy, they fell in with
						a party of traders.
					Kenton soon obtained another rifle, and again began his forest life. He took part in
						Dunmore's war in 1774, acting as a scout. In the summer of 1775 he determined to join a
						party of explorers and again make search for the country which Yager had described. By
						careful exploration of the country for miles on either side of the Ohio, they at length
						reached a region which indeed afforded some basis for Yager's tales. In the neighborhood
						of what is now Maysville, Kentucky, the soil was found to be of wonderful fertility, far
						exceeding any thing in the Ohio valley, a reputation which it bears to this day. Here
						too, the eyes of the hunters brightened at the sight of vast herds of buffalo. Elk of
						rare size, were found in great numbers. The explorers were beside themselves. On the
						site of what is now Washington, Mason County, Kentucky, they cleared an acre of ground,
						and planted it with Indian corn. Here, in comfortable cabins, they made their home. Such
						fortune in hunting as they had surpassed their wildest dreams.
					One day Kenton, while roaming along the banks of the Licking River, heard moans from
						the direction of some bushes.  Curious and alarmed, the
						trapper made his way with caution to the spot. He was astonished to find two white men
						lying on the ground, almost destitute of clothing and emaciated by starvation. The
						hunter hurriedly prepared them some food, and then started to conduct them to his cabin.
						The journey proved too much for the exhausted men, and a camp had to be pitched in the
						woods.
					The unfortunate strangers related their story. Some time previous they had been
						descending the Ohio, when their boat capsized. All their supplies were lost. They saved
						their lives by swimming. But the hardships of the wilderness, finding them without food,
						cover, or arms, "o'ercame them quite." They had given up all hope when found by Kenton.
						The hunter informed them of his station, and invited them to join him and his companions
						there. One of the men accepted the invitation, but the other declared his intention to
						abandon the forest life forever.
					Leaving Hendricks in the camp at the Blue Licks, without a gun, but well supplied with
						provisions, Kenton and his two companions, who had been with him on the hunt,
						courteously accompanied Fitzpatrick, who was eager to commence his homeward journey, as
						far as the "Point," by which name the site of Maysville was known. Bidding him farewell,
						they retraced their steps to the camp to rejoin Hendricks. To their great concern it was
						found deserted. The tent was thrown down and its contents scattered about. A number of
						bullets were found lodged in the neighboring trees. At a little distance was a ravine. A
						cloud of thick, white smoke, as if from a newly kindled fire, hovered over it.
					That Hendricks had been captured by Indians was plain. That they themselves were in
						danger was no less so, and a hasty retreat was at once begun. They were halted at a
						distance of a few miles by some stinging rebukes from Kenton, who declared that common
						humanity demanded that an effort be made to save Hendricks. Caution compelled them to
						wait  till nightfall. Under Kenton's lead they then made
						their way back to the camp. The fire was still dimly glowing. No Indians were near.
					As the men proceeded to reconnoiter the locality, one of them kicked a round object
						lying on the ground. It rolled nearer the fire. He stooped to pick it up. He saw what
						the object was. It was Hendricks's skull! The poor fellow had been roasted and eaten.
						Sadly enough Kenton and his comrades made their way to the cabin at Washington. Not for
						several months did they behold the face of a human being. One lazy September day, Kenton
						was startled to discover a man at some distance. The stranger came nearer. His
						complexion was white. He informed Kenton that there were other white men in Kentucky
						besides himself and his companions. Daniel Boone had already founded a settlement in the
						interior. Tired of solitude, Kenton and his companions broke up the settlement at
						Washington, and repaired to Boonsborough.
					In 1778 Kenton met with a remarkable adventure. He was with an expedition led by Daniel
						Boone against an Indian town on Paint Creek. While scouting some distance ahead of the
						main force, he was startled by a loud laugh. To conceal himself in a thicket was the
						work of a moment. Two large Indians mounted on one small pony rode along the path,
						laughing and joking in high glee. Kenton fired at short range, killing not only the
						first Indian, through whose body the ball passed, but wounding the second.
					The scout sprang forward to scalp the wounded Indian, when a noise from a thicket
						attracted his attention. He turned to find two guns aimed at him by a couple of stalwart
						savages. Kenton jumped to one side just in time to miss the deadly balls. Without delay
						he sought the best shelter the place afforded. Before his gun was reloaded a dozen
						Indians were on a dead run toward him. The result would in all probability have been
						fatal to Kenton, had not Boone's party, alarmed by the sight of the riderless pony,
						which had galloped toward  them when relieved of its
						riders, hurried to the rescue. Several Indians fell dead at the first fire.
					Knowing that his approach was now discovered at the Indian town, Boone resolved on
						instant retreat. Not so with Kenton. He and a friend named Montgomery left the party,
						and proceeded alone to a neighborhood of the village. All day they lay in ambush in a
						corn-field, hoping that some Indian would come out to gather roasting ears. Disappointed
						in this expectation, they entered the town after night, captured four good horses, made
						a rapid night ride to the Ohio, which they swam in safety, and on the second day reached
						Logan's Fort with their booty.
					No sooner was the restless Kenton through with this adventure than he set out on a
						scout with Montgomery and a young man named Clark to an Indian town on the Little Maumee
						River, against which an expedition was contemplated by the whites. Under cover of night
						a thorough investigation of the place and the number of its warriors was made. Having
						accomplished this, the scouts might have returned in safety. But the temptation to steal
						some horses was too strong to be resisted. In their greed they determined to take every
						horse in the village. Unfortunately they had attempted too much, and were discovered.
						The scouts saw their peril and rode for their lives, but were unwilling to abandon a
						single horse. Two rode in front and led the horses, while the third plied his whip from
						behind.
					They were checked in their furious career by a swamp, in an attempt to avoid which they
						occupied the whole night. On the morning of the second day they had reached the Ohio.
						The wind was high, the river rough, the crossing dangerous. Kenton resolved to swim the
						horses across, while his companions hurriedly framed a raft on which to transport their
						guns and baggage. Again and again Kenton forced the horses into the water, but as often
						the animals, frightened by the boisterous waves, turned about, and swam back to
						shore.
					No time was to be lost. The Indians were in hot pursuit. 
						Instead of abandoning the horses, which could not be made to cross the river, the trio
						still clung to their plunder and started down the banks of the Ohio. When the setting
						sun flung his red radiance over the stormy river, tipping the waves with crimson
						splendor, the horse-thieves still found themselves unable to cross. Totally infatuated,
						the three men encamped for the night. At dawn they awoke, rejoiced to find the river as
						placid as the blue morning sky which arched above them. But horses have memories, and
						the captive equines, mindful of their former experience, stubbornly refused to enter the
						water. Blows and curses were unavailing. For the white men but one course remained. Each
						mounted a horse, determined to ride to a point opposite Louisville, where they could
						obtain transportation.
					It was too late. Scarcely had they ridden a hundred yards when the furious pursuers
						were heard in their rear. The fortunes of the scouts were widely different. Clark
						escaped. Montgomery was killed. Kenton was taken prisoner. Among the stolen horses was a
						wild colt, a vicious and powerful animal. Kenton was placed astride this animal, his
						hands tied behind him, and his feet bound together under the horse's belly. The animal
						was then turned loose without rein or bridle. A terrible cut from a whip caused it to
						dash furiously into the forest. On, on it went, its defenseless rider being scratched,
						bruised, and torn by the overhanging limbs of the trees.
					Though blinded by the blood which flowed down his lacerated face, Kenton escaped
						without fatal injury. He was taken to the famous Indian town of Old Chillicothe. For
						amusement his guards beat his naked back and shoulders with hickory switches. Of all the
						borderers of the time no one was better known, more greatly feared, and so bitterly
						hated as Simon Kenton.
					At his appearance the inhabitants of the town were beside themselves with rage. Their
						fury found no words adequate to give it utterance. Foaming at the mouth, they gave it
						vent in inarticulate and blood-curdling howls and curses. A stake was  driven in the ground. To this the captive was tied, with
						his hands extended above him and fastened to the top of the stake. He was painted black.
						Instead of the torture fires being applied at once, the savages, choked with speechless
						rage, danced and howled around him until midnight, pelting him with stones, lacerating
						him with switches, and searing his body with red-hot irons.
					The rare pleasure of the occasion was prolonged by his grim captors. In the morning he
						was ordered to run the gauntlet. At the beat of a drum he started down the line of
						warriors, armed with clubs, hoe handles, tomahawks, and butcher knives. Again and again
						he was felled to the ground by his ferocious assailants. When the race was over, and he
						lay bloody and unconscious in the corner of a cabin, a council was held in the village.
						The assembled warriors were unanimous in their opinion that such fun had not been
						enjoyed for many a year. They generously resolved to share the sport with the other
						villages. Kenton was accordingly dragged about from town to town. Once the poor man
						attempted an escape. The pursuit was instant and keen.
					Kenton put forth all his powers. At every step he remembered that he was flying from
						the stake and the red-hot irons. But he was retaken and carried back—back to
						beatings and bruising, back to searing irons and the cruel gauntlet, back to the
						dreadful stake and the torturing flames.
					He was taken to Wapputomica, where his execution was to end his sufferings. He arrived
						there just as Simon Girty, the notorious renegade, returned from an unsuccessful
						expedition. When the angry monster saw Kenton, he saluted him by knocking him down with
						his brutal fist. Too weak to rise, Kenton called to Girty for protection. For once in
						his life a prayer for mercy was not unheard by Girty. He paused. He scanned the
						emaciated stranger closely. He asked his name. As the word "Kenton" was feebly murmured,
						Girty, with a start of surprise, seized the fallen man in his arms and lifted him to a
							 couch. The savages looked on in wonder. Such a thing
						had never been known before. Bloodier than the bloodiest, crueler than the cruelest, had
						ever been Simon Girty, a savage born amid civilization, an Indian who was the child of
						white parents.
					The white chief sent forth a summons for a council. The dark audience assembled. On the
						rows of faces ranged round the room, rigid as if carved in ebony, not a trace of
						curiosity could be seen. But beneath every blanket beat a heart filled with fierce and
						cynical wonder. For some moments there was silence in the council hall.
					Then Girty arose. He strode forward to the center of the room. He recounted the story
						of his own life; of how he had renounced the cause of the white man, and become an
						Indian of Indians; of his enormous services to the Wyandots, and of the rows of white
						men's scalps which decorated his cabin. He asked if he had ever been accused of mercy to
						the race from which he sprang. Yet, for this single time, he had a favor to ask. That
						favor was the life of a friend. That friend was Simon Kenton, the wretched captive lying
						there on that blanket. Many years before, said the orator, in rugged and convulsive
						eloquence, he and that captive had been brothers. They had slept under the same blanket.
						They had hunted through the same forests. They had dwelt in the same wigwam. For his own
						sake he asked that the life of the captive be spared.
					Girty's influence was great. But the Wyandots regarded Kenton as their arch-enemy. The
						debate raged long and loud. At length the vote was taken. The captive was saved. Girty
						took Kenton to his own wigwam. For three weeks he remained there, recovering from his
						injuries.
					At the end of twenty-one days a new war party returned. Many of their number had been
						slain. The families of the dead demanded vengeance. A cry rang through the village for
						the life of Kenton. A council was called. Speaker after speaker arose, and with vehement
						gesture and heavy emphasis, argued that Kenton must be put to death. Girty again put
						forth all  his powers to save his friend. But he was
						overwhelmed. The sentence of death was passed.
					Kenton was bound and marched away to another village. An old Indian was sitting by the
						roadside. As he caught sight of Kenton a spasm of passionate hate convulsed his sullen
						features. He sprang forward, and with a blow from his tomahawk cut open Kenton's
						shoulder, breaking the bone, and almost severing the arm from the body. In this
						condition he was driven on to Sandusky, arriving there in the evening. Arrangements were
						at once made to burn him alive on the following morning.
					By strange coincidence a British Indian agent was in the town. Learning of Kenton's
						arrival, he at once demanded the captive, in order that the commandant at Detroit might
						obtain from him information of the enemy. The Indians consented to give him up only on
						condition that he be returned to them. That condition was never kept. He remained at
						Detroit, under mild restraint, from October, 1777, to June, 1778. In the latter month he
						resolved upon an escape, taking into his confidence two young Kentuckians, captives like
						himself. By great adroitness Kenton managed to get possession of three guns and some
						ammunition. After a journey of thirty days through a wilderness infested by Indian war
						parties, the three refugees arrived at Louisville.
					"Thus," says a writer, "terminated one of the most remarkable series of adventure in
						the whole realm of western history. Kenton was eight times exposed to the gauntlet, and
						three times tied to the stake for execution. For three weeks he vibrated between life
						and death. Yet, amid the changes of fickle fortune, he remained perfectly passive. No
						wisdom, foresight, or exertion could have saved him. Fortune, and fortune alone, fought
						his battle from first to last."
					For many years, Kenton continued to be one of the most formidable Indian fighters of
						the valley. Through the details of his eventful career we may not follow him. One
						incident is  worth mentioning. While at Detroit, an
						English officer observing his fondness for smoking, and the difficulty of lighting his
						pipe, presented him with a fine burning glass or lens, by which the tobacco could easily
						be kindled from the rays of the sun. Two or three years afterward Kenton was again taken
						prisoner. He was bound hand and foot, preparatory to an immediate execution. As his last
						request to his captors, he asked the privilege of smoking his pipe. He placed the long,
						wooden stem in his mouth. The chief handed him the customary flint, steel, and tinder
						for lighting the tobacco.
					With a gesture of indifference, Kenton refused the implements, to the great
						astonishment of the savage. Extending his hand toward the midday sun, cleverly grasping
						the burning glass, he adroitly focused the rays in the pipe bowl and was quickly puffing
						clouds of smoke from his lips. The Indians were dumfounded. Not having noticed the
						glass; they suppossed he had lighted his pipe by letting the sunlight pass through the
						circle formed by his thumb and forefinger. Awe-stricken and amazed, they grouped
						together at a little distance, with mutterings and grunts of wonder.
					In a little while, Kenton refilled his pipe, and repeated the trick, accompanying it
						with three or four cries, mysterious and startling to the Indians. No one understood
						better than Kenton the superstition of their minds. Seizing his advantage, he made a
						sweeping gesture, clasping his hands above his head, and transferring the glass to his
						left hand. In a moment he had kindled some dry leaves at his side into a flame.
					Struggling to his feet, tied though they were, and giving a terrific leap, such as
						Kenton alone could make, he brought himself to the pile of fagots which had been
						gathered for his torture. In a moment a flame blazed up around the stake as if the
						victim were already fastened to it. Kenton then beckoned to unbind his ankles. The
						mystified Indian durst not disobey such a man. While fumbling at the thongs, Kenton
						raised his burning-glass, and in a moment raised a blister on the 
							A WESTERN MAZEPPA—SIMON KENTON A PRISONER.
						
						 red man's wrist. He jerked his hand away with a howl of
						pain only to feel a spot of fire on his head. This was too much. The chief and his
						companions hurriedly got behind the nearest trees. Kenton then unbound his own ankles.
						Waving his arms towards the sun, he withdrew the stopple from a powder-horn, dropped by
						the Indians, focused the sunbeams upon the powder within, and shook his fist at his
						foes. In an instant the powder-horn exploded with a flash and roar. Not only had the
						powder-horn disappeared. The Indians left at the same instant. Kenton was free.
					The later career of Kenton is a strange illustration of the reverses in the fortunes of
						men. When the Indian wars were over, the brave and generous Kenton found himself without
						an occupation. The lands which he had bought were lost to him through technical flaws in
						the title. He had braved the tomahawk, the gauntlet, and the stake in vain. The people
						who now came in to occupy and possess the fair region, to redeem which from the savages
						he had devoted the best years of his life, found no use for the old scout. His very body
						was taken for debt. He was imprisoned for a year on the very spot where he had built the
						first cabin, planted the first corn, and fought the savages in a hundred fierce
						encounters.
					Beggared by losses and law-suits, he moved to Ohio about the beginning of this century.
						He was elected brigadier-general of the State militia, and was a soldier of the war of
						1812. In 1810 he joined the Methodist Episcopal Church, and ever after lived a
						consistent Christian life. After the war of 1812 he returned to his lonely cabin in the
						woods, near Urbana, Ohio. In 1820 he moved to Mad River, in sight of the old Indian town
						of Wappatomica, where he had once been tied to the stake. Even here he was pursued by
						judgments and executions from the courts of Kentucky. He still had some large tracts of
						mountain lands in Kentucky which were forfeited for taxes. He tried boring for salt on
						them, but failed. His last resource was an appeal to the Kentucky Legislature to release
						the forfeiture.
					
					"So," says McClung, "in 1824, when about seventy years old, he mounted his sorry old
						horse, and, in his tattered garments, commenced his weary pilgrimage. The second night
						he stopped at the house of James Galloway, of Xenia, Ohio, an old friend and
						pioneer.
					"Kenton at last reached Frankfort, now become a thrifty and flourishing city. Here he
						was utterly unknown. All his old friends had departed. His dilapidated appearance and
						the sorry condition of his horse and its wretched equipments only provoked mirth. The
						grizzled old pioneer was like Rip Van Winkle appearing after his long sleep. He wandered
						up and down the streets, 'the observed of all observers.' The very boys followed him. At
						length, the scarred old warrior was recognized by General Fletcher, an old
						companion-in-arms. He grasped him by the hand, led him to a tailor-shop, bought him a
						suit of clothes and hat, and, after he was dressed, took him to the State capitol.
					"Here he was placed in the speaker's chair, and introduced to a crowded assembly of
						judges, citizens, and legislators, as the second pioneer of Kentucky. The simple-minded
						veteran used to say afterwards that 'it was the very proudest day of his life,' and ten
						years subsequently, his friend Hinde asserted, he was wearing the self-same hat and
						clothes. His lands were at once released, and shortly after, by the warm exertion of
						some of his friends, a pension from Congress of two hundred and fifty dollars was
						obtained, securing his old age from absolute want.
					"Without any further marked notice, Kenton lived in his humble cabin until 1836, when,
						at the venerable old age of eighty-one, he breathed his last, surrounded by his family
						and neighbors, and supported by the consolations of the Gospel. He died in sight of the
						very spot where the savages, nearly sixty years previous, proposed to torture him to
						death.
					"General Kenton was of fair complexion, six feet one inch in height. He stood and
						walked very erect, and, in the prime  of life, weighed
						about a hundred and ninety pounds. He never was inclined to be corpulent, although of
						sufficient fullness to form a graceful person. He had a soft, tremulous voice, very
						pleasing to the hearer; auburn hair and laughing gray eyes, which appeared to fascinate
						the beholder. He was a pleasant, good-humored, and obliging companion. When excited, or
						provoked to anger, which was seldom the case, the fiery glance of his eye would almost
						curdle the blood of those with whom he came in contact. His wrath, when aroused, was a
						tornado. In his dealings he was perfectly honest. His confidence in man and his
						credulity were such, that the same man might cheat him twenty times—and, if he
						professed friendship, might still continue to cheat him."
					Such was the man after whom was named the county of Kenton, Kentucky. 
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VIII.
						BRADY, THE BACKWOODSMAN.
					CAPTAIN SAMUEL BRADY, the hero of this narrative, was born in 1758,
						in the town of Shippensburg, Pennsylvania. John Brady, his father, had before him been a
						brave and adventurous man. On the eleventh day of April, 1779, this gentleman, being in
						command of an exposed post, set out for Fort Augusta, to procure supplies of provisions.
						He had loaded his wagon heavily, and with several guards started early in the afternoon
						to return.
					At a certain point the road forked. Those in charge of the wagon went one way, while
						Brady and a companion named Smith, who were on horseback, took the shorter cut. The spot
						was lonely. As the two men rode slowly along, Brady related to his companion an incident
						in his life which had made a deep impression on his mind.
					The story he told was as follows: In 1776, information had been received at Fort
						Augusta, of the approach of Indians. Runners were at once dispatched to the neighboring
						settlements. In the afternoon Brady remembered that they had forgotten to send word to a
						trading post, occupied by a Dutchman named Derr. He threw himself into his saddle to
						carry the message.
					Arriving at his destination, Brady found the yard full of Indians, stretched out on the
						ground, brutally drunk, while Derr sat calmly by, smoking his pipe, as if nothing
						unusual had occurred. Brady rebuked him sternly. The Dutchman replied  that the Indians had come and informed him that they would
						kill him unless he gave them liquor. Acting on the hint, he had politely rolled out a
						barrel of rum for his guests' entertainment. As he spoke, a drunken Indian, with a long
						scar on 
							DEATH OF JAMES BRADY.
						 his left cheek, staggered toward the half-emptied barrel to take another
						drink. Brady, however, interfered, and upset the barrel, spilling its contents. The
						Indian broke out into curses, and, with bitter emphasis, told Brady that the day would
						yet come when he would regret that act.
					
					
					
							CAPTAIN BRADY AND HIS CHICKASAW SCOUT.
						
					
					Ever since that time, said the Captain to his companion, the memory of that threat had
						haunted him. Knowing the Indian character, he believed that if that savage should ever
						chance to meet him, the threat would be fulfilled by an attempt on his life. By this
						time the riders had reached a place of exceeding wildness. At that moment three rifles
						were fired in quick succession. Brady dropped lifeless on the road. Smith bounded away.
						Momentarily glancing back, he saw an Indian standing over his dead friend flourishing a
						bloody scalp. He also saw that the savage had a long and prominent scar on the left side
						of his face.
					Such was the fate of the father of Captain Samuel Brady. Only the year before, his
						younger brother, James, had also been killed by Indians. The young man, with three or
						four companions, had stood their guns against a tree. An Indian suddenly fired, at which
						the others fled. Brady, however, seized a gun, and shot the savage, only to find himself
						left to contend alone against a host of enemies. Two other guns he also fired at his
						foes with fatal effect, but while reaching for the fourth gun was knocked senseless. He
						was tomahawked, scalped, and left for dead. Coming to conciousness, the plucky fellow
						managed to crawl to a settler's cabin. He lived three or four days, and then died from
						his wounds.
					In conformity to the wild customs of the frontier, the elder brother took a solemn oath
						that the remainder of his life should be devoted to wreaking a dreadful vengeance on the
						race whose members had thus twice desolated the family circle.
					In 1780 Brady was dispatched from Fort Pitt to the distant towns of the Sandusky on a
						scout. He chose for his companions a few men and four Chickasaw Indians. The season was
						wet. The streams were swollen beyond their banks. Owing to several mishaps, their
						provisions ran low. The chart of the country which Brady carried proved to be defective
						and misleading. In time, however, they reached the neighborhood of the Indian towns.
					
					While stealing through the woods, the sound of human voices broke upon them. Leaving
						his comrades behind him, Brady slipped forward to make observations. Sitting beside the
						embers of a camp-fire he found two squaws. He turned back unnoticed, leaving them
						unharmed. Coming back to his companions, he detected by their sullen looks and gruff
						answers that something had happened. The young scout sat down unconcernedly to clean his
						rifle. For some time nothing was said. He then called on the men to hand him their
						ammunition pouches, in order to make an equal distribution of the powder on hand.
						Instead of obeying the command, the men flatly refused. They informed Brady that the
						faithless Chickasaws had deserted, taking with them all the provisions, and that instead
						of continuing the scout, they had resolved on flight.
					To this startling announcement Brady replied by handing the speaker his powder-horn,
						and asked him to see how much powder it contained. There was not a grain left. Raising
						his gun to his shoulder, Brady announced that he had one load yet in the weapon and that he would use to maintain his authority. The men, awed into
						admiration for their young leader, yielded. Matters having been thus settled, Brady hid
						all of his company but one man in a ravine. He and his companion then started to the
						village, wading the river to an island opposite the town, where they lay during the
						night.
					In the morning a dense fog covered the landscape. At noon it lifted. The astonished
						spies discovered a vast concourse of Indians, evidently just returned from an expedition
						against the frontiers, bringing with them a number of fine horses. The crowd was wild
						with hilarity over some races, by which they were testing the animals and celebrating
						the occasion. That night Brady, having accomplished the object of his journey, rejoined
						his men and commenced the return trip. Entirely destitute of provisions they
						nevertheless subsisted for a time on strawberries. Only one rifle-charge was left in the
						party.
					The loaded gun was given to Brady. Discovering a 
						deer-track, the scout followed it, and, coming within sight of the animal, attempted to
						fire. To his intense disappointment the gun failed to go off, and the deer fled. Brady
						picked the touch-hole of the weapon, and was starting in renewed pursuit of the game,
						when he discovered a party of Indians. They were led by a large and powerful savage on
						horseback, carrying in his arms a white child. The child's mother rode behind him on the
						horse. Ten warriors followed the leader.
					Brady was a kind-hearted man. Moreover, he was young, and, therefore, gallant. From his
						concealment his quick eye perceived that the woman had been brutally mistreated. One of
						her arms was broken. Her face was a mass of bruises. Brady forgot himself. He raised his
						gun, and aiming carefully for fear of injury to the mother or her child, fired, the
						unerring bullet plunging into the heart of the savage. The Indians were paralyzed by
						fright and confusion.
					Seizing his opportunity, Brady rushed forth, caught the child in one arm, the woman in
						the other, and disappeared in the brush amid a shower of balls. He was infinitely
						disgusted to find that his cowardly men had fled, allowing two prisoners to escape.
						Nevertheless he made his way with his two helpless companions to Fort McIntosh, and from
						there to Pittsburgh, where he received the congratulations of General Broadhead.
					Brady's next service was a scout, with a man named Phouts, in the direction of the
						Susquehanna. Their start was made two hours before day. At evening they halted by a
						small creek and built a fire. While out hunting they discovered a deer-lick, and, as a
						consequence, brought into camp some excellent venison. The following day, a blue smoke,
						floating above the top of a distant forest, indicated an Indian camp. They approached
						cautiously and discovered, to their surprise, one old Indian sitting by the fire mending
						his moccasins. Phouts prepared to fire, but Brady prevented him from doing so, and the
						two men left unobserved.
					A few hours later they came upon a well-defined Indian trail.  Brady noted the signs, and became convinced that a strong party of Indians
						had passed there the previous day. He at once determined to take the old savage captive,
						and return forthwith to Pittsburgh. Early in the morning they returned to the Indian's
						camp, and found the savage lying on his back by the fire. Brady crept forward toward the
						Indian, and when within a few feet, gave a whoop and jumped on the prostrate savage. A
						brief struggle ended in the old fellow being strongly tied.
					On being assured that he would be taken to Pittsburgh unharmed, the captive politely
						pulled aside some bushes, and pointed out a most excellent canoe. The trio embarked,
						floating down the creek to the spot where they had encamped the previous night, and
						landed. Here they encamped until morning. Brady rose early and went up the creek to
						where they had left some venison hanging on a tree, which they wanted for breakfast.
					Meanwhile, an interesting little occurrence took place in Brady's absence. The wily
						Indian complained to Phouts, who was a dull Dutchman, that his cords hurt him, and
						begged his guard to loosen them for a few moments. The Dutchman, charmed by the docile
						behavior and extreme humility of the prisoner, took off the cords entirely.
					The old man sat meekly on the ground without a suspicious movement. At a moment when
						Phouts stooped to fix the fire, the Indian gave a lightning spring toward the Dutchman's
						gun, which was leaning against a tree, seized it, and fired at point-blank range. In the
						hurry his aim was bad, and the ball only took off a part of the Dutchman's bullet-pouch.
						Phouts rushed on the savage, and, with one blow from his tomahawk, clove asunder his
						skull. Brady, alarmed by the report, hurried back, relieved to find that nothing worse
						had happened. Their return to Pittsburgh was made without further incident.
					Brady's genius for scouting was soon recognized, and he was constantly employed on the
						most perilous missions. On one occasion his bravery almost brought about a fatal result.
						He  was taken captive by a band of Indians, near Beaver
						River. He and four companions had come upon an Indian camp. A fire was burning, and near
						by lay some tempting deer meat. Their hunger overcame their prudence, and the men,
						roasting the venison, were soon in the midst of a hearty meal.
					It is said that one of the men stopped eating, and suggested that the meat might be
						poisoned. At that instant there was a report from a dozen rifles. Brady's four
						companions dropped dead. The Indians, recognizing him, had saved his life only to
						reserve him for the pleasure of torture. He was taken to their village, given the usual
						reception of blows and beatings, and was forced to run the gauntlet. The traditional
						stake, with a pile of fagots, was prepared. Previous to commencing the torture, he was
						stripped and a circle of Indians formed around him for a fantastic dance.
					The torture fires were already blazing. He felt that his end was at hand, but still,
						with cool head and fearless eye, he calculated the chances of escape. When the dance was
						at its height, a squaw, carrying in her arms a young child, strode up to Brady and hit
						him a terrible blow with a war-club. She was about to repeat the outrage when Brady,
						gathering all his strength, sprang upon her, tore the child from her arms, and threw it
						clear over the circle of dancers into the flames beyond. The Indians, struck with
						horror, rushed, as by one thought, to rescue the child. This Brady had foreseen. In the
						midst of the confusion he dashed through the crowd, overturning every one in his way,
						and disappearing in a neighboring ravine.
					Another story related of Brady places him in company with sixteen companions. The party
						was encamped for a night. Towards morning a gun was heard, and the scouts quickly
						withdrew to an elevated bluff. Beneath them they discovered six Indians standing around
						a fire. Brady ordered his men to lie down while he kept watch. At day-break he placed
						them side by side, with himself at the end of the line. At an opportune moment Brady
						touched, with his elbow, the man on his  left, who in turn
						communicated it to his neighbor, and so on down the line. When the nudge reached the
						last man, he fired, followed by all the others. Every Indian in the camp was killed,
						with perhaps, a single exception.
					Brady and two companions, passing along the northern shore of the Ohio, once reached
						the neighborhood of a cabin occupied by a man named Gray. Suddenly Brady detected the
						presence of Indians. In the moment of concealing himself Brady saw Gray approaching
						carelessly on horseback. As the hunter passed him Brady sprang out, dragged him off his
						horse, and whispered, "I am Sam Brady. For heaven's sake, keep quiet."
					That this summary treatment saved Gray's life there can be no doubt. The four men
						approached the site of the cabin and discovered it to be a heap of embers. Of Gray's
						wife and children there was no trace. Gray, frantic with grief, begged his companions to
						join him in pursuit of the abductors. To Brady such an appeal was never made in vain. In
						two hours they came upon the Indians, who were there in force. There, bound hand and
						foot, sat Gray's wife and children.
					The number of the savages so much exceeded that of Brady's party that a night attack
						was the only hope for the rescue of the captives. At an auspicious moment the four
						avengers stole noiselessly into the camp and distributed themselves among the sleepers.
						At a given signal from Brady each man tomahawked the nearest Indians. The survivors,
						leaping to their feet, bounded into the forest, leaving their captives in the hands of
						the white men.
					Probably the most famous of Brady's exploits is that known as "Brady's Leap." He had
						been pursued by Indians for some distance from Sandusky, and, at last, seemed to be
						hedged in in all directions. It was a principle with the scout to never surrender.
						Taking in the situation with a quick glance, he bounded off toward a creek, at a point
						where it rushed through a rocky gorge. From bank to bank was more than twenty-five  feet. On his way, Brady hurled two savages to the ground.
						The whole swarm were following him with wild yells, believing that when he reached the
						brink of the chasm, he must be forced to pause and become their captive. Rushing forward
						with the greatest impetuosity, Brady collected all his energies, and as his foot touched
						the verge of the precipice, he gave a terrific leap, catching the bushes on the steep,
						rocky cliff of the opposite bank, and quickly scrambling to his feet.
					
						BRADY'S LEAP.
					
					The Indians were dumfounded. It was not long, however, till they made their way around,
						and were again in pursuit of Brady. For his part, he had received a bullet in his leg as
						he jumped the chasm, and found himself unable to maintain his terrific speed. He made
						his way to a body of water, which still bears the name of "Brady's Lake." He
						unhesitatingly plunged in, diving to a spot covered by pond lilies. Here he found that
						he could keep his face under water by breathing through the  hollow stem of a weed. The Indians followed his bloody track to the edge of the lake,
						and concluded that he had committed suicide. When their pursuit was abandoned Brady came
						out of the water and made his way home.
					In 1786 Captain Brady married a Miss Drucilla Swearingen. Her father, a prominent
						soldier of the Revolution, objected to the match, but the beautiful young lady, enamored
						with the prowess and prestige of her lover, married him. The fond and lovely wife
						suffered greatly in mind during the absences of her brave husband on lengthy scouts. He
						was always a little lame from the wound received at the time of his famous leap. He also
						became quite deaf in his old age. This he attributed to his having remained so long
						under the water of the lake. His last years were spent at West Liberty, West Virginia,
						where he died.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IX.
						THE DAYS OF DANIEL BOONE.
					A BOOK of American pioneers would be incomplete without a sketch of
						Daniel Boone, the pioneer of Kentucky. It is not because he had such thrilling
						adventures, for the experiences of many of the borderers far surpassed those of Boone in
						wild heroism and wonderful feats. It is the character of Boone which impressed itself
						upon the minds of his contemporaries, and gives him such a prominent place in the
						history of the Ohio valley. His grandfather came to this country from England. No
						further reason need be sought for this move on the part of the old gentleman than the
						fact that he had nineteen children. He possessed peculiar qualifications for the
						population of a new country.
					Our hero was born in Berks County, Pennsylvania, but his family removed at an early day
						to North Carolina. His education consisted in a short term at a school, opened by a
						wandering Irishman. The building was a square log structure, with a fire-place occupying
						one side of the room, and holding a log ten feet long. One day young Boone found himself
						at a spot where his schoolmaster had been observed to frequently stop. Under some vines
						he discovered, to his surprise, a bottle of whisky. That night Master Boone took some
						comrades into his confidence, and poured into the bottle a quantity of
						tartar-emetic.
					Having set up the job, the boys waited on the following morning for the dénouement. During recess the boys, with  many a
						poke in one another's ribs, observed the unsuspecting pedagogue going to the spot where
						the bottle was hidden. He reappeared in a few moments with his face red as fire. The
						school was called together more quickly than usual, and the urchins trembled on their
						puncheon seats. The first two scholars made wretched failures of their lessons, and
						received terrific thrashings. Boone's turn came next. The Irishman's face was as white
						as paper. Boone's head was buzzing with curiosity about the whisky bottle, and he too
						failed. The master began to whip his pupil when the medicine began to take fearful
						effect. Boone revenged himself for his beating by throwing the wretched man down, at
						which signal the whole school joined in a shout and ran off.
					We have one other brief glimpse of Boone's boyhood. One evening he failed to return
						from a hunt. His father and neighbors set out to search for the missing lad, who was but
						fourteen years old. At the end of two days the father found the lad living in a
						temporary hovel of sods and branches. Numerous skins of wild animals decorated the
						place. A piece of venison was roasting at the fire. Here the boy was enjoying himself
						all alone.
					When he arrived at manhood, Boone married Rebecca Bryan. The first explorers brought
						back glowing reports of Kentucky, and in 1769, Boone, fascinated by these stories, with
						five companions, started to view this inland paradise themselves. They built a cabin on
						Red River, to protect themselves from a tremendous rain, which fell steadily for two
						weeks. Here they remained almost stationary for six months. The vast droves of buffalo
						and shadowy herds of deer supplied the men with profitable employment and exciting
						pleasure.
					On the 22d of December, 1769, Boone and Stuart resolved to explore the interior of the
						country. In all the six months of their residence in the lovely region, neither the
						figure or even a foot-print of a savage had been seen. After a few days' journey, the
						men discovered a lofty mountain, which they climbed, in order to obtain a view of the
						country. Standing on its top,  their dark figures outlined
						against the sky, and visible for many miles, the hunters' eyes were gladdened with a
						view of the fairest landscape in the world. Sloping hills, alternated with lovely
						valleys; leafless forests, with wide extended plains. Far to the north rolled the
						peaceful Ohio, beyond which lay expanses of a country destined to be the seat of empire,
						the home of busy millions.
					Coming down from the mountain, little suspecting any danger, the two hunters were
						startled by a terrific yell just to their right. At the same instant the bushes parted,
						and dark forms emerging quickly, surrounded them, and they were taken prisoners.
					The captives were as yet ignorant of Indian customs. They knew not one word of the
						language. As the howling captors bound them and marched them off to the forest, Boone
						did not know but that it might be to his death. He had, however, the cold and
						self-possessed temper which has in all times characterized men of action and leadership,
						a disposition which knows no special joy nor disheartening depression. There was nothing
						to be done except to obey his savage guards.
					Manners are an art. It has been said that there is a mode of conduct possible which
						will blind the shrewdest insight and foil the most expert observer. The popular notion
						of the art of manners assumes that it belongs solely to the refined, the elegant; that
						its home is in society, and its disciples the votaries of fashion. Yet the languid belle
						and the prancing dandy are by no means the only nor the real experts in manners. The
						shaggy backwoodsman, dressed in the skin of wild animals, speaking in a peculiar dialect
						of frontier phraseology, and passing his life in restless warfare with a hideous and
						blood-thirsty foe, practices the so-called parlor art with infinitely more zeal and
						success than the empty-headed throngs of fashionable society.
					Boone, on this occasion, revealed his superior skill in this regard. Though his heart
						was full of apprehension, his demeanor indicated the most fearless indifference. He
						acted 
							BOONE RESCUES THE GALLOWAY SISTERS.
						
						 a part. He had a care for the tone of his voice, the
						poise of his head, the length of his step, the expression of his eye. He succeeded in
						what he was about. The Indians insensibly gave way to the influence of his manners.
						Reading in his eye no fear, and in his air no discontent, their vigilance insensibly
						relaxed. They and their captive could not exchange one single word. It was all
						pantomine, or manners.
					On the seventh night after the capture, the Indians went to sleep. For three days Boone
						had been unbound. At night the bonds had heretofore been replaced. But what need was
						there to tie a man who was willing to stay with them anyhow.
					Boone and his companion escaped. They did not kill any of their guards, nor did they
						attempt it. It was not a physical achievement, but a mental one. They made their way
						back to their cabin. The door was open. The rude furniture was broken in pieces. There
						was no fire in the fire-place. The stock of skins, the fruit of six months' toil, was
						gone. There was no clue to their companions. The whole thing was a mystery, and
						continued to be so. To the day of his death, Boone never knew whether the other men had
						stolen the stock and made off with it, or whether they had been killed by Indians, and
						the cabin plundered by the murderers.
					There are some rare joys in the life in the wilderness. Such was the accidental meeting
						in the wilderness of Boone with his brother, who, with a companion, had also come up to
						Kentucky. There are many sorrows in a life in the wilderness. Such was that which befell
						Boone when, a few days later, he and Stuart were pursued by Indians, and Stuart was
						killed and scalped.
					Only a week afterward, a still more distressing calamity happened. The companion of
						Boone's brother happened to remain away from the camp one night on a hunt. Finding, in a
						day or two, that he did not return, the two brothers began a search. In time they came
						upon the remains of the unfortunate man. While asleep by his fire, he was surrounded and
						attacked by a troop of famished wolves. The stock of his gun was shattered  from the desperate use he had made of it in trying to beat
						back the animals. At last, his strength failing, the throng of brutes had borne him to
						the ground, and quickly stripped the flesh from his bones, which the Boones found
						scattered about. But for the gun, the remains would have been beyond identification.
					Boone and his brother thus left alone soon found their ammunition supply running low.
						The brother returned to Carolina to procure a new stock of powder and ball, leaving
						Boone in complete solitude. "I was," he says, "left by myself, without bread, salt, or
						sugar, without the company of my fellow-creatures, or even a horse or dog." On the 27th
						of July, 1770, his brother returned. He brought with him two good horses, with heavy
						packs of the much-needed supplies. Not till March, '71, did they think of returning.
						During all this time they maintained ceaseless vigilance, never making a permanent camp.
						During his brother's absence, Boone had frequently slept in a canebrake, without fire,
						and heard the yell of the Indians around him.
					At the date last named Daniel rejoined his family after an absence of three years,
						during which he had tasted neither bread nor salt. He came home fired with the fever for
						removing to the new country. He sold out his property, loaded some horses and milch cows
						with the necessary baggage, and, amid prophecies of their destruction, started back to
						the wilderness with his wife and children.
					His clear statements of the advantages of the region induced five other families and
						forty well armed men to accompany him. The party felt great confidence in its strength.
						Pride goeth before destruction. The party of immigrants were attacked by Indians near
						Cumberland Mountain, and six of their number killed; among whom, to the infinite sorrow
						of the great pioneer, was Boone's eldest son. This reception so startled the party that
						they beat a hasty retreat to the settlements on Clinch River, forty miles to their rear,
						where they remained for several years.
					
					In 1774 and 1775 Daniel Boone was engaged in the border conflicts of the time. Only one
						incident of his part in these struggles has been preserved. He was taken prisoner one
						night by the Indians. He had just extinguished his camp-fire, wrapped himself in his
						blanket, and lain down to sleep, being, as was his custom, on a lone hunt, when he
						suddenly felt himself seized in the darkness by a number of hands.
					Resistance was useless. He was bound with strips of buffalo hide, and carried to the
						Indian camp. The squaws immediately began to search their prisoner for valuables, and
						they soon drew forth a flask of strong whisky. Boone looked on with secret joy as he saw
						the bottle passed around from mouth to mouth. He earnestly wished that the bottle was
						ten times its size, and that every drop might stretch a brave dead-drunk on the ground.
						He felt, to his sorrow, that there was not enough liquor to intoxicate the company.
					At that moment a gun was heard in the distance. The braves jumped up, held a short talk
						with the squaws, pointing frequently to Boone, and then seizing their guns, hurried away
						in the darkness to see what the firing of the gun meant. The squaws sat down
						cross-legged around the fire, and took frequent drinks from the bottle until, one by
						one, they sprawled out on the ground, and went sound asleep.
					It was the time for action. With the frontiersman's ingenuity and pluck, Boone rolled
						over and over toward the fire, held his feet and then his hands in the blaze, in spite
						of the torture, until his bonds were burnt asunder. He sprang to hie feet, and, though
						severely burned, snatched up his rifle for escape. He says, that at that moment he was
						on the point of tomahawking the drunken squaws, but on second thought reflected that to
						kill such defenseless wretches would be murder, and he desisted. Devoting his tomahawk
						to less bloody work, he walked to an ash sapling, and chopped out three large chips to
						mark the spot. He concealed himself in a canebrake, and, in a day or two, made his way
						home.
					
					Many years afterward a gentleman laid out and purchased a tract of several thousand
						acres, and, by chance, took as one of the corners of his survey "an ash marked by three
						distinct notches of the tomahawk." Another series of years rolled by, the ash had grown
						until the bark had completely covered the marks. The land became involved in litigation.
						It was impossible to find the boundary tree.
					Daniel Boone, who at that time was living in Missouri, was sent for to identify the
						spot. He had almost forgotten the incident we have related, but, after talking the
						matter over, remembered it. He returned to Kentucky, and, in company with several
						witnesses, went to the locality where he had been a prisoner twenty years before.
						Waiting until the moon rose, so as to reproduce, as far as possible, his surroundings on
						the night of his capture, Boone started through the woods, eying each tree attentively,
						and at last stopped before a large ash, averring positively that it was the tree.
					His companions examined the trunk closely. Not a mark was to be seen in the bark. The
						men were skeptical, but Boone took an ax and cut off a strip of the bark. Still nothing
						was to be seen. He then scraped and cut with his butcher-knife, until he did come to a
						place where the tree had been scarred a long time before. The astonished men then went
						to work, scraped the whole trunk carefully until three hacks, as plain as three notches
						ever were, could be seen. On the strength of this remarkable testimony the gentleman who
						had sent for Boone won his lawsuit.
					In the spring of 1775 Boone and some companions were employed to guard a company of
						surveyors through Kentucky. The party had two battles with the Indians, losing eleven of
						their number. These attacks suggested the necessity of building a small fort, lest the
						Indians should little by little destroy the whole party. For two weeks the men worked
						with unremitting toil in the construction of a block-house on the Kentucky River, to
						which the name of Boonesborough was  eventually given.
						Beside the block-house several cabins were built, and the whole surrounded by a
						palisade.
					When the work was done it looked so strong, so secure; it was such a snug retreat from
						all the dangers of the forest, that Boone resolved to bring his family there. He
						returned to the settlement on the Clinch River, and at once started with Mrs. Boone and
						her daughters for the new fort in Kentucky. The women of Boone's family were the first
						white women who ever looked upon the Kentucky River. A few months prior to the founding
						of Boonesborough James Harrod had erected a block-house at Harrodsburg. These two places
						soon became famous as the only refuge from the savages south of the Ohio.
					Boone's family had a lonely life. Yet the excitement in which they lived, growing out
						of constant danger from wild animals and Indians, took the place of companionship. Three
						more families soon came to make their home in the fort. After a few months' residence,
						the women of the place were accustomed to venture outside of the palisade for short
						distances.
					One July day, Jemima Boone, with two girls named Calloway, growing weary of the cramped
						quarters of the palisade, took a canoe, and crossed the Kentucky River to a point where
						the overhanging trees formed a dense and pleasant shade. The cool retreat afforded an
						agreeable relief from the heat of a July day. These pioneer girls had few pleasures, and
						the little diversion was all the more enjoyed.
					While floating lazily in the water, sometimes splashing with their paddles, five
						Indians hid themselves near by. The girls were unconscious of any impending danger,
						until they discovered that their boat, propelled by an unseen force, was moving into a
						leafy nook, out of sight of the fort. Looking for the cause, they discovered in front of
						them the head of an Indian. He was swimming with all his might with the tying rope of
						the boat in his teeth. The girls screamed at the top of their voices. They were heard at
						the fort. The men were scattered through the forest, busy with their usual
						occupations.
					
					Before any thing could be done to rescue the girls, the Indians had seized them and
						started off through the forest at the top of their speed. It was nearly two hours before
						word of the horrible mishap could be sent to the men of the fort and a party of
						sufficient strength made up to attempt a rescue. Those hours seemed ages. The women at
						the fort wrung their hands in agony, while the one man who happened to be there hurried
						off to find help. When Boone at last got started with eight companions, the Indians were
						several miles in advance.
					Darkness came on, but the pursuers caught no glimpse of the chase. All through the
						night the white men, with a skill which we of the present day can neither explain nor
						understand, followed the trail of the savages. Some time during the following night the
						ruffians were discovered. They were attacked and driven off before they had time to kill
						their fair prisoners. Two of the Indians were killed, while Boone's party was uninjured.
						The poor girls were overjoyed at their rescue, and the glad welcome which they received
						at the fort on their return may well be imagined.
					The wandering band of Indians who had captured the three girls was a precursor of a
						host of warriors who were on their way to destroy the white settlements. Two hundred
						braves surrounded Boonesborough, and for two days attempted to capture the place. They
						retreated only to renew the attempt a few days later. Now and then some defender of the
						fort was killed, so that the garrison was depleted to fifteen men. The Indians fought
						with great boldness. Under cover of night, they stole up to the gates of the fort, and
						attempted to hew them down with their tomahawks. The arrival of a hundred men, under
						Colonel Bowman, coming to the relief of Boonesborough, Harrodsburg, and Logan's Fort,
						suddenly put an end to the siege.
					The wants of the little community could not be supplied without some exposure and risk.
						The dangers of hunting were great. Behind each tree or log might lurk a savage. A still
						greater danger was the procurement of salt. In January, 1778,  Boone took thirty men to the Blue Lick, to make salt for all the different
						stations in Kentucky.
					It is related that one day he had wandered some distance from his party, and was
						suddenly confronted by two stalwart Indians. Boone threw himself behind a tree, and
						cautiously exposed a small portion of his body, to attract their aim. An Indian fired,
						and Boone dropped as if killed. To make the second savage throw away his shot, Boone
						repeated the trick, and while the two Indians were hurriedly attempting to reload,
						rushed out and deliberately shot the foremost savage. He then advanced upon the other
						Indian.
					The white man relied on his knife, the Indian on his tomahawk. Boone planted his foot
						on the corpse of the dead savage, and awaited the attack with resolute eye and
						compressed lips. His antagonist advanced, and with the well-known, quick, circular
						movement, was about to bury his hatchet in the white man's brain. At the instant, when
						the Indian's arm was lifted, Boone, quick as lightning, plunged his knife into his
						exposed side. There was a spurt of hot blood which crimsoned the hand upon the knife
						handle, a convulsive, despairing groan. The hatchet descended, but slipped from the
						nerveless grasp and stuck in the ground. The Indian threw his hands to his side in vain
						attempt to stop the crimson tide, bestowed one look of unutterable malignity and
						hopelessness upon the man who still stood confronting him with the bloody hand and knife
						yet held aloft, then fell to rise no more.
					On the 7th of February Boone, while out hunting, discovered a war party of a hundred
						Indians approaching him. He took to flight, but being then a man beyond the prime of
						life, and somewhat stiff from exposure, he was unable to contend with the swift braves
						who pursued him. He was captured and taken back to the lick, where he found his whole
						party of twenty-seven men prisoners like himself.
					At this point we note a significant fact. The Indians neither tortured their prisoners
						nor offered to put them to death.  The conflict with the
						white man was a recent thing with the tribes so far west. Boone and his companions were
						taken to the Indian town of Chillicothe. As usual, Boone's mild and patient character
						made its impression upon the savages. While his courage excited the admiration of the
						fiercest brave, his gentleness touched the heart of the humblest squaw. His knowledge of
						human nature also helped him. Sometimes he was invited to engage in shooting matches
						with the Indians. On such occasions he usually took care to plant his bullets a little
						wider from the mark than the Indians, lest he should excite their animosity by beating
						them.
					In the spring Boone was taken to Detroit. Here Governor Hamilton himself offered £100
						for his ransom, but so strong was the affection of the Indians for their prisoner that
						they refused to consider it. Several English gentlemen, touched with sympathy for the
						misfortunes of the old pioneer, made pressing offers of money and other articles; but
						old Boone, with sturdy independence, refused to receive benefits which he could never
						return. In this incident we discover the character of Boone's reputation. It was in the
						midst of the Revolutionary War. Yet the Englishmen recognized Boone as a non-combatant.
						The Indians themselves knew that he was not an Indian fighter. He was simply and truly a
						pioneer.
					Boone was taken back to Chillicothe, only to be terrified by the preparation of a great
						war-party for an attack on Boonesborough. His anxiety on account of his wife and
						children became intolerable. He resolved, at every risk, to attempt an escape so as to
						warn them of the impending danger. Early one morning he started from Chillicothe,
						directing his course toward Boonesborough. He traversed the one hundred and sixty miles
						in four days, during which time he ate but one meal and slept none.
					Just at sunset he came in sight of the fort. The gates were open. Some women were
						leisurely milking the cows on a pleasant stretch of turf some distance from them. A
						little  further off a man was chopping wood. The whole
						place looked to the returned captive like a bit of Acadia. Every thing wore an air of
						peace and quiet, as if danger were the farthest thing from the minds of the little
						company of pioneers. Boone, hoarse, haggard, disfigured by Indian paint and costume, his
						eyes glaring wildly from their sunken sockets, shouted to the people to come into the
						fort. At the apparition waving its arms in the twilight, the people made haste to follow
						its advice, fleeing wildly to the gates as if it were a wild man.
					A moment later old Boone was recognized. A shout of welcome went up. Receiving the
						greetings of his friends, he told them in a few short words of their danger, ordered
						every person outside the gates to be called in, and preparation to be made for an Indian
						attack. This done, he looked anxiously around for his family. A hard disappointment
						awaited him. Wife and daughters, giving him up for dead, had returned to North Carolina,
						taking all his property with them. Swallowing his chagrin, Boone, after a rest, went to
						work with a will to repair and strengthen the fort. Traces of lurking Indians could be
						seen in the surrounding woods, spies, no doubt, upon the fort. Their reports must have
						been bad, as the Indian invasion was not forthcoming.
					In the previous September, Simon Kenton had abandoned his cabin at Washington,
						Kentucky, and seeing a white man who told him that a settlement had already been made in
						the interior at a place called Boonesborough, had repaired to this place. He was
						overjoyed to find a substantial fort, and was greeted by Boone himself.
					Kenton was a valuable accession to the place. It was on the failure of the Indian
						invasion to materialize that Boone resolved on his expedition against the Indian village
						at Paint Creek. We have elsewhere mentioned the fact of Boone's retreat, on finding that
						his advance was discovered, and have related the adventures of Kenton, who resolved to
						go on with his friend Montgomery.
					
					Boone's reason for retreat was the conviction that the whole Indian force were now on
						their way to Boonesborough, and that the condition of the fort and of his own party was
						extremely critical. He hurried back, and fell in with the trail of a great Indian
						war-party headed directly towards Boonesborough. Making a wide detour to avoid the
						savages, and traveling night and day, he and his men reached the fort on the evening of
						the seventh day, in advance of the Indians.
					On the following morning, five hundred warriors appeared before the fort. They were
						commanded by British officers. The ensuing siege was, in fact, an obscure chapter in the
						Revolutionary War. A demand for surrender was made, accompanied by the significant and
						cruel hint that, if hostilities ensued, the handful of British officers would hardly be
						able to restrain the Indians from massacring the members of the garrison should they be
						taken prisoners. Boone asked two days to consider. The request, strange to say, was
						granted.
					The intervening time was busily employed in strengthening the fort. Every man resolved
						to die in its defense rather than surrender. When Boone informed the British commander
						of his decision, the latter said that he meant no harm to the settlers, and that if nine
						of the principal men would come out of the fort and treat with him, he and his Indians
						would at once go away. For some unexplained reason, Boone assented to this proposal,
						and, with eight picked men, emerged from the fort, and was soon surrounded by throngs of
						hideous braves. Some sort of "a treaty" was pretended to be patched up.
					Boone and his friends prepared to return, when the British commander said that it was
						an invariable custom of the Indians at the close of a treaty for two warriors to take
						hold of either hand of each white man. The Indians at once proceeded to act on the hint.
						The white men, who were not surprised by the movement, flung off their assailants, and
						started for the fort. The men at the latter place, who were looking on with deep
						anxiety, instantly fired upon the Indians, under cover of which  the nine men reached the fort and barred the gates. Only one of their number
						had been wounded in this scrimmage.
					A siege of nine days followed. Every attack by the Indians resulted in the loss of many
						of their braves, while the whites suffered but little. The fort stood sixty yards from
						the river bank. The enemy, foiled in their other efforts, commenced to dig a mine from
						the river bank into the fort. One morning Boone's quick eye detected the discoloration
						of the river from the fresh earth thrown into it, and instantly divined the state of
						affairs. A deep trench was cut by the garrison under the palisade and then in front of
						the fort so as to intersect the approaching mine. This stratagem forced the Indians to
						abandon their attempt. At last, foiled in every effort, the savages withdrew. This was
						the last siege Boonesborough ever sustained. It occurred in the summer of 1778.
					In the fall of this year, Boone, who was piqued at the facility with which his family
						had given him up for lost, returned to North Carolina. He was detained here by family
						troubles until 1780, when he again returned to Boonesborough with his wife and
						daughters.
					Shortly after his return, Boone and his brother went to Blue Licks, where he had been
						taken captive, and were surprised by Indians. The brother was killed and scalped. Boone
						fled, urged on by a relentless pursuit. The Indians had with them a remarkable dog,
						which tracked Boone incessantly, and prevented his concealing himself. The situation was
						critical. Every twist and turn he made was detected by his pursuers, who were guided by
						the dog. At last Boone calmly paused, and waited till the animal should come in sight.
						It was a hazardous thing to stop with the Indians so near. In a moment the dog came
						bounding toward him, with a great red tongue lolling from his mouth, and uttering loud
						and mournful bays. At that moment Boone fired, and killed the brute. Then, under cover
						of the forest and approaching night, he made his escape.
					Somewhere about this time in Boone's career, he, with a few  companions, was surprised in the woods by a large party of Indians. The
						whites were eating their breakfast, and the savages sat down near by without hostile
						demonstrations, and pretended to prepare their own meal, acting as if they were
						completely ignorant of the presence of Boone. The latter cautioned his men in an
						undertone to be prepared for a fight at any moment. Boone then walked toward the Indian
						chief unarmed, and intently gnawing the meat from a bone. The savage, who was also
						eating, licked his greasy fingers, and rose to greet Boone. The latter asked to see a
						knife, with which the Indian was cutting his meat. Boone took the long knife, and with a
						dexterous juggle, affected to swallow it, concealing it at the same time in his
						sleeve.
					The Indians looked on with wide-eyed astonishment, while Boone struck his stomach,
						pronouncing the knife very good. In a few moments he went through another contortion,
						and apparently vomited forth the knife, which he wiped on his sleeve and returned to the
						Indian. The latter took it cautiously between his thumb and forefinger, and flung it
						into the bushes, as if the thing were contaminating. The whole party of savages then
						instantly broke and ran, regarding Boone, no doubt, as the devil himself.
					Kentucky was filling up rapidly with settlers. Numerous other stations besides
						Boonesborough and Harrodsburg afforded refuge from savages. For a year or two the
						country was free from Indian hostilities. The settlers, busy with their farms, began to
						hope that the wars with the savages were over. In 1782, however, the tempest of
						destruction broke forth again. Numerous isolated outrages were committed by Indians.
					In the spring, twenty-five savages sneaked up to Estill's station, entered a cabin
						somewhat apart from the rest, and after outraging a woman and her two daughters,
						brutally murdered them. A few moments later some women of the settlement discovered the
						tragedy which had been enacted. The men of the place were nearly all absent, searching
						for this very band of  Indians. Word was with difficulty
						conveyed to Captain Estill, who commanded the squad of pioneers. On receiving the
						information, instant pursuit was resolved on. Five men, anxious about their families,
						returned to the station. Ten more were soon left behind on account of their jaded
						horses.
					The party, reduced to twenty-five men, pushed on, and over-took the Indians, whose
						number was exactly the same. The battle, which is memorable in the annals of pioneer
						warfare, took place at a small stream, on the opposite banks of which the combatants
						were posted. For an hour the loss on both sides was equal. The Indians fought with the
						pertinacity and coolness of the whites themselves. It seemed, as the battle continued,
						that nothing remained except to fight until all the men on each side were killed. Estill
						resolved on a stratagem. Six men were ordered to attempt a flank movement. They were,
						however, utterly destroyed in the effort. The Indians now pressed their foes hard.
						Estill, himself, became engaged in a terrible hand-to-hand struggle with the Wyandot
						chief. Each man made furious exertions to overpower his adversary. The friends of each
						dared not fire for fear of wounding the wrong man.
					At last, a mishap of the most serious character occurred. Estill had in the year before
						broken his arm. In this combat, the bones, imperfectly knitted, came apart. As the arm
						gave way, Estill gave a cry of despair, and the next instant the Indian sunk a knife
						into his heart. The triumph of the savage was short. Just as he shook the gory scalp in
						air, a rifle ball laid him in the lowly dust beside his fallen foe. The whites fled,
						bearing wild reports of the numbers of the Indians to the agitated settlements. Panic
						and defeat seemed about to overwhelm the pioneers. Band after band met the fate of
						Estill's company.
					In August came the famous attack of Simon Girty, on Bryant's station, on the southern
						bank of the Elkhorn, between Maysville and Lexington, Kentucky. The garrison of the
						place was about to march to the relief of Hoy's station. Just as the  gates were thrown open, a volley of rifle-balls rattled
						against the sides of the fort. No weakening of the garrison was to be thought of;
						instead, preparations for a siege had to be made at once. Their greatest peril in case
						of a siege arose from a scarcity of water. The spring on which they depended was some
						distance away from the fort. In a neighboring wood, signs of an ambush could be
						detected.
					A council was held in the fort, and it was suggested that all the women get buckets,
						and go down to the spring after water, as if no ambush was suspected. The Indians,
						believing themselves undiscovered, would hardly attack a party of squaws, when by
						waiting longer, some of the fighting part of the garrison might be ambuscaded at the
						spring. This plan was adopted. Only one thing was wanting. This was the women's consent.
						Sharp words were indulged in. They did not see why the men could not go after the water.
						At last, some of the stronger and more sensible women took a practical view of the
						situation, and seizing their buckets, started boldly to the spring. The others followed
						with fear and trembling. On they went, defenseless and frightened, to within a short
						distance of the deadly ambush, where five hundred Indians lay concealed.
					The buckets were filled with assumed deliberation, and the trembling procession of
						females started back to the fort. As they crossed the wide, open space their steps
						quickened, until every woman was in a dead run for the gates. Though pale with fear,
						they reached the fort without having been molested. As had been surmised, the Indians
						withheld their attack in the belief that some of the men of the fort could be caught at
						the spring before long.
					Meanwhile an Indian decoy party had appeared on the opposite side of the fort. Thirteen
						men went out and attacked them, a maneuver which at once brought the whole Indian force
						upon the opposite side of the fort, which they believed to be unprotected. Heavy volleys
						of rifle-shots poured into them at  point-blank range,
						destroyed their delusion, and the Indians fled to the woods. A regular battle was now
						begun.
					At two o'clock a diversion occurred. Two messengers had carried the news of the attack
						to Lexington, near which a company, on its way to Hoy's station, was met, and its course
						changed to Bryant's station. At two o'clock in the afternoon this re-enforcement reached
						the vicinity of the fort. The Indians, discovering their approach, attempted to cut them
						off. The horsemen spurred on through clouds of dust, and made their way into the fort.
						Those on foot were not so fortunate. Finding themselves about to be destroyed, they took
						to a corn-field and attempted to escape. Some succeeded, but several were cut down in
						their flight. In the evening Girty called on the place to surrender. A man named
						Reynolds replied from the fort with taunts and insults, which put Girty in a terrible
						rage.
					In the morning the men looked out through the palisades toward the spot where the
						Indians had encamped the night before, and were astonished to find the place entirely
						deserted. The enemy was in full retreat. Re-enforcements also began to pour into the
						fort, among them a strong company under Daniel Boone, from Boonesborough. Each little
						party which arrived had a leader, and among the multitude of counselors arose a
						discussion, which ended in a unanimous resolve not to wait for General Logan, who with a
						strong force was marching to Bryant's, but to commence pursuit of the Indians at
						once.
					On the afternoon of the 18th of August, 1782, began the fatal march. The trail of the
						Indians was very plain. Here and there the enemy had chopped bits out of the trees.
						These signs made Boone and a few others cautious, as they indicated no anxiety to
						conceal retreat, but rather the reverse. At the Lower Blue Licks the whites, on the
						following day, came in sight of the enemy. The pursuers were gathered on the southern
						bank of the Licking River. On the opposite side a small group of savages could be seen
						standing on the top of a ridge. They coolly stared at the whites, and then
						disappeared.
					
					A hurried consulation was held as to what should be done. The men were now a long way
						from any point of support. The country was wild and lonely, well adapted for ambuscades.
						The enemy was largely superior in strength to the whites. Boone advised a return or, at
						least, a halt, until Logan's force could come up with them. The discussion continued,
						when suddenly Hugh McGary, whose fierce and impetuous temper chafed at delay or
						deliberation when Indians were so near, gave a loud yell for "all who are not cowards"
						to follow him. At the same instant he spurred his horse into the stream.
					The example was contagious. Calm deliberation was at an end, and the whole company
						crowded pell-mell after him. Through the river and up the opposite ridge they rushed in
						confused tumult. They hurried along the trail about a mile, burning with the reckless
						zeal which the rash McGary had inspired. Suddenly a party of Indians confronted them and
						fired. The place was inauspicious for the whites. They were on open ground, while the
						foe occupied a ravine, filled with a dense growth of trees and bushes. This ravine
						flanked the ridge from which the whites fought.
					A severe battle at once began. The lagging settlers hurried to the front to the support
						of their companions. As soon as the Indians saw the whites well bunched together, a
						strong party of several hundred warriors started to throw themselves in their rear and
						cut off retreat. The movement was easy and on the point of success. The whites, seeing
						their peril, broke and ran back toward the river. The scene was awful. The battle of
						Blue Licks was really a slaughter. The Indians fell upon the fugitives, outnumbering
						them ten to one, and tomahawking them not singly, but by dozens.
					At the moment of the retreat, Boone, who was in the front of the fight, and had already
						seen his son and many neighbors killed, found himself and a few friends surrounded by
						savages, and retreat hopelessly cut off. Thoroughly acquainted with the ground, he
						spurred forward boldly into the ravine which the  Indians
						had occupied, finding it, as he expected, almost deserted. By a roundabout course he
						reached the Licking, crossed it at a remote point, and reached the settlements in
						safety.
					At the ford the Indians plunged into the water, falling upon and scalping their unhappy
						victims, and then letting the corpses float away, leaving behind a crimson trail in the
						blue water. There was no selfishness among the whites. Those who were able boldly helped
						their companions. Young Reynolds, who had given Girty the insult from the walls of the
						fort, was mounted on a fine horse. Half-way to the ford he overtook Captain Patterson, a
						man infirm from former wounds, and in his flight on foot in good way to be killed. With
						kingly generosity Reynolds sprang to the ground, placed his protesting friend in the
						saddle, and continued his own flight on foot. He saved his friend, but was taken
						prisoner.
					He was at first guarded by three Indians, but the excitement of the pursuit was so
						fascinating that two of the savages turned their prisoner over to the third one, and
						eagerly ran on to take part in the fray. Reynolds marched quietly on, under the eye of
						his captor, who carried a tomahawk and loaded rifle. But when the Indian stooped down
						for a moment to tie his moccasin, Reynolds leaped on him, stunning him with terrific
						blows from his fists, and instantly disappeared in a thicket, making his way home in
						safety.
					The survivors of the battle of Blue Licks spread terror among the sorrowing
						settlements. Sixty of the picked men of Kentucky had been slain, and a number taken
						captives. It was a time when every man was worth much to the new community. On the
						second day after the slaughter General Logan, with four hundred and fifty men, visited
						the fatal spot, and interred the swollen and disfigured bodies of the dead. Blue Licks
						was the most unlucky spot Boone ever knew. Here he had been taken captive, and kept so
						for many months. Here, too, his brother had been killed before his eyes, while he
						himself barely escaped with his life. And here, at last, his son Israel, together  with sixty of his neighbors and friends, had fallen in the
						battle we have just described. He subsequently took part in an expedition against the
						Indian towns of Ohio, but without results.
					Here Boone's adventures close. We have no record that he ever figured in any subsequent
						fight with the Indians. He remained for some years a quiet farmer. As the years rolled
						on and his old friends, one by one, passed away, he became lonely, and, to some extent,
						unhappy. The country in which he had been a pioneer grew and developed into a splendid
						State of fertile farms and thrifty towns. Political questions succeeded the old
						agitations of the border wars.
					But in all this Boone took no part. He wandered around—in the present, but not of
						it. In 1792 he dictated a brief and rather dry sketch of his life to some young man who
						could write. The young scribe palmed off some cheap rhetoric on the old man, who, no
						doubt, regarded it as thrilling eloquence. He was never so happy as when some one would
						take the book, in which his name appeared "in print," and read it to him. He never
						wearied of it. Innumerable times the dull book was read over to him, and he never failed
						to listen with intense interest, rubbing his hands and exclaiming, "All that's
						true—every word of it—not a lie in it!" He never spoke of himself unless
						questioned, but this published account of his life was the Delilah of his
						imagination.
					The last years of Boone were strikingly like those of Simon Kenton, George Rogers
						Clark, and many others of the earliest settlers. The brave and heroic race of pioneers
						seemed to have no capacity for adapting themselves to the new and changed conditions of
						life which surrounded them. Their rigid and unyielding disposition, which refused to
						yield to circumstances, but viewed the advancing tide of civilization with sullen and
						morose regrets, has in it something of the very nature of the red men, in fighting whom
						they passed their lives.
					Boone became embarrassed and involved in lawsuits, lost all his property, and, at last,
						heartsore and unhappy, took his way  to Missouri. Here, in
						the wilderness, he once more found comparative peace. He hunted and trapped, selling his
						furs at St. Louis, till he had laid up a considerable sum.
					One day he reappeared at Boonesborough. He spent no time in reminiscence or pleasure,
						but with an expression on his face which indicated that he had some important task to
						perform, which would never let him rest until it was accomplished, sought out all his
						creditors, took their word for the amount which was owing to them, and paid them all off
						in full. This done, the honest old man shouldered his gun, and trudged back to Missouri.
						His face wore a brighter look than for some time. He took long hunting and trapping
						expeditions to the north-west, to the sources of the Missouri River. On one occasion he
						was on the Osage River, and was taken dangerously ill. His only companion was a negro
						lad. One pleasant day he managed to crawl out of his cabin, and marked out the spot
						where he wished the boy to bury him. He did not die, however, but lived to meet with
						further reverse.
					The title which he had acquired through the Spanish government to certain Missouri
						lands was declared invalid, and at the age of seventy-six the venerable pioneer again
						found himself without one acre in all the boundless domain which he had explored. He,
						however, maintained his sweetness of temper, and in 1812, petitioned the Legislature of
						Kentucky to use its influence with Congress for the confirmation of his Spanish title to
						ten thousand acres of land. The request was granted, but Congress hesitated, and, after
						long delay, confirmed in him the title to one thousand acres of land, unmarketable at
						two cents an acre. Before this tardy and insufficient act of justice was done, his
						faithful wife, who had followed him through so many years of adventure, passed away.
						From that time he lived with his son, passing his days in meditative rambles through the
						forests. At the advanced age of eighty-two years he went on a hunting expedition of more
						than two hundred miles.
					In 1819 a distinguished artist visited Boone at his dwelling  near the Missouri, for the purpose of taking his portrait, and found him in
						a "small, rude cabin, indisposed, and reclining on his bed. A slice from the loin of a
						buck, twisted about the ramrod of his rifle, within reach of him as he lay, was roasting
						before the fire. Several other cabins, arranged in the form of a parallelogram, were
						occupied by the descendants of the pioneer. Here he lived in the midst of his posterity.
						His withered energies and locks of snow indicated that the sources of existence were
						nearly exhausted."
					He died September 26, 1820, at the home of his son-in-law, in Flanders, Calloway
						County, Missouri, being then eighty-seven years old.
					Daniel Boone is the most honored of all the pioneers of the Ohio valley. This is as it
						should be. The gentleness and humanity which pervaded his life stand out in marked
						contrast with the fierceness and brutality which characterized so many of the borderers.
						He was a true pioneer.
					Governor Morehead, in a memorial address on the life and services of Daniel Boone, has
						said: "His life is a forcible example of the powerful influence a single absorbing
						passion exerted over the destiny of an individual. Possessing no other acquirements than
						a very common education, he was enabled, nevertheless, to maintain through a long and
						useful career, a conspicuous rank among the most distinguished of his contemporaries. He
						united, in an eminent degree, the qualities of shrewdness, caution, courage, and
						uncommon muscular strength. He was seldom taken by surprise, he never shrank from
						danger, nor cowered beneath the pressure of exposure and fatigue. His manners were
						simple and unobtrusive—exempt from the rudeness characteristic of the
						backwoodsman. In his person there was nothing remarkably striking. He was five feet ten
						inches in height, and of robust and powerful proportions. His countenance was mild and
						contemplative. His ordinary habits were those of a hunter. He died as he lived, in a
						cabin, and perhaps his trusty rifle was the most valuable of all his chattels."
					
					
						BOONE RESCUES HIS DAUGHTER.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER X.
						THE CRUELTIES OF GIRTY.
					FOR the traitor there has been erected in every age and country a
						pillar of historic infamy. By whatever name he is known, apostate, renegade, turncoat,
						or Tory, mankind have for him one universal expression of contempt. His name, of all
						historic characters, is buried the deepest in the mire. He becomes a by-word, a hissing,
						a reproach among the nations of the earth. For him no curse is bitter enough, no
						oblivion black enough. He lives in the midst of the fiercest passions which darken the
						human heart. He is a hater and the hated. The rage which he excites among the followers
						of the cause which he has deserted is only equaled by the disgust and secret loathing
						which he inspires among the partisans of the cause which he has joined.
					Of all enmities, that of the apostate is most bitter. Of all hatreds, that of the
						renegade is most bloody. Within him rage storms of wrath, without him storm tempests of
						calumny. When the occasion for his shame has passed, and he is no longer useful to the
						ranks of which he became the dishonored recruit, he is sent without the camp. He is
						spurned as a viper. He is shunned as a leper. He is despised as a devil.
					Another man fights and falls in the cause of wrong, yet to him mankind accords the
						laurels of heroism. Upon his tomb the historian inscribes the legend, "He was mistaken,
						but he was great." From that time on his error is forgotten. His  name is inscribed among those of the heroes and the martyrs. The philosopher
						moralizes upon his career. He points out the fact that the dead was in the grasp of
						immutable laws; that he was not his own master; that ancestry, birth, place,
						temperament, surroundings, fortune, accident, and circumstances are the powers which
						have controlled him, in whose Titanic grasp he was but a puppet. This is the charity of
						history. This is the kindness of philosophy. This is the imperial task to which the
						human mind of after ages devotes herself, the task of preserving and immortalizing
						Truth, Heroism, and Honor, wherever found.
					Not so with the renegade. He is the abhorrence of all future generations. He may have
						fallen fighting in the ranks of the brave and true. No matter. Above his grave rises the
						black shaft of shame. He may have made fearful sacrifices. He may have deserted one
						cause and joined another from an honest intellectual conviction. It is nothing. For him
						men have but epithets of shame, sneers of derision. He is disowned and dishonored. For
						him there is no charity. His virtues pass into oblivion. His solitary crime of apostasy
						becomes overshadowing and colossal. Philosophy refuses to inquire into the origin and
						reasons of his infamy. He, too, may have been a puppet, moved by invisible wires from
						remote agencies. Yet for his sin there is no atonement, no mercy-seat. His name is
						inscribed with those of Benedict Arnold and Brutus, of Julian and Judas Iscariot.
					Concerning such characters the real truth is never known. The whirlwinds of abuse which
						overwhelm their lives throw dust in the eyes of the historian. He sees only a vast mass
						of slanders, invectives, reproaches, and vilifications. There seems to have been no good
						in the man. Passion, it may be, has exaggerated his vices. Enmity may have lied about
						his virtues. But the exact truth can never be obtained. He may have been worse than he
						seems; he may have been better than he seems. Concerning these things, it is impossible
						to judge.
					
					To the ranks of traitors of which we have been speaking belongs Simon Girty, the
						Renegade, or the White Savage. It is not impossible that he has been slandered. We can
						not tell. The story of his life is certainly a black one.
					Among all the Tories of the Revolution Simon Girty was the most notorious. He was born
						in north-western Pennsylvania. His father was an Irishman. "The old man was beastly
						intemperate. A jug of whisky was the extent of his ambition. Grog was his song, and grog
						would he have. His sottishness turned his wife's affection. Ready for seduction, she
						yielded her heart to a neighboring rustic, who, to remove all obstacles to their wishes,
						knocked old Girty on the head, and bore off the trophy of his prowess."
					The murdered man had been an Indian trader. He left four boys, Thomas, Simon, George,
						and James. During the Old French war the three younger boys were taken captive by the
						Indians. Inheriting the nature of savages, their surroundings only developed them. Each
						was adopted into an Indian tribe. Each became a blood-thirsty ruffian, and during long
						careers of violence inflicted every cruelty upon the persons and families of the white
						settlers.
					Of the three brothers Simon became the most notorious, as he was the most wicked. At
						the close of Pontiac's war, Girty was delivered to Bouquet as a hostage for the good
						behavior of the Senecas, of which tribe he was a member. The savage propensities of the
						young ruffian were so strong that he escaped from his civilized companions, and sought
						again the wild and wicked life of the wigwams. Strangely enough his appetite for
						barbarism was at this time forced to remain unsatisfied. The Senecas, being bound by the
						condition in the treaty of peace, deliberately took Mr. Girty by force, and dragged him
						back to Pittsburgh.
					Of course, when Dunmore's war broke out in 1774, Girty's natural taste for scenes of
						violence led him to take an active part. Here he met Simon Kenton, for whose life he
						afterwards  interceded with the Wyandots. Here, too, he
						met Colonel Crawford, at whose hospitable cabin on the Youghiogheny he was a frequent
						guest. In attempting to account for his subsequent treachery and desertion, the border
						writers mention several incidents, which tradition reports as having transpired about
						this time.
					One story goes that he aspired to the hand of one of Colonel Crawford's daughters. The
						refusal, with which his advances were met, poisoned his malignant heart with a sleepless
						longing for revenge. This account is supposed to furnish some reason for Girty's awful
						inhumanity to Colonel Crawford some years later.
					Another story runs to the effect that Girty and another scout, having rendered some two
						or three months' service in the militia, without receiving their pay, repaired to the
						headquarters of General Lewis, and insolently demanded that the arrears of salary be
						made up. The military discipline of the time seems to have been a little singular, for
						General Lewis not only received the application with a storm of curses, but proceeded to
						exercise himself in bloodying the heads of the two scouts with several severe blows from
						his cane. Strangely enough, this style of reception and military etiquette displeased
						the untutored scouts. Girty picked himself up, and shaking his fist at the general, with
						a fearful oath, threateningly said, "Sir, for this your quarters shall swim
							in blood."'
					On the 22d of February, 1775, a day which, at that time, was not yet celebrated as the
						birthday of the Father of his country; Girty became a commissioned officer in the
						militia at Pittsburgh. In accordance with English laws, he took the necessary oaths of
						allegiance to the king and his abhorrence of papacy.
					Here, again, the ingenious border writers find a reason for Girty's faithlessness. They
						say he aspired to a captaincy, but was only made an orderly-sergeant. This affront his
						sensitive soul could by no means endure. He remained, however, in the  service at Fort Pitt until the early part of 1778. That his
						real sympathies, if such his inclinations might be called, were with the Indians, among
						whom he had been raised, and not with the struggling cause of the colonial patriots, is
						natural, and easy to believe.
					A savage seeks the society of savages, just as surely as a gentleman seeks that of
						gentlemen. Accordingly we find Girty, together with a pair of precious scoundrels, McKee
						and Elliott, and twelve followers, one day making up their packs and deserting from Fort
						Pitt. The news spread far and wide over the agitated frontiers. Wherever the ruffians
						went, they spread lies about the defeat of the American forces, the triumph of the
						British, and the intention of the colonists to avenge their defeat by the murder of
						every Indian in the Ohio valley. The settlers trembled for the safety of their families.
						The mischief which the white scoundrels might work among credulous and excitable savages
						was incalculable. Their evil designs were looked upon as a matter of certainty.
					Nor did the fears of the settlers exaggerate the real dangers of the situation. The
						Indians were made to believe that George Washington was killed, and that the members of
						Congress were hung in the very chambers where they had been accustomed to deliberate. As
						poor Heckewelder said, speaking of the renegade's visit to Gnadenhutten: "It was enough
						to break the hearts of the missionaries."
					Girty started for Detroit. On the way he was captured by the Wyandots. Some Senecas
						demanded that he be delivered up to them, on the ground that he was an adopted member of
						their tribe, and had taken arms against them. In fact, Girty's national allegiance was a
						little mixed. Was he a traitor to the Senecas, or to the Americans, or to both, or to
						neither? For this enigma, the Wyandot chief had a solution. "He is our prisoner." Such
						logic won the day. By shrewd explanations that he was now devoted to their cause Girty
						procured himself to be set at liberty, and proceeded to Detroit. Here the  commandant, Hamilton, gave him a hearty reception. He was
						at once employed by the British upon a salary to incite the Indians to warfare upon the
						unprotected settlers of the border.
					Girty was now in his element. To the instinctive ferocity of his own nature, he added
						the relentless zeal of the renegade. His name became a household word of terror all
						along the border, from Pittsburgh to Louisville. About it hung every association of
						cruelty and fiendishness. Dressed and painted like an Indian, he seemed, as he really
						was, the very incarnation of fierceness and brutality. Inheriting from his Irish
						ancestry a capacity for rude eloquence, with which the children of the Emerald Isle are
						often gifted, his terrible voice rose high and commanding above all the hideous clamor
						and savage din of every Indian council-house. Convulsed with fury, a human volcano in
						eruption, he awed the savages themselves by the resistless torrents of his rage, and
						excited their admiration and emulation by his infinite thirst for blood and infernal
						schemes of vengeance.
					The picture of the man, as it is preserved for us in the tales of the borders,
						represents him as a monstrosity in human form. We can fairly hear him yet, as he stalked
						through the village, or galloped through the forest, filling the air with an awful din
						and roar of oaths and curses. He it was who inspired and directed the many attacks on
						the settlers of the Ohio valley. It was the diabolical brain of Girty which tormented
						the Christian Indians of the Moravian settlements, drove them from spot to spot, and
						placed them in that ambiguous position which the pioneers mistook for treachery or
						hostility, and which resulted in the slaughter of more than ninety of their number.
					One, among many instances of his cruelty toward them, must be related. Shortly after
						the massacre at Gnadenhutten, Heckewelder, Zeisberger, and two other missionaries were
						ordered by Girty to meet him on the lower Sandusky. Here they were hospitably received
						by some traders. The traders told them that Girty had commanded them to proceed to  Detroit forthwith. But exhausted by their toilsome journey
						on foot, the missionaries availed themselves of the kind invitation of the traders to
						remain at this point for a week or two.
					Here, for the first time, they learned of the awful tragedy on the Muskingum. Their
						minds were greatly uneasy, not only by reason of the fearful news, but also from an
						apprehension that Girty might return from a terrible expedition against the frontiers
						and find his orders disobeyed with regard to their being taken to Detroit.
					The two missionaries were quartered in different houses, separated by some distance.
						Between them lay the restless and filthy town of the Wyandots. For the missionaries to
						pass through the village and visit one another was an undertaking of considerable
						danger. Nevertheless, it was attempted a time or two. One day, when the Indian village
						seemed all quiet, Heckewelder ventured to cross it to the house where his friends were
						lodged. He reached the place in safety.
					While engaged in conversation, the missionaries were horrified and startled by two
						scalp-yells from different directions. Two war-parties were just returning. Heckewelder
						at once started from the house, which stood on a lofty ridge of ground, to make his way
						back to his quarters. The elevated ground prevented the people of the village from
						hearing the scalp-yell of the war-party approaching from the rear of the house in which
						Heckewelder was talking. The savages all ran in the opposite direction to meet the other
						party. Heckewelder followed in their rear, and passed the deserted village in
						safety.
					But the missionaries' troubles were not ended. Girty returned, and behaved like a
						madman on learning that they were there. "He flew at the Frenchman," says Heckewelder,
						"who was in the room adjoining ours, most furiously, striking him, and threatening to
						split his head in two, for disobeying the orders he had given him. He swore the most
						horrid oaths inspecting us, and continued in that way until after midnight. His oaths
						were all to the purport that he would never leave the 
						house until he split our heads in two with his tomahawk, and made our brains stick to
						the walls of the rooms in which we were! I omit the names he called us by and the words
						he made use of while swearing, as also the place he would go to if he did not fulfill
						all which he had sworn he would do to us. He had somewhere procured liquor, and would,
						as we were told by those who were near him, at every drink renew his oaths, which he
						repeated until he fell asleep.
					"Never before did any of us hear the like oaths, or know any one to rave like him. He
						appeared like a host of evil spirits. He would sometimes come up to the bolted door
						between us and him, threatening to chop it in pieces to get at us. No Indian we ever saw
						drunk would have been a match for him. How we should escape the clutches of this white
						beast in human form no one could foresee."
					The poor missionaries passed a miserable night, within the sound of the fearful ravings
						of the monster. When morning dawned they were fortunately enabled to leave the place in
						a boat which was going to Detroit.
					The wicked and devilish part which Girty played in the execution of Colonel Crawford is
						given in another chapter, as is also the incident of a different character, in which he
						attempted to save Kenton's life. Toward the close of the Revolutionary War a thread of
						romance is twisted like a skein of gold through the dark web of Girty's career.
					In March 1779 a family of emigrants named Malott embarked on the Monongahela in two
						flat-bottomed boats for a voyage to Kentucky. Mrs. Malott and her five children, with
						Captain Reynolds, were in the rear boat. Mrs. Reynolds, several children, and a Mrs.
						Hardin were in the forward boat. Some forty miles below Wheeling the little fleet, in
						which there were also some canoes, was attacked by Indians.
					Several of the voyagers were killed, and no less than nineteen of them taken prisoner
						to the squalid villages of the Delawares and the Wyandots. Among these was Catharine
						Malott,  then fifteen years old. Some three years
						afterward, when Mrs. Malott had obtained her liberty at Detroit, she seems to have
						employed Girty to trace her children. He found Catharine, a very pretty girl, adopted
						into an Indian family. The people being very proud of her, refused to give her up.
						Girty's influence, and a well-timed promise, which was never intended to be kept, that
						she should be returned after visiting her mother in Detroit, secured her release.
					Once at Detroit, Girty married her. During the next seven years, Girty, softened
						somewhat by his new relations, remained comparatively quiet, leading the life of an
						Indian trader. For awhile he was tolerably quiet. In time, however, he became a hard
						drinker, and was separated from his family.
					When the Indians of the west, after some years of comparative quiet, following the
						close of the Revolutionary War, combined in one last and furious effort to drive the
						white man from the territory of their fathers, an attempt which was met by the memorable
						and unfortunate expedition of General Harmar in 1790, by the no less tragic campaign of
						St. Clair in 1791, and finally, by the triumphant and overwhelming blow inflicted by
						General Wayne in 1794, Simon Girty again became prominent among the savages. At every
						council his voice was lifted in the support of bitter, relentless, and continued war. He
						was present, animating the Indian forces by his reckless courage, at each important
						battle of these campaigns. One incident early in 1791 has been preserved.
					A party of hunters from Cincinnati were startled by the discharge of fire-arms from the
						neighborhood of Dunlap's Station. This was a settlement on the Great Miami River, eight
						miles from Hamilton. Here the settlers had erected several block-houses, connected by a
						stockade, fronting southward on the river at a point where the water is deep. The
						hunters beat a hasty retreat for Cincinnati, seventeen miles away. No one doubted that
						the station had been attacked by Indians.
					Before daylight seventy men left Cincinnati for the relief  of the station. On arriving at the fort, they learned that the Indians had withdrawn.
						One man had been killed by a shot fired through a crack between the logs. Not far from
						the fort they found the body of Abner Hunt. It was mangled, the brains beaten out, and
						two war-clubs laid across the breast. Hunt had been out with three companions named
						Wallace, Sloan, and Cunningham, exploring the country. Cunningham was killed on the spot
						by an ambuscade of Indians; Hunt was captured only to be subsequently put to death.
						Wallace took to flight. Two fleet Indians pursued. In his flight Wallace had the
						misfortune to be tripped and thrown by the loosening of his leggins. He pluckily tied
						them up, and escaped in spite of the mishap. Sloan and Wallace carried the news of the
						Indians' approach to the fort.
					Before sunrise on the 10th of January, the women of the fort, while milking the cows,
						raised an alarm cry that the Indians were upon them. Before the fight was begun, Simon
						Girty strode forward toward the fort, driving Abner Hunt before him by means of a rope,
						with which the prisoner was bound. Within speaking distance of the fort was a large
						stump. This Girty compelled Hunt to mount and to urge the surrender of the fort in the
						most earnest manner. Lieutenant Kingsbury, in command at the station, replied that he
						would not surrender if he were surrounded by five hundred devils and persuaded to do so
						by Demosthenes himself. An Indian shot at him, and struck off the white plume from his
						hat. Girty, to revenge himself for this disappointment, drove poor Hunt back to a spot
						on the plain, which, though out of range of the guns, was in full view of the garrison.
						Here he proceeded to torture the unhappy wretch, and finally put him to death.
					This scene over, the Indians began a desperate attack. They fired from behind stumps,
						trees, and logs. A pile of brush near the stockade was soon in flames. The Indians then
						rushed forward with fire-brands to burn the block-houses, but they were driven back by a
						whirlwind of bullets. All day long the attack  was
						continued. Night brought no relief. The entire number in the fort was about thirty men,
						and as many women and children. Girty conducted the attack with great boldness and
						ingenuity. But the stubborn resistance of the defenders of the station successfully met
						him at every point. Both men and women teased the savages by momentarily exposing
						themselves above the pickets and inviting a shot.
					That night, at ten o'clock, John S. Wallace attempted to leave the fort, in order to
						make his way to Cincinnati and procure relief. So vigilant were the besiegers, that he
						was unable to pass through their lines. For three hours he continued his attempts.
						Driven back each time, he next turned his attention to the river. The night was very
						dark. There were no indications of the presence of savages on the opposite bank.
					About three o'clock in the morning, Mr. Wallace and a soldier named William Wiseman got
						into a canoe, and silently paddled across the river. They then made their way on foot
						through the river bottoms for a couple of miles. An attempt to cross the river on the
						floating ice proved unsuccessful. At the spot where New Baltimore stands, they at last
						did get across, and early in the day met the relief party from Cincinnati, of which we
						have already spoken.
					Another battle in which Girty was known to be engaged was that which resulted in St.
						Clair's defeat, twenty-three miles north of Greenville, Ohio. During the rout of the
						American army, Girty captured a white woman. A Wyandot squaw at once demanded that the
						female captive be given to her, in accordance with the Indian custom. Girty refused, and
						became furious. The decline of his influence, a thing which has been experienced by
						every renegade, is shown by the fact that the warriors came up and forced Girty to give
						up the captive.
					After this we hear of Girty establishing a trading-house on the site of the present
						town of St. Mary's, Mercer County, Ohio. Girty was also present at the famous battle of
						Fallen Timbers, in 1794, after which he moved to Malden, Canada. He was  perpetually haunted by the fear of falling into the hands
						of the Americans. In 1796, when Detroit was upon the point of a final surrender by the
						British, he happened to be in the city. Some boat loads of American troops were coming
						in sight. Girty would not wait for the ferry-boat, but excitedly plunged his horse into
						the Detroit River, and made for the Canada shore, pouring out volleys of curses upon the
						Americans all the way.
					In 1813 a Mr. Workman, of Ohio, stopped at a hotel kept by a Frenchman, in Malden.
						Sitting in the bar-room in a corner by the glowing fire-place was a blind and
						gray-headed old man. He was about five feet, ten inches in height, broad across the
						chest, and of powerful and muscular build. He was then nearly seventy years old. The old
						man was none other than the notorious Simon Girty. He had been blind for four years, and
						was afflicted with rheumatism and other intolerable diseases, a perfect sot, a complete
						human wreck. He lingered on through two more years of misery, and, at last, died without
						a friend and without a hope.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XI.
						THE DOOM OF CRAWFORD.
					AMONG the many unfortunate military enterprises undertaken on the
						western border during the Revolutionary War, none is more notable than that against
						Sandusky, under Colonel William Crawford. Cornwallis had surrendered. The war with
						England was at an end. The patriotic minds of the colonies, inspired by the magnificent
						destiny dawning upon their country, were already busy with the great problems of
						self-government. On the western frontiers, however, the murderous forays of the Indians
						raged with unprecedented violence. The settlers continued to be roused at midnight in
						their lonely cabins by the blood-curdling war-cry. Children continued to be snatched
						away into captivity by dark hands thrust out from behind clumps of bushes and fallen
						logs. The corpses of the near and dear still continued to be found in lonely ravines or
						open fields.
					The center of the Indian power was at Sandusky. In 1782 a permission for the
						organization of a great volunteer expedition against the Indians of the west was about
						all the government could do. This, however, was enough. Far and wide through the
						settlements along the Monongahela, the Youghiogheny, and the Ohio went the thrilling
						word that the expedition was to start on the 20th of May.
					The popular heart, inspired by the successes of the Revolution, was now fired with
						enthusiasm and zeal for an attack on the deadly enemies of the west. In many an isolated
						cabin  there was a lively stir of preparation. With
						troubled forebodings many a mother heard the resolutions of brave sons to join the march
						to the front. Maidens, parting from their lovers, sat in the shadow of their first
						sorrow. Children, whose tongues had scarcely learned to lisp the dreaded syllable of
						war, sobbed in solitude at the absence of the stalwart forms they loved.
					The scene at Mingo Bottom, the rendezvous for the expedition, was truly American. For
						ten days beforehand the borderers came riding in, equipped in homely fashion for the
						campaign. The pioneer soldier was a curiosity. His buckskin hunting-shirt was belted at
						the waist. Through the belt was thrust the cruel tomahawk, the glittering
						scalping-knife, and the string of his ammunition-pouch. His hat of felt or fur was not
						infrequently decorated with tossing plumes, or the tails of animals. Over his shoulder
						he carried his rifle. Perhaps in his bosom was thrust some memento, a handkerchief or a
						scarf from some admiring maiden.
					When at last the grim and motley assemblage was complete, its first task was to elect
						officers. William Crawford received two hundred and thirty-five out of the four hundred
						and sixty-five votes cast, and was declared colonel in command of the expedition. He had
						had considerable military experience, and was fitted by nature to be a soldier and a
						leader. He was ambitious, cool, and brave. Familiar with border warfare, the expedition
						in hand was adapted to the highest qualities of his genius. Yet he accepted the command
						with reluctance. Before his tender farewell to his family, the prudent father made his
						will.
					His associate officers were the very flower of the border. Among them was David
						Williamson, second in command; John McClelland, field major; Dr. John Knight, surgeon;
						John Slover, Jonathan Zane, of whom we have heard before, guides of the expedition; and
						an officer of the regular army, who gave his name as John Rose, who volunteered for the
						purpose of acting as aid-de-camp to the commanding officer.
					
					Concerning this latter gentleman more will be said hereafter. For the present it is
						sufficient to say that, early in the Revolution, he had applied to the American army for
						a commission. Though fine looking, of elegant manners, and, as was supected, of noble
						birth, speaking the French language, and highly gifted, his request was refused. He had
						studied medicine, he said, and sympathizing with the colonists, had left the Old World,
						against the protest of his friends, to join his fortunes with theirs. Upon the details
						of his history and life, the young stranger preserved the most profound silence. He had,
						at last, received a commission as surgeon; but, after two or three years of service,
						discovering a jealousy on the part of some young American officers, he had resigned. In
						spite of the mystery that surrounded him, he was a great favorite. It was not long
						before the wild borderers, assembled at Mingo Bottom, absolutely idolized the young
						officer, who volunteered from lack of other service.
					On the 25th of May the expedition set out for Sandusky, one hundred and fifty miles
						away. Though not an Indian had been seen, the greatest precautions were taken against
						ambuscades and surprises. Their route led them through the desolate and fire-blasted
						settlements of the Moravians on the Muskingum.
					David Williamson, the officer second in command of the expedition, was familiar with
						this spot. He it was who had commanded the gang of murderers, by whose bloody hands the
						inncocent Moravian Indians had been put to death. Yet, when he found himself once more
						near the scene of this appalling massacre, there is no record, no evidence that his
						heart was moved with one sensation of regret, with a single throb of pity. Such is the
						brutalizing influence of war upon the warrior.
					The march was designed to be hasty. The plan was to surprise the savages. Day after day
						they advanced, without finding the print of a single moccasin or hearing the crack of a
						single hostile rifle. It was not the advance of an army with banners, to the music of
						the fife and drum. It was the insidious  movement, swift
						and silent, of a mighty serpent, winding stealthily through the sunless forests toward
						the unsuspecting towns of the Indians. Now and then an incident happened which attracted
						the attention of the men. Some of the volunteers lost their horses, and were compelled
						to return to the settlements. This the borderers regarded as a bad sign. "Perhaps the
						rest of us will not go back at all!" said one of the men.
					On another day, a fox got into the lines. The men at once surrounded it on all sides,
						but in spite of their utmost efforts to capture it, the animal escaped. In every
						considerable company of men there will be some who are positively and blindly
						superstitious. In addition to these there will be a larger number of credulous and
						talkative persons who, when informed that a certain thing is an omen or sign, at once
						take it up as a matter of fact. So it came to be whispered through the camp that the
						escape of the fox was a bad omen. "If the whole army," said they, "is unable to kill a
						fox, under such circumstances, what success can be expected against Indians?"
					The army at last emerged from the forests, which they had traversed, into the rolling
						prairies of Ohio. "To most of the volunteers," says the historian of this expedition,
						"the sight of the plains was a novel one. The high, coarse grass, the islands of timber,
						the gradually undulating surface, were all objects of surprise. Birds of strange plumage
						flew over them, prairie hens rose before them, sailing away and slowly dropping into the
						grass on either hand. Sand-hill cranes blew their shrill pipes, startled by the sudden
						apparition. Prairie owls, on cumbrous wings, fluttered away in the distance, and the
						noisy bittern was heard along the streamlets. Wild geese were frightened from their
						nests, and, occasionally, in widening circles far above them, soared the imperial
						eagle."
					At length the destination of the expedition, into which the entire western border had
						concentrated its energy and valor, was almost reached. On the morning of the 4th of June
						the  men were awake and ready for the march before the
						brightness of the sunrise had illuminated the landscape. Throughout the whole camp there
						was a bustle of unusual excitement. Through their long march scarcely an Indian had been
						seen. The men felt themselves to be approaching a crisis. Their nerves were strung at
						the highest tension. Guns were examined, and fresh charges put in. Packs were
						readjusted, and saddle girths carefully tightened. The army were encamped near the site
						of the present village of Wyandot in the county of that name in the State of Ohio.
					The march was begun just as the flaming disk of day appeared above the horizon. The
						direction taken was nearly north-west. Six miles' travel brought them to the mouth of
						the Little Sandusky. The spot was a familiar one to Slover. He had been taken captive by
						the Miami Indians when only eight years of age, spending the next six years of his life
						with that tribe.
					Three Indian trails led from the spot of which we are now speaking. One south-east,
						through the Plains, to Owl Creek, now the Vernon River, leading thence to Walhomding.
						This was the route taken by the Moravian missionaries and their converts at the time of
						their exile from the settlements on the Muskingum to the barren plains of Sandusky. A
						second trail led to the south, up the east side of the Little Sandusky. The third ran to
						the south-west, toward the Shawanese town upon Mad River. Besides these, there was also
						a fourth trace, leading north along the east side of the river, through the woods.
					This latter was the one which Crawford took. The army moved cautiously, for Slover
						assured Crawford that the Wyandot town was near at hand. Following the turn of the
						river, the army marched rapidly in a westerly direction. There was an opening in the
						woods, towards which the men pressed on eagerly. Just before them lay the Wyandot town,
						the goal of the expedition.
					Yet, though a hostile army was now within full view of 
						the place, there was no sign of life in the village. The shrill war-cry, the screams of
						the squaws, the barking of the dogs, were all wanting. Were the inhabitants of the place
						asleep, or was the village enchanted? As the invaders drew nearer, they found, to their
						surprise, that the Wyandot town was without an inhabitant. All was a solitude. The empty
						huts were silent and deserted. Grass was growing in the doorways. The ashes of the
						camp-fires seemed to have been beaten by many a rain since the hot coals had glowed in
						their midst.
					The army was astonished. Some mistake had been made. Where, then, was Sandusky, the
						principal town of the Wyandots, to attack which the volunteers had traveled one hundred
						and sixty miles? A halt was called. It was one o'clock in the afternoon, the officers of
						the army were hastily called together for a council of war, to consider the strange
						aspect of affairs.
					Leaving the officers of the volunteer army in anxious consultation, let us briefly
						sketch the state of affairs among the Indians. The reverses experienced by them early in
						the year, together with the Gnadenhutten massacre, had roused the Indians to the highest
						activity and watchfulness. Every white settlement on the frontier was placed under the
						surveillance of invisible spies. When the cabins of the pioneers began to be pervaded by
						an unusual stir in preparation for the expedition against Sandusky, fleet runners,
						unbeknown to the white men, bore the startling news to the villages of their tribes.
					When the assemblage of volunteers took place at Mingo Bottom, every movement was
						observed by subtle scouts, and the tidings reported to their chiefs. That a great
						expedition was forming was evident. Its destination, however, was unknown. In every
						forest through which the army had passed lurked unseen savages, watching their course.
						Meanwhile, runners were dispatched to every village, bearing the news that the Indians
						must concentrate all their forces to successfully resist this invasion. Messengers were
						also dispatched to Detroit, begging the British commandant to send instant and powerful
							 aid to his Indian allies. The old Wyandot town had been
						deserted some time before this. Its people had removed to a point on the river eight
						miles below the old town. Its location was five miles below the present town of Upper
						Sandusky, just where the Kilbourne road crosses the river.
					That the destination of Crawford and his men was to be the Sandusky towns seemed clear
						to the Indians. In this they were confirmed by Crawford's encampment on the night of the
						3d of June. Eighteen miles down the river from that camp was the chief Wyandot town,
						where the warriors were prepared to march at any instant. Eleven miles in another
						direction stood the village of Captain Pipe, the war chief of the Delawares. Here, too,
						the savages stood all night long plumed and ready for battle.
					On the morning of the 4th of June the Delaware war-chief moved forward with his two
						hundred braves to an appointed rendezvous with the Wyandot braves. From the village of
						the latter the squaws and children were carefully removed and concealed in a deep
						ravine. The traders in the town hastily packed their goods and started for Detroit.
					Besides the Wyandots, whose numbers exceeded those of the Delawares, the combined
						forces of which already surpassed the volunteer army, there was also moving to the
						Indian rendezvous, two other re-enforcements. From the Shawanese town, forty miles away,
						were coming two hundred braves of that tribe. They were not expected to arrive until the
						next day. From the north was coming powerful succor of a different sort. The commandant
						of Detroit had dispatched to the scene of action Butler's Mounted Rangers, with three
						pieces of artillery.
					It was impossible for this re-enforcement to reach the rendezvous before the 5th of
						June. Far in advance of the Rangers, however, mounted on the swiftest horse in the
						company, rode Matthew Elliott at the top of his speed. He it was who was to have command
						of all the allied forces. He reached his command about noon of the fourth. Second in
						command to him was  his fellow-ruffian and Tory, Simon
						Girty. Such were the preparations made for the destruction of Crawford's army.
					The council of war, held on the site of the deserted Wyandot town, resulted in an
						advance in search of the real Sandusky, which Slover rightly believed to be eight miles
						farther down the river. The army had proceeded some three or four miles when some of the
						men expressed an earnest desire to return home, for the reason that there remained only
						five days' provisions. Crawford again called a halt. His officers were at once summoned
						for another council. Jonathan Zane urged an immediate retreat. He was of the opinion
						that the Indians would in the end bring an overwhelming force against them. The failure
						to discover any Indians as yet convinced him that they were concentrated at some point
						not far away for a determined resistance. In this view Crawford coincided. It was,
						however, at last, resolved to continue the advance during the afternoon, and, in case of
						continued failure to meet the enemy, that a retreat should be commenced during the
						night.
					In front of the army rode a party of scouts. The country was rolling prairie, flecked
						with island-groves of thickly growing trees. At one of these green oases the scouts
						reined in their panting horses. One mile to the east of them lay the Sandusky River, its
						winding course marked out upon the landscape by a fringe of forest trees. Midway between
						the grove and the river ran the trail leading to the Wyandot town. South-west of the
						grove, not very far off, was a cranberry marsh, impassable to horsemen. This swamp the
						scouts had passed without discovering it. After a few moments' pause, this advance guard
						put spurs to their horses, and galloped on over the prairie. Having left the grove about
						a mile to the rear, the scouts suddenly discovered a large body of Indians running
						directly toward them—they were in sight of the Indian rendezvous. One of their
						number, riding their fleetest horse, at once galloped back to inform Crawford of the
						enemy's whereabouts. The rest retired slowly as the savages advanced.
					
					Just as the Americans had finished their council of war the breathless scout dashed in,
						bearing the news of the discovery of the Indians. In a moment the lagging army took fire
						with enthusiasm, and started forward at the top of their speed. They found that the
						Indians had already reached the island grove and taken possession of it. Crawford's
						military eye at once discerned this to be a strategic point. By a rapid charge the
						Indians were driven, and the Americans, in turn, took possession of the cover.
					The firing began at four o'clock in the afternoon. The Indians, led by Elliott and
						Girty, were concealed by the thick, high grass of the open prairie. They would creep
						forward, unseen, close to the trees, and fire upon the Americans from their concealment.
						Some of the borderers climbed the trees, and from their bushy tops took deadly aim at
						the heads of the enemy moving about in the grass. Great execution was done in this way.
						One man said afterward, "I do not know how many Indians I killed, but I never saw the
						same head again above the grass after I shot at it." The battle raged with fury. Every
						tree and log in the grove blazed with the incessant flashes of the American rifles. Not
						a foe was visible on either side. Yet every point in the surrounding prairie gave forth
						continuous explosions, and, over all floated a bank of white smoke.
					The afternoon was exceedingly sultry. Not a breath of air was stirring. The river was a
						mile away. No spring or stream of water was to be found in the grove. The soldiers were
						attacked by the intolerable torment of thirst. In this emergency one of the men, John
						Sherrard, distinguished himself. In the excitement of the conflict he had rendered his
						gun useless by ramming a ball into the barrel without having put in a charge of powder.
						He said "I will not be idle." He went in search of water. He found a place where a tree
						had been torn up by the roots. In the cavity left in the ground had collected a pool of
						stagnant water. Pushing aside the green scum, he  filled
						his canteen and hat, and ran to carry the water to his thirsty comrades. During the
						afternoon he made twenty trips of this kind.
					For a while the issue of the battle was doubtful. Toward sunset the fire of the savages
						weakened. Their caution about exposure increased. They had evidently suffered. At dark
						they had withdrawn beyond the range of the American rifles. The Americans, being left in
						possession of the field, were the victors. To guard against a night surprise, each party
						resorted to the same device. They built a line of huge camp-fires, and then fell back
						from them for some distance. By this means any approaching foe would be revealed. The
						loss of the American army was five killed and nineteen wounded. The battle-field was
						three miles north, and half a mile east of the spot now occupied by the court-house in
						Upper Sandusky.
					At sunrise on the beautiful morning of the 5th of June, occasional shots at long range
						began to be exchanged between the contending forces. As the day advanced the enemy's
						firing continued to be slack and irregular. As to the cause of this feebleness the
						Americans were fatally mistaken. They regarded it as an indication of depression
						occasioned by the defeat of the previous day. In fact, however, the Wyandots and
						Delawares were abundantly satisfied with simply being able to hold the Americans in
						check until the arrival of the band of braves from the Shawanese village, and of the
						redoubtable Butler's Rangers. Every hour brought these re-enforcements, of which the
						Americans were totally ignorant, nearer to the field of battle.
					Crawford would gladly have attacked the foe early in the day, but the volunteers seemed
						in a poor condition for the undertaking. Many of the men were sick from the fatigues of
						the march. Others were suffering from the combined effects of the heat and of the
						poisonous water which they had been compelled to drink. Besides these there were
						nineteen wounded. Fifteen or twenty more were required to nurse the sick. These
						subtractions from the little army so weakened its strength for the time being that  it was thought best to withhold the attack until nightfall.
						The morning was spent in comparative repose. The volunteers were confident of an easy
						victory. The men lay in the shade, already chatting gayly of the success of the
						expedition. Some even talked of the welcome they would receive on their return. A
						change, however, was to come over the spirit of the idlers in the grove.
					An hour or two after noon a sentinel stationed in a copse north-east of the grove
						discovered a small speck at a great distance in the prairie. As his eager eye watched
						the apparition it grew larger. A few moments later he perceived it to be a body of
						mounted men. Pausing yet a moment, it became plain that these troops were white men. The
						sentinel stood no longer, but dashed toward his commander with information of the
						discovery. The grove at once became the scene of animation and excitement. The loungers
						sprang from their mossy couches and buckled on their fierce equipment for battle. Horses
						were saddled, the wounded were carried to the rear. While the volunteers were thus
						making their active preparations for a battle, the officers were grouped in a hurried
						council of war. The notion of an attack was at once abandoned, in the presence of the
						civilized foe. A defensive policy was all that remained. It was no longer a question of
						the destruction of the Indian towns; it was a question of the destruction of the
						army.
					While deliberating upon the critical situation, another scout came running in with the
						news of the approach of other re-enforcements to the enemy. The officers looked with
						anxious gaze in the direction indicated; there they beheld, in full career over the open
						prairie, the painted warriors of the Shawanese, with fluttering plumes and fantastic
						decorations, coming to the help of their brethren.
					Let us take a survey of the situation. Crawford and his men were still encamped in the
						small grove. To the north of them, in the direction of their town, were encamped the
						Wyandots, supported by the newly arrived Butler's Rangers. To the  south of the grove, and a little to the west of the trail along which the
						army had come, were posted the Delawares. This position they had assumed during the
						battle of the previous day. Posted as they were, in the rear of Crawford, they
						endangered his retreat. The Shawanese, as if by previous arrangement, encamped to the
						south-east of the grove. The trail along which the army must pass in case of retreat was
						thus made to run between the two camps of the Shawanese and the Delawares—a
						maneuver of great skill.
					As the council of war continued, small squads of Indians were discovered pouring in
						from all quarters as re-enforcements. But one course was open to the Americans. That was
						retreat. Orders were given for a retrograde movement, to commence at nine o'clock that
						night. The dead were buried. For the seven dangerously wounded, litters were made. The
						army was to march in four divisions, keeping the wounded in the center. As soon as it
						was dark the sentinels were called in, and the body formed for the march, with Crawford
						at the head.
					At the moment of starting, the enemy, having discovered the intentions of the
						Americans, opened a hot fire. Some of the men became alarmed. The arrangements for a
						regular retreat were, in the excitement and panic of the moment, forgotten. The men in
						the foremost ranks started to run, and, the example being contagious, the whole army was
						soon in full flight. The seven men in the litters were left behind. Of these, five were
						helped upon comrades' horses. Two unfortunate men were left to the insatiate vengeance
						of the savages. The first division, under Major McClelland, was soon engaged with the
						Delawares and Shawanese. McClelland fell from his horse, dangerously wounded, at the
						first fire. Calling to John Orr, who was on foot, the wounded captain bade the man take
						his horse, and make his escape, which he did. In the darkness and confusion McClelland
						was believed by the few who saw him fall, either to have been killed outright, or to
						have been trampled to death under the hoofs of the 
						oncoming horses. In fact, he was reserved for a more dreadful fate.
					The enemy, on their part, fearful lest Crawford's movements formed some kind of
						maneuver, and not a flight, hesitated in their pursuit. Meanwhile, the rear divisions,
						seeing McClelland's party furiously attacked by the Delawares, bore off to the
						south-west to avoid the Indians, leaving their struggling companions to their left. At
						an earlier point in the narrative mention has been made of a vast cranberry swamp, lying
						west of the trail followed by the army in its advance. Into this swamp, owing to the
						darkness, some of the Americans unfortunately blundered. Many of the men were compelled
						to leave their horses hopelessly mired in the bog. To add to their danger, the Americans
						were attacked in the rear by the enemy, suffering considerable loss. The remainder
						skirted the morass on the west, clear around, to a point nearly opposite that of their
						entrance to the swamp.
					A little before daylight they again found themselves on the trail, having, in their
						march, described a half circle around the swamp, of which the center was the present
						town of Upper Sandusky. The men of McClelland's division had fought their way along the
						diameter of the circle, and, in a badly demoralized condition, reunited with their
						friends at the deserted Wyandot village. At this point a halt was made. Straggling
						parties came up with the others, until nearly three hundred of the volunters were once
						more together.
					An investigation was made, to find who were missing. To the great sorrow of the entire
						army, Colonel Crawford was nowhere to be found. Nothing was known of him. Whether
						killed, captured, or escaped was a matter of conjecture. Dr. John Knight and John
						Slover, together with the brave McClelland, were also missing. The command of the army
						now devolved upon Williamson, who, seconded by the brilliant military genius of Rose,
						made the most powerful exertions to rally the broken army for a regular retreat.
					
					Even in the midst of such tragic scenes as these occur incidents calculated to provoke
						a smile. One of the volunteers discovered a brass kettle, left in a deserted Indian
						sugar-camp. In spite of his peril, the prize was too great for his prudence. He
						dismounted from his horse, seized a huge bowlder, and pounded the utensil flat for
						transportation. Through all the exciting scenes of the retreat, this article kept its
						place on Vance's saddle.
					John Sherrard, the man who had carried water to his comrades during the battle, had, in
						the confusion of the flight from the grove, become separated from his companions. In
						company with Daniel Harbaugh, he followed the track of the army as best he could. Riding
						through the forest soon after sunrise on the 6th, Harbaugh, less agile than his
						companion, was shot by an Indian. Sherrard, sickened at the death of his companion,
						nevertheless removed the saddle and bridle from the dead man's horse and substituted
						them for his own, which were inferior. He had proceeded but a short distance, when he
						recklessly resolved to return for a pack of provisions which he had left tied to his own
						saddle. Securing this, he resumed his journey, and overtook the retreating army.
					At two o'clock in the afternoon of the 6th of June, the retreating army, by that time
						somewhat rallied from the demoralization of the night, were attacked from the rear by a
						large force of the enemy. The volunteers succeeded in beating off the foe, an
						achievement in which they were aided by a terrible thunder-storm which broke over the
						combatants. When the rain ceased the foe renewed the attack, and at night the two armies
						slept within sight of each other. In the morning shots were again exchanged near the
						spot where the village of Crestline now stands. Thenceforth the retreat of the broken
						and dispirited army was continued without interruption.
					It is not to be supposed that the volunteers all reached home at once. For days they
						continued to straggle back. Some of the men became completely bewildered. Nicholas
						Dawson had  become separated from his companions, and was
						endeavoring to make his way home when he was discovered by two other volunteers. Dawson
						at that time was traveling in exactly the wrong direction, going back
							toward Sandusky. The men attempted to convince him of his error, but he
						pertinaciously insisted that he was right. At last the men told him that he would
						certainly be captured by the savages and tortured to death if he proceeded in his
						present course, and that as it would be better for him to die from a painless and sudden
						gun-shot wound than from the merciless barbarities of the savages, they would kill him
						out of friendship. This argument proved successful. Dawson turned about reluctantly,
						and, with the others, reached home in safety.
					Philip Smith and a young man named Rankin had also become separated from the army,
						owing to the loss of their horses. They had their guns, but were afraid to use them to
						procure game for fear of attracting the attention of the Indians. By chance they came
						across an Indian pony, which Smith undertook to dispatch with his tomahawk. The animal,
						however, proved to be an expert dodger. Rankin at last blindfolded it, and thus enabled
						Smith to deal a fatal blow. On the flesh of the pony they subsisted for some time.
					On the third night of their retreat two volunteers on horses fell in with them. While
						proceeding along the banks of a stream they were ambuscaded by four savages. Smith was
						in the act of stooping to get a drink from the river. The two men on horseback were shot
						dead. Smith seized a gun and ran up the bank after his companion, Rankin, who had also
						taken to flight. The latter mistook Smith for a enemy, and three times attempted to
						shoot him. He succeeded, however, in dodging, until he came near enough to be
						recognized. Escaping from these Indians, the wanderers came upon a camp, evidently just
						deserted. A white man, freshly scalped, lay on the ground. As they looked at him, he
						took his hand and rubbed his bloody head. He had been scalped while alive, but, of
						course, death was near. Over  the camp fire hung a pot of
						boiling hominy. This the famished wanderers feared to eat lest it should be poisoned.
						They, at last, reached home naked, footsore, and famished. To acquaintances they were
						unrecognizable. The loved ones of their families, however, knew the wanderers at
						once.
					Many were the cabins of the frontier in which were weeping of women and wailing of
						children for the brave ones which returned not. Sherrard made his home with the widowed
						mother of James Paull, who had also accompanied the expedition. Concerning her boy
						nothing could be learned. At the moment of retreat from the grove, Sherrard noticed that
						the young man was sound asleep. He gave the sleeper a shake, and shouted, "Up, James!
						let's be off. They're all starting, and we'll be left." He had seen the young man spring
						to his feet, but at that moment lost sight of him in the darkness, and of his fate could
						tell nothing. The poor widow bore her mighty sorrow alone, and never ceased to look for
						the return of her boy.
					Sherrard had another distressing scene to go through with. As soon as he had obtained a
						little rest, he started to return the pack-saddle of Daniel Harbaugh, which he had taken
						from his dead companion's horse, to his widow. The story of her husband's death was
						heart-breaking to the sorrowing woman. She, however, knew that he was
						dead. Though stricken with grief she was not doomed to be haunted forever after by a
						fearful uncertainty.
					Among those who could learn nothing definite concerning their loved relatives, was
						Hannah Crawford, wife of the colonel in command of the expedition. For a long time she
						suffered from hope deferred until the heart grew sick indeed. When at last she heard the
						awful truth, which will be hereafter related in these pages, she was of all the
						sorrowing ones of the stricken frontier the most to be commiserated.
					As has been stated, to the genius and exertions of John Rose, aid-de-camp to Colonel
						Crawford, more than to any thing  else was due the fact
						that so many of the expedition escaped destruction. Without detailing his further
						splendid services to the colonies, we here give his own explanation of the mystery which
						surrounded him. Just before leaving America, he wrote to his friend, General Irvine, his
						true history. His name, he said, was not John Rose, but Gustavus H. de Rosenthal, of Lavonia, Russia, a baron of the empire. He had had
						a duel, brought on by a blow inflicted by his enemy upon an aged uncle. In the
						encounter, which took place in an apartment in the royal palace at St. Petersburg, he
						had killed his antagonist. He at once fled to America to draw his sword in behalf of the
						colonies. At the close of the Revolution he received from the emperor a pardon, as a
						result of which he returned to his native land.
					It yet remains for us to detail the remarkable adventures, or perchance the tragic
						doom, of those men who, either at the moment of retreat from the grove, or subsequently
						in the confusion and entanglement in the cranberry marsh, became at once separated from
						their companions and found themselves alone in the midst of an enemy's country,
						separated from the nearest white settlement by a wilderness one hundred and sixty miles
						in width, infested by swarms of hostile Indians, who were certain to scour the woods in
						every direction in search of stragglers from the retreating and broken army.
					Among those who had the misfortune to lose their horses in the mire of the cranberry
						marsh were John Slover, the guide, and James Paull. These, with five others, being
						pursued by savages, fled in a northerly direction. After pursuing this course all night
						they turned, for some unaccountable reason, toward the south-west. About ten o'clock in
						the forenoon they halted to eat. Each man had a scrap of pork. From this they proposed
						to make a sumptuous breakfast.
					Hardly had the poor fellows seated themselves on the ground when a file of Indian
						warriors was discovered coming along a neighboring trail which the volunteers had not
						observed.  The latter ran off, leaving their baggage and
						provisions, but were not discovered. Their loss of provisions, scanty though the supply
						was, was a most serious mishap. At last they resolved to return and secure them, which
						was accomplished successfully. At twelve o'clock they perceived another party of Indians
						approaching, but by skulking in the grass and bushes of the prairie, they again escaped
						discovery.
					The progress of the party was slow, one of the men having burnt his foot, and the other
						being attacked with rheumatism, contracted from exposure to the rain storm which has
						been previously mentioned. When at last they struck woodland, they turned due east in
						their line of march. On the 7th of June, the man with the rheumatism was left behind in
						a swamp. "Waiting for him some time," says Slover, in his narrative, "I saw him coming
						within one hundred yards, as I sat on the body of an old tree mending my moccasins; but
						taking my eye from him I saw him no more. He had not observed our tracks, but had gone a
						different way. We whistled on our chargers, and afterwards halloed for him, but in
						vain." This man afterwards reached his home in safety. The terrible adventures which he
						escaped by thus missing his way will be hereafter related.
					The man with the burned foot was James Paull. On the afternoon of the 5th, in making
						their hurried preparations for retreat, he, with many others, was engaged in baking
						bread. In this task some of the men, for want of a better baking-pan, made use of a
						spade which had been picked up in the desolated settlement of the Moravians. When the
						last loaf had been turned out, the hot spade was thrown down, and Paull had stepped on
						it with his bare foot, burning himself badly.
					Passing through what is now Wayne county, about nine o'clock on the 8th of June, the
						party was ambuscaded by a band of Shawanese. With tireless pertinacity, these red
						detectives of the wilderness had all the while been on the trail of the fugitives. Two
						of the white men were shot dead. Paull, notwithstanding his burnt foot, ran for his
						life, and escaped.  Slover and the other two men were
						taken captives. By a remarkable coincidence, one of the captors had been in the party
						which had captured Slover in the mountains of Virginia when but a boy. The Indian,
						however, had nothing but curses for his old acquaintance. Sick at heart, the three
						prisoners started for the Shawanese towns, on Mad River, in what is now Logan county,
						Ohio.
					On the third day after their capture they came in sight of a small Indian village.
						Slover had hoped that his old captor might treat him with some clemency. On his entrance
						to the village this hope was dashed in pieces. The inhabitants of the place, crazy with
						joy over the great victory at Sandusky, were delighted to find that the fun was not yet
						over. They at once began the enjoyment of abusing the captives. The three white men were
						beaten with clubs, chastised with lashes, and buffeted by the vile mob from one side of
						the village to the other.
					This treatment was not the most ominous circumstance. The rabble seized one of Slover's
						companions, the oldest man in the party, and stripped him naked. Two of them at once
						began the task of painting the unfortunate man black. As the artists
						progressed with their work a dense throng of hideous squaws and screaming children
						surrounded them, watching every stroke of the brush with intense interest. The captive,
						alarmed at the proceeding, began to surmise that it was an indication that he was to be
						burnt. He broke down in tears, and called to Slover, asking him what it meant. With
						devilish temper, the Indians warned Slover not to tell the man any thing.
					The three men were next told that they were to run the gauntlet to the council-house,
						which was about a thousand feet away. Foremost in the dreadful race ran the man who had
						been painted black. Upon him were concentrated the chief efforts of the savages. Many
						fired powder into his flesh as he passed them. Stunned, bruised, and bleeding from the
						assaults of his enemies, the poor man was unable to reach the goal as soon as Slover and
						his companion. When he did so, his body  had been gashed
						in a dozen places with tomahawks. Here and there large holes had been burnt in the
						flesh. A gun wad, 
							SLOVER'S COMPANION RUNNING THE GAUNTLET.
						 fired into his neck, had inflicted a painful wound, from which the blood
						streamed in large quantities.
					Shattered as he was, through exertions nerved by despair 
						itself, he reached the council-house. Exultant with hope, he stretched out his hand to
						lay hold of the door. But for him there was no rest, no mercy. While his hand was still
						extended in the belief that he had secured temporary safety, a dozen slimy hands jerked
						him back from the door, whose refuge mocked him. Again and again, he fought to tear
						himself loose from their grasp. But a few steps would he run, till again he was seized
						and hurled back.
					Though growing weaker at every moment, and frantic with despair, the instinct of
						self-preservation still remained to him, and he sought to wrest from his tormentors a
						club or tomahawk. Perceiving his purpose, the savages would hold out to him their
						weapons, and then, as his eager fingers were about to clutch the object, would snatch it
						away with hideous laughter, and deal the wretch another blow. Sometimes they would allow
						him to run from them a considerable distance, only to make his recapture the occasion
						for a pretended punishment and renewed beatings.
					There is a limit to human endurance. There is a point, beyond which the will, electric,
						exalted, sublime, can no longer sustain one. That point was reached. The captive fell to
						the ground. As the showers of blows were rained upon him, he no longer fought back with
						the ferocity of a tiger and the courage of a madman. He only feebly tried to screen his
						face and head with his lacerated arms. At last even this frail defense gave way. The
						blows of the club and the tomahawk fell upon the body of the prostrate man, and met with
						neither resistance nor retaliation. Now and then a sob, a gasp, a quiver was to be heard
						escaping from his lips. Finally, even these last, faint flutterings of life disappeared.
						The spirit had departed, leaving the shapeless mass, which had been its splendid home,
						to be tossed by cruel hands to hungry dogs.
					That evening Slover, with an anguish in his heart which no pen can describe, looked on
						not only this scene, but also on three other black and mangled bodies. As they lay in
						all their  mutilation, the scout could recognize in one
						the remains of William Harrison, the son-in-law of Colonel Crawford. Removing his eye to
						the second corpse, he saw in it young William Crawford, the youthful nephew of the
						commander. The third corpse was that of Major John McClelland. These three brave men had
						furnished a gorge of infernal revelry for the beastly savages. The heads and limbs were
						impaled on lofty poles in the center of the town. The trunks became food for dogs.
					Harrison was one of the most noted men in the Ohio valley. He was a lawyer of polished
						education and lofty intellect. He had rendered distinguished services to the
						colonies.
					The surviving companion of Slover was shortly sent away to another town. Of his fate we
						have no account. There is no reason to suppose that it was different from that of the
						brave men which we have described. That night a great council was held in the village.
						Slover was placed in the center of the room, and there subjected to every question which
						the Indian intellect could invent.
					The council lasted fifteen days. In it were represented a dozen different tribes. Here
						in this assembly all the pride, all the exultation, all the savage joy to which the
						destruction of Crawford's army had given rise found expression. No rhetoric was
						bombastic enough for the vanity of the orators; no congratulations were complimentary
						enough for the pride of the warriors.
					In the midst of the council was received a message from the commandant at Detroit. Of
						this communication the key-note was clear to the dullest ear. It bade the Indians to
						take no more prisoners. The exhortation was received with a mighty uproar of applause.
						The council resolved to follow the advice. Henceforth they were to take no more
						prisoners, but kill outright every unfortunate who fell into their hands. This was not
						all. In the enthusiasm of the moment they determined that if any tribe not represented
						at the council took any captives, the others  would go
						upon the war-path, take away the captives, and put them to death.
					During these days Slover suffered more from the villainous white men in the village,
						who were continually instigating the savage mind to cruelty, than from the Indians
						themselves. Simon Girty was there. This abominable liar almost drove the inhabitants of
						the place insane by telling them that he had asked Slover how he liked to live there,
						and that he had answered that he intended at the first opportunity to take a scalp and
						escape.
					Another white man came to him and told him that his home had been in Virginia; that he
						had three brothers there, and wanted to get away. Slover was too old a scout to say any
						thing to the treacherous villain. This prudence, however, did not save him. The fellow
						went off and reported in the village that Slover had consented to go with him.
					There was another white man in the place. He lived two miles from the town, in a house
						built of squared logs, with a shingle roof. He dressed in a gorgeous uniform of
						gold-laced clothes. He spoke but little in the council. When he did it had a marked
						effect. He did not question Slover, but during all the time he seemed to be oblivious of
						the latter's presence in the town. He never spoke to him. This man was in the employ of
						the British Government. He was the counterpart of Girty and Elliott. His name was
						Alexander McKee.
					On the morning after the close of the council Slover was sitting before the door of the
						cabin where he had been kept. A file of forty Indian warriors suddenly came up and
						surrounded the cabin. Their captain was a white man. It was George Girty, a brother of
						Simon. These Indians took Slover, and put a rope around his neck. They stripped him
						naked. His arms were bound behind him, and he was painted black from head to foot.
						During this operation Girty stood before him, hurling at him a storm of curses. Slover
						was then taken to a town five miles away. Being a stranger, the inhabitants of the place
						had  prepared a reception for him. The emblem of their
						hospitality was the war club; their method of expressing it was falling upon Slover, and
						beating him half to death.
					Two miles away was another town. It was not far from the site of what is now West
						Liberty, Logan County, Ohio. Only one-half of the council house had a roof. Slover
						noticed this. In the center of that part of the structure which had no covering was a
						huge post, sixteen feet in height. About four feet from the post were three large piles
						of firewood. Slover was taken to the post. One rope was passed around his neck, another
						about his waist, and a third about his feet. These were tightly bound to the post. This
						done, a large savage, carrying a torch, stuck it into the dry wood, which quickly leaped
						into flame.
					At this moment a wind began to roar through the forest, swaying the trees in a
						frightful manner. The dust in the streets of the village was caught up and whirled along
						in mighty clouds. Terrific thunder-peals seemed to split asunder the sky-dome. The crowd
						around the stake withdrew their fascinated gaze from the dreadful drama being there
						enacted, and looked with apprehension at the darkening landscape and the ragged
						storm-line which was rapidly approaching. Huge drops of rain began to fall. With screams
						and pushings the crowd scrambled for the sheltered part of the council-house. Here and
						there an old squaw or an aged warrior stood stolidly where they were, as if to express
						their contempt for the others, while the floods of water which now descended drenched
						them to the skin.
					The fire was quickly extinguished. The rain lasted about twenty minutes. When it was
						over, and the sun reappeared in an azure sky from which the clouds were rapidly
						clearing, the Indians stood still for some minutes, awe-stricken and silent.
					At last the spell was broken. The crowd before so still became noisy and turbulent. A
						dispute arose. Some wanted to proceed with the torture, the prevailing part insisted on
						saving the prisoner until the next morning. Slover was untied.  Even though the respite was short, his spirits rose. Making him sit down the
						Indians began a war dance around him.
					At eleven o'clock at night Half Moon asked Slover if he was sleepy. The captive
						answered "Yes." Three Indians were appointed for his guard. Taking him to a block-house,
						they tied his arms around the wrists and above the elbows so tightly that the cord cut
						deep into the flesh. To his neck was fastened a rope, the other end of which was tied to
						a beam in the house. It was long enough to permit him to lie down on a couch, which
						consisted of a board.
					Slover, overcome with anxiety at the fate prepared for him, waited nervously hour after
						hour for his guards to go to sleep. But they too, though from different motives, were
						full of excited interest concerning the festivities of the morrow. Not till an hour
						before daybreak did they weary in their animated conversation. At that hour two of them
						lay down and went to sleep. The third copper-colored gentleman came over and questioned
						Slover as to how he would like "eating fire." The prisoner was giving up his last
						earthly hope for a chance to escape, when to his great joy the third Indian rolled over
						and began to snore.
					The scout instantly set to work. Turning on his right side he managed little by little,
						with infinite effort and skill, to slip the cords from his left arm. At that moment his
						heart sank within him. One of the warriors rose and stirred the fire. Slover expected to
						have his bonds examined, and thought all was over. But the sleepy savage lay down and
						again became unconscious.
					There was no time to be lost. It was within a few minutes of daybreak. The people of
						the village were likely to rise early in preparation for the sports of the day. Some old
						squaws might already be stirring in the lodges. Slover made frantic efforts to loosen
						the rope from his neck. He tried to gnaw it, but might as well have bitten a bar of iron
						as to chew the cursed buffalo hide. He tugged at it till his fingers bled. But all  in vain. At last, just at daybreak, he discovered, to his
						joy, that it was a slip-knot. He pulled the noose apart, slipped it over his head,
						lightly stepped over the sleeping warriors, and left the cabin.
					He sped through the town, passing a squaw and five children who were asleep under a
						tree, and jumped into a cornfield. Here he untied his right arm, which had swollen till
						it had turned black. Collecting his thoughts, he remembered to have seen some horses on
						his way to the cornfield. He started back, snatched up an old quilt hanging on a fence,
						quickly caught one of the horses by the mane, threw the rope, with which he had himself
						been tied, around the horse's neck for a halter, sprang astride the animal and galloped
						away.
					His course lay to the north-east. On he dashed, without a pause or a backward look. His
						horse was strong and swift. He had only the quilt for a saddle, and the rope halter for
						a bridle. He was entirely naked. As his horse plunged through the
						forest, the branches of the trees lacerated his bare body until he was covered with
						blood from head to foot. Yet of this he was unconscious. He felt not the strokes and
						bruises. He noticed not the torn flesh, nor the flowing blood. He only knew that he was
						flying, flying from fiends and flames to liberty and life; flying from torture and the
						stake to home and friends. Fifty miles away lay the blue Scioto. For his horse he had no
						mercy, but mindful of the keen and swift pursuers, who were already swarming after him,
						devising in their hellish hearts new and fearful vengeance, he urged the animal on, hour
						after hour, at its topmost speed.
					At eleven o'clock in the morning he reached the Scioto. At three o'clock in the
						afternoon he had left the river twenty-five miles behind him. At this point his horse
						failed. All its splendid powers had been expended in the noble race. Seventy-five miles
						had been accomplished in eleven hours. It could go no further. Slover instantly sprang
						from the animal, and started ahead running on foot.
					
					The sun set in the west, but still he ran. Stars came out in the blue canopy of night.
						It was the hour of repose for all mankind. Yet for the fugitive there was neither rest
						nor relief. Once he relaxed into a walk. At that moment he heard hallooing
							behind him. It may have been the phantom of his fevered imagination, the
						offspring of a brain heated with surges of boiling blood. No matter. The fugitive sprang
						forward as if every tree in the forest was a savage, and every wandering star-beam the
						glint of a rifle.
					Not until daybreak did Slover resume a walk. In his hand he carried a crooked stick.
						Was it a weapon, a means of defense against his pursuers? No, and yes. No, because it
						was as worthless as a shadow as a physical weapon. Yes, because by it he carefully
						replaced the weeds bent by his feet, in order to hide his trail. Once he sat down.
					That moment exhausted nature entered a protest. He vomited. Feeling somewhat better, he
						again proceeded. The high excitement of the previous day was no longer present to
						sustain him. He became painfully conscious of his wounds. Poisoned nettles irritated his
						flesh. Thorns and briers stuck in his legs. Swarms of flies hovered about the festering
						sores. Millions of mosquitoes feasted on him, lingering, hurrying, or pausing with their
						victim. Sleep was impossible. His only defense was the piece of quilt, and a handful of
						bushes which he carried.
					On the third day about three o'clock he found some raspberries. This was the first food
						he had eaten since the morning before his escape. He was not hungry, but extremely weak.
						Yet he had strength enough to swim the Muskingum at a point where it was two hundred
						yards wide. On the fourth day he found two small crawfish, and ate them. The next night
						he came within five miles of Wheeling. During the whole time he had not slept one
						moment. When opposite Wheeling he saw a man on the other side of the river, and called
						to him. The stranger, however, was not disposed to venture over at the bidding of such a
						wild and suspicious looking character as Slover.
					
					At length, by earnest persuasion, and by naming various persons in the expedition,
						known to the stranger, the latter came to Slover's help. The trials of the fugitive were
						over. In a few days he was able to make his way home. Such were the powers of endurance
						and recuperation of the iron frames of the pioneers.
					Such were Slover's adventures. What had become of James Paull? He, as will be
						remembered, had made his escape into the woods at the moment of Slover's capture. He was
						pursued by two Indians. Lamed by his burnt foot, every step gave him intolerable pain.
						In spite of this he outran his pursuers, seeing which they fired at him. Coming to a
						steep bank of a creek, he fearlessly leaped over, gun in hand. At this moment the
						savages lost sight of him, and either abandoned the chase or passed another way. In the
						descent of the precipice Paull had torn his burnt foot in a horrible manner. To enable
						him to proceed at all he was forced to tear a strip from his ragged pantaloons, and bind
						it around the injured member.
					Paull was an experienced woodsman. To hide his trail he walked on fallen logs, traveled
						in circles, and, climbing trees, would crawl out to the extremity of their branches, and
						let himself drop. At night he slept in a hollow log. In the morning the unhappy man
						found his foot swollen to the size of a water bucket. He had no provisions, and was
						afraid to fire his gun. Nevertheless, he gathered enough wild berries to sustain
						life.
					The second night he crawled into a crevice in a rock, making himself a bed of leaves.
						The next morning he saw a deer. At that moment the pangs of hunger overcame his
						prudence. He shot the animal. But he had no knife; he had to cut open the skin with his
						gun-flint, and tear off the flesh with his fingers. This he ate raw, as a fire was not
						to be thought of. Continuing his journey, he crossed the Muskingum, and came upon an
						abandoned Indian camp. Some empty kegs were lying around. In one of them he ventured to
						kindle a little fire and cook some  venison. When he lay
						down to sleep the smoke protected him from the gnats and mosquitoes.
					In two days he reached the Ohio River at a point above Wheeling. Building himself a
						rude raft, bound together with withes of bark, he crossed the Ohio, and for the first
						time felt himself out of danger. In the river bottom he found a number of horses. He at
						once set to work, with an ingenuity of which only the most skillful pioneer is capable,
						to manufacture a rude halter out of the bark of trees.
					This done, he attempted to capture a horse—a much more difficult task. The
						animals were both smart and wild. They would graze quietly, apparently without noticing
						his approach, until his hand had almost grasped the mane of one of their number. At that
						moment, with a wild snort and a lofty kick, they would turn and gallop out of his
						reach.
					After great trouble Paull succeeded in capturing an old mare, the worst in the lot. On
						this animal he continued his journey, finally reaching a fort near Short creek. Here the
						inhabitants, alarmed by the news of the destruction of Crawford's army, had collected,
						in anxious expectation of an Indian invasion. Here too, he found some of the volunteers
						who, like himself, had escaped from the clutches of the savages. Resting for a day, he
						procured a horse that was a horse, and proceeded to a settlement where he had some
						relatives.
					For some time he was detained here by his foot, of which the terrible inflammation
						threatened him with the loss of the member. In time, however, he made his way back to
						the humble home of his widowed mother, who, ignorant of her boy's fate, had nevertheless
						continued to watch for his return.
					In after years Paull became a prominent man in Virginia. He took an active part in the
						Indian campaigns toward the close of the century. His descendants are numerous and of
						high standing. Personally he was a man of splendid physique, formed like a king, and
						bearing the head of a philosopher. He was generous to a fault, and possessed a heart of
						unflinching  courage. He died on the ninth day of July,
						1841, at his home in Fayette County, Virginia, aged nearly eighty-one years.
					Of all the men in the army the returned volunteers could tell the least of the fate of
						Colonel Crawford and Doctor Knight. The explanation of this is to be found in the
						account which follows. It will be remembered that as the army was formed in line of
						march in the deep darkness of the grove near Sandusky, at nine o'clock of the evening of
						June the 5th, waiting for the word of command to commence their perilous retreat, a
						furious assault was made by the enemy. This precipitated matters. The volunteers,
						without waiting for command, broke ranks and galloped away in the greatest
						confusion.
					At the moment of flight Colonel Crawford missed his son, John Crawford, his son-in-law,
						William Harrison, and his nephew, William Crawford. Alarmed at their absence, he
						commenced to search for them in the darkness, and shouted aloud their names. He ran
						hither and thither among the trees in frantic endeavor to find the missing men. At this
						moment Doctor Knight came up, and declared that the young men must be ahead of them, as
						the grove was then nearly deserted. Crawford answered that he was positive they were not
						in front, and begged Knight not to leave him. The doctor promised him he would not, and
						joined in the anxious search.
					By this time the grove was rapidly filling up with the enemy. Knight and Crawford were
						now joined by an old man and a lad, both on horseback. The four endeavored to make their
						escape, in their course overtaking the volunteers who were entangled in the cranberry
						marsh. They traveled fifteen or twenty yards apart, guiding themselves by the north
						star. The old man frequently lagged behind, and never failed when he did so to call out
						for the others to wait. While crossing a stream the old man made his usual halloo from
						the rear. He was about to be reprimanded for the act, when an Indian yell was heard not
						far from him. After that the old man was not heard to call again, and no more was seen of
						him.
					
					At sunrise, Crawford and his companions, whose progress had been slow and circuitous,
						found themselves only eight miles from the battle-field. The horses of Crawford and the
						young man already jaded, now gave out, and had to be abandoned. At two o'clock in the
						afternoon the travelers fell in with Captain Biggs, who had carried Lieutenant Ashley
						from the field of action dangerously wounded.
					On the next morning, journeying through what is now Crawford county, they found a deer
						which was freshly killed. The meat was joyously cut up, and bound in packs for
						transportation. A mile farther on they were startled by the smoke of a camp-fire.
						Leaving the wounded man with the lad, the others cautiously approached the fire. No one
						was found near it. While roasting their venison one of the volunteers came up. He was
						the man who had killed the deer. Hearing the others approach, he mistook them for
						Indians, and ran off. From that time he also was a member of the little company with
						Crawford.
					In their journey, somewhat against the judgment of Knight and Biggs, they followed the
						trail of the army. Crawford and the doctor, who had loaned his horse to Ashley,
						proceeded on foot about two hundred yards in advance of the others. Biggs and the
						wounded officer were placed in the center on horses, and the two young men followed on
						foot. While advancing along the south bank of the Sandusky, at a point just east of the
						present town of Leesville, three Indians started up within twenty steps from Knight and
						Crawford. Knight sprang behind a tree and was about to fire. Crawford shouted to him not
						to do so.
					While hesitating, one of the Indians, a Delaware, who had often seen Knight, ran up and
						took him by the hand, calling him "doctor." Biggs fired on seeing the Indians, but
						missed his aim. "They then told us to call these people," says Knight, "and make them
						come there, else they would go and kill them;" which the colonel did, but the four got
						off, and escaped for that time.
					Crawford and Knight were at once led captive to the camp 
						of the Delawares. This was on Friday afternoon. On Sunday evening, five Indians came
						into camp. They carried in their hands two small and bloody objects. It was dusk. This
						made it difficult to discern what they were. Crawford stooped and looked closely.
						Turning, deathly sick, to Dr. Knight, he said, "They are the scalps of Captain Biggs and
						Lieutenant Ashley."
					Besides Crawford and Knight, there were other prisoners in the camp. Altogether there
						were eleven. The Indians soon discovered, to their joy, that Crawford was the commander
						of the American army—the "Big Captain." This information was immediately carried
						to Captain Pipe.
					The startling and important news at once became the occasion for a grave council of the
						chiefs of the Delaware nation. All other captives might be easily disposed of by the
						braves in any village. Not so with the American "chief." For him there must be devised
						no common fate. Captain Pipe presided over the assembly which discussed the grave
						question. There was complete unanimity of opinion. From the great and terrible chief,
						who, in years gone by had been the greatest rival of the noble White Eyes, who, on the
						latter's death, became the most prominent man of all the Delawares, and who, by his
						solitary prestige and influence, had won his people from a policy of neutrality, and
						made them of all the Indian allies of the British the bitterest and the bloodiest, down
						to the youngest brave, who, by the taking of some scalp in the recent battles, had
						earned a warrior's privilege of admission to the council-hall—every voice
						pronounced in favor of DEATH BY FIRE.
					The Delawares, however, were subject to the sway of the Wyandots. Among the latter the
						burning of prisoners was no longer practiced; nor did the Delawares dare to inflict the
						death penalty in that manner upon so great a captive, without first obtaining permission
						from the Half King of the Wyandots. How could his consent be obtained? This was the
						question which agitated the council. At last the oldest and wisest chiefs devised a
						stratagem. A runner, bearing a belt of wampum, was 
						despatched to the Half King of the Wyandots, with the following message: "Uncle! We,
						your nephews, salute you in a spirit of kindness, love, and respect. Uncle! We have a
						project in view which we ardently wish to accomplish, and can
						accomplish, if our uncle will not overrule us! By returning the wampum, we will have
						your pledged word!"
					The Half King was puzzled. He questioned the messenger, but the latter, carefully
						trained, professed ignorance. At last the Half King, supposing the project to be some
						secret foray against the white settlements, returned the wampum to the bearer, with the
						word, "Say to my nephews, they have my pledge." Crawford's doom was fixed.
					On Monday morning, the 10th of June, the prisoners were informed that they must go to
						Sandusky. Crawford, learning that Simon Girty who, as will be remembered, was an old
						friend, was at Sandusky, urged strongly to be taken to that place at once. While the
						other prisoners halted for the night at the deserted Wyandot town, Crawford, under two
						guards, was taken to Sandusky, arriving there in the night. He demanded to be at once
						taken to Girty's lodge. Here, sitting in the dim light of a smoldering camp-fire, he
						made his appeal, long and earnest, to the renegade, to save him. He offered Girty one
						thousand dollars to save his life.
					The ruffian moodily stirred the ashes, and said nothing. At last, being urged by
						Crawford for an answer, he turned, and with a look which, to any other than a despairing
						man would have told that he was lying, promised, in a cold, indifferent tone, to do what
						was asked. He also told the colonel that William Harrison and young William Crawford had
						been captured by the Shawanese, but pardoned. The falsity of this statement we already
						know from what Slover had witnessed.
					Knight and his nine companions, on the morning of the 11th, were met by Captain Pipe at
						the old Wyandot town. The latter, with his own hands, proceeded to paint
							the faces of all the prisoners black. While thus engaged, he told Knight in very
							 good English, that he was to be taken to the Shawanese
						towns to see his friends. The ominous import of these smooth words was at once read by
						Knight. During the morning Colonel Crawford was also brought to this place. Pipe, who
						had not seen him the night before, with whom he was well acquainted, received him with
						pretended kindness, joked about his making a good Indian, but nevertheless painted him black.
					The whole party now started toward the Wyandot town. Crawford and Knight were kept
						somewhat in the rear. Presently a savage shouted back some unintelligible words. Their
						guards hurried them forward. They now understood what the maneuver meant. Lying by the
						roadside were the corpses, pale and gory, of four of their companions. They had been
						scalped and tomahawked.
					The suspicion of Knight was confirmed as to their real destination, when, instead of
						proceeding to the Wyandot village, their guards struck into another trail leading to the
						north-west. Coming to a small creek, Crawford and Knight were removed to a little
						distance, while the others were seated around the foot of the tree. At the place where
						they halted they had found a number of squaws and Indian boys. In a moment Crawford and
						Knight were horrified to see these fall upon the five prisoners and tomahawk them all. A
						squaw cut off the head of one man and kicked it around in great glee as a football.
					Saddened at this awful scene, and wrapped in the blackest gloom concerning their own
						fate, the two prisoners, now left alone, resumed their march. On their way they met
						Simon Girty, but he had no word of kindness. Waiting until Knight came up, the latter
						went toward him reaching out his hand, but the ruffian bade him be gone, calling him a
						"damned rascal." Three quarters of a mile from the village of Tymochtee another halt was
						made. The reason of this and the awful occurrences which transpired will appear when we
						return to the story of the unfortunate Crawford. For the present we proceed to relate
						the incidents which afterwards befell Knight, "who for over two  hours before leaving the place drank to the dregs, it may be premised, a cup
						of inexpressible horror."
					After nightfall Knight was taken on to Tymochtee, where he lay bound all night. The
						next morning he was placed in charge of an Indian named Tutelu, who at once started with
						him for the Shawanese towns, forty miles away. The prisoner was on foot. Behind him
						strode his savage guard, wielding an enormous lash, with which he urged the prisoner
						forward. Knight, pretending to think that he was to become an Indian, asked Tutelu if
						they were not to live together as brothers, in one house, when they reached the town.
						The Indian, human as he was, was touched by the flattery, and answered "Yes." At night
						the captive was bound and laid down to rest, but the vigilant guard closed not his eyes.
						At daybreak he untied his captive.
					Tutelu rose and began to replenish the fire. A swarm of mosquitoes was bothering them,
						and Knight asked the savage if he should make a smoke behind him. He answered "Yes." The
						doctor stooped and picked up the end of a small stick which had been burnt till it was
						but eighteen inches long. For the purpose which he contemplated it was altogether too
						small. Yet it was the best to be had. He then took up another little stick, taking a
						coal between them, and went behind the Indian. Instantly dropping the coal, he struck
						the savage on the head with all his force, so that he fell forward with both his hands
						in the fire. The Indian scrambled to his feet, badly burned, and ran off, howling in the
						most fearful manner. Knight followed at the top of his speed to shoot him, but in
						drawing back the hammer of the Indian's gun, he broke the mainspring, and was forced to
						abandon the chase.
					Tutelu never stopped running, it is presumed, till he reached the Shawanese towns. He
						arrived there, finding Slover, who was then still a captive. The Indian had a wound four
						inches long in his head. He also had another thing in his head. It was a story. With
						pompous manner and swelling words he  related that his
						prisoner, the doctor, was a big, strong, tall man, that, being promised by Knight that
						he would not go away, he had untied him.
					According to Tutelu, while he was kindling the fire, the doctor had snatched up the gun
						behind him and struck him; Tutelu had made a slash at Knight with his knife, cutting off
						his fingers and inflicting two stabs. As soon as his relation was over, Slover stepped
						into the group and told the Delawares that Tutelu had lied, that he knew the doctor, and
						he was a weak, little man. The Indians laughed heartily, and told Tutelu that they
						believed his whole story was false.
					After abandoning his chase, Knight returned to the fire. He equipped himself for a
						journey home with the blanket, moccasins, gun, and ammunition of the Indian. He was not
						far from the spot now occupied by Kenton, Hardin county, Ohio. In his journey the only
						food he could find was green gooseberries. These, however, he was unable to eat on
						account of a wound in his jaw, which had been inflicted by an Indian out of pure malice.
						He tried every way possible to fix his gun, but failing, finally threw it away. His
						medical knowledge proved of some value to him. After his jaw got better, and he began to
						eat gooseberries, mandrakes, raw black birds, and terrapin, these delicacies gave him
						dyspepsia. Unlike most of the borderers, he was a delicate man, unused to hardships. To
						cure the trouble spoken of, he would gather and eat a little wild ginger. On the morning
						of the 4th of July he reached Fort Pitt.
					Sadly let us turn back to the scene where Crawford was halted on the afternoon of the
						11th of June, three-quarters of a mile from Tymochtee. When he arrived he found a large
						fire burning. As it was a hot summer day his suspicions were at once aroused. A hundred
						Indians were lying about on the ground. The picture, if transferred to canvas, would be
						one of utter inactivity and laziness.
					As the approaching party suddenly appeared in sight, an electric shock would not have
						more quickly and completely  transformed the scene of
						idleness to one of intense activity and animation. A dozen warriors ran forward and
						seized Crawford. They tore his clothes from him with eager hands. He was made to sit
						down on the ground. Surrounded by a howling mob, he at once became the object of showers
						of dirt, stones, and sticks. While some were engaged in this sport, others quickly fixed
						in the ground a large stake, some fifteen feet long, which had been previously prepared.
						Others still ran quickly to and fro, piling up around the stake great heaps of light,
						dry hickory wood, which had also been split and prepared for the occasion. The wood was
						arranged loosely, with large apertures, through which the draft might more quickly carry
						the sputtering blaze.
					Crawford had taken in the entire scene at a glance. He called to Girty, who was in the
						crowd, and asked if he was to be burnt. The brute, who had not made the least exertion
						to save his old friend, yelled back, "of course." The wretched man was seized and his
						hands bound behind him. A rope was fastened to the stake, and the other end passed
						around his body. It was long enough to permit him to walk around the stake several
						times.
					It was four o'clock. The afternoon sun was already casting somber shades through the
						forest. Over head patches of the azure sky, as calm and peaceful as eternity, could be
						seen by the doomed man. From the top of a lofty tree a little bird caroled forth its
						woodland song, happy, innocent, and free. But in the dark assemblage beneath the trees
						every malignant countenance was lit up by the wild insanity, the everlasting unrest, of
						sin, of wickedness, of hell.
					Willing hands applied a torch to the heaps of wood. The crackling flames leaped quickly
						through the open spaces. As the wood began to kindle, Captain Pipe arose, and addressed
						the crowd briefly, but earnestly, in his own dark language, making all the while the
						most terrible gestures at the heroic man, who stood calmly at the stake confronting his
						doom. As the speaker  finished, an unearthly yell burst
						from the hoarse throats of his auditors. Heedless of the small flames which were already
						shooting upward through the wood, they leaped within the circle, and fell upon the
						unfortunate Crawford.
					A hundred yards away stood Doctor Knight, an unwilling spectator, filled with an
						anguish which it is impossible to conceive. The throng about Crawford was so dense for
						the time being that his friend could not tell what was being done. He could only see
						uplifted hands rising and falling above the heads of the crowd, and hear its angry roar.
						In a moment the throng fell back. Knight could then see that they had cut off Crawford's
						ears, and beaten him black and blue.
					Though compelled by the circle of flames which now leaped up and walled in the
						unfortunate man, to remain at a little distance, the tormentors were by no means
						through. Warriors shot burning blasts of powder into his quivering flesh. Indian boys
						snatched blazing hickory poles, and held them against his body. As, wild with pain, he
						ran around and around the stake, to avoid one party of tormentors, he was confronted at
						every point by others, with burning fagots and redhot irons. The squaws threw quantities
						of burning coals against him, which, falling on the ground at his feet, left him a path
						of fire to tread.
					In the extremity of his agony, a scream from the maddened man rang out through the
						forest, "Girty! Girty! shoot me through the heart! Quick!! For God's sake, do not refuse
						me!" And it is on record that to this appeal the monster made answer with a laugh.
						Crawford turned then in his supplications from man to God. Leaning against the stake,
						enduring all the torments which malice could invent, with manly fortitude and heroic
						calmness, in low, earnest tones he poured out his supplications to the Almighty.
					How long the awful scene continued, we do not know. Dr. Knight says two hours. But this
						is, probably, much too long. That the time should have seemed to him almost endless, is
							 not surprising. At last nature seemed to be able to
						endure no more. Crawford fainted, and fell on his stomach. An old hag, with the
						countenance of a devil, threw a quantity of coals and ashes on the back of the prostrate
						man. With a deep groan, he again arose, probably in a delirium, and began to walk
						slowly, around the stake. He was as black as coal from head to foot, save where the
						burnt flesh had broken off, from which spots ran reddened rivulets.
					The end came at last. Tradition says that the spirit of the dying man took its flight
						just as the western sun threw its setting beams across the landscape.
					Such was THE DOOM OF CRAWFORD.
						Far and wide through the settlements of the white man spread a melancholy gloom as the
						story passed from lip to lip. Heart-rending was the anguish in a lonely cabin upon the
						banks of the Youghiogheny, where the widow wept without hope.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XII.
						THE ROMANCE OF RED EAGLE.
					FAR to the south, within sound of the restless roar of the Gulf of
						Mexico, in a country of remarkable fertility, threaded by numberless creeks and rivers,
						the white man found a great Indian confederacy. This moist region was called, for want
						of a better name, the Creek Country. In the process of time, the Indians who inhabited
						it came to be called the Creeks. This nation, thus so unceremoniously christened by the
						whites, was, in fact, composed of many tribes of Indians. Long before La Salle had
						paddled his weary way down the Mississippi, the Muscogees, whose original home,
						according to their traditions, had been in the country of Mexico, had, after long
						wanderings as far north as the Ohio, finally settled in the region which we know by the
						names of Alabama and Mississippi. The Muscogees were warriors. They at once began a
						series of conquests, and, like Rome, adopted the policy of incorporating the conquered
						tribes with themselves.
					When the first bold explorers threaded their way through the tropical forests and the
						network of lagoons to the towns of this confederacy, they found a people who, in the
						darkness of their native barbarism, were in a crude way working out for themselves the
						problem of civilization. They had fixed rules governing marriage and divorce. They lived
						in houses. They wore clothes. Each town had a separate local government. It had public
						buildings and pleasure houses. They had fixed 
							ASSASSINATION OF MARAT BY CHARLOTTE CORDAY.
						
						 maxims and methods of government. They had, moreover, a
						system of social caste. There were certain families who constituted a hereditary
						nobility. Of these, the family of the Wind ranked first. To it belonged the right of
						chieftaincy. It was, so to speak, the royal family. Inferior to the family of the Wind
						was the family of the Bear; and next in rank was that of the Deer. These three castes
						managed to absorb all the positions of rank and profit.
					At the time of the war of which we are about to write, they had, in addition to their
						unaided achievements, derived great benefit from intercourse with the white men. Many of
						them had intermarried. The upper classes had learned to read and write. Many half-breed
						children had been sent to northern schools for education. The system of a community of
						property, which is the very core of barbarism, was giving way to the system of
						individual property. They owned in their own right, horses, houses, looms, farms, and
						farming implements. They had learned, not merely to trade, but even to manufacture cloth
						and other articles. All this, too, they had achieved in spite of their fertile soil and
						the genial climate. History shows that nature prodigal of her gifts, enervates, while a
						sterile country and vigorous climate stimulate and sharpen the intellect and energies of
						men.
					The Creeks were treated by the United States Government with justice and fairness.
						There was no reasonable cause for complaint on either side.
					About 1780 there was born in the Creek nation a child destined to be known among his
						own people as Red Eagle. To the whites he was known as William Weatherford. His mother
						was a princess; that is, she belonged to the family of the Wind. He was the nephew of
						Alexander McGillivray, a man of mixed blood, whose genius, shrewdness, and abilities won
						for him the leading place in the Creek nation. He styled himself Emperor Alexander. One
						author speaks of him "as a man of towering intellect and vast information, who ruled the
						Creek country for  a quarter of a century." Another writer
						says: "He was a man of the highest intellectual abilities, and of wonderful talents for
						intrigue and diplomacy. A more wily Talleyrand never trod the red war-paths of the
						frontiers, or quaffed the deceptive black drink at sham councils."
					When Charles Weatherford, a shrewd and wily Scotch trader, married the sister of the
						Emperor Alexander McGillivray, he attained at once a rank and influence among the Creeks
						which few men of the purest Muscogee blood possessed. The Scotchman, while serving the
						nation, managed to accumulate almost boundless wealth. He lived like a king in his
						splendid mansion on the banks of the Alabama. Here he had every luxury which money could
						procure. Troops of negro slaves ministered to himself and to his guests. His table
						abounded in the rarest tropical fruits, choice game from distant forests, and sparkling
						liquors, cobweby with age.
					From the spacious verandas which surrounded his palatial home, one looked out over a
						tropical landscape of surpassing loveliness. The grounds immediately surrounding the
						house were filled with noble forest trees, from whose branches hung graceful festoons of
						southern vines and mosses. Magnolia blossoms showered their fragrance upon the summer
						air. Wild orange-trees, bearing the emblems of every season of the year, were scattered
						here and there. Roses and honeysuckles, in wild and negligent profusion, wound their
						clinging arms in fond embrace about the nearest object of support. Near the house
						Weatherford kept the finest race-track in America. To indulge his favorite sport, he
						imported blooded stock from the most famous stables of Europe.
					Amid these surroundings was born Red Eagle. The son of the wealthiest man in the
						nation, and by inheritance a chief of the ruling family, he had the best of tutors, and
						no pains nor expense were spared in his education. He grew up a spoiled child of
						fortune. He cared nothing for books. His tastes were the offspring of the wild ancestry
						of his Indian  mother. He was fond of every athletic
						sport. He was a splendid swimmer, a tireless walker, and an unequaled hunter with the
						bow and the rifle. He was a natural master. From no meeting for athletic sports among
						the Creek towns was Red Eagle ever absent. No young man in all the nation could approach
						him in a foot-race. In games of ball, a sport conducted with such violence that broken
						limbs and even death were not infrequent, he was the acknowledged king.
					While but a child, he displayed the rarest graces of horsemanship. No colt was too
						unruly, no stallion too high-mettled for this adventurous youth to mount and dash in mad
						career across the country. Such was his perfection as a rider that he seemed almost a
						part of the animal he rode. An old Indian woman, who knew the young chief in his
						boyhood, telling of his daring, his skill, his grace as a horseman, said: "The squaws
						would quit hoeing corn and smile and gaze upon him as he rode by the corn-patch."
					These things made Red Eagle the idol of his people. In the wars with the Choctaws and
						Chickasaws, even before he reached manhood, he displayed the most tireless activity and
						reckless courage. His name was greeted with enthusiasm as that of the coming chief in
						every house in the nation. Besides this, he possessed great personal beauty. His figure
						was symmetrical and imposing, and his countenance that of a born king. He possessed
						intellectual ability of the highest order. His mind, ignoring trifles, grappled with the
						most important subjects which agitated his country.
					To all these gifts was added that of eloquence. Red Eagle was the greatest orator that
						ever lived among the Creeks. It was his ambition from boyhood to become distinguished in
						council. Lazy and indifferent about his general education, he gave the most persistent
						attention to the study of declamation and oratory. As he reached maturity, his eloquent
						voice soon reigned without a rival in the council-hall. His imagination was rich, bold,
						and vivid; his manner impressive in the highest  degree.
						When unimportant questions were being discussed, Red Eagle looked on with indifference.
						His lips were sealed. But when great themes agitated the council, Red Eagle, with 
							TECUMSEH ENTERING THE COUNCIL.
						 his unapproachable power of statement, his wealth of imagery, his burning
						zeal, took the lead in the debate, and bore down all opposition. His very vices endeared
						him to the popular heart. Reared in wealth and idleness, the young chief was, it is
						said, given to many excesses.
					Such was the man, longing for some great popular cause in which to employ his wealth of
						talents and influence, whom Tecumseh found when, in 1811, he had arrived, from the far
						north, in the Creek country, accompanied by thirty warriors. The great chief who dwelt
						by the waters of the Miami had journeyed all the way to the mighty confederacy of the
						south for two purposes. As an agent of the British, he was to incite the southern tribes
						to join in the approaching war with the Americans. For himself, he came to form a great
						offensive and  defensive alliance of all the Indians of
						America against the white man.
					On the day when, with great pomp, he entered the council-hall of the Creeks, he called
						on the red men to abandon the plows and looms and arms of the whites, to burn the
						garments they had been induced to wear, to trample under foot and forget the lessons and
						customs which they had been taught by their white foes. He told them that the white men,
						by teaching them to till the ground, were seeking to weaken and degrade their martial
						spirit, so that the conquest of their country might be more easy. Then, with impressive
						gesture and accent, he warned them that, as the whites already held the negroes in
						bondage, their purpose was, as soon they became strong enough, to reduce the Indians to
						slavery.
					A prophet accompanied Tecumseh, whose business it was to practice upon the superstition
						of the people. He told them that the Great Spirit commanded the red man to make war upon
						the white man. To prove that this message was from the Great Spirit, the prophet
						promised them a miracle. Whoever fought in the war should come out of it unharmed, while
						the Americans would be destroyed in impassable morasses with which the Great Spirit
						would surround them. Besides these methods, Tecumseh employed another. He went among the
						people, and electioneered with the warriors in person.
					In this way a large part, perhaps a majority, of the Creeks became ready and impatient
						for a war with the whites. A strong and influential minority, however, refused to yield
						to Tecumseh's arguments. Among these was Big Warrior. Although Tecumseh was his honored
						guest, he obstinately refused to forsake his allegiance. It is said that Tecumseh at
						last grew so angry with Big Warrior, that he threatened, when he reached Detroit, to
						stamp his foot on the ground and shake down all the houses in Tookabatcha, and that a
						few months afterwards an earthquake made the Creeks believe that this threat had been
						carried out. The wealthier Creeks, who were, of course, a 
						minority, having accumulated property, which is the greatest of all conservative forces
						in society, were strongly opposed to the war. They saw in it nothing to gain, and every
						thing to lose.
					Among his converts, Tecumseh readily discovered that of all men in the nation Red Eagle
						was the man for his purpose. His great talents seemed to be lying idle, waiting for some
						employment worthy of their owner. He was wealthy, and had nothing to gain by commerce
						with the whites. He was born to fortune, and consequently held his possessions in light
						esteem. Of wild and undisciplined passions, and full of a lofty patriotism and love of
						state affairs, he had nursed in his heart for many years a bitter jealousy and
						overmastering hostility towards the whites. He hated the restraint of law and
						civilization. He loved the license and wild liberty of savage life. As his tastes led
						him to the sports of the forest, he looked with concern on the encroachments of the
						white men. Moreover, he seemed to fear that an attempt would be made to reduce his
						people to slavery like that of the negroes.
					So, after listening to the wily Tecumseh, Red Eagle, who saw in his plans a
						gratification for his own fierce love for war and a new field for fame, threw himself
						heart and soul into the enterprise of the northern chieftain. Re-enforced by Red Eagle,
						Tecumseh found new methods of working upon the Creeks. He directed his prophet to
						"inspire" some Creeks with prophetic powers.
					A shrewd and unscrupulous half-breed named Francis, was shut up alone in a cabin for
						ten days, during which time the prophet howled and danced around the building in the
						most fantastic manner. When the ten days were accomplished, he brought Francis forth,
						telling the people that he was now blind, but would soon receive his sight back so
						improved that he could see what was to happen in the future. Francis allowed himself to
						be led around, pretending to stumble over obstacles like a blind man. Suddenly he
						affirmed that he had received his sight, with the improved quality of  prophecy. He, with others inspired in a similar manner,
						worked night and day, practicing all sorts of conjurations in behalf of the war-party.
						Public feeling among the Creeks was roused to the highest pitch of excitement. The
						strife of factions became very bitter. The two parties indulged in crimination and
						recrimination. The Creeks were ready for civil war.
					A spark soon fell in the tinder box. Some Creeks, returning with Tecumseh to Canada,
						assaulted a settlement and murdered seven families. Under the treaty between the Creeks
						and the United States, the murderers were required to be punished. The chiefs of the
						peace party at once organized bands of warriors for this purpose. The murderers were
						pursued to their retreats among the most distant tribes, hounded down by the relentless
						avengers, shot, stabbed, or tomahawked in open fight or by secret stealth wherever
						found, until the last criminal paid for his fault with the penalty of death.
					This vengeance widened the schism in the Creek nation. The war party retaliated by
						committing a number of outrages upon the white men. Big Warrior was aroused. He asked
						for a council with the chiefs of the war party. The request was haughtily refused. Next
						he sent word to them, saying, that if the miracles which they talked about should also
						be wrought before the chiefs of the peace party, then the latter would also believe. To
						this the war Creeks responded by murdering a party of emigrants, by sacking a
						plantation, and by destroying the property of some of the peaceful Creeks
						themselves.
					About this time a friendly half-breed named McNac was attacked in his home and had his
						cattle stolen. He saved himself for awhile by hiding in the swamp, but was unluckily
						captured by High Head Jim. McNac lied. He said he belonged to the war-party. He found
						out that a plot was laid to kill Big Warrior, Captain Isaacs, Mad Dragon's son, and all
						the chiefs of the peace party. This done, High Head Jim said war was at once to be waged
						upon the whites. McNac escaped and warned the intended victims. Meanwhile marauding
						parties  of increasing size roamed over the country,
						plundering plantations of whites and peace Indians alike. The settlers resolved on
						self-defense. An army of two hundred volunteers went out to whip a marauding party of
						the Creeks. The battle fought is known as the battle of Burnt Corn. The white men were
						ingloriously whipped.
					At this point in the war Red Eagle wavered. He discovered that he had failed to carry
						with him the entire Creek nation. Among the minority who sternly opposed him were many
						of his friends and relatives. He had met them face to face in the bloody battle of Burnt
						Corn. His ambition had led him to seek a war with the whites. In fact, it had involved
						him in a civil war.
					There was yet another motive. He was rich, young, handsome, and a widower. He had a
						sweetheart, Lucy Cornells, a young girl of mixed blood, the rarest beauty of the Creek
						nation. Upon her Red Eagle had lavished all the wealth of his passionate affections. In
						his nature there was much of romance and sentiment. In debate he was the sternest of the
						stern. In love he was the tenderest of the tender. He now found that among the Creeks
						against whom he was about to wage cruel and bloody civil war was the family of his
						sweetheart.
					On the discovery by McNac of the plot for the assassination, the peace Indians and
						half-breeds were struck with consternation. Among throngs of others, Lucy Cornells's
						father fled with his family to take refuge in Fort Mims. Against this very fort Red
						Eagle was already plotting a campaign. What were all the affairs of state, the triumphs
						in debate, the glory of the battle-field to Red Eagle, who was as chivalrous as he was
						brave, if thereby he must lose the affection of the girl he loved? More than his,
						how could he imperil her life, which was dearer to him than his own, by a siege and
						probably massacre, where she had sought refuge from his own arms.
					These things perplexed Red Eagle. He kept his own 
						counsel, and resolved to seek the advice of his relatives, who belonged to the peace
						party. He secretly made his way to their homes. He told them that he was in love. A man
						in love has no reason, no judgment. He is like a diver at the bottom of the ocean. All
						around him is strange, mysterious, and unreal. All his past life is forgotten. All his
						plans and hopes for the future are driven from his mind. He even forgets his own
						identity. Those who are most nearly and dearly related to him seem to him but phantoms.
						With them he has no real, tangible connection. All thought, all memory, all
						consciousness are absorbed and concentrated into a single notion, one over-mastering
						feeling. It is the fact that he is countless fathoms deep beneath the surface where
						others float. If any emergency befalls, if for any reason he needs help, all he can do
						is to make the signal of distress to friends above him. This was what Red Eagle did.
						From the depths of the ocean he pulled the signal rope.
					His friends, like all friends, were ready with advice. They told him to go back, to
						remove as secretly as possible his family, his negroes, and as much of his live stock as
						he could, to their plantations, which were in the district of the peace party; that he
						should follow them there, and remain quietly at home until the troubles of the nation
						were over. Red Eagle accepted this advice. He was like one who is mesmerized. All that
						is necessary to make the subject do any particular thing is simply to crook the finger.
						No matter how ridiculous it may be he will not refuse to obey. He went back to his
						home.
					But it was now too late for him to retreat. His infidelity had been suspected. In his
						absence his children and negroes had been seized, and were held as hostages for his
						fidelity. He was told that if he deserted the cause of the war-party, his children
						should at once be put to death.
					Red Eagle was now overwhelmed by the very storm which he had stirred. He had evoked the
						Genii from their prison, and the spirits would not down at his bidding. For him there
						remained  but one thing. It was to lead his men to battle.
						So there was preparation for war. The Creek braves painted themselves in gaudy colors,
						and concentrated in large numbers. The white men, on their part, hastily constructed
						small forts, or repaired fortifications which were already in existence. Of these, of
						which there were more than twenty among the settlements, Fort Mims was the largest and
						strongest. It was located near the Alabama River, and a few miles above its junction
						with the Tombigbee. Samuel Mims and his neighbors had constructed the fortification, and
						to that place the people of the surrounding country—men, women, and children,
						white, black, red, and yellow—fled for safety.
					
						REGION OF THE CREEK WAR.
					
					General Claiborne, with a small force of volunteers and regulars, was the military
						commander of the whites. To Fort Mims he dispatched Major Beasley, with one hundred and
						seventy-five men. These, with the militia already there, gave the post a garrison of two
						hundred and forty-five men. Beasley was ordered to construct a second stockade around
						the first, and two additional block-houses, an order which was but partially carried
						out.
					Altogether there were about five hundred and fifty people in the fort whose lives were
						committed to the care of Major Beasley. He, however, neglected the proper precautions.
						He forgot the great responsibility resting on his shoulders. His raw troops, instead of
						being disciplined by daily drills and military routine, passed their time in playing
						cards and drinking. The new line of picketing was left unfinished, as were also the new
						block-houses. He was even deaf to the plainest warnings of danger. A negro, who had been
						captured by Red Eagle, escaped, and making his way to Fort Mims with infinite peril,
						told the commandant that an overwhelming force of  Indians
						were on their way to attack it. Beasley sent out some scouts, but they, as they
						discovered no Indians in the immediate neighborhood of the fort, returned and told the
						negro he was a liar. On another day, two negroes, who had been out guarding some cattle,
						came running to the fort in the greatest terror. They declared that they had seen a
						large body of Indians. A party of horsemen at once sallied forth to the spot where the
						negroes averred they had seen the savages. They found the forest silent, and apparently
						unoccupied. Red Eagle's men had disappeared like phantoms. So the brave horsemen rode
						back to the fort and denounced the negroes as liars. One of them was at once tied to a
						whipping-post and flogged, for giving a false alarm. The other was saved for awhile by
						the interference of his master. It is a historical fact that when the attack, which we
						are about to describe, was made upon the fort, this negro was standing tied, waiting for
						his whipping.
					When the negro who had been whipped went forth to attend to his cattle, he again saw
						the Indians, but fearing to return to the fort and give the alarm, lest he should be
						whipped, he ran away. Such was the work of the commander's folly.
					Red Eagle was a soldier—a strategist. Of him, Andrew Jackson afterwards said:
						"This man is fit to command great armies." The negroes had told the truth. The Indians
						were hovering near the fort. They had been there for several days, watching their
						opportunity. Of all this the defenders of the fort were sweetly oblivious. The gates
						stood open day and night. The wind had blown a heap of sand against the bottom of the
						gates. This fact, trifling to a careless observer, was really important. The gates could
						not be closed until the accumulating sand should be shoveled away. This would take time.
						The gates could not be closed in a hurry. Red Eagle observed the pile of sand, although
						the commander of the fort did not. The Indian strategist said: "We will wait until the
						sand is heaped a little higher." The wind was busy while the soldiers slept. The sand
						heap grew.
					
					On the morning when the runaway negro had a second time seen Indians Red Eagle lay
						within a few hundred yards of the fort at the head of a thousand warriors. He was like a
						wild animal watching for its prey, only waiting the proper moment to spring forth. The
						morning hours passed as usual at the fort. No guards were posted. The men occupied
						themselves with idle games and disorderly fun. All seemed opportune. Why did not the
						tiger spring forth from the forest? The dinner-bell rang in the fort. There was a
						confused uproar of men, women, and children crowding their way with noisy fun toward the
						tables of the barracks. There was time for all to be quietly seated at the meal.
					At that moment Red Eagle rose and gave the signal for advance. A line of Indians
						started forward with the speed of the wind, yet as silent as cats, toward the open
						gates. They were within ninety feet of them before any one in the fort discovered the
						enemy. A few men who happened to be near the gates started to close them. They gave the
						heavy, wooden portals a sudden pull, but they remained fixed in their place. The sand
						heaps blown up by the sportive wind were to cost hundreds of lives. In their fright and
						despair the men tugged furiously and frantically at the gates. They tried to kick the
						sand away. It was no use. They could not budge the gates. The Indians rushed in with
						resistless momentum, hurling the little group of white men back from their pathway with
						the force of an express train.
					The alarm-cry was now heard in every quarter of the fort. Women screamed. Men upset the
						dinner tables in their frantic haste. Every one seized the nearest weapon, gun,
						tomahawk, or club, and rushed forth to expel the foe. Luckily there was a second line of
						picketing, partly completed, back of the gate, which prevented the Indians from making
						their way at once into the body of the fort. The garrison, in wild confusion, at once
						commenced a hand-to-hand conflict. Among the first to fall, mortally wounded, was Major
						Beasley, the careless  commandant. He refused to be
						carried to the interior of the fort, preferring to remain where he was, to animate and
						direct his troops, and by courage to atone for his negligence. He remained in command of
						his troops until death overtook him.
					The battle was terrible. The men fought like demons. Upon their success in driving the
						Indians from the fort depended, as they knew, not only their own lives, but those of the
						women and children who had been placed in their care. It was a fight in which the
						antagonists sought to club, chop, and hack each other to death. They siezed one
						another's throat with a vise-like gripe, of which the invincible tenacity relaxed only
						with death itself. For two hours the conflict raged with stubborn violence. The very
						women of the fort, horrified by the fate which seemed to await them, armed themselves
						with such weapons as they could procure, and with wild screams and nervous fury, mingled
						in the bloody fray.
					In spite of the utmost endeavors of the white men; in spite of the barricade of corpses
						behind which they fought; in spite of the wounds and flowing blood, the savages gained
						ground. Outnumbering the garrison three to one, they beat back their foes, overpowering
						them at point after point. As the Indians advanced into the interior of the fort they
						fired the buildings. The whites, driven back farther and farther, were forced for their
						last refuge to a small inclosure called the bastion. Above the din of the conflict arose
						in every quarter the warning cry of "To the bastion!" In a moment the inclosure was
						packed so full of people that no one could move, much less fight. The wails of women
						mingled with the roar of the flames and the hoarse shouts of the blackened soldiery grew
						feebler and feebler.
					At this point, Red Eagle rose to the height of heroism. He called upon his warriors to
						desist. Dismounting from his splendid horse, he placed himself in front of the howling
						murderers, and sought by imperious commands and earnest appeals to stop the carnage. But
						for the second time in his life he found that  he had let
						loose a storm which he could not control. As he now labored to save the lives of the
						remaining whites, his followers, with fierce suspicion, told him that not long before he
						had attempted to desert from the cause, and if he made further efforts in behalf of
						their enemies that he himself was the first man who should be put to death. Foiled in
						his best intentions, Red Eagle mounted and rode away from the scene of the massacre to
						calm the raging torrent of his thoughts in solitude.
					The persons remaining in the fort were put to death, making more than five hundred
						people who perished in the massacre. About twenty of the occupants of the fort succeeded
						in chopping a hole through the outer picketing. Their adventures were various. Dr.
						Thomas G. Holmes wandered five days in swamps and cane-brakes. At last he fired his gun
						for help. Some white men who were near were so frightened that they themselves took to
						the swamp and remained for two days. Holmes was finally saved. Lieutenant Chamblies was
						twice wounded in his flight, but succeeded in concealing himself in a pile of logs.
						Toward night the lieutenant was horrified to discover a band of Indians surrounding the
						log-pile and setting fire to it. He remained in his position till he was terribly
						burned, but was rejoiced to see the Indians leave just as he was forced to crawl from
						his hiding-place.
					Zachariah McGirth had left Fort Mims on the morning of the massacre, leaving behind him
						his wife and children. Having gone but a few miles he heard the roar of battle at the
						fort, and started back, filled with anxiety concerning his family. Late at night he made
						his way into the fort, and began an agonizing search among the bodies of the slain for
						the corpses of his wife and children. By the help of a torch and the glow from the
						embers of the block-houses, he sought everywhere, turning over and examining the bloody
						and mangled remains.
					After several hours, spent in the sickening task, he was forced to conclude that his
						family were among those who had been consumed in the buildings. As a matter of fact, a
						young  Indian, recognizing in McGirth's wife a former
						friend, had rescued her and her children. He told his fellow-warriors that he wished to
						make them slaves. McGirth, ignorant of all this, caring no longer for life, became the
						most reckless scout and Indian fighter in the American army. Several months afterward
						his family were restored to him; it was as if they had arisen from the dead.
					Two days after the massacre of Fort Mims, the prophet Francis, at the head of a band of
						warriors, assaulted a house and killed twelve persons. A Mrs. Merrill, in the house with
						an infant in her arms, had been scalped and left for dead. Hours afterward she revived,
						and attempted to crawl to Fort Sinquefield, two miles away, which she succeeded in
						doing. At the time, her husband was serving as a volunteer in the army. He heard of the
						butchery, receiving information of his wife's supposed death. Before the wife had
						recovered sufficiently to communicate with her husband, he too, was reported as killed
						in battle. In fact, he was sent by mistake with the wounded volunteers from Tennessee to
						that State.
					Years passed by. Mrs. Merrill married again. Late one evening, an emigrant family on
						their way to Texas asked for a night's lodging at her house. Scarcely had the guests
						been comfortably seated, when the husband of the emigrant family and the hostess
						recognized each other. Each had married, supposing the other dead. In this complication
						what was to be done? They talked far into the night. Both were happy in their present
						relations. They at last resolved, not, perhaps, without a shade of regret, to forget the
						past and live for the future as they were.
					Misfortunes come not as single spies, but in battalions. The dead at Fort Mims were
						brought to Fort Sinquefield for burial. The people in the fort, unarmed and absorbed in
						their sorrow, went outside the stockade to a little valley fifty yards away to bury the
						bodies of their friends. At this moment, Francis, who was shadowing the place, attempted
						to throw his party of  warriors between the white people
						and the gates. The men succeeded in reaching the fort, but the women and children were
						unfortunately cut off.
					
						THE DOG CHARGE.
					
					Their condition seemed hopeless. A thrill of horror shot through the hearts of the men
						at the fort. But life is full of strange coincidences. A young man named Isaac Haden, a
						hunter, who kept a large pack of hounds trained to chase and seize any living object
						upon which their master might set them, appeared at this critical moment returning from
						a hunt. His quick eye caught the situation. With a cry to his hounds he dashed forward
						on his horse against the host of Indians. The watchers at the fort and the helpless
						women without paused in breathless anxiety to witness the strange maneuver. In a moment
						every one of the sixty ferocious hounds had his fangs fastened in the throat of a
						savage. The Indians were overwhelmed by the strange assault. In the few precious moments
						the imperiled ones were rescued. Young Haden had his noble horse shot from under him,
						and had five bullet-holes through his clothes. A Mrs. Phillips was the only one who lost
						her life.
					
					The news of the massacre of Fort Mims spread like wildfire through the south. The
						entire white population on the Creek frontiers was in danger of instant destruction. To
						obtain help from the government at Washington, was impossible. It would take a month to
						send the news, and another one for the soldiers to reach the field of action. In this
						crisis the warm-hearted southern States impulsively called for volunteers to save their
						friends and neighbors.
					
						ANDREW JACKSON.
					
					General Andrew Jackson, lying sick and enfeebled on his bed of pain, announced that he
						would start to the front as soon as he could be helped into a saddle. He was yet a sick
						man, pale and emaciated, when, under the inspiration of his lofty will, he started to
						meet the army of volunteers which had been raised for him. Arrived there, he found one
						thousand raw troops, completely without provision for the expedition into the Indian
						country. Nevertheless, with or without food, he determined to march. In a single day the
						army constructed a supply post, called Fort Deposit, on Thompson's creek. During the
						march southward the men seem to have subsisted almost entirely upon the zeal and
						enthusiasm of Jackson's eloquent addresses, which were issued to the men several times a
						day.
					During the night of the 2d of November Jackson prepared to assault the Indian town of
						Tallushatchee. The two wings  of the army encircled the
						town on either side. At sunrise two companies were thrown forward into the circle. This
						at once brought on the battle. It raged with great fury. That victory belonged to the
						Americans was very soon evident. But the Indians refused to fly or accept quarter. Again
						and again, parties of braves, and even single warriors were urged to throw down their
						arms and submit. But with a heroism which rivaled that of Leonidas and his three hundred
						Spartans, every offer of mercy was rejected. Every warrior fought the overwhelming hosts
						which surrounded him as long as he could stand or sit. Even in the agonies of death the
						Creek braves would shoot malignant and unforgiving glances at their conquering foe, and
						feebly attempt to hurl a tomahawk at the nearest white man. They forced the Americans to
						turn the battle into a butchery. Every brave in the village was killed, the total
						falling not short of two hundred. History presents no more complete destruction of any
						fighting force.
					Still no provisions reached the army. With unflinching boldness Jackson continued his
						march to the south. He built another post, Fort Strother, for the reception of
						provisions. It was literally an empty mockery. There were no provisions. Here word
						reached Jackson that some friendly Indians were besieged at Talladega. The ingenuity of
						the messenger who brought the news, in effecting his escape from the beleaguered town,
						has not been equaled among all the marvelous exploits heretofore recited in these pages.
						He was a boy. He had covered himself with the skin of a large hog, and had wandered
						about on all fours, as if hunting for roots. At times, when he came near to hostile
						Indians, he would lie down comfortably in a mud puddle. In this way he had escaped
						detection.
					Once more Jackson marched his army into the presence of an enemy, without supplies. The
						battle of Talladega was similar in plan to its predecessor, and about as successful. Two
						hundred and ninety-nine Indian warriors were counted dead upon the ground.
					
					More extensive operations were absolutely impossible until food could be procured by
						Jackson for his starving men. While his army lay idle at Fort Strother, Red Eagle's
						superb genius for war was active in other parts of the field. There was danger of famine
						among the white settlers, unless the crops could be gathered from the fields. To do this
						it was necessary, temporarily at least, to rid the country of hostile prowlers. In this
						way came about the celebrated "Canoe Fight." A force of seventy-two men, under Captain
						Sam Dale, undertook to rid a particular section of the country of Indians. Dale was
						marching his command along the south-east bank of the Alabama River, when, dissatisfied
						at finding no traces of Indians, he determined to cross the river. The job was by no
						means a small one. Only two little canoes were to be had. The river was a quarter of a
						mile wide.
					At last, however, only twelve men, together with Dale, remained on the east bank of the
						river. While waiting their turn for transportation, the little company was startled by a
						volley of bullets from a large force of Indians. Dale's men concealed themselves in the
						dense undergrowth of the river bank, and behind trees. The situation was dangerous.
						Should the savages suspect, from the infrequency of the fire, the smallness of their
						numbers, they would quickly rush down and overpower them.
					Escape to the other side was the one thing to be desired. For this purpose, however,
						they had only one canoe, the other being across the river. This boat would hold but six
						men, and the movement would involve a separation of the company. The Indians on shore,
						seeing the canoe crossing the river, would at once suspect the smallness of the force
						opposed to them, and would quickly overpower those who were left behind.
					Dale signaled to his men on the other side for assistance. Eight of them started to
						cross the river, but discovering the immense strength of the Indian force, hastily put
						back to shore. A new danger now assailed the little band. A large canoe,  containing eleven warriors, was discovered putting out from
						the bank and making its way down to a point opposite Dale's position. In a few moments
						they attempted to land.
					Dale's party, attacked from front and rear, fought in both directions. Two of the
						warriors in the canoe attempted to swim ashore. One was shot through the top of the
						head. The other reached the shore and was met by Austill. At the moment of the encounter
						Austill slipped and fell into the water. The savage cast one keen glance at the little
						force, and then made his escape. Dale at once saw that it was but a matter of a few
						minutes before the whole Indian force, informed of the weakness of his company, would be
						upon them.
					In this emergency Dale announced a desperate resolution. He called for volunteers to
						man the little canoe which they had, and attack the Indian canoe party. For this
						perilous attempt three men, James Smith, Jeremiah Austill, and a large negro named
						Caesar, offered their services. With them Dale sprang into the canoe. The negro acted as
						steersman, while the white men plied the paddles. When half-way toward the hostile canoe
						with its nine occupants, Dale's men found to their dismay that their powder was wet and
						their guns useless.
					By strange fortune the Indians in the canoe had exhausted their ammunition. There
						remained nothing but a hand to hand fight between four men on the one hand and nine on
						the other. The negro threw the little canoe alongside of the larger, and held it firmly
						there. The Indians sprang to their feet, prepared with knives and clubs to resist the
						assault. At the moment of contact Dale leaped into the larger canoe. While Austill and
						Smith beat the Indians with clubbed guns, Dale, with inconceivable quickness, gave the
						one nearest him a powerful shove, throwing him backwards against his neighbor, he in
						turn falling upon the third Indian, and so on, until every savage in the boat had lost
						his balance, and all were floundering together in the bottom. Dale seized the advantage,
						clubbing out the brains of savage after savage, and throwing their corpses into the
						river.
					
					The last Indian was an old friend of Dale. The latter hesitated, and was about to lower
						his weapon, when the savage attempted to grapple with him. Dale was too quick. Stepping
						back, with a single blow he killed his antagonist. In less than two minutes from the
						time the boats came alongside of each other every one of the nine Indians was a corpse,
						floating down with the current toward the vast and lonely gulf. Of the white men,
						Austill alone was wounded.
					
						RED EAGLE'S LEAP.
					
					With swift strokes of the paddles the two canoes were brought back to the shore, the
						remaining men taken on board, and an escape made to the opposite side of the river amid
						a heavy fire from the Indians.
					On the 23d of December, 1813, Red Eagle, with a large force of Indians, awaited at Holy
						Ground an assault from  General Claiborne. The spot was
						admirably chosen for defense. It was a high bluff, surrounded on the land side by
						marshes and ravines, on the eastern side of the Alabama River, just below what is now
						Powell's Ferry, in Lowndes county, Alabama. To the natural strength of the place was
						added that of heavy log fortifications.
					The assault by the Americans was a comparative failure, as the Indians escaped by
						hundreds. Red Eagle, the last to leave the place, was almost on the point of being
						captured. Mounted on a gray horse of magnificent speed and endurance, he galloped
						rapidly toward a point where the bluff was but fifteen feet high. Over this
						perpendicular precipice wildly dashed the gallant rider and his noble steed. They both
						disappeared beneath the waves of the river, but in a few moments Red Eagle was seen, far
						out in the current of the river, to emerge from the depths, still on his horse which
						bravely bore him to the opposite shore.
					During the time of the incidents which we have been relating, General Jackson had a
						series of troubles with his army, which developed the incomparable metal of the man, and
						have been admired and laughed at by several generations of men. While detained at Fort
						Strother, a mutinous spirit developed itself among the men, who, on account of the lack
						of provisions, threatened to disband. One morning Jackson was informed that the militia
						regiment intended to march home in a body. Jackson at once placed himself at the head of
						the volunteers and confronted the militia, telling them that they could march home only
						by cutting their way through his lines. This was more than the militia-men had counted
						on. They yielded.
					But the volunteers were scarcely less discontented than the militia. That night they
						themselves resolved to go home. In the morning Jackson reversed the plan of the previous
						day. He placed the militia in front of the volunteers, and told them that their way home
						lay through the ranks. The joke was so rich that, for the time being, the trouble blew
						over.
					
					Great was the distress from want of food. A soldier passed General Jackson and saw that
						he was eating something. Hie mutinously demanded that he should have a share of it.
						"Willingly," replied Jackson, and thrusting his hand into his pocket, offered the man
						some acorns. For some days they had been his only food.
					At last, however, Jackson was left without any supporters. The entire army resolved
						that, if provisions did not come within two days, they would go home. They, however,
						promised that if the provision train was met they would return. On the appointed day the
						men marched away. Jackson went after them, and begged for volunteers to remain with him.
						To this appeal one hundred and nine men responded.
					Twelve miles from the fort the army met the provision train. The men were furnished
						ample supplies of food. But with mouths and stomachs full of meat they determined, in
						spite of their promise, to return home. Jackson's rage was terrible. His left arm was
						still in a sling. He was more emaciated than when he had left his sick-bed. Snatching a
						musket from a man, he planted himself in front of the column of mutineers and broke
						forth into a wild storm of vituperation. He told them that they could march home only
						over his dead body, and that the man who first advanced toward him should be shot dead.
						Raising his gun to his shoulder, he waited. The troops who would have fought an army
						were conquered by the will of a single man. The mutineers returned to their camp.
					But the troops shortly devised another expedient. Through a pretended flaw in their
						contract of enlistment, they claimed that their term had expired. On the afternoon of
						December 9th, they commenced strapping up their knapsacks. Jackson at once called on all
						good soldiers to assist him. The militia were drawn up behind a line of cannon
						confronting the mutineers. The artillery-men held lighted matches in their hands.
						Jackson then addressed his rebellious soldiery, and demanded from them an explicit
						answer, whether they would remain  peaceably with the
						army, then, and there. He took out his watch to count the seconds which still remained
						for the men to answer. If they refused, at a signal the cannon and musketry of the
						militia-line would leap into flame, and hurl leaden storms of death and destruction into
						the ranks of the mutineers. The latter made their choice. They decided to remain. A
						fourth time Jackson had won a battle against his own troops.
					At last Jackson received four thousand fresh recruits from Tennessee. Red Eagle and his
						army were concentrated in a sort of peninsula, called the Horseshoe, formed by a bend of
						the Tallapoosa River. The bend inclosed a hundred acres of ground, and at its narrowest
						part was about three hundred yards wide. Across this narrow place Red Eagle had
						constructed a strong fortification, which was designed to resist even artillery-fire.
						Within the inclosure the houses were further protected by embankments of earth. At the
						bank of the river floated one hundred canoes, as a possible means of retreat. The
						perfection of these preparations have caused certain writers to imagine that some white
						engineer had planned them. In fact, they were the conceptions of Red Eagle's brain.
					On the 27th of March, 1814, Jackson found himself in front of this remarkable redoubt
						with two thousand soldiers. General Coffee, with seven hundred cavalry and a force of
						friendly Indians, were thrown across the river to occupy the opposite side of the bend
						in the rear of the fortification, and cut off retreat. By ten o'clock Coffee occupied
						this position. Jackson commenced a heavy attack with artillery and musketry upon the
						front of the breastworks, making but little impression. Coffee, without especial
						direction from his commander, resolved to throw a part of his men across the river in
						canoes, and by attacking the Indians in the rear, effect a diversion in favor of
						Jackson.
					After an hour or so of ineffectual fighting, Jackson resolved to storm the works. The
						men were formed in solid column. This column was a projectile which was expected to
						force a  breach where the cannon had failed. At the given
						word the long line of men started forward to hurl themselves against the fortification.
						In spite of the heavy fire from the enemy, which mowed down their ranks, the
						Tennesseeans hurried forward, reached the breastworks, thrust their rifles into the
						port-holes, and fired at the yelling savages within, or swarmed up and over the
						barricade. On the top of the breastworks there was many a fierce hand-to-hand
						encounter—the whites fighting to force their way into the fort, the savages
						struggling to hurl them back.
					
						PLAN OF THE BATTLE OF THE HORSESHOE.
					
					In a short time the number of Indians upon the parapet was seen to grow fewer and
						fewer. Every time an Indian fell his place was taken by two white men. Presently
						Jackson's troops began to leap down into the inclosure. The works were taken. But the
						defenders of the place were not conquered. To do that there was only one way. That way
						was BUTCHERY. It was a repetition of Tallushatchee. No savage would
						surrender. Again and again Jackson offered quarter, but the brave Creeks only riddled
						the messengers with bullets. At last, Red Eagle's men, beaten at every point, fled to
						the fleet of canoes to escape by water. Some did escape, but the majority fell beneath
						the unerring fire from Coffee's command. One old Indian, terribly wounded, jumped into
						the river, caught hold of a root in the bottom to keep himself down, and by breathing
						through the long joint of a cane, one end of which was in his mouth and the other above
						the water, remained hidden until nightfall, when he rose from his watery bed and made
						his way into the forest.
					
					In the morning sixteen warriors were found concealed in a brush heap. They were
						surrounded by two hundred men, and called upon to surrender. They not only refused, but
						made insulting and defiant gestures. Of them, it might be said, that they were killed,
						but not conquered.
					Five hundred and fifty-seven dead warriors were found in the fort. Besides this
						uncounted numbers had been killed in the river. The power of the Creek nation was
						crushed.
					It was but a little while till the Creek leaders sent their messengers to Jackson,
						humbly begging for peace. To these overtures there was one reply: "Bring Red Eagle here,
						bound hand and foot; then we will talk of peace." It was Jackson's purpose to hang the
						Indian commander as a punishment for the massacre of Fort Mims.
					Sad-faced messengers bore the dreadful news to Red Eagle. Peace there could be only on
						condition of the sacrifice of his life. His friends urged him to leave the country. To
						all such suggestions Red Eagle made no reply, but simply flashed one look of indignation
						from his proud and scornful eye. Many hours he sat alone in his wigwam, lost in thought.
						Sometimes he would walk to the door and look out upon the landscape with a sigh. Then he
						would return and resume his reverie. He counseled with no one. What was passing in his
						mind his broken-spirited followers did not suspect. He neither slept nor ate.
					At last Red Eagle seemed to have come to some conclusion. Long before dawn one morning,
						without vouchsafing a single explanation, he mounted his splendid gray horse, and rode
						away through the forest in solitude and silence. An observer might have seen his lips
						tightly compressed. From his eye shone a strange light. He alone knew his
						destination.
					He took his course toward the camp of Andrew Jackson. When within a few miles of the
						camp, a noble deer bounded across his path. Quick as thought Red Eagle fired, bringing
						down the game. He then reloaded his rifle. That load was for the heart of Big Warrior,
						in case he should offer any insult  to Red Eagle in the
						American camp. Laying the deer behind him on his horse, he rode on. He came within sight
						of an American sentinel, and calmly inquired for General Jackson's head-quarters. He
						rode up to the door of the tent pointed out to him. Andrew Jackson came forward, and in
						a spasm of rage demanded of him how he dared to approach him when such a penalty hung
						over him. To this Red Eagle replied: "General Jackson, I am
								afraid of no man. I am a Creek warrior. For myself I ask no favor. I come to beg
								mercy for the women and children of my people, who are now starving in the woods
								without an ear of corn. You may kill me if you wish. I am done fighting. Of my
								warriors but a few live. The rest have been killed. If I could fight you longer I
								would, but save the women and children. They have never harmed you. As for me, do
								with me as you please."
					These words were delivered with a pathos and eloquence which can not be described. A
						crowd had gathered around to witness the strange scene. As once before in history, here
						was a man found willing to die for his people. And as on that other occasion, from which
						over the centuries there comes floating to our ears the cries of the mob, "Crucify him,
						crucify him," so here the crowd broke out into loud cries of "Kill him, kill him."
					The hero recognizes the hero. There is an affinity between high-born souls. Andrew
						Jackson rebuked the crowd. He invited his distinguished prisoner into his quarters.
						After a conversation, Jackson repeated the terms of peace which had been offered, and
						then said, "You are at liberty to leave if you wish. No opposition shall be made. But if
						I capture you hereafter, you will be hung." To this Red Eagle replied with burning
						words. He said that he accepted the terms of peace. That no matter what fate awaited
						himself, his people would at least be made happier by it.
					The war was ended, but Red Eagle was not hung. Andrew Jackson, instead of offering him
						punishment afforded him protection. His life was saved from the conspiracies of the
						friendly  Indians in Jackson's camp by the very guards
						with which his captor had surrounded him. In time he was left free to return to his old
						home and plantation. But there he found himself surrounded by hosts of implacable
						enemies, who sought his life. He went to Fort Claiborne, and placed himself under the
						protection of the commanding officer. But here, too, were men in whose breasts rankled
						the poisoned stings of civil war. He was obliged to leave the fort at night and in
						secret. He made his way to Jackson's camp, and in time was taken by the American general
						to his home in Tennessee, where he remained as a guest for nearly a year.
					As time rolled on the hostilites of war died away. Red Eagle returned to his
						plantation. Again he accumulated property, again he was waited on by troops of slaves,
						and dispensed magnificent hospitality to his friends. His spirit was unbroken by
						misfortune, and his commanding genius again asserted itself in the councils of the
						Creeks. He died at his home on the 9th of March, 1824. Through the intermarriage of his
						children with the whites Red Eagle's descendants show few traces of their Indian blood.
						The dark eye, the erect form, and perhaps a slight tinge in the cheek are all that
						remain as badges of their noble lineage.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIII.
						THE TRUE STORY OF THE PROPHET.
					IN 1805, Penagashega, or "The Change of Feathers," the prophet of the
						Shawanese tribe was gathered to his fathers. As soon as the news of the great prophet's
						death reached a certain Shawanese Indian by the name of Laulewasickaw, the latter rolled
						his eyes piously towards heaven and fell on his face. How long he remained in this
						position we know not, but when he arose his actions were singular in the extreme. He
						shunned his former companions, bearing an important and mysterious air, the very
						personification of solemnity. He proceeded to engage in long and severe fasts. He
						resorted to hollow trees and desolate caverns, and there kept up protracted vigils.
					At last, tired of this sort of thing or having continued it long enough to suit his
						purposes, he returned to his village, and with mock humility and a dramatic display of
						great piety, announced that the spirit of prophecy had entered into him, and that he
						would no longer be known as Penagashega, but as Tenshacutawan. This startling
						announcement certainly so overwhelms the reader with astonishment and admiration, that
						we at once hurry to satisfy the curiosity thus aroused by an explanation of the causes
						and meaning of this move on the part of our friend, whom we will henceforth know simply
						as "The Prophet."
					According to his own story, the Prophet was descended from  a great Creek warrior, his grandfather. On a certain occasion, this esteemed
						ancestor, then a young and handsome man, had left the villages of his tribe, and gone
						with the leading men to the city of Charleston to hold a council with the English
						governor.
					At some of the interviews which took place, the governor's daughter, a young lady of
						great beauty and spirit, contrived to be present. She had conceived a violent admiration
						for the Indian character, and had determined to bestow herself upon some lord of the
						forest. She took occasion one evening to inform her father of this wish, and begged him
						to select for her a suitable husband from the noble array of chiefs then in Charleston.
						Ridicule, argument, entreaties, and tears were of no avail to shake the resolute girl in
						her purpose.
					On the following morning, the governor, pale from loss of sleep, inquired of the
						Indians which of their number was the most expert hunter. Of course the entire company
						pointed out the modest young warrior who was destined to become the grandfather of the
						Prophet, and to hand down to his descendant that characteristic modesty which was so
						conspicuously absent from the latter. After further interviews with his daughter, the
						governor announced to the council of Creeks that his daughter was disposed to marry one
						of their number. Significantly pointing toward the illustrious individual of whom we
						have spoken, he announced that his own consent was already given.
					The chiefs were naturally incredulous. Their doubts, however, were dispelled by the
						earnestness of the governor and the evident anxiety of the young lady. Satisfied on this
						point, the Creeks at once began to labor with the young chief. Their arguments,
						re-enforced by his native gallantry, soon won the day, and the young warrior announced
						his satisfaction with the arrangement, and proceeded to give the young lady a hearty
						embrace, to which she seemed perfectly agreeable. He was immediately conducted to
						another apartment, where he was  disrobed of the Indian
						costume by a train of black servants and clad in a new suit. The marriage ceremony was
						at once performed.
					The Creeks returned to their homes, but the young warrior remained in Charleston with
						his wife. In time there were born to him two daughters and a son. At the birth of the
						latter, the old governor caused a round of thirty guns to be fired. At the age of eight
						years, the boy's father died, and he was taken charge of by the governor. The Creeks
						frequently visited him, and he in turn from time to time was permitted to make long
						stays among the people of his father. Gradually, he adopted their dress, customs, and
						language. There came a time when he refused to return to the whites, and ever afterward
						lived among the Indians. "This," says the Prophet, "was my father."
					However truly our friend the Prophet foretold the future, it is certain that he lied
						about the past. His father and mother were, in all probability, of the purest Shawanese
						blood. This tribe was the most restless of all the American Indians. Tradition says that
						they are the descendants of the famous Eries. At different times we find them living on
						the Susquehanna River; at the Suwanee River in Florida, giving their name to it; on the
						Cumberland, in Kentucky; in the Wyoming valley, in Pennsylvania, and on the Wabash in
						Indiana. The Prophet's family removed from Florida to the north side of the Ohio River
						about the middle of the eighteenth century.
					The Prophet was the youngest of six sons. He passed his boyhood like any other young
						Indian, in the wigwams and hunting-grounds of his people. He was more distinguished for
						intrigue and craft than for skill as a hunter or bravery as a warrior. He was a great
						braggart, telling no end of yarns of his great achievements. Possessing a shrewd insight
						into character, and never missing an opportunity to impress upon his people his vast
						importance and ability, he, in spite of his laziness and natural cowardice, managed to
						maintain a fairly creditable position in his tribe. But for his older brother, or as
						some  will have it his twin, known everywhere as TECUMSEH, or The Shooting Star, he would probably have remained in
						obscurity.
					
						TECUMSEH.
					
					Tecumseh was born about 1768, after his parents had removed to Ohio. His father's death
						occurring when he was but six years old, he was placed under the charge of his eldest
						brother, Cheeseekau. The latter was a brave man, of noble character. His chief
						occupation and care was the proper training of the young Tecumseh, who was early
						recognized as the hope of the family. It was Cheeseekau who taught the fatherless boy to
						hunt, who led him to battle, who instructed him in all the athletic exercises, and who,
						by constant and zealous labor, imbued his mind with a love for truth, a ready
						generosity, a manly courage in battle, and a dignified fortitude in suffering. It was
						Cheeseekau who taught him, while but a boy, to use the bow and arrow with a skill which
						far exceeded that possessed by any other Indian boy of the tribe. It was this same elder
						brother who drilled him in the art of eloquence, and who wrought into his mind the idea
						which afterwards became the inspiration of the great chieftain—the idea of the
						salvation of his people from the white man.
					There were other children of this interesting family. Of these we have time to mention
						only Tecumseh's sister, Tecumapease. She was sensible, kind-hearted, and intelligent.
						Between her and her brother there existed the warmest affection. She was always his
						favorite. The first fruits of the chase belonged to Tecumapease. The choicest presents
						of the white man to Tecumseh became trophies for his sister.
					
					Educated by the care of his elder brother, and cherished by the affection of a noble
						sister, Tecumseh grew to manhood. His ruling passion, even in his earlier years, is said
						to have been war. Among his companions he was easily the leader. Mimic combats and sham
						battles were his favorite sports. While his brother, the Prophet, remained at home
						engaged in idle and disreputable intrigues, Tecumseh followed the hunters in their chase
						and the war-parties on their way to battle.
					As may be imagined, the Indian warfare which raged during all his earlier years made a
						profound impression on his mind. In childhood he sat around the camp-fires, and with
						earnest look and fascinated attention heard the stories of the Indian conflicts of the
						Revolutionary War. The battle of Point Pleasant, the murder of Cornstalk, the siege of
						Wheeling, the innumerable combats which took place around the block-houses of Kentucky,
						and along the course of the Ohio, the genius of Brant, the massacre of the Moravian
						Indians, the terrible defeat of Crawford—these were the things which formed the
						subjects of excited discussions around the camp-fires, where were faithfully reported,
						with vivid description and animated gesture, the details of every combat. These were the
						things upon which the youthful imagination of Tecumseh was nourished.
					In his lonely chase he revolved in his mind the things which he had heard. With
						clenched fist and determined countenance, he brooded over the wrongs of the white man to
						his people. There came to him, too, stories of the great Pontiac and his wonderful
						conspiracy—the plan a ruin, and its creator an outcast before Tecumseh had drawn
						the breath of life.
					The years passed by, and the terrible warfare with the white man raged without
						abatement. In this, as a matter of course, Tecumseh took a part. He is said to have fled
						in fright during the first battle at which he was present. The same story is related of
						Frederick the Great. Certain it is that Tecumseh never again was guilty of any such
						weakness. At another time he participated in an attack on a boat descending the Ohio
						River.  After the battle a captive was burned to death.
						Tecumseh had never seen any thing of the kind before. He broke forth into a storm of
						denunciation at the fiendish practice. From that time forth no prisoners were burned by
						any war party of which Tecumseh was a member.
					When he was nineteen years of age Tecumseh and Cheeseekau took a long journey to the
						south. This the elder brother believed would tend to enlarge the understanding of his
						pupil, and enrich his expanding mind with general ideas. Their travels reached as far as
						the Creek country. There they found the Cherokees engaged in a war with the whites.
					The two brothers from the hunting grounds of the north at once enlisted in the
						struggle. In an attack on a certain fort Cheeseekau led the charge. Just before the
						attack he told his followers that in the conflict he would be shot in the forehead and
						killed. The thing turned out as he had prophesied. He fell, pierced by a bullet midway
						between the eyes. As he sank, mortally wounded, upon the battle-field, he exclaimed with
						his expiring breath, "Happy am I to thus fall in battle, and not die in a wigwam like an
						old squaw." The Indians, panic-stricken at the fall of their leader, as well as at the
						fulfillment of the prophecy, fled in all directions.
					Tecumseh seems to have suddenly become a man. The death of his brother threw him at
						once on his own resources. The band of warriors who had followed Cheeseekau all the way
						from the north, chose Tecumseh as their leader. To show himself worthy of this honor
						Tecumseh took ten men and went to the nearest white settlement, attacked and killed all
						the men, and took the women and children prisoners. He remained two years in the south,
						learning many languages, and becoming acquainted with many chiefs. During most of this
						time he was engaged in the warfare with the white man. No expedition or foray was
						thought complete without Tecumseh. His military genius won him great renown. One night
						Tecumseh, with a dozen warriors, was encamped on the Alabama River. All of  the men had lain down for the night except Tecumseh, who
						was dressing some meat by the fire. At that moment the camp was attacked by thirty white
						men. With a shrill cry Tecumseh roused every warrior to his feet. Their leader at their
						head, the Indians rushed furiously toward a certain point in the circle formed by their
						foes. Two white men were killed outright, and the others, giving way before the
						impetuous charge, suffered Tecumseh and his band to break through, and make their way to
						their boats.
					At the end of two years the young Tecumseh, now renowned for his martial feats,
						returned to his own people. He arrived in time to take part in the defeat of General St.
						Clair. In the war during 1794, when General Wayne led his triumphant expedition into the
						heart of the Indian country, Tecumseh became quite prominent for a young chief. He
						joined in an Indian attack on Fort Recovery. Ninety riflemen and fifty dragoons, having
						just escorted a supply train to the fort, were returning to the main army. Upon these
						the Indians precipitated themselves with great fury. Numbers of the white men were
						killed, and the rest fled toward the fort, and many succeeded in reaching it. The
						Indians then attacked the fort, but after two days withdrew without having effected
						their object.
					Tecumseh was also present at the battle of Fallen Timbers, a name which it took from
						the fact that the battle-field was covered with fallen forest trees, wrecked by some
						tornado. All the world knows that in this battle Mad Anthony Wayne crushed the Indian
						powers of the Ohio valley. One incident shows that Tecumseh was still young. In the
						excitement of the fray he rammed a bullet into his gun without first inserting a charge
						of powder, thus losing the use of the weapon. Driven to the rear by the advancing enemy,
						he obtained a fowling-piece, which he used with considerable effect. As the Indians
						began to fly he exerted all his influence and every effort to rally them, and twice
						succeeded in making a stand with a handful of Shawanese. At last he, with the others,
						was compelled to retreat.
					
					Tecumseh did not attend the peace council at Greenville. He remained at home in his
						wigwam, sullen and angry. In the following year he gathered about him a band of
						followers, calling himself its chief. This new tribe was migratory, like all the
						Shawanese. One crop of corn was raised on the shores of the great Miami, another was
						raised near the Whitewater River. In 1798, the Delawares, residing on White River, in
						Indiana, invited Tecumseh and his tribe to come and dwell with them. This invitation was
						accepted, and for several years Tecumseh kept his head-quarters at that place.
					Numberless incidents are related of Tecumseh about this time. He was a great hunter,
						partly as a matter of sport, and partly because it enabled him to give the highly prized
						venison to the sick and poor of his tribe. One day a crowd of young Shawanese wagered
						him that each of them could kill as many deer in a three days hunt as he. Tecumseh
						quietly accepted the challenge, and the hunters made their preparations that evening for
						a start before daylight. The three days ran by, and the crowd of boasters once more
						assembled around the camp-fire of their village. The largest number of deer-skins
						brought in by any one brave was twelve. Tecumseh brought with him thirty.
					In 1803, Captain Herrod, who lived sixteen miles north-west of Chillicothe, while
						felling a tree in the forest, was shot by an unknown foe. Herrod was greatly beloved,
						and the whole valley of the Scioto was thrown into a panic. Bands of white men,
						suspecting the murder to have been the work of an Indian, organized for revenge.
						Wawillaway, an old Shawanese chief, and a great friend of the whites, was returning from
						one of the settlements where he had been trading his skins. At a spot in the forest,
						near the cabin of a hunter named Wolf, Wawillaway, a brave and intelligent Indian, and
						much respected by the whites, was confronted by Wolf and his hired man. The Indian shook
						hands with the men cordially, and was greeted in the same manner. The trio smoked the
						peace pipe, and violence on 
						
							CAPTURE OF BOONE BY THE INDIANS.
						
						 either side seemed not to be thought of. After a while
						Wolf proposed that they trade guns. While examining the Indian's weapon, the white man
						secretly removed the priming and then handed it back, saying he would not trade. Wolf's
						manner then changed, and he asked Wawillaway if the Indians had begun war. "No, no,"
						said the chief, "the Indians and white men are now all brothers." The conversation then
						turned on the murder of Herrod, of which Wawillaway had not heard. Wolf charged that it
						was the work of the Indians. The chief replied that he might have been killed by some
						white enemy. He then shook hands, and turned to go, when Wolf fired from behind,
						inflicting a mortal wound. The brave Shawanese turned upon his assailants, killed one,
						and wounded the other. Exhausted by his efforts, and mortally wounded, he fell dead.
					This occurrence operated to inflame the whole country, and a frontier war seemed
						imminent. A company of prominent citizens, in the hope of quieting matters, rode to
						Greenville, Ohio, in the Indian country, where they found Tecumseh with a large body of
						Indians. A council was held, and the whites candidly related all the circumstances
						connected with the murder of Wawillaway. After some hesitation, the Indians accepted the
						explanation, and declared their intention of abiding by the treaty of Greenville. This,
						however, was not enough. Tecumseh agreed to go to Chillicothe and exert his influence in
						behalf of peace. In the council held at that place Tecumseh fulfilled his promise in a
						speech of great power and eloquence, which effectually quieted the disturbance.
					One incident connected with the murder of Wawillaway deserves mention. His two sons
						vowed vengeance upon Wolf. The latter fled to Kentucky, and employed an agent to
						negotiate with his enemies. After much debate and delay, the two Indians agreed, for the
						consideration of a horse and a new saddle, bridle, and gun apiece, to bury the hatchet.
						On an appointed day, the settlers from far and near came together to witness the
						fulfillment of this contract. In the midst of a  hollow
						square stood Wolf, with his horses and their trappings. Opposite him stood the two young
						Indians. The latter lifted their hands toward heaven, calling on the Great Spirit to
						avenge the wrong which they had suffered, and at the same time to witness the sincerity
						of their forgiveness of their father's murderer. They took Wolf by the hand, and the
						three sat down together to smoke the calumet of peace. The two parties to this singular
						contract were good friends ever afterward.
					It is to another class of events, however, that we must look to get glimpses of the
						motives and ideas of Tecumseh’s interior life at this time. The early tendency of his
						mind to dwell upon the wrongs of the white man against his race expressed itself in a
						long study of the problem as to how the ruin of the red man and his impending extinction
						might be averted. Tecumseh did not talk much. He kept himself in the background. While
						the records of these years abound with the names of Blue Jacket, The Owl, and Turkey
						Foot, that of Tecumseh is not mentioned. There is evidence to show that his mind was
						actively employed on the great subject which we have mentioned.
					Things were constantly occurring to give him food for thought. The Indian wars were
						over, but the outrages and wrongs continued. In 1801 William Henry Harrison was
						appointed governor of that portion of the North-west Territory known as Indiana. At the
						very first talk which the new governor had with his Indian constituency, the latter had
						no less than six murders by white men to complain of, the murderers having gone "unwhipt
						of justice." One of the cases bore heavily upon the minds of the Indians. Two warriors,
						a squaw, and some children had been hunting on Blue River, when their camp was
						discovered by three white men, who approached as friends, and were hospitably
						entertained. At an opportune moment the villainous visitors had murdered the whole party
						of Indians, made off with their property, and boasted of their feat in the white
						settlements without fear of punishment.
					The able and interesting communications of Governor 
						Harrison are full of details as to the irritation between the whites and the Indians.
						Besides these open outrages, the poor Indians suffered in many ways. Six thousand
						gallons of whisky were sold each year to the Indians upon the Wabash, who scarcely
						numbered six hundred warriors. "Every horror is produced," says Governor Harrison,
						"among these unhappy people by their intercourse with the whites. This is so certain
						that I can at once tell, upon looking at an Indian, whom I chance to meet, whether he
						belongs to a neighboring or more distant tribe. The latter is generally well clothed,
						healthy, and vigorous, the former half naked, filthy, and enfeebled by intoxication; and
						many of them without arms, excepting a knife, which they carry for the most villainous
						purposes."
					Among the many murders committed was one at a tavern, where a white man and an Indian,
						who were drinking together, got into a quarrel. Another white man took the Indian away
						to a distant house to keep him till he sobered off. The man with whom he had quarreled
						procured a cudgel, proceeded to the house, forced open the door of the room where the
						Indian lay, and beat him to death with a club. The murderer was arrested, tried, made no
						attempt at defense, and yet the jury of white men, although the facts of the murder were
						proved without contradiction or question, brought in a verdict in five minutes of "not
						guilty," simply on the ground that the victim was an Indian.
					It is not to be forgotten that agents of the British Government continually circulated
						among the Indians, promising help from England in case they would make war upon the
						whites. This was also an important factor in the problem which was being worked out by
						Tecumseh. From childhood he had been taught to regard the great Pontiac as the foremost
						of all the Indian leaders of the past, and he did not fail to see that as Pontiac's
						scheme hinged upon the assistance of France, so his own plans might be confidently
						formed with regard to help from England.
					
					The assumption of prophetic powers by Tecumseh's brother, the Prophet, in 1805, was in
						some way intimately connected with Tecumseh's plans. The chief, assisted by the smaller
						cunning of his brother, and thoroughly understanding the Indian character, saw that for
						the purpose of laying hold of the hearts and minds of the Indians; of uniting scattered
						and broken tribes in the execution of a single great enterprise; of the revival of the
						spirit of his people, among whom the effects of Wayne's victory in the battle of Fallen
						Timbers were still painfully manifest, and of the rallying of a wide and enthusiastic
						following, the Indians could be approached in no way so successfully as through their
						superstitions. Speaking strictly, Tecumseh's brother was an Indian Mohammed.
					So the Prophet changed his name. He preached that he was the Anointed of the Great
						Spirit to reform the manners of the red men. All the innovations in dress and habits
						which they had learned from the white men must be abandoned. Calling together a large
						assembly in northern Ohio of Indians from many tribes, he, in the presence of this
						company, made an official announcement of his doctrines. He denounced witchcraft and
						drunkenness. He said that he had been carried up into the clouds, and had been shown the
						dwelling-place of the devil. Here he had seen the multitudes of those who had died
						drunkards in their eternal home. From the mouth of every one of them proceeded flames of
						fire.
					When he was questioned as to whether he was not a drunkard himself, he admitted the
						truth, but said that the fright from his vision prevented him from drinking any more. He
						attacked the practice of Indian women marrying white men, and also the growing tendency
						toward individual property. He proclaimed celestial rewards for all who would become his
						followers, and boldly laid claim to the power of foretelling future events, curing
						sickness, preventing death on the battle-field, and working all sorts of miracles.
					The Prophet was a first-rate orator, though wanting in the 
							TECUMSEH AS A DEER HUNTER.
						
						 courage and truthfulness of his brother. President
						Jefferson wrote of him as follows: "The Wabash Prophet is more
								rogue than fool, if to be a rogue is not the greatest of all follies. He rose to
								notice while I was in the administration, and became of course a proper subject for
								me. The inquiry was made with diligence. His declared object was the reformation of
								his red brethren and their return to their pristine manners of living. He pretended
								to be in constant communication with the Great Spirit; that he was instructed by him
								to make known to the Indians that they were created by him, distinct from the
								whites, of different natures, for different purposes, and placed under different
								circumstances adapted to their nature and destinies; that they must return from all
								the ways of the whites to the habits and opinions of their forefathers; they must
								not eat the flesh of hogs, of bullocks, of sheep, etc., the deer and the buffalo
								having been created for their food. They must not bake bread of wheat, but of Indian
								corn; they must not wear linen nor woolen, but must dress like their fathers, in the
								skins and furs of animals; they must not drink ardent spirits, and I do not remember
								whether he extended his inhibitions to the gun and gunpowder in favor of the bow and
								arrow.
							"I concluded from all this that he was a visionary, enveloped in their antiquities,
								and vainly endeavoring to lead back his brethren to the fancied beatitudes of their
								golden age. I thought there was little danger of his making many proselytes from the
								habits and comforts they had learned from the whites to the hardships and privations
								of savagism, and no great harm if he did. But his followers increased until the
								British thought him worth corrupting, and found him corruptible. I suppose his views
								were then changed, but his proceedings in consequence of them were after I left the
								administration, and are therefore unknown to me; nor have I ever been informed what
								were the particular acts on his part which produced an actual commencement of
								hostilities on ours. I have no doubt, however, that the  subsequent are but a chapter apart, like that of Henry and Lord Liverpool in the
								book of the kings of England."
					At first the following of the Prophet was small, but superstition is always ready to
						take up with new leaders. The bolder the imposition, the more followers it finds. As the
						stories of the Prophet passed from mouth to mouth, the wonders ascribed to him grew with
						lightning rapidity. As the tales were borne to the far off shores of Lake Superior,
						miracles of the most prodigious proportions were related. Still such reports were not
						confined to distant tribes. The people in the very next wigwam to the Prophet's would
						affirm with dogged obstinacy, bold faces, and invincible positiveness the details of
						wonders which the Prophet had wrought, and which they themselves had witnessed. Perhaps
						an explanation for this may be found in the fact that, hearing others relate stories of
						the Prophet's miracles, which their credulous minds believed, they, in turn, not wishing
						to be behind the rest, thought it necessary to bear testimony to wonders themselves. In
						fact, the nearer they were to the Prophet, and the closer their relations with him, the
						keener would be their pique if they had had no stories to tell. So each of the Prophet's
						followers strove to surpass the rest in the tales which he could tell of supernatural
						occurrences.
					All this sort of thing, it will be observed, has for its foundation a belief that
						miracles did occur; in short, in their possibility and reality as a general thing, the
						only question being as to the particular details. If such a belief in the possibility of
						the miracles, and in the fact that they really were occurring, had been absent from the
						Prophet's followers, it is evident that the above explanation would be incorrect. Some
						other reason would have to be found to account for the existence of the testimony to his
						miracles. Perhaps it would not be necessary to go farther in such a case than to say
						that the stories were lies. In the present instance, however, there can be no doubt that
						the followers of the Prophet believed him to be an actual miracle worker, the only
						question in their minds, if there  was any at all, being
						as to what particular miracles he had wrought.
					It is the invariable course of history for Superstition to go hand in hand with her
						sisters, Intolerance and Persecution. Such was the case with the Prophet. He instituted
						a persecution against witchcraft. An old woman was denounced as a witch by him, and she
						was called upon repeatedly to give up her charm and medicine-bag. She was put to the
						stake and burned. In her fearful agony, hoping for relief, she screamed out that her
						grandson had her charm. This accusation, instead of saving her, resulted in the young
						Indian, who was out hunting, being forthwith pursued and arrested. He confessed that he
						had borrowed the charm, and by means of it had flown through the air over Kentucky to
						the banks of the Mississippi, and back again, before bed-time. He insisted, however,
						that he had returned the charm to his grandmother, and was finally released.
					On the following day an old chief named Teteboxti was accused of being a wizard.
						Knowing that his doom was fixed, the old man arrayed himself in his finest clothes, and
						confronted the grim circle of inquisitors in the council-house. The trial was speedy.
						The sentence was passed. The old chief calmly assisted in the construction of his own
						funeral pile. Touched by his white hairs, the council became merciful. They voted to
						tomahawk him and burn his body afterwards. This was done. Many others met the same
						fate.
					When Governor Harrison heard of the witchcraft delusion and the far-reaching influence
						of the Prophet, he was justly alarmed. No one knew better than he the sway of
						superstition among ignorant minds. He knew that, although the Indians had been quiet for
						ten years, and could be roused by the call of no ordinary leader, nevertheless deceived
						by a mask of religion, they might once more plunge the frontiers into bloody war. He
						wrote them a most earnest letter, urging them to drive out the Prophet, and boldly
						asserting that the latter was  a fraud. He told the
						Indians that the pretender could work no miracles. "Ask of him to cause the sun to stand
						still, the moon to alter its course, the rivers to cease to flow, or the dead to rise
						from their graves."
					The Prophet took the governor at his word. He announced that on a certain day he would
						cause darkness to cover the sun. By some means he had learned that a total eclipse of
						the sun would occur on a certain day. The reports of the prophecy spread to a thousand
						villages.
					On the appointed day a vast assemblage of Indians from far and near gathered to witness
						the miracle. They were arranged in a great circle. Painted Ottawas, wild Ojibwas, fierce
						Dacotahs, ugly Kickapoos, and curious Illinois, as well as numbers from nearer tribes,
						were there. Over the multitude hung a deathlike silence. The rattling tongues of the
						squaws were hushed, and the cheeks of the boldest warriors were blanched with unnatural
						pallor.
					An hour before noon the Prophet, dressed with dazzling magnificence, came out of his
						wigwam, and strode with slow and stately steps toward the center of the circle. A slight
						buzz of apprehension went through the assembly. A few Indian youths ran from one point
						to another, carrying messages and perfecting details. At last all was ready. The Prophet
						rose. Extending his right arm and turning his face toward the heavens, he pronounced an
						unintelligible incantation. As he proceeded a disc of darkness was observed to be slowly
						appearing upon the edge of the sun. The eyes of the vast assemblage were turned from the
						Prophet toward the phenomenon. As the moments progressed the dark spot enlarged. There
						was a perceptible diminution of light.
					An hour went by. The Prophet still continued his diablarie. The landscape, before so
						sunny, took on somber hues of brown. The air was close and still. It grew darker and
						darker. The multitude was thrilled with awe. They clung closely to one another. Not a
						few believed that the end of the world was at  hand. The
						deep shadows, the darkened air, the increasing obscurity, which at sunset would have
						attracted no attention, occurring in the middle of the day, with the sun in high heaven,
						seemed portentous and awful. The Prophet alone remained calm and unmoved. At the moment
						of total eclipse, he cried out in a loud voice, "Behold! did I not prophesy truly?"
					The reports of this miracle gave a wonderful impulse to the cause of the Prophet.
						Tecumseh now appeared on the scene. He took care to lend the aid of his powerful name
						and influence to the Prophet by an ostentatious reverence. The latter returned the
						compliment by pointing out Tecumseh as the leader chosen by the Great Spirit to save the
						red man. Thus these two brothers acted well their parts. With Tecumseh to do the heavy
						tragedy, and the Prophet to shift the scenes and throw on the red lights, the drama
						proceeded well. The Indians were fired with fanaticism and military enthusiasm.
					The whites were alarmed. The ever-increasing throng of savages about Tecumseh and his
						brother seemed ready to break out into violence. At a council in Ohio, Tecumseh made a
						three hours' speech. He reviewed all the treaties with the white men, and undertook to
						prove their nullity. Every appeal which could rouse the passions of his followers and
						stir their hearts with bitterness and hostility was made. The orator hurled a bold
						defiance against the enemies of his people. The Indians who were present, excited by his
						fiery eloquence, were unable to keep their seats.
					While Tecumseh's influence was rising at home, the fame of the Prophet was spreading
						abroad. In a village of the Ojibwas, on Lake Superior, was an unfortunate captive named
						John Tanner. He afterwards escaped, and related that one day a strange Indian arrived in
						the village. For days he preserved the most mysterious silence. Then he told them that
						he was a messenger from the great Shawanese Prophet. On a certain day the Indians
						assembled in their council-house. In the midst of the room stood an object in form and
						size something like a  prostrate man. Over it was thrown a
						blanket. The stranger carried four strings of beads, said to be made from the flesh of
						the Prophet. Each Indian in the assembly took hold of these beads, and by this act
						adopted the new religion. They also, though with reluctance, gave up their
						medicine-bags.
					The more fanatical of the Indians went to dwell with the Prophet. In this movement we
						see a new proof that the laws of society, whether civilized or barbarous, are the same.
						This great religious uprising among the Indians, and the war which followed it, were
						parallel to such religious wars as those of Mohammed and of many another leader.
						Religion, the very genius of which is peace, has more often than any thing else been the
						cloak of the great soldier.
					The Indians, followers of Tecumseh and the Prophet, who had taken up their residence on
						the banks of the Wabash, at a village called "The Prophet's Town," soon began to mingle
						warlike exercises with their religious devotions. The great plan to which Tecumseh had
						devoted all his genius and energies was nothing less than a mighty confederation of the
						Indian tribes of the continent, who were to unite and drive the white men beyond the
						Alleghanies.
					As the great scheme had taken shape in his mind its form became less and less that of a
						mere temporary alliance, such as the immortal Pontiac had sought; and more and more that
						of a "great and permanent confederation, an empire of red men, of which Tecumseh should
						be the leader and emperor." For four years he traveled incessantly in the propagation of
						his enterprise. Now he visited the farthest extremities of Lake Superior. At another
						time he traversed the unknown regions beyond the Mississippi. Again he labored with the
						Creeks, securing Red Eagle as his most illustrious convert.
					The United States Government was alarmed. It was reported in the spring of 1810 that
						Tecumseh controlled more than sixteen hundred warriors. It was evident that the exposed
						settlements in Indiana were in danger. Shortly,  faithful
						scouts reported that Tecumseh's following numbered three thousand warriors.
					Many messages, threatening on the part of Governor Harrison, deceitful or defiant on
						the part of Tecumseh, passed back and forth. There were frequent councils. The Indian
						chief, with forty braves, visited Vincennes to have a talk with Governor Harrison. After
						much singular dancing and conjuring, Tecumseh began the council. He demanded that the
						"Seventeen Fires," as he called the United States, give up the lands which they claimed
						by virtue of treaties with separate tribes. He boldly announced that he intended to go
						to war unless this was done. To these demands Governor Harrison replied with definite
						refusals. Tecumseh became so angry, that the peace talk came near ending in a free
						fight. An adjournment to the following day operated to quiet matters somewhat.
					This council was held on the 12th of August, 1810. It broke up, leaving the Indians
						irritated and defiant and the white people of Vincennes alarmed and apprehensive. As the
						year progressed, evidences of Indian hostility became more frequent. Horses were stolen.
						Here and there murders were committed. The Indians, in the spring of 1811, captured a
						boat filled with salt. It had been sent up the Wabash for distribution among all the
						tribes. In the previous year the Prophet had refused to take any salt, sending an
						insulting message to Governor Harrison. This year he was wiser. He took all the salt,
						including not only his own, but that which belonged to a dozen other tribes. At a
						council held afterward, Tecumseh hissed out to General Harrison that he was hard to
						please, and that he was angry at one time because the Indians took no salt and another
						year because they did take it.
					The good people at Vincennes lived in the shadow of a constant fear. They knew that
						Tecumseh might, at any time, launch his fleet of light canoes at the Prophet's town and,
						gliding down on the swift current of the Wabash, suddenly and silently attack Vincennes
						before a single word of warning could  reach and rouse
						their victims. Meanwhile reports continued to come in of Tecumseh's intrigues among
						distant tribes.
					The last council with Tecumseh was held at Vincennes on the 27th of July, 1811. The
						chieftain, accompanied by a retinue of one hundred and seventy-five well-armed Indians,
						took his position on one side of an arbor prepared for the council, while Governor
						Harrison, with seventy soldiers, occupied a position opposite. Tecumseh's speech when
						called upon to surrender a number of Indians, who had murdered some whites, was artful
						and ingenious. He preached a regular sermon to the white men, on the duty of the
						forgiveness of injuries. He also begged that nothing be done with the Indians during his
						absence, which was about to transpire, on a journey to the South. He assured Harrison
						that his only object was to prevail on all the tribes to unite in the bonds of
						peace.
					We now know how different was his real mission. Every effort was made by frequent
						changes of garb, and skillful maneuverings to impress Tecumseh with the military
						strength of Vincennes. A Pottawatomie, called the Deaf Chief, was present at the
						council, but unable to hear the proceedings. In the evening he was informed as to what
						had taken place, and going up to General Harrison, told him that he would have
						confronted Tecumseh with proofs of his hostility had he understood the latter's
						pretensions of friendliness.
					This incident was related to Tecumseh, who quietly informed his brother that the Deaf
						Chief must be put out of the way. The latter heard of the threat. He calmly repaired to
						his tent, arrayed himself in the full costume of the warrior, sprang into his canoe, and
						paddled his solitary way to Tecumseh's camp. Arriving in the presence of the great
						chief, the Indian reproached him bitterly for the threat of assassination, and dared him
						to an open combat. To every taunt and insult Tecumseh returned majestic indifference.
						With a war-whoop of defiance, the Indian again betook himself to his canoe. A little
						later a sharp crack from a rifle was heard from the bushes along the shore. The  boatman might have been seen to fall heavily backwards, and
						the canoe without a helmsman bearing the corpse of its owner drifted on into the
						night.
					In August, the governor again sent a demand for the surrender of some murderers, to
						which the Indians replied with the usual insulting refusal. Under strict orders to
						preserve peace if possible, Governor Harrison resolved to confront the Indians with a
						strong military force before Tecumseh should return. In order to stop the outrages of
						which reports were brought in every day, and in compliance with loud demands from the
						citizens of Vincennes and other settlements, the governor resolved to erect a fort on
						the Wabash, and break up the large and dangerous assemblage of hostile Indians at the
						Prophet's town.
					On the 26th of September, 1811, Governor Harrison marched out of Vincennes at the head
						of nine hundred troops. Six days afterward the army encamped on the eastern bank of the
						Wabash, at a point two miles above the present bustling city of Terre Haute. Here the
						men were employed in the construction of a log fort, named by the soldiers Fort
						Harrison.
					
						FORT HARRISON.
					
					Evidence accumulated to show that the host of Indians at the Prophet's town, instead of
						submitting on the approach of the army, were preparing to risk a battle. This was
						expressly contrary to Tecumseh's orders. It seems probable that the Prophet, jealous of
						his brother's  sudden fame, was all the more anxious for a
						battle in the latter's absence. His town, which was the objective point of the invaders,
						was the center and capital of the new religious fanaticism. Here the Great Spirit was
						supposed to dwell. Here were performed the strange and mysterious rites with which the
						new worship was carried on. Hideous dances, midnight orgies, self-inflicted tortures,
						and the dark ceremonies of Indian magic occupied the frenzied savages.
					To the thousands of converts, who had everywhere adopted the religion of the Prophet,
						this sacred town was as Jerusalem to the Jews, and Mecca to the Mohammedans. Its
						fortifications were believed to be impregnable, and here a thousand braves, the flower
						of a hundred warlike tribes, worked into a frantic frenzy, alike by the fervor of
						fanaticism, the promptings of patriotism, the fever of hatred, and the undying love of
						warfare, prepared to give battle to the invading army.
					Leaving a small garrison at Fort Harrison, the troops advanced along the south-east
						bank of the Wabash. After passing Big Raccoon Creek it was determined to cross the
						Wabash, in order to avoid the woody shores on the south-east side. This was effected at
						a point near the site of the present town of Montezuma, Parke county, Indiana.
					On the 6th of November the army came in sight of the Prophet's town. Small bodies of
						Indians, armed and painted for battle, could be seen scurrying hither and thither across
						the country. As the army continued to advance every effort was made to communicate with
						these savages, and assure them of the peaceful intentions of the whites. While this fact
						is well authenticated, it must be confessed that an army of a thousand men approaching
						within a mile of their principal town, and which had already constructed and garrisoned
						two forts, was not calculated to cause the savages to regard the invaders' intentions as
						purely peaceful. In fact the thing now wears the appearance of a huge joke. However,
						toward evening three chiefs advanced, representing that the Prophet on his part, also,
							 contemplated nothing but peace, and that his heart was
						overflowing with love for his white brethren. Thus the Indian answered one joke with
						another. He also asked that the white men refrain from hostilities until the following
						day, when a peace talk could be had.
					The army encamped for the night about three quarters of a mile from the Prophet's town,
						on the now famous Tippecanoe Battle Ground, seven miles north-east of the present city
						of Lafayette. The place was a beautiful spot of timber-land, about ten feet higher than
						the marshy prairie in front, which stretched away toward the Prophet's town, and perhaps
						twice that height above the prairie in the rear. Here the army encamped.
					Meanwhile the Indians were by no means idle. All night long the chiefs sat in council.
						A dozen different plans for the attack were proposed. At one time it was decided to meet
						the whites in council on the next day, agree to their proposals, and withdraw, leaving
						behind two Winnebagoes, who were to rush forward and assassinate the governor. This was
						to be the signal for battle. Later in the night, which was dark and rainy, the plan was
						changed. The Prophet, mixing some mysterious hell-broth, pretended to read in it the
						fact that one-half of Harrison's army was dead, and the other half crazy. Encouraged by
						this assurance the whole body of warriors, at four o'clock in the morning, began to
						creep across the miry prairie toward the American camp.
					Early though it was, General Harrison had risen, and was pulling on his boots before a
						camp-fire. The drummer was just being roused to wake the men. Suddenly a shot was heard,
						followed by a wild yell from multitudes of savage throats. The men, who had slept in
						rank with their clothes on and arms in hand, sprang to their feet. A number of Indians
						made their way into the heat of the camp before they could be arrested. The place was
						dark except as it was illuminated by the glow of the smoldering camp-fires. The men
						hurried to put these  out as quickly as possible, to
						prevent the enemy from having so good a mark. They soon rallied, from the surprise, and
						began to fight with great courage.
					In the confusion of the moment the large white horse of Governor Harrison could not be
						found, and the American commander was forced to mount a borrowed plug of a different
						color. This circumstance no doubt saved his life. One of his aids, who also rode a white
						horse, fell, pierced by a dozen balls, in the very beginning of the attack. There can be
						no doubt that he was mistaken for his chief.
					Harrison took a most active part in the battle, riding from point to point, rallying
						and encouraging his men. Not so with the Prophet. Selecting for himself an elevated
						position, he chanted a wild war-song. Though invisible in the darkness, his shrill and
						piercing voice could be distinctly heard above the din of the battle in every part of
						the field. Here, like an evil genius, he presided over the destinies of the battle until
						his braves, wounded and dying, were being driven back from the point of attack.
					The American troops which were encamped around the edge of the spot of woodland,
						succeeded in keeping the Indians out of the camp until it became sufficiently light for
						a general charge, which resulted in the complete rout of the Indians. During the battle
						many instances of heroism occurred. Captain Warrick was shot through the body. His wound
						was dressed, and though it was evident he could live but a few hours, his great physical
						strength was unexhausted. He insisted on going back to head his company. This was but
						one of many such occurrences.
					When the Indians fled, the whites found thirty-seven of their own number killed, and a
						hundred and fifty-one wounded. Twenty-five of the latter afterwards died from their
						wounds. During the day the shattered army was employed in strengthening their position.
						Their only food was broiled horseflesh. On the following day they advanced to the
						Prophet's town.  No defiant war-whoop greeted them. The
						place was desolate and deserted. It had been abandoned in a panic. The Indians, more
						civilized than the wild tribes of the plains which we know to-day, had left behind all
						their household furniture, many fire-arms, great quantities of corn, numbers of hogs and
						chickens. The only human being in the village was an old chief, with a broken leg. He
						had been left behind by his people, and was unable to escape. The whites ministered to
						his wants and left him. Taking the provisions for their own use, the entire village was
						destroyed. The Prophet's influence was forever broken.
					Tecumseh was already on his way home. His trip had been successful. Red Eagle and the
						Creeks were preparing for war. The Cherokees, the Osages, the Seminoles, were all ready
						to take up the hatchet. The great confederacy seemed almost an accomplished fact.
						Confident and happy, Tecumseh hurried back to the Prophet's town. He was ignorant of
						what had happened. As he and his party approached they gave the salute-yell. Instead of
						a wild chorus of replies from the direction of the village, all was wrapped in utter
						silence.
					Anxious and alarmed, he hurried forward. He caught sight of the spot where the village
						had been. Not a cabin was to be seen. He rubbed his eyes and looked again, to see if it
						was not a dream, a nightmare. Not so. The village had disappeared. Only heaps of ashes
						marked its site. All its fortifications, all the stores of food and ammunition, and the
						collection of arms, the fruit of years of weary toil, were gone. Tecumseh saw at once
						what had happened. He was overwhelmed with sorrow. Just at the moment of apparent
						triumph he found the very foundation of the fabric dissolved in thin air. Guided by some
						stragglers Tecumseh hurried to the camp, twenty miles away, where the disgraced Prophet
						awaited with fear and trembling his brother's return. Great and terrible was Tecumseh's
						rage. He seized the unfortunate impostor by the hair, and threatened to kill him. The
						battle had been fought in direct opposition to his orders.
					
					All had been staked, and all was lost. The Prophet's influence was utterly gone. He was
						the object of contempt and abuse. The very boys yelled at him as he sneaked through a
						village. Yet, because he was Tecumseh's brother, he was saved from further punishment.
						Tecumseh wrote to General Harrison that he desired to go to Washington. The request was
						granted, but he was required to go alone. This wounded the spirit of the disappointed
						man. The would-be emperor refused to go without a retinue. Filled with unutterable fury,
						he joined the English army in Canada. When invited to take part in a peace-council, he
						said: "No! I have taken sides with the king, and I will suffer my bones to bleach on
						this shore before I will recross that stream to take part in any council of
						neutrality."
					Tecumseh took an active part in the war, and before long found himself at the head of
						seven hundred warriors. Nearly all the leading chiefs followed his lead and went over to
						the British side. Fort Dearborn, then a lonely post on the spot where Chicago, the
						"Wonder of the West," now handles the commerce of a continent, was evacuated by its
						occupants. The departing garrison and the families of the fort were assaulted by
						savages, and nearly all killed. Tecumseh also devised two sieges to be conducted by
						Indians.
					Fort Wayne was a wooden fortification, garrisoned by seventy men. Early in September
						word reached General Harrison, at Cincinnati, that this post was besieged and in great
						peril. Five men, headed by Logan, an Indian chief of wide fame, undertook to communicate
						with the garrison. At the moment of their arrival the besiegers were gathered on two
						sides of the fort, in an attempt to take the place by stratagem. The messengers reached
						the very walls of the place without opposition, and came suddenly upon four Indian
						chiefs, with a flag of truce, who were attempting to lure the officers of the fort into
						a peace-talk outside the fortification, where they might be assassinated. The alarmed
						chiefs made off, while the five scout entered the fort.
					
					The situation was found to be full of distress. As soon as a letter could be written
						the bold men sallied forth, and dashed through the lines of the astonished besiegers, to
						carry the news to General Harrison. The defenders of Fort Wayne deposed their commander,
						and elected Lieutenant Curtis as his successor. Troops failing to arrive, the Indians
						demanded the surrender of the place, and this being refused, made a heavy attack. They
						had two cannon, which burst at the first fire, being made of wood and hooped with iron,
						by some scalawag English traders. The garrison fought well. The Indians were repulsed
						with heavy loss. General Harrison at last arrived in the vicinity, and failing to ambush
						him, the Indians withdrew.
					Captain Zachary Taylor, afterwards President of the United States, was the commandant
						of Fort Harrison. His force numbered bout thirty-five effective men. On the 3d of
						September a lot of Indians with their women and children appeared before the fort, and
						begged for admission, under pretense of holding a council. Failing in this, they
						continued to linger around, and at midnight the garrison was aroused by an alarm of
						fire. One of the block-houses at the corner of the fortification, containing the
						provisions of the garrison, was in flames. Several barrels of whisky took fire, and the
						whole structure was so quickly ablaze that no efforts to extinguish the flames could
						avail. A strong force of Indians poured volleys of balls into the fort, and were
						evidently preparing to force an entrance through the gap left by the destruction of the
						block-house.
					The men prevented the spread of the flames as well as they could, while their captain,
						sick with bilious fever, tore down a log structure, and braving the bullets of the
						savages, constructed a hasty barricade opposite the gap. Behind this the men fought
						bravely, repulsing every assault. So inevitable did the destruction of the garrison
						seem, that two men attempted to escape through the gap left by the fire. One was killed;
						the other concealed himself, and was re-admitted to the fort in the morning. The loss of
						their provisions threatened the handful of  men with
						starvation. A wagon-train from Vincennes coming to their relief was attacked, and nearly
						the whole escort killed. In time a stronger force made its way to the little outpost.
						The Indians, to revenge themselves for their disappointment, attacked a settlement at
						Pigeon Roost, on a branch of White River, in Clarke county, Indiana, and massacred
						twenty-one men, women, and children. 
					In the progress of the war, a Shawanese chief named Logan proved to be a most valuable
						scout for the Americans. He was, however, suspected of treachery. Deeply hurt, he, with
						Captain Johnny and Bright Horn, his inseparable companions, started out to prove his
						fidelity. They were surprised by some hostile Indians, and captured. Logan pretended to
						be deserting to the British, and succeeded in retaining his arms. One of the guards,
						noticing something in Captain Johnny's mouth, looked inquiringly toward him. The latter
						coolly said, "Me chaw heap tobac." The tobacco was a bullet. While some of their captors
						were searching the woods for black haws, Logan and his companions attacked the
						remainder. Five Indians were killed. Logan received a mortal wound. He made his way back
						to the American camp. He lingered two days in the greatest agony. The men, understanding
						that he had fallen to vindicate his honor, bestowed every attention possible. The
						faithful chief passed away with a smile of triumph on his face, satisfied that he had
						answered his accusers, though at the cost of his life. His mother was Tecumapease, the
						only sister of Tecumseh.
					Among the many tragic occurrences of the Indian warfare in 1812, none was more fearful
						than the battle and massacre of Raisin. Frenchtown was on the river Raisin, only
						eighteen miles from Malden, Canada, where the British had their entire force. A cry for
						help came from the place, and in the dead of winter six hundred men marched from the
						Maumee to this place. A sharp battle resulted in the evacuation of Frenchtown by the
						British. Two hundred and fifty more Americans were then 
							GENERAL HARRISON'S CAVALRY HORSES STAMPEDED.
						
						
							BATTLE OF TIPPECANOE—WHERE JO DAVIESS FELL.
						
						 sent forward to re-enforce the first army. On the morning
						of January 22, 1813, two thousand British and Indians attacked the Americans. A bloody
						battle resulted in the surrender of the entire American force. The English commander
						left the wounded in the place, taking the rest to Malden. On the following morning two
						hundred Indians, painted black and red, entered the place, and barbarously massacred the
						helpless wounded. Many were burnt alive in the buildings in which they lay. Nearly three
						hundred perished in the battle and the massacre together. The whole town was filled with
						corpses. Tecumseh was in the Wabash region at the time, raising re-enforcements.
					In April Tecumseh appeared before Fort Meigs, on the Maumee River, where General
						Harrison had his head-quarters. The English erected three batteries. To match this,
						Harrison constructed an earth embankment, twelve feet high, in which the cannon-balls
						buried themselves harmlessly. General Clay at last approached to the relief of the fort
						with eight hundred men. A battle ensued in the attempt to throw themselves into the
						fort. The activity of Tecumseh's warriors defeated the effort, less than two hundred out
						of the whole number reaching the fort. The English commander allowed his Indian allies
						to tomahawk such of the prisoners as they pleased, more than twenty being brutally
						murdered. Tecumseh had been in another part of the battle-field. Discovering what was
						going on, he rode at full speed to the spot, dismounted, and with drawn tomahawk beat
						his men off from the prisoners, and cursed the English commander for his crime. The
						latter said he could not control the Indians, but Tecumseh answered, "Begone! You are
						unfit to command; go and put on the dress of a squaw."
					Tecumseh was an unruly ally. He despised Proctor, the English commander with whom he
						operated. One day, provisions being scarce, salt beef was given the English soldiers,
						while the Indians received only horse-flesh. Angered at the outrage,  Tecumseh strode to Proctor's tent and demanded an
						explanation. Seeing the English general about to treat the complaint with indifference,
						Tecumseh significantly struck the hilt of the commander's sword, touching at the same
						time the handle of his tomahawk, and said, "You are Proctor—I am Tecumseh." This
						hint at a mode of settling the difficulty, brought Proctor to terms at once.
					Tecumseh's last grudge against Proctor was the retreat of the English from Malden after
						Commodore Perry's victory on Lake Erie. Tecumseh urged a battle with every argument and
						taunt. "We must compare our father's conduct to a fat dog that carries its tail on its
						back, but when affrighted, it drops it between its legs and runs off." Tecumseh,
						disgusted at the retreat, would have deserted the English cause but for the fact that he
						had induced other tribes to join it. Proctor pretended from time to time that he would
						halt and give battle. When the retreat commenced, Tecumseh said, "We are now going to
						follow the British, and I am sure that we shall never return." At last, on the 5th of
						October, Proctor was forced to halt and oppose the pursuing Americans in the battle of
						the Thames. Just before the engagement, Tecumseh said to the group of chiefs about him;
						"Brother warriors, we are now about to enter into an engagement, from which I shall
						never come out—my body will remain on the field of battle." Unbuckling his sword
						and handing it to a chief he said, "When my son becomes a noted warrior, and able to
						wield a sword give this to him."
					As the battle advanced, the victory of the Americans became apparent. The Indians
						fought well, until they suddenly missed the loud, commanding battle-cry of Tecumseh.
						There was a pause, a shudder, and then all incontinently fled. The great chieftain had
						fallen, pierced by a pistol ball. The discussion as to who killed Tecumseh became a
						singularly heated one in subsequent political campaigns, the chief recommendation for
						office in that day being skill as an Indian fighter. The 
						preponderance of evidence seems to indicate that Colonel Richard M. Johnson was the
						slayer of the famous chief.
					Tecumseh never allowed his portrait to be painted. He is described as a perfect Apollo
						in form, his face oval, his nose straight and handsome, and his mouth regular and
						beautiful. His eyes singularly enough, were "hazel, clear, and pleasant in conversation,
						but like balls of fire when excited by anger or enthusiasm." His bearing was that of a
						noble and lofty spirit, a true "King of the Woods," as the English called him. He was
						temperate in his habits, loving truth and honor better than life. His mind was of a high
						order. He possessed a genius which must have made him eminent in any age or country.
						Like Powhatan, Pontiac, and Brant, his illustrious predecessors, he had failed; yet like
						them he was great in defeat. He was the first great chieftain who prohibited the
						massacre of prisoners. He died at forty-four, in the very prime of life.
					The Prophet survived his brother twenty-two years. He, with the remnant of his tribe,
						removed to the Indian Territory, where, shorn of his power and influence, he still
						continued in a small way to exercise his "supernatural" gifts for the delusion and
						mystification of a few ignorant dupes. He had only one eye, and possessed a countenance
						of which every line revealed craft and deceptiveness. In 1823, Isaac Harvey, a Quaker
						missionary at Wapakoneta, one day visited a sick Indian, a consumptive. Entering the
						cabin, he found the sick man lying face downwards, his bared back cut in several places,
						and faint from loss of blood. Standing over him was the Prophet, with a bloody knife in
						his hands. He explained that the sick man was bewitched, and that the gashes in his back
						were to let out the demon. The good Quaker put the fraud out of the room, and dressed
						the sick man's wounds. Nor did his work stop here. At great personal risk he continued
						to fight the belief in witchcraft, and to oppose the Prophet's delusions, until the
						lunacy was banished entirely from the Shawanese tribe. The impostor himself alone
						continued the pretense of belief in it.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIV.
						THE SORROWS OF THE SEMINOLES.
					AM I a negro, a slave? My skin is dark, but not black. I am an
						Indian—a Seminole. The white man shall not make me black. I will make the white
						man red with blood, and then blacken him in the sun and rain, where the wolf shall smell
						of his bones, and the buzzard shall live upon his flesh." Where, when, and by whom was
						expression given to this dark sentiment? The speaker was Osceola, a young Seminole
						warrior. The scene, a trader's cabin, at a settlement in Florida. Osceola had sought to
						buy a keg of powder. He had been refused on the ground that the United States forbade
						the sale of ammunition or fire-arms to the Seminoles. The time of this affront was the
						early part of the year 1835. Who was Osceola, what his race, and what the occasion for
						this collision between its members and the white man?
					About the middle of the last century a great chief arose among the Creeks, named
						Secoffee. He had ambition, genius, eloquence, the gift of leadership, and the spirit of
						rebellion. He revolted from the confederacy of the Creeks, and drawing after him a third
						part of the tribe, took his way to the heart of Florida. The Creeks attempted, by
						terrible wars, to conquer the rebels, and force them to return to their old allegiance.
						Failing in this, they sought revenge by branding the runaways with the name of "The
						Seminoles," a name originally a badge of disgrace, signifying simply "The Runaways." The
							 insult failed, as well as the armies of the Creeks, to
						accomplish its purpose. Long since has the humiliating meaning been forgotten among men,
						who remember only the sad but beautiful name, Seminole.
					Fugitives themselves, the Seminoles always afforded refuge and safety to the negroes of
						Georgia, who likewise fled from the bondage of their masters. This practice brought on a
						small war between the Georgians and the Seminoles, which eventually resulted in the
						purchase of Florida from Spain. The United States thus found itself with a red elephant
						on its hands. The whites along the frontier hated their Indian neighbors. They longed to
						get their greedy hands upon their property.
					Adventurers, speculators, and pioneers kept up an incessant din, demanding that the
						Indians of Florida be confined to certain limits, and that the rest of the country be
						thrown open to settlers. The whites wanted the country, so they said. This was
						sufficient reason in the opinion of the government and of the age to rob the Indians of
						their lands. Inasmuch as at the present day vast expanses of Florida remain a
						wilderness, untrodden by the foot of man, undeveloped and unexplored, the folly, the
						falsehood, and the wickedness of the clamor for the spoliation of the Seminoles is
						apparent to every candid mind. Nevertheless, the government, by intrigue and stratagem,
						on the 18th of September, 1824, took the step which was ultimately to desolate the
						peninsula to which mankind have given the name "The Land of Flowers." A considerable
						portion of the Seminole chiefs were induced to sign a treaty by which they bound
						themselves to withdraw with their people to a certain designated reservation. This
						treaty was to afford a pretext in case of its violation for the destruction of the
						Seminoles.
					It brought nothing but trouble. The Indians, unsettled and driven from the old homes,
						failed to quiet down in any new ones. Angry and furious, they roamed the peninsula at
						will, from end to end. Of course, this brought on collisions and outrages. Moreover, the
						old question of the negroes among  the Seminoles gave
						increasing difficulty. The whites claimed that the Indians robbed their cornfields,
						burned their houses, and killed their cattle. The southerners were passionate. No one
						knew at what moment an Indian war might break out.
					So in 1833 the government induced a party of chiefs to visit another unexplored
						wilderness, now comprising the State of Arkansas, with a view to the removal of the
						entire Seminole nation to that place. By some manipulation the United States succeeded
						in inducing a number of the chiefs to sign what is known as the treaty of "Payne's
						Landing," whereby they agreed to make the removal to Arkansas, provided an investigating
						band should make a favorable report concerning the country. The latter, under the
						seductive arts of the Indian agents, signed a treaty whereby they admitted that the
						country was satisfactory, and binding the Seminoles absolutely to the removal.
					When these chiefs returned from Arkansas, and told their people what had been done, a
						universal dissatisfaction arose. The authority of the commissioners was denied. Indeed,
						more than half of them deliberately swore they had never signed the treaty, and that
						their names had been forged. There was widespread agitation. In every wigwam was heard
						the sound of dispute; in every council-house the roar of argument. The negro slaves
						belonging to the Seminoles banded together and boldly refused to follow their masters
						into exile, to a country where subsistence was only to be obtained by hard labor. As if
						by common impulse the Seminoles began to accumulate ammunition and weapons. The
						government retaliated by forbidding the sale of these articles to Indians or negroes. In
						response to a refusal to sell even powder, Osceola, a young warrior, not even a chief,
						uttered the terrible threat which stands at the opening of this chapter.
					As the months went by, this high-spirited brave became one of the leaders of the
						war-party of the Seminoles. The old chiefs of the nation were timid and conservative.
						They inclined to  compliance with the demands of the
						United States. With the ringing voice of command, Osceola swore that the first Indian
						who commenced the sale or disposal of his property, preparatory to removal, should be
						put to death. It was not long before this threat was carried out. Charley Mathlar, an
						old chief, had driven his cattle to one of the army posts, and there, in conformity with
						the treaty, received from the government agent the money for them. He was returning home
						from this trip, carrying in his hands a handkerchief, in which was tied up the gold and
						silver thus obtained.
					Osceola, mindful of his threat, posted himself with a band of braves in the forest
						beside the path, along which the old chief must come. As the latter approached, his
						enemies fired. Covering his face with his hands, he fell prostrate, receiving the blows
						from the braves without a word. With imperious tone Osceola said that the gold and
						silver was made of the red man's blood. Forbidding his followers to touch the accursed
						thing, he took it with his own hands and threw it in every direction.
					Osceola was not satisfied. He determined to obtain revenge for the murder of Charley
						Mathlar, to which, as he said, the white man had driven him. With sixty followers he
						concealed himself in a dense forest, in the neighborhood of Fort King. General Thompson
						and Lieutenant Smith were taking an afternoon walk. As they approached the ambush they
						were fired upon and killed.
					The fierce appetite for war and blood, which sometimes sleeps, but never is utterly
						eradicated from the savage heart, had during the long years of comparative peace and of
						agricultural pursuits slumbered inactive in the breasts of the Seminoles. As the deed of
						blood was accomplished, this old appetite was roused, like some sleeping animal, to rage
						and fury in the bosoms of the Indians. With fierce, exultant cries they leaped forth
						from their concealment, scalped the fallen men, in whose bodies were no less than
						thirty-seven balls, and to satisfy the craving appetites of all, as well as to prove to
						their companions  their participation in the murder, cut
						the scalps into sixty small pieces, and distributed them to every member of the
						party.
					Near by was the sutler's store, from which provisions were supplied to the fort. It was
						just the hour for the evening meal. Through the windows, open for the fresh sea breeze,
						which during certain hours in the day makes Florida delightful beyond any climate in the
						world, the savages discovered four gentlemen and one boy seated at the table. They fired
						through the open doors and windows, killing every inmate of the house. The scalps of the
						slain were cut up and distributed as before. With greedy hands the store was rifled.
						Then the torch was applied, and the band rode away, leaving the buildings in flames.
					Horrible as was this occurrence, which stands as the opening of the Florida war, a war
						of which the histories are few and the events but little known, which is passed over
						lightly by every historian of our country, who is more careful for its fame than for the
						truth, it must be remembered that the Seminoles were frantic with agitation and insane
						with grief, both at the sorrows they had suffered and at the exile which confronted
						them. They had been driven from the villages which they and their fathers had inhabited
						for three quarters of a century; they had been quarreled with and hated by their
						neighbors, who for forty years had sought only their destruction or exile, and the
						robbery of their lands. Houseless and homeless, they had roamed restlessly through the
						peninsula, angry with themselves and embittered by hatred for their enemies. Their
						braves had been arrested and placed in irons; their hunting parties had been robbed and
						murdered.
					The territorial legislature, in a petition to congress, had accused them of the
						violation of a treaty, into which their chiefs had been entrapped, and to which the
						nation at large had never agreed. Guilty of much, they had, nevertheless, been charged
						with murders which they did not commit, and slandered for outrages of which they were
						innocent. Their exile was demanded on the strength of a treaty alleged to  have been made with the exploring party sent to Arkansas,
						which the chiefs themselves repudiated as a forgery. Their most trusted leaders had been
						corrupted with money, and their hereditary chiefs had been bribed with presents. The
						suffering Seminoles, unlike the Indians of other portions of the country, could not
						retreat from the aggressions of the white men farther into the wilderness. Nature had
						hemmed them in by sea and gulf. For them there were but two alternatives, exile or
						war.
					The Indians were by no means idle. One hundred troops were marching from Fort Brooke to
						the help of Fort King, where the above outrages were committed. They were discovered
						passing through an immense swamp. The Indians, two hundred in number, commanded by
						Jumper and Alligator, posted themselves on the west side of the road. Every warrior was
						protected or concealed amid the broad leaves of the high palmettos. On the other side of
						the road was a deep pond. Just as the troops arrived at this point, where they were, so
						to speak, between the devil and the deep water, the ambushed Indians fired. Alligator
						says, "The soldiers shouted and whooped, and the officers shook their swords and
						swore."
					They seem to have done no more effective fighting. A cannon was loaded and fired a time
						or two, but the balls hissed harmlessly through the air, and fell with dull thuds far
						back in the swamp. Almost every white man was killed on the spot. Six got away, and
						endeavored to build a log barricade or pen, behind which they would be safe. The
						negroes, who formed powerful and ferocious allies of the Seminoles, attacked the rude
						rampart. When they clambered over the logs, only three men were found alive in the pen.
						Two of these were killed outright. The third snatched a rifle from the hands of his
						enemies, and with a terrific blow brained his opponent. He swiftly leaped over the logs,
						and started down the road at full speed. Two Indians on horseback gave chase, and,
						firing from a distance, killed him. Every man but two in the command was killed. The
						Indians lost only three warriors.
					
					The whole Seminole country seemed to burst into flames at once. Sixteen plantations in
						East Florida, upon each of which were employed over a hundred negroes, together with
						sugar mills, cotton gins, storehouses, and fine residences, were completely destroyed
						during the month of January, 1836. The wealthiest people fled through the swamps for
						their lives, destitute of the common necessaries of life. None could tell at what moment
						or in what manner they would be assailed, and subjected to the most cruel and brutal
						death. "In some instances the lives of mothers were spared, that they might see their
						children cut in pieces, and their limbs used as weapons to assail the living."
					A Frenchman, traveling in Florida in 1851, heard the story of the destruction of one of
						these planter's homes, from his guide, and published it in Paris. Though no date was
						given, the affair doubtless occurred early in the war. The guide had been a member of a
						company of volunteers, who were encamped on the shores of the St. John's River. One day
						a negro was observed swimming the river. He directed his course to the camp. As he
						touched the shore he ran toward the soldiers, all dripping with the water, explaining in
						agitated tones that the Indians were attacking the house of Mr. Montgomery, his master,
						and begging for help.
					A party of men hastily prepared to accompany the slave to the threatened mansion, which
						was some little distance above, on the opposite side of the St. John's. The place was
						found to be well defended, and in no immediate danger, as the Indians had been gone for
						some hours. Montgomery, however, expressed great fears for the safety of his neighbor,
						Motte, who lived some miles farther up the river. Leaving a guard at Montgomery's, the
						men started on to Motte's.
					When within a short distance of the house, which was spacious and elegant, the soldiers
						discovered smoke and flames beginning to issue from the windows. No Indians were in
						sight. Hurrying forward, the men entered the burning building. The 
							THE SEMINOLE WAR.—MASSACRE OF THE MOTTE FAMILY.
						
						 owner seemed to be absent, yet he could not have been
						gone long. The rooms, with their elegant furniture, which one after another were being
						reached by the flames, gave evidence of recent occupation.
					Pushing on into the parlor, the soldiers discovered the scene of an awful tragedy. Four
						mutilated corpses, yet warm with life, were lying on the floor. One was that of an old
						man, Mr. Motte himself. He was on the floor, partially leaning against the wall. He had
						been scalped, and the blood still trickled down his pallid features, and reddened all
						his snow-white beard. Right by him lay the mangled form of his youngest daughter. A few
						feet off were the two other beautiful daughters lying, scalped and lifeless. There had
						been a struggle; the old man still grasped his gun, and the oldest daughter still held
						in her jeweled hand a large pistol. The apartment, with its handsome fittings, was
						already full of fire. The floor and walls were in a blaze; the garments of the dead were
						burning.
					Swift hands snatched the corpses from the flames, and bore them out for interment. Just
						as they were about to leave the doomed house, which was now filled with a frightful roar
						from the flames, the soldiers heard a shriek. The next moment, an old lady, scalped and
						bloody, but yet living, the mother of the girls, sprung toward them. She was tenderly
						transported to a place of safety, and survived for a year or so.
					In the yard the men found the body of the colored gardener. One man stopped to water
						his horse. He heard a low cry from the marsh. Advancing cautiously, he found a poor
						mulatto girl, half-dead with fright. She had been lying in the swamp for hours. From her
						the story of the tragedy was learned. She had gone to get some water for the house, when
						Indians were discovered climbing the garden wall. The family were at the time out in the
						garden gathering flowers. They had time to reach the house and barricade the doors. The
						colored gardener sought to join them, but was killed on the way. The mulatto girl being
						too far away to reach the house,  fled to the marsh. Here
						she endured agony, but it was not the agony of death. She saw the Indians surround the
						house. She heard their demand for surrender, and the refusal of the inmates. She saw the
						doors battered down, heard the shots, the shrieks, the moans. Then there had been a
						silence. For an hour or two the Indians remained in the house, ransacking it. At last
						they came forth with their plunder, fired the house, and disappeared in the hammock. For
						many years the ruined mansion bore the name of the House of Blood.
					Two months after the massacre of Major Dade's command, General Gaines, who with a
						considerable force from New Orleans had reached the scene of hostilities, came upon the
						spot where the awful tragedy had been enacted. Here was a cart amid a lot of broken and
						scattered boxes. The two oxen were lying dead, their yokes still on them. A little
						farther on were the offensive remains of some horses. Next the men came upon a little
						triangular breastwork of logs. A soldier counted the corpses, by that time almost
						skeletons, lying within the triangle. There were thirty of them. They were lying in a
						regular row, parallel to each other, behind the barricade, their heads next to the logs
						over which they had fired, and their bodies stretched out on the ground. They had been
						shot dead in their ranks, and lay in death as they had fought in life.
					A little farther on, other bodies were found lying along the road. Behind every tree,
						log, or even bush, to which the men had resorted for cover, was one or more corpses. At
						one spot, two hundred yards down the road, lay a cluster of bodies in regular ranks,
						like the others. This had been the advance guard. The soldiers were overwhelmed with
						horror. If such was the beginning, what would be the end of the war?
					Their apprehensions were indeed justified. The very first movement in the war was a
						terrible blunder. General Gaines, finding no supplies at Fort King, resolved to withdraw
						to Fort Brooke, on Tampa Bay. On the way, while crossing a river, an immense force of
						warriors attacked him. A rude breastwork  of logs was
						hastily thrown up, and a runner dispatched to Fort Drane, ordering General Clinch to
						hurry forward with all his troops and supplies, and take the Indians, numbering more
						than fifteen hundred braves, in the rear, while Gaines attacked them in the front.
					While the army, pinched with hunger and annoyed by the Indians, remained quiet in their
						fortified camp awaiting Clinch, an old negro named Cæsar came up to the lines, and
						shouted "that the Indians were tired of fighting, and wished to come in and shake
						hands." In pursuance of arrangements made with this embassador, a large number of
						warriors without their arms, assembled under a flag of truce about five hundred yards
						from the camp. Midway between the hostile armies three chiefs met a like number of
						American officers, and arranged a temporary cessation of hostilities. The Indians were
						to withdraw to the south side of the Withlacoochie, and remain there until a permanent
						peace was concluded. At that moment, General Clinch, from Fort Drane came in sight, and
						supposing the assemblage of Indians to be a hostile one, instantly charged upon them,
						inflicting great slaughter. So the conference broke up, and the Indians, freshly
						enraged, fled to their towns, swearing new oaths of vengeance.
					On the twenty-second delay of February Major-General Scott arrived in Florida, assuming
						command of the American forces. From the first all his efforts met with embarrassment
						and failure. His troops almost starved before rations could be had. In attempting a
						forward movement, large numbers of his provision wagons and horses were swept away in
						fording a river. Such provision as was rescued was exposed to a tremendous rain of many
						days, and ruined. The stormy weather delayed the movement of troops, and the exposure
						caused large numbers of the men, unused to the climate, to be attacked with malignant
						fevers. The cannon mired in bottomless bogs. Generals Gaines and Clinch refused to
						co-operate with Scott, and a bitter quarrel broke out between the commanders.
					
					Assailed by these over whelming difficulties, the army was compelled to straggle back
						to Fort Drane to escape starvation. They arrived there famished and fever-stricken, only
						to find that General Gaines, who had not been expected in that part of the country, had
						deliberately appropriated nineteen thousand rations to his own use. Nevertheless General
						Scott, misled by dishonest scouts, utterly ignorant of the geography of a country which
						consisted of dense and impassable jungles, into which the light of day never penetrated,
						and of endless swamps, interspersed with bottomless bayous and salt lagoons, managed to
						send out numerous detachments in all directions to search for the enemy, whose
						whereabouts was utterly unknown. The Indians, thoroughly familiar with the country, led
						these detachments on wild and fatiguing chases only to disappear from view entirely, and
						fall upon the worn soldiery as they attempted to make their way back to their commander.
						Meanwhile the heated season coming on, together with scanty water from poisonous pools,
						made the condition of the men still more intolerable. In short, the campaign was an
						utter and ruinous failure.
					About the first of June, General Call assumed command of the army. He, however, though
						having several engagements with the enemy, met with no better success than his
						predecessor. His principal undertaking was to send a strong detachment against the
						enemy, which were supposed to be posted in large numbers in the great Wahoo swamp.
					After a journey of incomparable difficulty, the men wading much of the time up to their
						armpits in mire and water, the enemy was met in great strength. In endeavoring to
						dislodge them from a vast morass, the men themselves became entangled in its deceitful
						depths. The loss was heavy, although the engagement was accounted a victory. At night,
						however, it was deemed impossible to remain or to risk another engagement. The horses
						were dying for want of food. The ammunition was exhausted. The supplies, too, were gone.
						They had been lost in the difficulties of the advance. There remained  nothing to be done except a disastrous and painful retreat.
						On the 27th of November, 1836, General Call was succeeded by General Jessup. The latter
						pushed the campaign with vigor. As the summer approached the Indians themselves, who had
						been accustomed to subsist on agricultural productions, were compelled to sue for peace.
						They again agreed to withdraw to Arkansas, and hostilities, for the time being,
						ceased.
					By agreement large numbers of the Seminoles assembled in a camp near Fort Brooke,
						preparatory to an embarkation on government vessels for transportation to Arkansas. The
						old chief Micanopy had been largely instrumental in this consent to the exile of his
						people. He was encamped with hundreds of his followers at Fort Brooke, ready to bid a
						last farewell to the country he loved, and seek a new home in the barren wilderness west
						of the Mississippi. On the night of the 4th of June two dark forms made their way
						through the sleeping Indian camp toward the wigwam of old Micanopy. They were Osceola
						and Coacooche, the young and ferocious chiefs of the war-party. With noiseless tread
						they entered the rude apartment, unsheathed their glittering knives and roused the old
						chief from his slumbers. With whispered words they told him that he was a traitor to his
						people, that as they had sworn to kill the first Indian who should prepare to remove
						from Florida, and had fulfilled their oath by the slaughter of Charley Mathlar, so now
						they had sworn to take the life of Micanopy as that of a traitor, unless he at once
						consented to arouse the sleeping camp and lead the people before the break of day in a
						flight to the south, where they would be beyond the reach of the American army, and thus
						again foil the schemes of the enemies of the Seminoles to drive them into cruel
						exile.
					The old man heard the whispered threats of the dark conspirators. He was timid and
						irresolute. He doubted himself whether he was not, as they hissed through their teeth in
						the darkness, a traitor to his people. He still hesitated. Osceola uplifted his right
						hand, from which the bright blade glistened  in the
						starlight, to plunge the dagger into the chieftain's heart. Agitated beyond measure, the
						old man gave his consent to their demand. Dark messengers passed swiftly and noiselessly
						from tent to tent, rousing the occupants, and conveying the order of their chief to
						prepare for instant flight. Not a question was asked. In a quarter of an hour, every one
						of the seven hundred Indians was proceeding through the forest without so much noise as
						would come from the breaking of a twig or the rustle of a dried palmetto leaf.
					At sunrise, General Jessup, proud and pleased at the apparent termination of the war,
						rose to give orders for the embarkation of the exiles. In a half an hour he repaired to
						the spot where the Indian camp had been pitched. To his dismay and astonishment, he
						found only a few bare poles from the wigwams. The whole Indian assemblage had fled, and
						were many miles away, beyond the reach of successful pursuit. On that day General
						Jessup, the third commander-in-chief of the Florida army, tendered his resignation. He
						continued in actual command, however, until the 15th of May, 1838.
					To General Hernandez the commander-in-chief intrusted the military operations of a
						campaign in East Florida, along the Atlantic coast. On the 9th of September, 1837,
						Hernandez succeeded in capturing King Philip, a noted Seminole chief of intelligence and
						influence, and the father of Coacoochee. The chieftain, finding himself in the toils of
						his enemies, sent word to his distinguished son, earnestly requesting him to come and
						confer with his father. Coacoochee was brave. Moreover, he had a special mission to
						perform for Osceola. Placing a large white plume in his hat, he boldly visited the camp
						of Hernandez, accompanied by Blue Snake, another chief.
					On being shown into the presence of the American general, Coacoochee presented him with
						a handsome peace pipe, from the great Osceola, accompanied by a request for a
						conference. To this proposition Hernandez acceded, and Coacoochee departed with a
						message to Osceola, to the effect that he might have a 
						council with the American general. On the appointed day, Coacoochee returned to General
						Hernandez with information that Osceola, with a hundred warriors, was on his way to St.
						Augustine, for the appointed peace talk. Hernandez, with a design in his mind which,
						whether inspired by his commander or originated by himself, bears the ear-marks of a
						deep and damnable treachery, eager to get the game in his trap, hurried forward to meet
						Osceola. Seven miles southwest of St. Augustine, he met the distinguished Indian
						chieftain, and entered into a conference.
					He at once commenced to question Osceola closely as to the purposes and plans of the
						Indians. While the conversation was progressing, the council was quickly and quietly
						surrounded by an overwhelming force of American soldiers. With quick intuition, Osceola
						read the sinister purposes of his enemy. As the questions were put to him he looked
						nervously about him at the surrounding military, gave a few vague and uneasy replies,
						and then lapsed into silence. Overcome by uncontrollable emotion, he turned to Coa-Hajo,
						and said, "I feel choked; you must speak for me."
					Seeing that his purposes were discovered, Hernandez gave a signal, and in a moment
						Osceola and his little band of braves were made prisoners without a struggle. The date
						of this infamy was October 22, 1837. Osceola and his companions were at once placed in
						irons and thrown into the dungeon of the castle of St. Marco, at St. Augustine.
					Notwithstanding the treachery by which he had been betrayed, Osceola communicated with
						Hernandez, and proposed to send a message to his people and their chiefs, recommending
						them to come in and consent to an exile to Arkansas. This proposition was agreed to. The
						messengers were sent. A council was held, and the scheme promised well. It however met
						with a sudden interruption. Coacoochee and his friend Talmus Hadjo were immured in
						another of the dark and mysterious dungeons in the castle of St. Marco, at St.
						Augustine, the most ancient military work in the United States.
					
					
						OSCEOLA.
					
					While Osceola in one part of the old structure was planning for a submission by his
						people to exile, Coacoochee and his friend weary with studying the arms of Spain, which
						were carved on the walls of their prison cell, and growing more  languid and sickly day by day from the confinement, resolved to escape, or
						die in the effort. They occupied an apartment about eighteen feet square, with walls of
						stone, and a lofty ceiling. The only window through which they received light and air,
						and consequently the only chance for escape, was a small embrasure eighteen feet from
						the floor. From this aperture to the bottom of the ditch on the outside, was more than
						fifty feet. The two prisoners examined the hole attentively, and saw that it was
						exceedingly small, but believed that they might possibly squeeze through it.
					All their preparations had to be carried on in complete silence, as a sentinel stood
						constantly at the door of the cell. With deft fingers the prisoners tore into strips a
						few forage bags which formed their bed, and wove them into a rude rope. The first thing
						was to reach the embrasure. Again and again Coacoochee stood on the shoulders of his
						companion and strained himself to the utmost to reach the sill. All in vain; the window
						remained two feet above his fingers.
					At last the prisoners managed to secrete a knife. Standing on the shoulders of his
						companion, Coacoochee gradually worked it into a crevice in the rock as high up as he
						could reach. When the blade and half of the short, heavy handle had been inserted the
						other part of the handle remained a stout and serviceable peg, by means of which the
						athletic Indian raised himself to the embrasure. He found it small, but believed that if
						he and his companion could get rid of their flesh they might get through. They at once
						feigned sickness, and procured through their guards some roots, of which they knew the
						effect. For three weeks the prisoners abstained almost entirely from food, taking large
						quantities of the medicinal root, and at the end of the time were little more than skin
						and bone.
					On a certain night, when there would be no moon, they resolved to attempt their escape.
						During the evening the keeper came in frequently, annoying the prisoners so much that
						they almost resolved to seize and gag him. They more 
						prudently pretended to be asleep, and at last the keeper came no more. Taking one end of
						the rope in his hand, Coacoochee once more climbed up to the embrasure. Here he made
						fast the rope, letting one end hang down inside for his friend, who was to follow, and
						dangling the other end down toward the ditch. With great difficulty the Indian forced
						his body through the aperture. Great strips of skin were torn from him. But with a
						capacity for the endurance of physical suffering which only an Indian could have, he
						resolutely persisted. He lay hold of the rope on the outside with his hands, and
						descended head foremost till he had dragged his feet through the embrasure, and at last
						leaped to the ground.
					Though terribly wounded he was unconscious of the pain, and turned all his thoughts to
						the arrival of his comrade. At length he heard the struggle of his companion far above
						him. There was a low gasp of despair. The man had forced his head and shoulders into the
						hole and was caught fast, being unable to move either backward or forward. Coacoochee
						called to him in the lowest possible tone to keep calm and rest for a moment, then to
						force out all his breath and at the same instant endeavor to move an inch or so. For a
						few moments Coacoochee could hear his friend following this advice, when suddenly he was
						alarmed to find him tumbling head foremost down the whole distance. Extricating himself
						with a sudden jerk, the rope had broken.
					As he lay on the ground a confused and bloody mass, Coacoochee thought him dead.
						Nevertheless, in spite of the danger of discovery, he dragged his companion to a pool of
						water, which revived him. The poor fellow was so lame that he could not walk a step. It
						was almost dawn. In a short time their escape would be discovered. Although himself weak
						from emaciation and wounds, Coacoochee placed his friend on his back, and started to the
						nearest woods. Before long he caught sight of a mule, which he captured. The two Indians
						mounted. Forcing the animal to its highest speed, and guiding it solely  by seizing its ears, Coacoochee and his friend hurried
						across the country with which they were so familiar. After five days they arrived among
						their people.
					Coacoochee's emaciation and wounds spoke eloquently of what he had endured.
						Nevertheless he rested not until he had told them the story of the treachery by which he
						and Osceola had been betrayed, and of their confinement in loathsome cells. Alarmed and
						suspicious, the other chiefs at once abandoned all idea of further conference or
						communication with the Americans.
					Poor Osceola, the master-spirit of the war, who had risen from the ranks of the
						humblest warriors by dint of his lofty genius, had at least twice confronted not only
						the Americans, but all of the leading chiefs of his own people, and, overcoming the
						latter, had resisted the demands of the enemies of the Seminoles for their exile from
						Florida; who had hurled the united nation against the Americans for two years, foiling
						all their efforts and defeating all their armies, languished and pined in his lonely
						cell at St. Augustine. The high independence of feeling, which had never before known
						restraint, became enfeebled, and sunk as the chances of escape passed away. His proud
						spirit was broken by defeat and imprisonment. For greater security he was removed from
						St. Augustine to Fort Moultrie, Charleston Harbor. This removal plunged him into a
						melancholy which never left him. Hope was gone, and the conviction that he was forever
						banished from his native land weighed and wore upon his spirits until nature became
						exhausted. He declined to see visitors, and, refusing all sustenance, sat alone in his
						dark dungeon brooding, brooding over the mighty sorrows of his people and the
						overwhelming disasters which had befallen him.
					One morning, when his keeper came to the cell, he called to Osceola, but the young
						chieftain did not reply. He called again, louder and more sharply, but no answer came
						save the mocking echo from the stone walls of the dungeon. Suspicious and alarmed, the
						man procured help and opened the door of the  dungeon.
						Groping around by the light of a tallow candle to the spot where lay a heap of mouldy
						straw, which formed the bed of the prisoner, there they found him cold and unresponsive
						in death. At the age of thirty-three years the young, the brilliant, the great Osceola,
						a brave and generous enemy, a proud and manly man, the noblest offspring of his
						suffering people, died thus of a broken heart.
					
						ZACHARY TAYLOR.
					
					In December, 1837, Colonel Zachary Taylor, at the head of a thousand men advanced one
						hundred and fifty miles into the enemy's country, through an unexplored wilderness of
						jungles and bayous, crossing a dozen streams every day, over which there were no
						bridges, and traveling without guides in the face of a numerous and powerful foe. Toward
						the latter part of the month they came up with a large body of warriors, commanded by
						Alligator. The Indians were encamped on the hard sandy beach on the north side of the
						great Lake Okeechobee. Between the whites and the Indians lay a morass three quarters of
						a mile wide, covered with a thick growth of saw-grass five feet high and three feet deep
						in mud and water. The swamp extended on either side as far as the eye could reach. It
						was totally impassable for horses, and nearly so for men.
					
					The soldiers dismounted, and relieving themselves of all unnecessary weight, prepared
						to cross the morass and give battle to the enemy. In spots where the mire was deep
						enough for a man to sink out of sight in its treacherous depths, the Indians had cut
						down the grass, so as to lure the troops into the fatal trap. Notwithstanding these
						difficulties, the Americans gave battle, and after several hours of hard fighting came
						out victorious. At nightfall it was necessary to commence the inevitable retreat, which
						no victory, however complete, could prevent; for in this remarkable war the
						impossibility of transporting provisions for more than a few days through the aqueous
						wilderness embarrassed and crippled the American army from first to last. In order to
						retrace their steps through the swamp in the darkness, and transport one hundred and
						twelve wounded men, rude litters were constructed, and a small foot-way built across the
						swamp. Colonel Taylor brought back his command without further loss, and on the 15th of
						May, 1838, succeeded General Jessup as commander-in-chief.
					We may not trace the irregular, laborious, and indecisive warfare of the ensuing year.
						In May, 1839, the Indians again agreed to a cessation of hostilities, and to confine
						themselves to a designated part of the peninsula. Many of the settlers, supposing the
						war was at an end, returned to their homes.
					The throngs of unemployed and starving people, who had fled to the crowded villages for
						safety, again ventured on their plantations. Their hopes, however, were soon scattered
						to the winds. In July the Indians, irrepressible and invincible, again began their
						outrages. Colonel Harney, with twenty-six dragoons and three traders, had proceeded to
						Charlotte's Harbor, to establish a trading post in pursuance of the agreement with the
						Indians. They were encamped, with a large supply of Indian goods, in a pine barren on
						the Coloosahatchee river. At dawn on the 22d of July, they were attacked by a band of
						warriors commanded by Bow Legs. The men were overpowered in their beds, and, embarrassed
						by their mosquito-bars, were unable  to make any effectual
						resistance. Twenty-four were killed, and two captured. Colonel Harney and two companions
						escaped, and, after living for days on crabs and oysters, made their way home.
					And so the war was renewed. As before, the Indians were driven from swamp to swamp,
						from jungle to jungle, and from bayous to lagoons, leading the exhausted, famished, and
						fever-stricken troops hither and yon in fruitless chases over a region of country
						embracing more than 45,000 square miles.
					The territorial legislature saw, as every one saw, that the Indians, hemmed in by the
						sea and unable to fly, would fight until the last brave was exterminated. This war would
						cost the lives of four or five white men to every Indian that was killed. So the
						legislature resolved upon an expedient. They sent to Havana, and purchased at an
						enormous expense the most famous kennel of blood-hounds in the world. With these
						animals, which had been trained to the pursuit of fugitive slaves, it was purposed to
						hunt out the Indians, and by this means track, overpower, and kill. Five experienced
						Spaniards accompanied the troop of blood-hounds. They were attached to each column of
						troops, attended by their keepers. The animals were fed liberally upon bloody meat, to
						supply which young calves accompanied each detachment, and then, being put upon the
						Indian trail, started forward in the horrible and fiendish pursuit. Such were the means
						adopted in the nineteenth century to drive a people from the land which was their
						own.
					The Spanish Indians inhabiting the southern extremity of the peninsula, finding
						themselves encroached upon more and more by their brethren from the north, who, amid
						hardships which it is impossible to imagine, much more to describe, were gradually being
						beaten back by the whites, now began to take a hand in the war. They pillaged certain
						unfortunate vessels which were wrecked upon their coast, and murdered the seamen. They
						even attacked the little settlements on the islands along the western coast. Indian Key
						was a small island about twenty  miles from the main-land.
						Here, among others, lived Doctor Perrine, a scientific man of high literary attainments,
						who, inspired by an enthusiasm for scientific research, had, with his family, made this
						spot his home, in order to carry forward an investigation of the botanical species of
						Florida.
					On the 7th of August, 1840, about two o'clock in the morning, the Perrines, in common
						with the other people of the island, were awakened from their sleep by Indian yells, and
						a number of shots fired. At that moment the glass in their windows was crushed by
						missiles from without. Mrs. Perrine and her three children hurried down stairs to a room
						from which a trap-door led to the cellar. The cellar was used for bathing, the tide
						filling it twice a day. Doctor Perrine saw his family safely down into this place, and
						then returned to the piazza to find out what was the matter. Mrs. Perrine and her
						daughters passed through the water and crawled into a small place about three feet high
						and ten feet long, constructed of plank and rocks, through which the tide had access to
						the cellar. No sooner were they secreted in this hole than they heard the doctor talking
						with the Indians in Spanish, and telling them that he was a physician. At this the
						Indians ran off with a shout, joining the others in the work of pillaging, firing other
						houses on the island, and massacring the inhabitants. Doctor Perrine then shut the
						trap-door, and placed a heavy chest over it, determined if possible, to conceal the
						retreat of his family and brave the worst himself.
					At daylight the Indians returned. They commenced battering in the doors and windows.
						The doctor fled to the cupola, which was entered by a heavy trap-door. The Indians
						swarmed through the rooms in search of the occupants. They turned over beds, broke open
						closets, and tried every door without success. At last they concentrated their efforts
						on the heavy door leading to the cupola. For a time it resisted their efforts. At last
						it gave way beneath their terrific assaults, and with wild yells the Indians rushed up
						into the cupola and  massacred the unfortunate man who had
						retreated to that spot. All this the family heard from their concealment in the
						cellar.
					At last the savages were heard to descend the steps and commence smashing the crockery,
						glass, and doors of the house, taking savage joy in the mere act of destruction. Trunks
						and chests of clothing were dragged out of the house and loaded into boats. Two Indians
						came around the house to the place where the plank covered the spot in which Mrs.
						Perrine and her children were concealed. One of them lifted a board and looked in, but
						fortunately the family were crouched at the farther end of the hole, and escaped
						discovery in the darkness.
					In a little while the unhappy people detected a smell of smoke. It grew stronger and
						stronger. They could hear the roar of the flames in the dwelling above. In a half an
						hour the rafters gave way, and the whole flaming structure fell with a terrific crash
						into the cellar. The smoke became intolerable. The planks above them took fire. To avoid
						suffocation they plastered their heads with mud, and threw the water constantly over
						their faces as well as upon the planks, in a vain attempt to extinguish the flames.
					From the spot where the family were concealed, by chance there led a turtle-crawl.
						Henry Perrine, a lad, in spite of his mother's entreaties, began to scream with the
						agonies of suffocation. Discovering the turtle-crawl through an opening between the
						posts, he proceeded to push the posts aside, and declaring that he would rather he
						killed by the savages than burnt to death, attempted to get out. The aperture, however,
						was too small. With his fingers and nails he tore away the mud into which the palmetto
						post was sunk, and by the most strenuous efforts pulled it out of its socket. The boy
						instantly passed into the turtle-crawl and out into the open air.
					Mrs. Perrine and her two daughters, fearful to follow the boy, yet unable to remain
						where they were, dug away another post and passed under a wharf which was constructed at
						the spot. On this structure three cords of wood were 
						burning. The floor over their heads was almost consumed, and the coals dropped through
						upon them as they passed. As they reached the shore the whole structure fell in. Had
						they been a moment later they would have been buried in a grave of fire.
					Mrs. Perrine at once caught sight of a launch, and beckoning to her son, who was
						crouching near by, they waded out to it and sprang aboard. The launch was grounded. The
						boy and the largest girl at once jumped into the water up to their necks, and managed
						slowly to push the launch off the shoal. With a paddle and two poles, they proceeded
						about a mile, when they were picked up by a schooner, to which a number of the
						inhabitants of the place had already fled for refuge. The launch in which they had made
						their escape was one which the Indians had been loading with plunder. In a few days the
						unhappy family were transported to St. Augustine.
					The Seminoles were certainly the most tantalizing of all the American Indians. The
						entire territory of Florida was divided up among their chiefs, each of whom operated in
						his own respective section. Sometimes the blow was one of open violence, sometimes of
						secret stealth, and not infrequently it was an exasperating prank. Of course the whole
						country was tired of the war. The officers bit eagerly at every hint at submission by
						the Indians.
					In November, 1840, after infinite pains, Halleck-Tustenuggee and Tiger Tail were
						induced to come to Fort King. They remained three or four days. They pretended the
						utmost humility, and from their words one would have thought the whole Indian force was
						about to surrender. They ate very heartily of the provisions of the fort, and several
						times a day would request the commander to make some one of their band, who appeared to
						have straggled into the fort by accident, a present of food. These stragglers would at
						once disappear with the supplies; no doubt carrying them to a hidden camp, where many a
						chuckle was indulged in at the expense of the Americans.
					The officers of the fort innocently believed that peace was  at hand. One morning they found that their artful guests had fled. The whole
						thing was a trick to secure a few days of high living! The next move of these scamps was
						more tragic. Fifteen soldiers were escorting Mrs. Montgomery from Micanopy to a point
						eight miles distant, when they were attacked by Indians. Mrs. Montgomery was killed by a
						ball in her breast. The handful of men fought hand to hand, but were overpowered and
						slain. Considerable plunder fell into the hands of the greedy savages. Strange as it may
						seem, Cosa-Tustenuggee was frightened at this atrocity, for "conscience doth make
						cowards of us all." He came in soon after and surrendered to the whites, consenting to
						exile.
					All attempts to track these marauding parties seemed futile. The trail was lost in the
						nearest marsh, and the clue could not be regained. The Indians made their homes in the
						center of immense hummocks or jungles. Here, unseen and unsuspected, their squaws
						cultivated considerable patches of land, and to these retreats they fled for concealment
						after some outrage.
					Halleck-Tustenuggee's operations, as we have seen, filled the country north, west, and
						south of St. Augustine with perpetual alarm. In March, 1841, he appeared in the
						neighborhood of Fort Brooks, on the Oklawaha River. A soldier came out for a hunt, and
						was shot. The Indians danced and yelled over his body, hoping to tease the garrison into
						coming out of the fort for an attack. The garrison, believing that a long expected
						provision train was being attacked, sallied forth, resolving to die in battle rather
						than of starvation. The valor of the men availed to beat off the Indians with heavy
						loss, a circumstance which gave their chief food for thought.
					Waxehadjo was a chief, whose face was as ugly as his name, who carried on his bloody
						warfare near Tampa, on the West Florida coast. One day word was brought to Fort Brooke,
						at Tampa, of the murder of a mail carrier on the road to Fort Cross. A party of mounted
						soldiers at once started in pursuit of the murderers. The pursuers came upon them early
						in the  morning. The chief and two Indians were sitting by
						a camp-fire, having just breakfasted on the provisions in the poor mail man's pouch. In
						the midst of the coals on which the meal had been cooked they had placed the gory head
						of the murdered victim, where the soldiers were horrified to see it. The two common
						Indians succeeded in escaping. The chief took refuge in a pool. The white men discovered
						his hiding place by some bubbles coming up through the water. Several rifles were fired,
						and a soldier wading in found him grasping the grass in the bottom, in the last agonies
						of death. His body was nailed to a tree, "as a warning to his companions." Had an Indian
						done as much to the body of a white enemy, it would have been spoken of as "horrid
						brutality."
					All ordinary methods of scouting failing, the Americans organized "canoe bands," which
						threaded the inland waters of Florida to their innermost recesses to track out the
						Indians. This plan, which is another illustration of the fact that genius for warfare is
						really a genius for adaptation to the peculiar circumstances of the war, was, in a
						measure, successful. The ordinary movement of troops was entirely inadequate to deal
						with the problem. "Marches of weeks and months, through deep sand and muddy water,
						burdened with a knapsack and musket, exposed to a vertical sun and drenching rains,
						brought the troops no nearer the enemy, who, with his rifle and a few companions,
						watched their weary progress from day to day, intercepting detachments at every point,
						with a fleetness, unexampled, eluding and misleading by their intimate knowledge of the
						country. Hardly could the troops reach their destination, before the section of the
						country which they had just left would be alarmed by the inroads of the Indians."
					In January, 1841, four hundred men set out from Tampa toward the Kissimmee River. On
						the way the men built Fort Carroll, and encamped later at Fort Gardner. The whole
						country was found to be overflowed. Finding it impossible to proceed with their plan, it
						was resolved to attempt an interview  with the great
						Coacoochee, or Wild Cat, who was believed to inhabit an island in Lake Tohopekaliga.
						Micco, an aged Indian, friendly to the Americans, undertook to hunt up the chief, and
						try to arrange for a council. As a special reason for believing that this might be
						secured, the whites had in their camp the daughter of Coacoochee, who had been captured
						in a skirmish. The chief himself had been committing a new outrage, having killed and
						robbed a party of strolling actors near St. Augustine, and was concealed with unusual
						care.
					Micco at last returned, saying that Coacoochee was hid in a cypress swamp, four days'
						journey from the camp, but that he had consented to come in and have a talk. On the
						appointed day he was seen approaching the camp, accompanied by seven trusty warriors. A
						curious sight presented itself. From the plunder of the theatrical party the Indians had
						rigged themselves out in all the gaudy finery of the stage. Coacoochee was dressed in
						the toga of imperial purple, which cloaked the noble form of Julius Caesar. Another wore
						the hideous costume of Richard III. Horatio in modest garb walked swiftly by the side of
						Falstaff. Scarlet vests and glittering spangles were distributed freely among the
						singular company.
					At the sound of her father's voice Coacoochee's daughter sprang past the guard at the
						door of her tent, and ran to his open arms. With the instinct of a savage she gave him
						at once a handful of broken cartridges and bullets, which she had picked up around the
						camp. The young chief won the confidence of the whites by his noble and open bearing and
						eloquent tongue. "The white man comes; he grows pale and sick here, while his red
						brother thrives in the land the Great Spirit has given him. Why may we not live here in
						peace? The white men are as thick as the leaves in the hummock. They come upon us
						thicker every day. They may shoot us; they may drive our children night and day; they
						may chain our hands and feet, but the red man's heart will be always free." Yet he ended
						by promising to assemble his people at Tampa, and take them into exile.
					
					Coacoochee was perhaps sincere in his professions. For many mouths he claimed to be
						working to induce his tribe to emigrate. But the patience of the whites was exhausted.
						On the 21st of May, 1842, he came to Fort Pierce, as he had been accustomed to do to
						request supplies of whisky and food. His arrest, previously decided upon, was put into
						execution. He was at first taken to New Orleans, but was returned in chains to Tampa
						Bay.
					Meanwhile the war proceeded somewhat more favorably for the Americans, but with the
						usual number of romantic incidents. In June an expedition of forty trained scouts set
						out to surprise the camp of Halleck-Tustenuggee. The men, after a fatiguing journey,
						arrived at the edge of a swamp, six miles wide, on the opposite side of which the
						Indians were supposed to be encamped. It was the hour of midnight. The horses were
						hastily picketed, and every useless burden left on the margin of the morass. To the
						dense shades of the cypress swamp was added the darkness of a moonless night. Guided by
						stalwart negroes, unable to see their hands before them, marching through the water four
						feet deep, the force of two hundred men started across the swamp.
					At daybreak a halt was called. Just forty-six men were present. The rest were
						struggling through the swamps, or had ceased all struggles forever. The men crawled
						stealthily toward the cluster of Indian huts, which was in sight. A gun was fired when
						close to the lodges to rouse the occupants, but the breathless watchers were chagrined
						to discover not a sign of life. The dull rumble of the explosion died away among the
						cypress-trees, but no war-whoop met the ears of the white men, and no savages attempted
						to escape. Not a human being occupied the huts. The men could only express their chagrin
						and disappointment, after all their fruitless toil, by setting fire to the sheds. The
						weary march back, through the shades of death, was all that remained for them.
					Another band of scouts scoured the Wahoo swamp. Four 
						large corn-fields with growing crops were found hidden in the recesses of the vast
						morass. While destroying these, early one morning, an Indian was discovered approaching
						in a canoe. Perceiving the white men, he instantly put about and using his paddle with
						wonderful effect, made every effort to escape. Finding himself unable to avoid his
						pursuers, he sprang from his canoe and disappeared in the swamp. Several shots were
						fired at him, and he was believed to have fallen. The soldiers jumped from their boats
						into four feet of water, and searched the swamp in all directions. His canoe floated
						idly on the stagnant water, and the spot where the Indian had jumped was marked by the
						break in the heavy green scum, but the savage himself was nowhere to be seen. Months
						afterward this man was captured. He said that the soldiers on this occasion had passed
						right by him while he lay concealed in the water, covering his face with a leaf of a
						pond lily.
					Coacoochee reached Tampa Bay early in July, 1841. On the morning of the 4th he and his
						warriors, loaded with chains, were brought up on the deck of the transport, which was
						anchored in the harbor, for a council with Colonel Worth, who had become
						commander-in-chief of the Florida army. The council was a dramatic occasion. The spirit
						of the Indians was utterly broken by their misfortunes. Colonel Worth spoke firmly but
						kindly to his great captive, giving him to understand that the war must end, and that
						unless Coacoochee induced his tribe to emigrate within a certain time to Arkansas, that
						he and his warriors should be hung. At the close of his speech there was a long
						silence.
					At last a clanking of chains announced that Coacoochee was struggling to his feet to
						reply. In eloquent words he reviewed his life and the misfortunes of his people, and at
						last came to the practical question of the moment. "You say I must end the war! Look at
						these irons! Can I go to my warriors? Coacoochee chained? No; do not ask me to see them.
						I never wish to tread upon my land unless I am free. If I can go to  them unchained, they will follow me in; but I fear they
						will not obey me when I talk to them in irons. They will say my heart is weak; that I am
						afraid. Could I go free they will surrender and emigrate."
					Of course this was impossible. Once more Colonel Worth assured him that unless his
						people would come in by an appointed day, the setting sun would witness his execution.
						The vessel lay two miles from the shore. The prisoners were surrounded day and night by
						strong guards. Escape was impossible. So Coacoochee accepted the terms.
					Five trusty messengers were released to carry his talk to his people. To them he said:
						"If your hearts are bad, let me see them now; take them in your hands and let me know
						that they are false; but do not, like dogs, bite me as soon as you turn your backs. Say
						to my band that my feet are chained, yet I send them my word as true from the heart as
						if I were with them. The great white chief says when my band comes in, I shall again
						walk free. He has given you forty days to do this business in. Take these sticks; here
						are thirty-nine, one for each day; this, much larger than the rest,
						with blood upon it, is the fortieth. When the others are thrown away, and this only
						remains, say to my people that with the setting sun Coacoochee hangs like a dog, with
						none but white men to hear his last words."
					The voice of the speaker had sunk almost to a whisper. The awed bystanders heard some
						broken words, by which he sent a remembrance to his wife and child. With this the scene
						ended. The chains were taken from the five messengers, and they stepped over the side of
						the vessel into a row-boat. The chief, whose fate they held in their hands, stood
						immovable, following them with his eyes as far as they could be seen. During the days
						that followed the lines of anxiety in his face deepened perceptibly. He would sit all
						day with his eyes turned land-ward, looking eagerly for the appearance of his people.
						When the sun set each day far across the lonely gulf, without the  arrival of any Indians, he sighed heavily, and sank into deeper
						melancholy.
					Coacoochee's people were loyal to him. In time they began to gather on the low shores
						of Tampa Bay. The chief's spirits revived. At last the full number of his band were
						present. When the news was announced the whole bearing of the man changed. From the
						humble and gloomy captive, he altered suddenly into the proud and haughty chief. "Take
						off my irons," he cried, "that I may once more meet my warriors like a man." This,
						though hazardous, was done, that the promise of Colonel Worth might be fulfilled.
						Coacoochee dressed himself in his grandest attire. His breast glittered with silver
						ornaments. A red sash was bound around his waist. Three ostrich plumes ornamented his
						crimson turban. Impatiently springing into the boat, he started for the shore. As his
						foot touched the soil, he drew his manly form to its utmost height, waved his arms, and
						uttered a terrific whoop.
					Though Coacoochee's tribe had thus submitted, the work was but begun. His wide
						influence was yet to be exerted over other bands and chiefs. Eighty miles south of Tampa
						Bay, the Americans had pitched a camp on Pease Creek, for the purpose of having a basis
						for an invasion of the Big Cypress Swamp and the Everglades. To this camp Sole-Micco, a
						friendly Indian, one day came for refuge. Four months previous he had gone to carry a
						friendly talk to Hospetarke. Just before his arrival among the latter's band, a council
						had been held which had decreed that the bearer of any message from the whites should be
						put to death.
					Sole-Micco was suspected, but swore that he was hunting for his mother, who was
						believed to reside somewhere in Big Swamp. The prophet of the tribe announced that he
						would find out whether the story was true. He built ten fires in a circle, divided his
						time between praying and dancing, got out his supplies of roots, snake skins, and young
						alligators, examined the palm of the Indian, and at last announced that the latter had
							 lied. Had not Sole-Micco had some relatives in the band
						who prepared to fight in his behalf, he would have been killed.
					When Sole-Micco reported to Coacoochee the hostility of this band and the vicious
						influence of the prophet, the chief feared lest he might render other bands
						unmanageable. He at once sent his younger brother to the band with a peace-talk.
						Hospetarke agreed to come into the camp on Pease Creek and hold a council. For a week
						the old rascal kept sending word to the camp each day that he was coming, but was very
						old, very sick, and very tired, and required whisky, food, and tobacco to give him
						strength to make the journey. His statements must have been true, as he could only
						travel two or three miles a day without sending in for more supplies. While he was
						advancing at a snail's pace, Coacoochee was also on his way to Pease Creek. The latter
						arriving, was suffered to go alone to the old Indian's camp and bring him in.
					It was evident that the old chief was simply playing a game, and that he must be met
						with a counter-stratagem. A council was appointed to be held in the cabin of the vessel
						which had brought Colonel Worth and Coacoochee down the coast. The Indians assembled in
						the apartment at the appointed hour, and were secretly surrounded by soldiers. At a
						given signal the doors were closed and every Indian was made a prisoner. Wild and fierce
						was the storm of abuse which raged when the Indians discovered the treachery. At this
						moment Coacoochee, in order that he might not be believed to have a share in the
						conspiracy, came into the cabin with a whisky bottle in his hand, pretending to be
						drunk. He railed at the white men for betraying his friends, while he was enjoying his
						bottle, and succeeded in diverting all suspicion from himself. The warriors selected a
						few messengers to bring in their women and children, and the whole band was then taken
						to Tampa Bay in chains.
					The assemblage of Indians at Tampa Bay became restless. Coacoochee had exhausted his
						ingenuity in the way of ball-plays, dances and games, to content the Indians and occupy
							 their minds while the plans for securing the submission
						of others were being executed. The assemblage was becoming impatient and explosive.
						Numbers of troops guarded the camp at every point. At night a space of two miles' square
						was lit up by lines of beacon fires, so that the movements of every person in the camp
						were distinctly visible. Coacoochee was anxious to bring the long delay to a close. The
						eleventh day of October was set as the day for sailing.
					As soon as the announcement was made, the camp became the scene of strange activities.
						Young and old, little and big, set to work pounding corn for the journey. The fabulous
						stories which had so long been current were revived. A dozen times a day Coacoochee, who
						had been to New Orleans and back, was called upon to reassure his people that when at
						sea, beyond the sight of land, they were not to be cast overboard.
					The departure from their native land into exile was a sorrowful experience. Yet the
						interests and feelings of the multitude, packed into the little vessel, were widely
						different. First there were the Seminoles, of whom we have heard much. Then there were
						the negroes. These latter were isolated by a barbarism, a savagery peculiar to
						themselves. They were mostly runaways, or captives taken by the Indians from their
						masters in Georgia and Alabama. They had their own sorrows, which it does not fall
						within the scope of this book to detail. If the records of the time are to be believed,
						they were far more blood-thirsty, more fiercely brutal, more utterly inhuman, than the
						Indians themselves. They gloried in the war because peace meant to them simply slavery,
						while war meant wild and hideous license. "Ten resolute negroes," it is said, "with a
						knowledge of the country, were sufficient to desolate the frontier from one end to the
						other."
					Besides these two unhappy peoples there were also a small number of Mickasukie Indians.
						These were the original occupants of Florida. They regarded with equal bitterness and
						hatred the negroes, the Seminoles, and the whites. To them 
							RESCUE OF LUCY CORNELL BY RED EAGLE
						
						 they were all alike, invaders and enemies. Halleck
						Tustenuggee was their chief. In camp they had obstinately refused rations, when issued
						with those of the Seminoles or negroes. Even when packed on board the filthy vessel they
						refused to share the society of the unhappy wretches about them, but shut themselves off
						in one corner of the ship in the solitude of sorrow.
					Thus, loaded with people of such different varieties of wretchedness, the vessel moved
						slowly down the bay. In the dense throng now and then a convulsive sob escaped from the
						negroes or the squaws, but in general the crowd preserved a profound silence. Hour after
						hour they watched the receding shores with fixed and melancholy gaze until twilight hid
						them from their view. In the morning no land was in sight. With the departure of
						Coacoochee the most dangerous and the most noble of all the Indian chiefs was removed
						from Florida.
					The war in Florida continued to rage for a year or two longer. Little by little the
						genius of Colonel Worth availed to detach separate bands of Indians from the rest,
						obtain their submission, and transport them to Arkansas. The American troops who had
						become rather scouts than soldiers, threaded their way to the darkest and most
						inaccessible spots in Florida, hunted the Indians from their hiding places, captured the
						warriors, and humiliated their chiefs. Of all the Indians in the territory at the
						beginning of the war only one hundred and twenty, capable of bearing arms, remained at
						its close. The policy of the United States in this war has always been regarded as a
						blot on her fame. Such a policy has never been pursued toward any other tribe of
						Indians. The Sorrows of the Seminoles did not end with their exile to Arkansas. It is
						safe to say that they will not do so until the last unhappy descendant of the tribe
						which produced Osceola and Coacoochee shall have passed to the happy hunting
						grounds.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XV.
						BLACK HAWK'S HUMILIATION.
					THE Sac Indians have a curious account of creation. According to
						their story, the gods in the beginning created the earth and every species of bird,
						beast, and fish. They next created a man. But this creature, as may easily be believed,
						was shortly discovered to be both cruel and foolish. To improve him the gods put into
						him the heart of the best beast they had created. This, however, failed to improve its
						perverse owner. So the Almighty took a piece of himself, of which he made a heart for
						the man, who at once became wise and gentle. The earth, meanwhile, brought forth fruits
						in abundance. Besides man it was inhabited by innumerable giants and gods.
					It seems, according to this tale, that another tribe of gods, who had their home under
						the seas, had a fuss with the gods of the earth. The former pooled their issues with the
						giants for the purpose of destroying their common enemy. A council was held, at which,
						after much debate, it was decided that the allies were still too weak to attack
						Wesukkah, the chief god of the earth. So they conceived a stratagem. A great feast was
						to be prepared on the earth, to which Wesukkah should be invited. At an opportune moment
						his enemies would then fall upon him and put him to death. But Wesukkah was wide awake.
						No sooner had the council decided on this plan than Wesukkah's younger brother appeared
						in the midst of the assembly. He was at once inquired of, "Where is thy brother  Wesukkah?" to which he replied, "I know not; am I my
						brother's keeper?" The conspirators, seeing their plan was discovered, instantly slew
						the young god.
					Wesukkah was deeply grieved at the fate of his brother. The gods who dwell above the
						clouds, hearing his noisy lamentations, came down and offered to help him destroy his
						enemies. Frightened at their danger, the gods from under the sea had run off, leaving
						their friends, the giants, alone upon earth. The battle-field between Wesukkah and the
						giants was a flame of fire. The giants fought bravely, but were utterly destroyed, not
						one of their number being left alive.
					The gods under the sea, frightened at the fate of their allies, instantly besought
						their friends for help. The call was not unheeded. Through the influence of the deities
						of the thunder and the wind, the god of the cold, with his dreadful armies of frost,
						snow, hail and ice, came from the north, and smote the whole earth. Every river, lake,
						and sea was converted into solid ice. For many days enormous hailstones, the size of a
						man's head, smote the inhabitants of the earth. When the storm ceased, all of them, both
						men, beasts, and gods, save a few choice ones of each kind, which Wesukkah had covered
						with the hollow of his hand, were found to have perished.
					In the process of time, the gods of the sea ventured to peep out from their
						hiding-place, and seeing Wesukkah almost entirely alone upon the earth, thought that now
						their enemy might indeed be conquered. Every attempt failed, and the gods of the sea,
						finding themselves unable to secure the earth for their own habitation, gnashed their
						teeth, and resolved to destroy it altogether. They besought the god of thunder for aid,
						and he, calling together all his clouds, commanded them to pour water upon the earth.
						This order they obeyed, and the flood continued until the whole surface of the earth,
						including the highest mountains, was covered with water.
					Wesukkah, however, saw the deluge coming, and took some air to make himself a boat.
						Into this he went, taking with him  a few of every sort of
						living creature, including man. The air boat floated safely on the top of the flood.
						After a good while, Wesukkah commanded a fish to go down into the waters, and bring up
						some earth from the bottom. After great difficulty, the fish returned with a mouthful of
						dirt, out of which Wesukkah, spreading it forth on the surface of the water, formed this
						earth. Tired with their long confinement, he and the creatures that were with him in his
						air boat came forth and inhabited it.
					Though the Sacs have such a specific account of creation, they have neglected to
						preserve their subsequent history with any thing like detail. All we know is, that they
						and the Foxes once inhabited the shores of the St. Lawrence. Being attacked by the
						Iroquois, they fled to the western shores of Lake Michigan, and thence to the valley of
						the Mississippi. Elsewhere we have related the story of the assassination of the great
						Pontiac in an Illinois village. This murder was the cause of one of the most terrible
						Indian wars known to history. The Sacs and Foxes from the north, together with a large
						number of Pontiacean tribes, invaded the fertile plains of the Illinois, overran the
						country, destroyed the villages, and almost utterly annihilated the great Illinois
						confederacy, of which the Kaskaskias, the Peorias, the Miamis, and the Meas were but
						individual tribes.
					Having subjugated and massacred the inhabitants of the fair region to which the name of
						the ruined confederacy is still given, the Sacs and Foxes determined to remain in the
						delightful country. Their principal village was constructed on the east side of Rock
						River, near its junction with the Mississippi. Of this region a traveler said, more than
						a century ago, "It is healthy and amazingly fruitful. The grape, the plum, the
						gooseberry, and various other native fruits abound. The wild honeysuckle gives its
						perfume to the air, and a thousand indigenous flowers mingle their diversified hues with
						the verdure of the plain."
					As usual, the difficulties of the United States with these tribes grew out of a treaty.
						It was made in 1804, and in it it was agreed by the Indians to give up about all their
						territory east  of the Mississippi, for a small annuity.
						The origin of this treaty was claimed by the Indians to be as follows: In 1804 some of
						the Sacs went down to St. Louis to try to secure the release of one of their friends,
						who was under arrest for murder. The party was absent a long time. When they returned
						they were dressed in fine clothes, and each man possessed a silver medal. They related
						to their tribe that after having requested the Americans to release their friend, the
						governor told them that he wanted some land. Papers were drawn up and eagerly signed by
						the Indians, thinking that the safety of their friend was secured. They were supplied
						with a great deal of whisky, and were so drunk during their stay that they could only
						remember that their friend, instead of being restored to them, was called out before
						them and shot dead by a file of soldiers. This is the account which the great chieftain
						of the Sacs afterward gave of the treaty.
					When the war of 1812 broke out, Black Hawk, a rising young warrior of the tribe,
						yielding to the solicitations of Tecumseh and the omnipresent Simon Girty, resolved to
						join the British army, taking with him five hundred braves. Black Hawk soon wearied of
						the war and returned home. On his way he visited an old man, the father of a boy which
						Black Hawk had adopted. The old Indian, lying at the point of death, feebly related the
						following story:
					After Black Hawk's departure to the war, he, with a few others, repaired to a white
						settlement on Salt River, to pass the winter. He and his boy had pitched their wigwam
						near a small fort, of which the occupants seemed friendly. One evening the young hunter
						did not return to the lodge. In the morning the old man and his squaw, with hearts full
						of apprehension, started on a search for the wanderer. They followed his tracks through
						the snow till a deer trail was reached. Pursuing this for some distance, they found a
						dressed deer which he had killed, hanging to a tree. At this point also, were the tracks
						of white men. The snow was greatly disturbed, as if the spot had been the  scene of a struggle. In one place they discovered a stain
						of blood on the white surface. The tracks of the men turned toward the fort. Not far
						distant the boy was found lying dead—shot, stabbed, and scalped. Black Hawk had
						been much attached to this boy, and was deeply angered at the outrage. Rejoining his
						warriors, he told them the story, and the whole body resolved to return to the war.
					When Tecumseh fell dead in the battle of the Thames, Black Hawk was fighting by his
						side. We have seen how Brant had fought under the great Pontiac years before he himself
						came into fame. It is not extravagant to say that the mind and career of Brant were
						powerfully influenced by the character and fame of the mighty leader whom he thus
						supported. Tecumseh himself, though born after Pontiac had been buried in his forest
						grave, was, even more than Brant, a pupil of the great conspirator. The far-reaching
						influence of Pontiac, which did not die with its author, may therefore be traced in
						Black Hawk. It may be said that Black Hawk was but an echo of Tecumseh, and thus
						indirectly of Pontiac himself. "The evil that men do lives after them."
					Few incidents are related of Black Hawk from the time of the close of the war of 1812
						to the year 1832, when he became famous. About 1820 a young Sac killed an Indian of the
						Iowa tribe. In imitation of the whites, these tribes had arranged to surrender the
						murderer, to be dealt with by the friends of the murdered man. A party of Sacs, with
						Black Hawk at their head, prepared for the diplomatic journey to the Iowas, which the
						occasion demanded. At the moment of departure they discovered that the young man who had
						committed the murder was ill. He would nevertheless have accompanied them had not his
						brother interfered. The latter, with high generosity, insisted that his brother was too
						sick to travel, and that he would go and die in his place.
					After a journey of seven days the party arrived within sight of the Iowa village. The
						young brave went calmly  forward, singing his death-song,
						and seated himself in the midst of the lodges. A deputation of chiefs came out from the
						village, with whom Black Hawk held a short talk, explaining that the young warrior, who
						had surrendered himself to them, had, on account of his brother's sickness, taken his
						place, and had come to die in his stead. The talk ended. The Iowas, with impassive
						countenances, returned to the village. Black Hawk and his companions took a last look at
						their doomed friend, about whom a crowd, armed with sticks and stones, was already
						gathering, and sadly turned their faces homeward.
					That evening, while in camp, the rapid gallop of a horse was heard. The dusky company
						seized their arms, with every ear attent and every eye strained to pierce the darkness.
						The horse came nearer and nearer. Suddenly the rider reined in and leaped from his
						saddle, right into their midst. It was the young brave who had been left behind. The
						Iowas had at first threatened him. But when his generosity and self-sacrifice became
						known there was a sudden revulsion of feeling among these simple children of the forest.
						Nature taught them to instinctively recognize and worship the hero. It is civilization
						and life in cities, greed and selfishness, which blunt this fine instinct, and teach men
						to ignore and sneer at heroism. The Iowas had not only released their prisoner, but sent
						him back to his people with a present of two fine horses.
					A year or two after this touching incident Black Hawk and the band of warriors, who
						with admiring devotion followed the footsteps of their leader everywhere, were encamped
						on the Two Rivers on a hunting expedition. One day some white settlers met him in the
						forest, and accused him of having killed some of their hogs. Black Hawk understood their
						language but imperfectly. At last, gathering the idea, he indignantly denied the charge.
						The white ruffians forthwith jumped on him, snatched away his gun and rendered it
						useless by firing it in the air, and proceeded to beat him most unmercifully with
						sticks. They then returned the gun, kicked him, and told him  to leave the neighborhood. From this outrage Black Hawk never recovered. The
						humiliation of his proud spirit was insufferable.
					In the summer of 1823 the United States urged upon the Sacs and Foxes the necessity of
						a removal, in accordance with the treaty of 1804, of which we have spoken, to the west
						bank of the Mississippi. This caused a division in the tribe. Keokuk, the great peace
						chief of the Sacs, whose ascendancy and influence was rapidly overshadowing that of
						Black Hawk, favored the removal, and with a majority of the tribe withdrew to the Iowa
						River. Black Hawk, of course, took the opposite side to that of his rival, in which
						position he found not a few supporters.
					The site of their village at the mouth of Rock River was, as has been said, one of the
						most delightful spots in the northwest. Besides its natural advantages and the beauty of
						the scenery, the place was endeared to every heart by associations. For unnumbered years
						the dead of every family had been buried under the shadow of the stately forest trees.
						Every sorrow of the past was a tie which bound their hearts to the place. Every joy
						which they had experienced was associated in memory with this home. To leave the one
						seemed to be giving up the other. So Black Hawk entered a violent remonstrance against
						the proceedings of the whites, and refused to stir. He even went further. When a white
						man undertook to sell whisky to his people Black Hawk, with two or three companions,
						went to the house and rolled out the barrels. He then broke in the heads, and spilled
						the liquor on the ground.
					The difficulties increased with time. Black Hawk and his people, returning from their
						winter hunt, found their lodges occupied by white settlers, who claimed to have bought
						the land. To this Black Hawk replied, that his reason taught him that land could not be
						sold. In this remark of an ignorant savage, who spoke purely from instinct, there is
						food for reflection. If we open the works of the English philosopher, Mill,  we find him, after an elaborate induction, arriving at the
						same conclusion. The theory of our law says that the owner of land is entitled to the
						possession of it, and any one who enters thereon without his permission, does so without
						right, and is a trespasser. If this be true, he inquires, why then might not a small
						minority, say a million men, of enormous wealth, buy up every foot of land on the globe,
						and as to them every other man, woman, and child become trespassers, wrong-doers in the
						eye of the law, legally liable to be driven off the globe? The hand of the philosopher
						reaches down from the heights and grasps that of the savage extended upward from the
						depths.
					
						BLACK HAWK.
					
					But Black Hawk had another argument. He said that even if his land could be sold, it
						never had been. To these arguments, one or the other of which every fair man will say
						was true, the United States had but a single reply. That reply consisted of one
							word—"MOVE!" The squaws had planted their corn, and it was
						beginning to grow. The white men deliberately plowed it up. Black Hawk told the settlers
						that they must get off of his land. At this the governor of Illinois pronounced the
						territory to be in a state of "actual invasion." Seven hundred troops started up the
						river to "remove the Indians, dead or alive, to the west side of the Mississippi."
					
					A council was held at Fort Armstrong. Black Hawk was present. He heard the demands of
						the white man. After listening patiently, he rose and made the usual reply, that his
						lands could not be and never had been sold. At the close of his speech, General Gaines
						inquired "Who is Black Hawk? Is he a chief? By what right does he appear in council?" To
						this insult, which meant that the United States refused to recognize any other chief
						among the Sacs than Keokuk, who was present to witness the humiliation of his rival, no
						reply was made. With quivering features, Black Hawk arose, gathered his blanket around
						him, and stalked in silence from the council-hall. On the following morning he was again
						in his seat. When the council opened he arose, and with biting emphasis said: "My
						father, you inquired yesterday 'Who is Black Hawk? Why does he sit among the chiefs?' I
						will tell you who I am. I am a Sac. My father was a Sac. I am a warrior. So was my
						father. Ask those young men who have followed me to battle, and they will tell you who
						Black Hawk is. Provoke our people to war, and you will learn who Black Hawk is."
					Matters were at a dead lock concerning the removal of the Indians. Seven hundred
						militia-men were on the ground. On the 25th of June, being in the year 1831, sixteen
						hundred mounted re-enforcements arrived. This was the key to the lock. That night Black
						Hawk and his braves, with their women and children, fled from the village which their
						fathers had built, without the firing of a gun. In the morning they were seen on the
						west bank of the Mississippi. Above them floated a white flag. This occurrence was
						heralded through the country as "a great victory over General Black Hawk."
					New troubles awaited the exiles. It was too late in the season for them to plant corn
						and beans a second time. This, however, did not do away with the necessity for them. One
						night some of the warriors, heartsick at the cries of the women and children for food,
						crossed the river, as Black Hawk says,  "to steal
						roasting-ears from their own fields." They were fired upon by the whites, and foiled in
						their efforts. This was rubbing salt in fresh wounds.
					The condition of the Indians was miserable. The Winnebagoes, occupying what is now the
						state of Wisconsin, seeing the distresses of their friends, invited Black Hawk, in the
						Spring of 1832, to bring his people to their country, and raise a crop of beans and
						corn. The old chief, overwhelmed with trouble, fearful lest his followers would desert
						to Keokuk, of whose prosperity and fortune he was intensely jealous, found himself
						looked to by his people to extricate them from their troubles. He had never been a man
						of great resources, and, besides this, was now overtaken by age and disappointment. Not
						knowing what better to do, he accepted the invitation, placed his women and children in
						canoes, and with his warriors armed and mounted, started up the Mississippi.
					Having, in the early part of April, reached a point opposite their old home at the
						mouth of Rock River, they, perhaps rashly, but certainly without any wicked or hostile
						intent, crossed to the east side of the Mississippi, with the avowed purpose of
						ascending Rock River to the villages of the Winnebagoes. They had proceeded up Rock
						River but a short distance when General Atkinson, the commandant at Fort Armstrong, sent
						a messenger after Black Hawk, ordering him to return. The old chief refused to obey,
						explaining that he was going to visit the Winnebagoes on their invitation, and raise a
						crop of corn with them. A second messenger brought a repetition of the order, with a
						threat that unless they obeyed peaceably they would be pursued and forced to return. At
						this point Black Hawk also found that the Winnebagoes did not desire his presence in
						their country if it would involve them in hostilities with the United States. He
						resolved, therefore, that if pursued he would return peaceably to the western side of
						the Mississippi. With true Indian dilatoriness, he stopped to compliment some visiting
						chiefs with a dog feast. He was engaged in the preparation for this, when  he was informed that a large army had approached within
						eight miles of his camp.
					Three young Indians were at once sent out with a flag of truce, to ask for a council
						and arrange for a peaceable retreat. These messengers were deliberately taken prisoners
						by the whites. Finding that they did not return, Black Hawk sent out five others to
						learn what was the matter. These were pursued by twenty horsemen, and two of them
						killed. At the time of the army's approach, Black Hawk had with him only forty warriors,
						whom he concealed in ambush. The rest were ten miles away. When the troops approached,
						the Indians fired, and the soldiers fled in a panic. In the reports of this defeat, the
						Indian force was gravely asserted to have exceeded fifteen hundred men. All the
						blankets, provisions, and camp equipage of the Americans fell into Black Hawk's
						hands.
					The old chief, elated by his victory, and encouraged by re-enforcements, as well as
						enraged at the murder of the bearers of his flags of truce, resolved to fight rather
						than retreat beyond the Mississippi. A bloody border war followed. Farm houses were
						attacked, horses stolen, and settlers murdered as usual. In the early engagements of the
						war, the Indians had the advantage. When the whole force of the American army, exceeding
						twenty-five hundred men, became available for the conflict, the tide began to turn.
						Black Hawk and his people commenced a retreat toward the Wisconsin River. The army was
						in full pursuit. The members of Black Hawk's band were reduced to a diet of roots and
						horseflesh. Many of them died of actual starvation, and their corpses were found by
						their pursuers strewn along the pathway of their flight. Reaching the Wisconsin River,
						the women and children were embarked upon hastily constructed rafts, for a descent
						toward the Mississippi. On the voyage these helpless people were attacked by troops
						stationed on shore, some killed, some drowned, and some captured. Of those who escaped
						to the woods, the majority perished from starvation.
					Meanwhile Black Hawk and the rest of his band struck out 
						directly across the country toward the Mississippi. Many, weakened by hunger, succumbed
						to the hardships of the way. A part of the women and children were embarked in canoes as
						soon as the river was reached. Some of these vessels upset in the river, and their
						occupants sank beneath the waves. On the 1st of August, while the remainder of the
						Indians were waiting for transportation, they were overtaken and attacked by the troops.
						Black Hawk again sent forward a messenger with a flag of truce, who was fired upon and
						killed. Not less than one hundred and fifty Indians, nearly half the entire force, were
						killed in the action. Black Hawk, with the remainder, jumped into the river, attempting
						to swim to the opposite shore.
					During the battle a young squaw with a child in her arms was shot in the breast, and
						fell covering the child with her body. When the soldiers came up, they heard the cries
						of the child, and, running to the spot, removed it from beneath the corpse of its
						mother. One arm of the infant was amputated, and the child afterwards recovered. Among
						the women who sprang into the river was a squaw with an infant wrapped in a blanket,
						which she carried in her teeth. The mother seized the tail of a horse which was swimming
						across, and in this way reached the opposite shore in safety.
					Though Black Hawk escaped alive from this battle, he did not long avoid the toils of
						his enemies. His followers deserted him one by one, and he was at last betrayed and
						captured, through the treachery of two Winnebagoes. He was at once removed to Jefferson
						Barracks, below St. Louis, and there confined and forced to wear a ball and chain. The
						winter was gloomy enough to the old chief.
					Among those who had been captured with him was a young warrior or chief named Naopope.
						An artist visited the Indians in prison, and sought to paint the likeness of Naopope.
						"Paint me as I am," thundered Cromwell, when an artist sought to hide the hideous warts
						and blemishes, which disfigured the countenance of the Protector of England. "Make me
						so, and show  me as I am to the great father," cried
						Naopope to his portrait painter, seizing the ball and chain that were fastened to his
						leg, and raising them on high. When the artist refused to do this the Indian distorted
						his face with incessant grimaces, and prevented his picture from being taken. Such was
						the unconquerable spirit of this poor manacled captive in the dungeon of Jefferson
						Barracks.
					In the following spring Black Hawk was taken to Washington City. When confronted by
						President Jackson, the old Indian bluntly remarked, "I am a man and you are only
						another." God and the savage are no respecters of persons. When told that he would be
						liberated, Black Hawk said: "Brother, I have come on my own part and in behalf of my
						companions to bid you farewell. Our great father has at length been pleased to permit us
						to return to our hunting grounds. We have buried the tomahawk, and the sound of the
						rifle will hereafter only bring death to the deer and the buffalo. Brother, you have
						treated the red men very kindly. Your squaws have made them presents, and you have given
						them plenty to eat and drink. The memory of your friendship will remain till the Great
						Spirit says it is time for Black Hawk to sing his death-song. Brother, your houses are
						as numerous as the leaves upon the trees, and your young warriors like the sands upon
						the shore of the big lake that rolls before us. The red man has but few houses and few
						warriors, but the red man has a heart that throbs as warmly as the heart of his white
						brother. The Great Spirit has given us our hunting grounds, and the skin of the deer
						which we kill there is his favorite, for its color is white, and this is the emblem of
						peace. This hunting-dress and these feathers of the eagle are white. Accept them, my
						brother; I have given one like this to the White Otter. Accept of it as a memorial of
						Black Hawk. When he is far away this will serve to remind you of him. May the Great
						Spirit bless you and your children. Farewell."
					Black Hawk and his companions were taken to Baltimore, 
						Philadelphia, New York, and all the eastern cities before their return. Everywhere great
						multitudes thronged to see the great "General Black Hawk." Extensive military displays
						were made to impress the savages with the power of the United States. The crowning
						feature of Black Hawk's humiliation was, however, yet to come. He was to be formally
						liberated, but was also to be degraded and removed from his office of chief of the Sacs,
						among whom henceforth his life-long enemy and rival, Keokuk, was to be alone
						acknowledged as chief. The spot where the ceremony was to be performed was Fort
						Armstrong, on the site of the old Sac village. "This was the favorite island of the
						Indians—in former years abundant in fruits and flowers, and from time immemorial
						the fancied abode of a good spirit, who watched over their village and protected their
						hunting grounds. No spot could have been selected calculated to awaken so many painful
						associations in the mind of Black Hawk as Rock Island. For half a century it had been
						the witness of his power and influence; it was now to become the scene of his disgrace
						and reluctant submission to a rival."
					On arriving at Fort Armstrong, runners were sent out summoning the Indians from far and
						wide to attend the strange ceremony. They came by scores and hundreds, both from the
						Sacs and all the neighboring tribes, who remembered the fame of Black Hawk, and were now
						curious to witness his infamy. Chief of all the arrivals was that of the princely
						Keokuk. He ascended the Mississippi reclining in two canoes, lashed side by side, and
						covered with a canopy. Handsome decorations covered the vessels. Near the chief sat his
						three wives. Following him came a long line of canoes, filled with his people. Each
						brave was painted in the most elaborate style, and equipped with all the panoply of war.
						At high noon the great Keokuk, with stately step and lofty bearing, disembarked amid the
						rattle of scores of Indian drums, and the shouts and songs of his people. It was indeed
						a triumph.
					The afternoon and evening were devoted to games and 
						dances. From all the gay assembly Black Hawk alone remained apart in solitude. He might
						have been seen, crouched in the corner of his room in the fort, his face buried in his
						hands, and his soul given over to grief and gloom.
					
						KEOKUK.
					
					On the following day the grand council was assembled. Keokuk and a hundred gaudily
						attired warriors were given the posts of honor. Presently Black Hawk and his son,
						unattended, entered the room with an air of profound dejection, and timidly took an
						obscure seat. They had protested strongly against this unnecessary ceremony of disgrace,
						and came filled with the deepest mortification. For a time profound silence reigned.
						Then Major Garland arose and made a lengthy speech. He concluded by saying, that he
						wished it distinctly understood by all persons, that hereafter their great father, the
						President, would receive and acknowledge Keokuk alone as the chief of the Sac and Fox
						nation; that Black Hawk must listen and conform to his counsels, and that the band of
						Black Hawk must be henceforth merged in that of Keokuk.
					There was a moment of silence, in which the features of the  old chief were seen to twitch with uncontrollable emotion. Then, springing
						to his feet, he exclaimed, in a voice trembling with futile rage: "I am a man—an
						old man. I will not conform to the counsels of any one. I will act for myself—no
						one shall govern me. I am old—my hair is gray—I once gave counsels to my
						young men. Am I now to conform to others? I shall soon go to the Great Spirit, when I
						shall be at rest. What I said to our great father at Washington, I say again—I
						will always listen to him. I am done." This speech was the cry of defeat, the lament of
						the fallen chieftain.
					Major Garland attempted to make explanations, to the effect that he had only requested him to listen to the counsels of Keokuk. To this he made no
						reply, but, drawing his blanket around him, sat in moody silence. At last Keokuk rose,
						came to him, and talked for awhile in a low tone. The words of the wily Keokuk were not
						without their effect. Before the council ended Black Hawk rose and said that it was his
						wish, if his speech had been put upon paper, that a line might be drawn through it. He
						did not mean what he said. This was the last drop of gall in the cup of bitterness.
					During the remainder of his life Black Hawk, with a few old braves, who, having
						followed him in prosperity, did not desert him in adversity, lived at a point on a small
						stream called Devil Creek, isolated from his tribe. It was the attempt of the fallen
						chief to hide his disgrace. He never ceased to recall his happy life on Rock River. "I
						liked my towns, my cornfields, and the home of my people," he would say to the white men
						who visited him. "I fought for it. I did, wrong, perhaps; but that is past—let it
						be forgotten. The country which was mine is now yours. Keep it as we did—it will
						produce you good crops." He attributed all his misfortunes to Keokuk, and never ceased
						to regret that he had been led into armed resistance to the United States. He died in
						1838, being about seventy-two years old. His old age was given over to sorrowful
						melancholy. Death was indeed to him a welcome guest.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVI.
						THE HISTORY OF KIT CARSON.
					THE genius for pioneering is born in a man, just as the genius for
						debate or for war. It runs in families, and is handed down from father to son. It is
						that strange spirit of unrest which dissatisfies some men with their civilized
						surroundings, and impels them toward the wilderness. There they are happy, fighting the
						savage, shooting the buffalo, and struggling with nature in her fiercest aspect. When
						the tide of emigration sets in their direction, and society assumes a somewhat settled
						state, these bold men give a pull at their throat bands as if suffocated, and resolutely
						set their faces toward the west, to seek out a location where the spice of adventure and
						danger gives a wild variety to life.
					Such was the Carson family, of Kentucky, to whom was born, on December 24, 1809, their
						son Christopher, or, as he is widely known, "Kit." At this time Kentucky society began
						to assume a state, wild and rough, we would think, but to the Carsons dull and
						monotonous. Affrays with Indians happened only once in a year or two. In 1810, none of
						Mr. Carson's neighbors had been scalped since Kit was born. When he went out for a hunt,
						he could no longer hope to be treed all night by a bear. All this was a bore; and it
						bore on his mind so that, when Kit was a year old, the family sold out their scraggy
						farm, said good-bye to their nearest neighbors, five miles off, and with hearts lighter
						than for several years, set out for what is now  central
						Missouri. Here they found no end of exciting adventure. They and a few neighbors lived
						together in a rough log fort, in order to be safe from the Indians. In laying out and
						working their farms outside the log inclosure, it was necessary for a part of them to
						act as guards, posted at the extremities of the fields, to give instant warning of the
						approach of redskins, and signal a retreat to the fort.
					Amid such scenes were passed the boyhood days of Kit Carson. When he reached the age of
						sixteen, his father, good man, being determined that his son Kit should not lead such a
						roving life as he himself had led, apprenticed Christopher to a harness-maker. But the
						master could make no harness strong enough to hitch the soaring spirit of Kit Carson to
						a trade. The restless love of freedom and appetite for adventure which belonged to the
						father, were intensified in the son, and in 1826 he broke away from the restraint, by
						joining a party whose journey took them eight hundred miles across the plains, to Santa
						Fé, New Mexico.
					Though young, and destitute of the necessary equipment, not even owning a gun, nor
						being able, by the utmost exertions as teamster and guide, to do more than earn the food
						he ate, his purpose was made up to be a hunter and trapper. In April, 1829, he was
						selected as a member of a party of forty men, under the leadership of Ewing Young,
						organized at Taos, New Mexico, for the double purpose of chastising a tribe of Indians,
						who had been on the war-path and driven a party of Young's trappers out of the country,
						and also for pursuing the lucrative occupation of trapping beaver. The real purpose of
						the expedition was carefully concealed from the Mexican authorities, and after a brisk
						and secret advance, they came suddenly upon the band of Navajoe braves, which had
						massacred their friends. Preparations for the fight were quickly made on both sides.
						Part of the whites advanced stealthily, to lie in ambush behind some rook which lay a
						little to the side and nearly midway between the main combatants. Not seeing this
						movement, the  Indians charged on the remainder of the
						party, and, as they came in front of the ambush, were suddenly assailed by a murderous
						cross-fire. Fifteen braves fell heavily from their horses, killed by the first fire; the
						remainder, pursued by the trappers, fled in all directions.
					After this fight it was decided that the party should divide, only eighteen of them
						continuing to the valley of the Sacramento in California. Of this detachment Carson was
						a member. Learning from some friendly Indians that the country through which their path
						lay, and which had never before been explored by white men, was destitute, alike, of
						game and water, the meat of three deer was prepared to take with them, and the skins of
						the animals were converted into water tanks. A week was passed with this meager supply
						of water for eighteen men and a large number of horses. For food an old mare was killed
						on the fifth day and devoured with great gusto. About the seventh day they reached the
						dry bed of one of those singular rivers, which suddenly sink out of sight and reappear
						at the distance of hundreds of miles after an underground course, probably, through
						quicksand. The channel is usually defined on the surface, and, though dry, delicious
						water is easily had by scooping a hole of a few feet in the sand. After this their path
						lay through a beautiful country, abounding in water and forage, elk, deer, and antelope
						of the finest varieties. The men were elated with what seemed a good omen of the success
						which awaited them in their trapping.
					When at last the Sacramento River was reached the men began to keep a sharp lookout for
						"signs" of beaver. The presence of them in great abundance caused a thrill of joy to the
						trappers. The significance of this word "signs" is very great as the trappers use it.
						The cunning beaver can seldom be seen on the bank or in the river, for he has no great
						means of defense when attacked, and relies on his exquisite sight and hearing to warn
						him of danger in time for retreat. The marks he leaves behind him, however, are to the
						expert eye as legible  as the words on this page. The
						beaver's unequaled industry in felling large trees, cutting twigs, peeling off the
						tender cuticle of the willow bushes, digging away the banks, and carrying the earth on
						his shovel-shaped tail to his dam, and the innumerable footprints which he leaves, are a
						part of these "signs." The little twig, half denuded of its bark, floating down stream,
						unnoticed by any but the keen-eyed trapper, reveals to him by its freshness the
						proximity of the prize more than the great dam, which to a greenhorn would seem a
						splendid indication of its builder's presence, because the dam is probably an old and
						abandoned one.
					The beaver's dam, a wonderful structure, is built by him to provide him with food in
						the winter, when every thing above the water is dry and sapless. "He chooses a place
						favorable for obtaining food, and also where his labors will be assisted by natural
						formations or accidents in the river's course. Having carefully selected his location,
						he and his fellows set to work to fell giant trees. While one party is cutting the hard
						wood on one side of the tree with their sharp teeth, another works on the opposite side,
						the incision on the side on which they want the tree to fall being made, with the skill
						of the true forester, much lower than the other, which is made to slant downward to the
						first. By this sort of craft the largest trees are made to fall into and across the
						stream. When it has fallen the leaves and small branches are at once woven into a close
						network, adapted to catching floating débris, and to receiving the
						earth which they throw on by the tail load. Several trees are felled in this way, till
						as many are down as is desired. Then comes the mud-work, in which Mr. Beaver is an
						artist. A large gang march to the bank, load each others' tails, and swim, with their
						cargoes elevated above the water, to the dumping-spot, where they at once mould it to
						its place."
					Their houses they have previously built on the banks. They consist of large and airy
						subterranean rooms, above the watermark. In these houses, trappers say, they live in
						pairs, and  much resemble human beings in the arrangement
						and management of their household affairs, Madame Beaver having the ruling voice in
						domestic and internal arrangements, while the outside work of building dams and
						providing food is the more especial business of Monsieur. To this end he builds his dam,
						the deep water preserving fresh and tender the leaves and shrubs on which his family
						must subsist during the winter. Some say he goes so far as to bundle up small branches
						of trees and willows, which he stows away in the muddy bottom of the river. Trapper
						yarns have it that beaver society is regularly organized, there being chiefs, some of
						whom roll in wealth and have troops of slaves ready to do instant service, such as bring
						a fresh bundle of green twigs for dinner from the river bottom.
					The signs having been discovered, the trappers selected a comfortable location for
						their camp, and part of them started out to set traps, while the remainder kept guard
						and did the cooking. The trap is much like the ordinary steel trap used for catching
						foxes or wolves, only somewhat smaller. It is baited with a peculiar animal substance of
						strong scent, which draws the beaver from his hiding-place, and so excites his appetite
						as to induce him before long to reach in his paw, when in an instant he is a prisoner.
						The traps, when visited, are emptied and reset. The game is killed and skinned, the
						pelts dried and cured in camp, and packed in bales for loading on the mules. The
						Sacramento region proved to be a splendid field for operations, and great was the
						success.
					While in camp here the party were applied to by the priest of the mission of San Räfael
						for help in capturing some Indians belonging to his mission, who had stolen some of his
						property and deserted to a hostile Indian village, which refused to give them up. Carson
						and a dozen companions, ready for any fun, offered their services, and attacked the
						Indian village, killing one-third of its population, capturing the deserters, and with
						them the stolen property. For this they refused all compensation, but the priest secured
						them a good purchaser for their furs.
					
					One night, when unsuspicious of danger, the camp lost sixty of their horses, which were
						driven off by a party of redskins. Carson was ordered to pick a dozen companions, and
						with the remaining thirteen horses give chase. After a break-neck ride of a hundred
						miles toward the mountains, they suddenly came upon the savages, who were sitting around
						their camp-fires feasting on six of the horses, which they had killed for that purpose.
						Enraged beyond measure at the sight, the trappers charged the camp with a yell, killing
						eight savages in the twinkling of an eye, while the rest escaped. When Carson returned
						with all the horses except the six which had been killed, he was voted a hero. Yet he
						was only twenty years old, and this was his first expedition. Here it was, too, that he
						laid the foundation of his fame as a hunter, in which regard he afterward acquired a
						reputation unequaled by any man in the Rocky Mountains. His companions say he was
						exceedingly modest, and of a refined and gentle nature, which contrasted strangely with
						his wild profession. He was only five feet and a half high, agile but rather slight in
						build, possessing a gray eye and light brown hair. He talked little, and was remarkably
						cautious in exposing himself, always sleeping where the glare of the camp-fire did not
						fall on him, and carefully loading gun and pistols before retiring.
					In September the party, well laden with valuable furs, turned their faces homeward. On
						their way, passing through a Mexican town, the men, in true trapper style, feeling the
						object of the trip largely accomplished, succumbed to the seductive influences of the
						whisky on sale there, as well as to the winsome familiarities of the Mexican maiden.
						Carson, however, carefully avoided such indulgences, and exerted himself to get the
						party out of town.
					On the day after leaving the place, while the trappers' heads were still heavy and
						aching from the debauch, Carson discovered a band of five hundred Indians approaching.
						The men were at the moment in camp. The Indians halted, made friendly  signs, and in a few moments two of their number came into
						the trappers' camp, eying things with great curiosity. Shortly a few more braves
						sauntered in, and then still more, until enough were present to overwhelm the little
						band of whites if a struggle ensued. At this moment Mr. Young discovered that the
						Indians, instead of being unarmed, had their weapons concealed in their garments. It was
						evidently their intention to massacre the entire party, and make off with the booty.
						Young whispered his discovery with blanched lips to Carson.
					The moment was critical. But in these trying moments Carson's genius never failed to
						equal the emergency. Quickly calling his men to his side, he ordered each man to cover a
						savage with his gun. Taken completely by surprise, the intruders began to retreat from
						the row of deadly rifles. "Leave the camp!" said Carson, in a clear-cut tone. "If you
						refuse, each one of us will kill our man, even if we at last are killed ourselves." The
						effect was electric. Death, with blood-shot eyeballs, stared them out of countenance,
						and with a bound the red murderers cleared the camp.
					A week or two after this, the trappers ran across a band of Indians which had annoyed
						them on their outbound trip. The "lex talionis" of Moses and the
						Israelites is the only possible law for the wanderers in any wilderness. Stealing
						quickly upon the group of huts, the whites were upon their foes almost as soon as
						discovered. A noble warrior sank to rise no more at each crack of the trappers' rifles,
						and in a few moments the rout became complete. A very nice herd of horses and mules, the
						only thing of value in the village, was captured by this stroke.
					That night the trappers settled down around their camp-fire for a comfortable sleep,
						after the day's exertion. Some mention was made about the probability of a return of the
						redskins, and two of the most vigilant were appointed to keep watch, one before
						midnight, the other after. Shortly after the change of sentry at midnight, the man on
						watch became aware of a dark body moving in the darkness over the prairie in the 
							CARSON AND THE TRAPPERS IN CAMP.
						
						 direction of the camp. It was but the work of a moment to
						arouse the men, who, with rifles grasped and pistols cocked, were instantly on the
						alert. Carson slipped out to reconnoitre, and returning reported a large herd of horses
						driven by a few Indians, who had probably stolen them. Without any over-nice honesty, a
						volley of rifle-balls was directed toward the astonished Indians, who fled in great
						precipitation, leaving their property, the second capture of the day, to the trappers.
						On the following morning the best of the herd were selected for use; two of the fattest
						animals were killed for food, and the remainder turned loose on the prairie, to rejoice
						once more in the wild liberty of their sires.
					In April, 1830, just a year after its departure, the expedition found itself once more
						among the group of huts which was dignified by the name of Taos. The proceeds of the
						trip were twenty-four thousand dollars, which soon found its way into the pockets of the
						men, and then found its way out again, for the trapper after his trip is like the sailor
						home from his voyage. It was the chief care of each man to get on a profound,
						inglorious, and terrible drunk, which only ended with his money. On this occasion Carson
						yielded somewhat to the demoralizing atmosphere, but it was his first and last spree.
						Nature seemed to have made him a gentleman in spite of his rough surroundings.
						Refinement is a quality of the mind. Wealth and luxury only sharpen the outline of
						vulgarity. The frontier cabin of the trapper, where a woman was seldom seen, and the
						softening influence of children was unknown; over which the great and jagged Rockies
						flung the chilly shadows of an early sunset, and where the brutal savages, instead of
						turning toward the light of civilization, rather drew the pioneer down into their own
						gloom and brutality—this frontier cabin only served to throw into bolder relief
						the character of the GENTLEMAN.
					It was in the autumn of 1830 that Kit Carson enlisted for his second trapping
						expedition. He was greatly sought after for this purpose by the organizers of trapping
						parties. The party joined by Carson passed the winter in quarters on  Salmon River, and began their real work with the season of
						1831, along Snake River, on which are the famous Shoshonee Falls, more than one third
						higher than Niagara. Meeting another party of trappers, Carson learned that Captain
						Gaunt, an old mountaineer, with a small company, were ten days' journey to the south. He
						and four companions resolved, for a change, to join Gaunt, and after a rapid journey
						were cordially welcomed by him.
					The time for going into winter quarters was at hand. This was always looked forward to
						with interest, as it marked a great change in the trapper's mode of life. No longer did
						he gallop with free rein over the flower-embroidered prairie; no longer select his spot
						for the evening camp-fire, and, while the game, brought down by his own expert hand, was
						steaming over the coals, and flinging its savory odor upon the breeze, busy himself with
						baiting and setting his traps at the water's edge; and after a dash in the cooling
						current, feast upon the tempting meal; then with his saddle for a pillow, his blanket
						for a bed, and the star-fretted sky for a canopy, sink to sleep, as the dying embers
						threw their fitful flashes more and more dimly into the surrounding forest.
					All this was changed. His home, when in winter quarters, was a conical tent of dressed
						buffalo skins, supported on a framework of light poles, spread out in a circle at the
						bottom, and crossed near the top, where they were held by being thrust through the
						opening in the buffalo skins. These were sewed tightly into the shape of a cone, except
						one straight seam, which was fastened by a lacing to within four or five feet of the
						ground. The opening thus left was the door, over which a buffalo skin was tightly
						stretched. The bottom of the tent was securely fastened to the ground by wooden pins. In
						the center of this tent, which is about eighteen feet in diameter, and fifteen feet
						high, he had his fire, the smoke from which, in theory, was to escape by the opening
						above, but, in fact, filled the apartment.
					In here the men passed their days and nights, except when  they went out to attend to their horses. Early in the winter the snow fell to the
						depth of six feet, and removed not till the spring. Water for the shaggy Indian ponies
						had to be obtained from the river through a hole chopped in the ice. These hardy beasts
						had no shelter except such as was afforded by an overhanging rock, and some forest
						trees. To obtain food for them was a serious task. It had to be done by cutting down
						cottonwood trees, and gathering the bark and branches for fodder. But the ponies stood
						it as well as the men, who thought themselves comfortable and happy in their warm
						buffalo tent. Here they slept and smoked, told stories and cooked meals, dressed their
						skins, or ornamented their saddles.
					Not a small part of their time did they spend over that magic annihilator of time and
						surroundings—a pack of cards! The man who held the ace of trumps never failed to
						be regarded as a marvelously lucky fellow, and the fellow with two bowers and a queen,
						as little short of a hero! We may smile at these little details of the trapper's life,
						but it is more fitting that a tear should fall, for these are the men, some of whom are
						known to world-wide fame, as the hero of this chapter, but many of whom are unknown to
						history, and will be nameless for evermore—these are the men, "who," as reads our
						title-page, "by their valor and war-craft, beat back the savages from the borders of
						civilization, and gave the American forests to the plow and the sickle." All honor,
						then, to the brave pioneer, the fruit of whose toils and triumphs he beheld from afar
						off, while we alone have lived to enter into the land of promise!
					One cold January night, some Crow Indians succeeded in stealing nine horses from the
						camp. A dozen men, with Carson, of course, at their head, started in pursuit. At the end
						of forty miles their horses, weak from insufficient food, made a halt necessary, and
						they turned into a clump of woods. Here they unexpectedly found their enemies. Making
						fast their horses, and examining their guns, Carson directed the men to make a detour,
						so as to approach the savages from the direction in  which
						they least expected danger—that in which they traveled. To get close enough to
						reconnoiter, it was necessary to perform a large part of this journey crawling through
						the deep snow on hands and knees. In this way they were able to discover two rude forts,
						in which a large force of Indians were performing the war-dance. The nine horses were
						tied outside.
					To insure success the trappers, in spite of the bitter cold, lay concealed till the
						dance ended, and the last sleepy redskin snored solemnly in the darkness. Carson then
						slipped forward, cut the halters, and by means of snow-balls drove the horses away
						without noise. Having secured them, a division of opinion was found as to whether they
						should make an attack. Carson and two others strongly urged it, as otherwise they would
						be pursued, and probably have to fight anyhow under less favorable circumstances. The
						advice of Carson was followed, and they again neared the sleeping foe. A dog in the camp
						barked, and the warriors, springing to their feet, became marks for the deadly rifles of
						the pioneers. Those who survived the first fire hurriedly ran to the other fort. A
						desperate sortie was repulsed with the loss of several more. At daybreak the pioneers
						withdrew, mounted their horses, and by night rejoined their comrades at quarters on the
						Arkansas River.
					In the spring they cached their furs, and broke camp. Three weeks
						later, while on the South Platte, Carson and one companion were sent by Captain Gaunt in
						pursuit of two men who had deserted the party. Suspecting their design, Kit made for the
						furs in cache at the old camp. Three hundred pounds, belonging equally
						to the entire party, were missing, and the deserters, probably killed by the Indians,
						were never heard of afterward. Failing to recover the furs, Carson and his companion
						felt that a return to Gaunt's party was unwise and impracticable. They therefore
						repaired the old log fortification which had surrounded their buffalo tent the winter
						before, and, without venturing out of it much, managed to keep well supplied with game.
						Here the two men lived for a month, one of them always  on
						guard, anxiously looking for relief, which came at last. Gaunt had entirely given them
						up, fearing that they had attempted to return to him and had been killed by the Indians
						of the region, who were on the war-path.
					The journey to rejoin the main body of Gaunt's party proved exceedingly dangerous, even
						for the band of twenty-one veteran trappers. On several occasions a stampede occurred,
						by which they lost a horse or two. The stampede is accomplished by the Indians turning
						loose some wild horses, which are trained to dash at full speed through the camp of the
						white men. All the picketed horses, being greatly excited, attempt to follow, more or
						less succeeding in breaking loose, and rushing with their wild companions into an Indian
						lair, much as greenies fall a prey to the seductive wiles of the confidence man.
					One morning Carson took a trio of companions to cross a range and look for beaver.
						Their outward path was by a precipitous way directly across the mountain. But in the
						afternoon as they turned home a longer walk was found more practicable for the descent.
						As they were leisurely riding back to the camp there suddenly appeared in their path,
						directly in front of them, four powerful and splendidly mounted Indians, decked out in
						fantastic plumes and gayly colored paint, indicating unmistakably that they were on the
						war-path. The emergency demanded an immediate decision as to the best course to pursue.
						In all likelihood these warriors were only the advance guard of a large war party
						ambushed behind the rocks. To advance was dangerous, yet to retreat was to be pursued
						and almost certainly overtaken and killed. The three other men turned to Carson, who
						without a word dug his spurs deep into the sides of his mustang, and, closely followed
						by the others, dashed at full speed upon the astonished braves. In a moment sixty
						splendid warriors were discovered in ambush near the trail. Thick and fast flew their
						bullets. Kit and his three friends, throwing themselves as much as possible to the other
						side of their horses, dashed on without returning a shot. They were  running the gauntlet. In three minutes they would either be safe or for ever
						silent.
					At one point the copper-faced devils were within sixty feet of them. But in their
						surprise at the boldness of the trappers, their aim was unsteady, and in a few moments
						Carson had reached the camp, alive and unhurt. Two of his companions had received severe
						wounds, and on the following day, when the march was resumed, it was necessary to take
						two poles, let the ends rest on two trusty horses, and swing a buffalo robe in the
						center as a litter for the wounded men.
					When they reached Gaunt the hunt for beaver was found to have been unsuccessful, and
						the ill luck continued. Tired of going empty-handed, Kit Carson resolved to strike out
						and try it alone. Two companions volunteered to join him, in spite of the greatly
						increased danger of trapping with such a small party. After several months of great
						success, attained by the superior skill of Carson, they returned to Taos, and disposed
						of their furs at advantageous prices.
					The humdrum life in the mud huts of Taos was dull enough to poor Kit, with his fierce
						love of adventure, and thrusting away all notion of settling down after his two years of
						absence, he soon arranged to join a trading party. They had been out some weeks when
						they met another party of traders, commanded by Mr. Robidaux. Right gladly did they
						grasp each other's hands and interchange stories of their luck. The snow began to fall
						soon after the meeting, and the men took the hint to go into winter quarters. For the
						purposes of companionship and security the two parties arranged to encamp together.
					Again Carson began that wonderful life in the buffalo lodge of which we have spoken.
						Again, as the storm raged without, the men lay around the fire, in their warm but
						wind-shaken tent, and with many a yarn and jest drowned out the dreary roar of the
						tempest. On these occasions Carson was much less of a talker than the other fellows. He
						joined heartily in the laugh, but except when the talk took a practical turn, as to what
							 would have been the safest way to deal with the
						redskins on some occasion, or how a trapper who was lost, and without a gun, might
						manage, he rarely spoke. It was rather his forte to furnish the theme of conversation by
						some daring exploit of his own.
					Among Mr. Robidaux's company was a keen and shrewd California Indian, who was valued
						for his skill rather than esteemed for his trustworthiness. One morning six of the
						finest horses, worth two hundred dollars apiece, were missing, and this fellow as well.
						Illy able to thus lose the entire profits of his expedition, Robidaux asked Carson to
						attempt a reprisal. Kit, though prudent when only his own interests were at stake,
						shrank from no danger to help a friend. To help him on his perilous mission Carson
						determined to select a first class brave from a village of friendly Utahs near by. His
						choice was soon made, and the Utah seemed proud of the honor. Both were splendidly
						mounted, and quickly striking the trail of the flying thief, they dashed on their errand
						of vengeance. No man could follow a trail or read its characteristics more rapidly than
						Kit Carson, although still the youngest man of his party, being yet only twenty-three
						years old—"the boy," as the old trappers affectionately called him.
					Hardly for a moment was the rein drawn for the first hundred miles, and Kit felt
						confident of overtaking the treacherous rascal within two or three days. After a few
						hours' halt the first night, they were preparing to start again, when Carson's Indian
						companion affirmed that his horse had broken down and he could go no farther. That the
						noble animal was sick was evident, but Kit strongly suspected that it had been purposely
						made so. Should he turn back? The savage he pursued was an experienced and dangerous
						fighter, armed to the teeth, and no doubt desperate. Thinking only of his friend, the
						heroic fellow left his companion, and flew along the trail alone. Alone in the
						wilderness! Around him stretched the illimitable plains, bounded, to the eye, only by
						the gloomy Rockies, which from  afar could be seen lying
						in eternal and majestic repose. Not a sound broke the stillness of the morning but the
						rapid thud, thud of his horse's hoofs as they rose and fell in the snowy trail, with the
						regularity of a machine. Sometimes a thought of the brave mother whom he had left years
						before in the little Missouri clearing would force itself upward as his gallant steed
						bore him on to what might be death.
					
						CARSON KILLING THE HORSE-THIEF.
					
					He had left his companion about thirty miles to the rear when he discovered the chase.
						The pace of pursuer and  pursued became terrific. A
						spectator seeing those two figures, and wondering at the singular sight, would have seen
						the one behind gradually gaining on the other. Seeing this, the Indian began to make for
						some rocks behind which he could fire at his pursuer as he approached, and reload
						without exposure. The plan was good. It had almost succeeded. But behind him was the
						Hero of the Rockies. Without pausing an instant in his tremendous career, Carson unslung
						his rifle, and with the aim that never missed, shot his enemy through the heart, just as
						he turned behind the cover. At the same instant the other's gun went off, but in a wild
						direction. When Carson returned to the winter camp with the stolen horses he was greeted
						with a cheer. Not alone in that camp was the exploit talked over on many an evening; but
						borne in some mysterious manner through the wilderness, the story of the deed was the
						favorite theme around a hundred camp fires.
					Carson seemed to bear a charmed life. As on a previous occasion, he had left the main
						party and with three picked companions had undertaken a separate expedition. One night
						the little party had made their evening halt. They had been without meat for some days.
						Kit picked up his rifle and started out to look around. About a mile from the camp he
						was elated with the sight of some magnificent elk. Gaining the cover of some low,
						scraggy pine trees, he succeeded, by great care, in getting within gunshot of the prize.
						Without dwelling on his aim, he sped a bullet after the largest and fattest buck in the
						herd, and with one bound the noble creature fell dead with a fearful wound through his
						heart and lungs.
					Scarcely had the echoing ring of the shot died away, when Carson heard a terrific roar
						coming directly from the woods behind him. Turning instantly to discover its source,
						Carson saw two immense grizzly bears bounding towards him, their eyes blazing with
						anger, their white teeth glistening with rage and hunger, their forearms hung with huge
						bony claws with which to tear and mangle his flesh. Flinging down his empty  rifle, for which he would have given worlds, if the little
						leaden bullet in the heart of the elk had never left its barrel, he fairly flew over the
						ground in his race for the nearest tree. It was a goal for which life was the stake. He
						had just grasped a limb and swung upward as the infuriated beasts brushed its trunk. 
							CARSON ATTACKED BY GRIZZLIES.
						 It would be but a moment, however, till they would commence to climb the tree,
						an art in which they would succeed quite as well as Kit. Providentially a bear has a
						tender nose. With his glittering hunting knife Carson hacked off a serviceable little
							 club. When Messrs. Bruin began to ascend the trunk, in
						order to secure the evening meal, into which their imaginations had already transformed
						poor Kit, they received the compliment of smart raps on their lovely noses. With a
						mingled roar of rage and pain they quickly descended, only, as the agony wore off, to
						renew their ambitious toil.
					This drama of the gentlemen Bruin ascending, getting their snouts tickled, and letting
						go in their dreadful anguish, held the boards for several hours. They felt greatly
						injured. First, Carson had beaten them in the race, and they were conscience-smitten
						over a life of previous indulgence in the pleasures of the table, which had impaired
						their condition as racers. Then he had beaten them at their own pet game of climbing
						trees, and finally his undue familiarity with their noses was offensive. Again and again
						they tried to tear him out of the tree; again and again he drew the claret with his
						club. At last, in their disappointment and grief they sat down and had a regular cry,
						after which they gloomily slunk off into the forest, at a little time after which our
						hero felt safe in descending from his roost. It was well into the night when he reached
						his alarmed companions. The story had to take the place of a supper. Long before morning
						the body of the noble elk had become the prey of the ignoble wolves.
					In July Carson, for the first time, attended the summer rendezvous on Green River, at
						which all the traders and trappers out in the mountains met for purposes of trade and
						barter. It was a characteristic scene in the pioneer's life. Not a trader's pack was
						opened until all the parties known to be in the mountains had arrived. The lodges were
						struck in convenient spots, and around the roaring camp-fires the lonely trapper passed
						the happiest part of the year. The rendezvous was a sort of a fair. There were annually
						gathered together two or three hundred white men, and not a few Indians. It was the time
						for the exchange of yarns and experiences, for gambling and horse racing, for quarrels
						and fights, as well as for barter.
					
					
						ENCOUNTER BETWEEN CARSON AND SHUNAN.
					
					Among the crowd was a swaggering, bullying Frenchman, named Shunan, who had whipped two
						men under his size in one day, and boasted that he "could lick all the Americans in the
						mountains." He had rather cowed the men, and as no one else seemed disposed to stop his
						insults, Carson quietly determined to make it his own affair. Stepping up to the bully,
						who was twice his size, he said, in the presence of a crowd: "Shunan, there are a dozen
						men here who can whip you. Keep your mouth shut, or I will be under the necessity of
						killing you." According to the trapper code, both men went hurriedly to their  lodges, and, mounting their horses, prepared to fight. The
						crowd embraced every one on the ground. Shunan had his rifle; Carson, in the hurry, had
						picked up only a single-barreled horse pistol. The two men rode rapidly toward each
						other, until their horses' heads almost touched. Suddenly reining up, Carson said, "Are
						you looking for me?" "No," was the lying answer of the man, as he lifted his rifle to
						shoot. But, before he could fire, Carson had lodged a ball in Shunan's right forearm,
						disabling his antagonist and saving himself.
					Such is the code of the frontier. Where men have no law they become legislators
						themselves; where they have no judge, or jury, or executioner, they quickly fill all
						these functions themselves. Such is the demand of the mind for law and judgment, and
						such are its resources when thrown upon itself. These things are right. They are the
						beginnings of the mighty struggle for law, a struggle which, in proportion to its
						success, means the crushing out of barbarism, cruelty, violence, and injustice, and the
						uplifting of civilization and order, humanity and righteousness.
					Two months after the breaking up of the rendezvous, Carson's party suffered the usual
						theft of their horses by Indians, and as inevitably Kit and a dozen men started out in
						pursuit. On overtaking them the redskins made signs of friendship, and protested their
						innocent intentions. Each party laid down their arms, and marched to a point midway
						between, for a conference. The trappers stated promptly that "peace talk" must be
						preceded by the surrender of their horses. With much evasion, the Indians' chief offered
						to return five of the poorest horses, as all he could do. On hearing this, the trappers
						broke and ran for their guns. Kit and a man named Markhead, being in the lead, on the
						return, selected the two advance Indians for adversaries. Carson was about to fire at
						his man, when he suddenly saw Markhead examining the lock of his gun, while his foe had
						a rifle leveled at him. True to his nature, Kit fired at Markhead's adversary, killing
						him, thus saving Markhead,  but at imminent risk to
						himself. His own adversary took advantage of his opportunity to fire, but inflicted only
						a dangerous wound on Carson's shoulder. As their leader fell, several of the trappers
						sprang forward to bear him bleeding from the field.
					As darkness came on, the fighting ceased, and the men gathered in their camp. The cold
						was intense, but no fire could be lighted, as it would reveal their whereabouts to the
						savages. Disheartened by the misfortune of Carson, whose life-blood ebbed in crimson
						tide upon the spotless snow, they determined to retreat, and for the first time in his
						life Carson returned to his command without the horses of which he had gone in
						search.
					The fall hunt, this year, was unsuccessful, and Carson's party divided on Big Snake
						River, Kit's company of five men starting to Fort Hall. The country through which they
						traveled was barren, and their provisions were soon exhausted. For days they subsisted
						on a root which they found in small quantities. At last this disappeared. Then they bled
						their mules and drank the blood. This weakened the animals till it could be carried no
						further. The horrors of starvation confronted them. When they went supperless to sleep,
						the famished men in their dreams beheld the greatest abundance of game and food, but
						could not quite partake of it. Now the sleeper would behold a herd of elk; just as he
						had almost come within gunshot, the animals would mockingly bound away. Now, hungered
						from a long hunt, he sat by the fire watching the steaming mess in the camp kettle,
						when, just as it was ready for his watering mouth, the kettle turned over, and its
						savory contents were lost. Now he was putting to his mouth a rare bit of buffalo liver,
						when the cry of "Indians" made him jump for his gun, and snatched him away from the
						untasted morsel.
					In their extremity, a band of impoverished but friendly Indians were met, who, without
						any hope of recompense, divided their own too meager supplies with the famished whites,
						and by this kind help from the poorest of the poor, Carson was enabled to conduct his
						party to the hospitable fort. Here the  exhausted men
						recuperated rapidly, and in two weeks were eager to ascertain the truth of the stories
						of wonderful buffalo herds two hundred miles to the northeast, which were heard by them
						in their enforced inactivity.
					Every thing being in readiness, Carson and his men started out from their haven of
						safety, and two days brought them in sight of what the novice would at first view have
						thought a distant forest, but from which, at a great distance, could be heard a dull and
						thunderous roar. A nearer approach revealed a bellowing multitude of buffalo, so great
						that no man could number them. In every part of the vast herd were going on deadly
						combats between rival beasts. Over the combatants rose a dense cloud of dust, through
						which could be caught glimpses of the bloody conflict. Without delaying to watch the
						wonderful sight, the trappers rapidly skirted the herds, and directed their course
						toward a narrow valley or ravine, in which were to be had timber for the poles on which
						to dry the meat, and water for the horses. Long before day they were up, and a part of
						them had commenced driving one of the detached herds toward this valley. The stupid but
						timid buffalo headed for the fatal trap at a full gallop.
					Meanwhile the other men had carefully posted themselves at the other outlets of the
						valley. In a little while the "surround" was complete. Then with a yell each man dashed
						in and closed on the game. Desperately did the powerful creatures dash from side to side
						in frantic effort to escape. Some, in fact, broke through the corral,
						but in spite of this the slaughter was immense. Many of the buffalo, bewildered by the
						attacks on every side, almost stood still in the agony of their terror, and waited for
						their executioner. In less than ten minutes fifty of them had fallen to rise no more.
						Poles were then planted in the ground and strung with ropes of hide, on which the strips
						of meat were hung for curing in the sun. When sufficiently dried it was packed in bales.
						When all their horses were loaded, the slow march back to the fort was begun.
					
					Unknown to the trappers, their train had a constant escort from their sworn enemies,
						the Blackfeet Indians. No attack was made, however. At the fort the horses were placed
						in a fenced inclosure for protection, and a sentry placed on watch. One night the fellow
						on guard, perhaps a little the worse for liquor, saw two men approach the bars, let them
						down, and deliberately commence driving every horse out into the prairie. It never
						occurred to Mr. Guard that the Indians would come except in force, and his intelligent
						mind never doubted that the two men were his comrades, who had orders to take the horses
						outside for better pasturage. Thanking his lucky stars for the relief, he said nothing
						to his industrious friends, but curled down in a fence corner and went to sleep. In the
						morning it was found that the Blackfeet had, without firing a gun or losing a brave, run
						off every horse and mule belonging to the fort, and left the enraged trappers without an
						animal on which to make pursuit. It came near terminating even more seriously for poor
						Simmonds, the sentry. Several of the trappers in their rage threatened to kill him, and,
						by way of emphasis, put a few rifle shots through his fur hat as it rested on his own
						precious head.
					This little trick of their Blackfeet friends was not forgotten, when, in the following
						spring, a strong body of the trappers found themselves in proximity to the chief village
						of the nation. Kit Carson and a friend or two, after a careful reconnoiter, reported
						that there were signs of a hurried removal to be seen. Every heart in the company beat
						high with the excitement of approaching revenge, the darkest passion of human nature.
						Forty-three picked men, under the command of Carson, were detailed for the fight; the
						remaining fifty-five were to guard the valuable stores of the party, and advance slowly
						as a reserve. With a wild yell the trappers charged the village, killing a dozen braves
						in an instant. But the Indians were the children of a noble tribe, brave, strong,
						skillful, and well equipped. They quickly rallied, and commenced a bloody struggle,
						which lasted over three hours, an unusual time for Indian warfare. Every  man was concealed behind trees, rocks, or whatever could
						afford protection. Sometimes the same rock would afford cover for an Indian and a
						trapper. Neither could leave the place without being killed. For an hour the two men
						would seek to kill each other. At last, in a moment of negligence or unskillfulness, one
						of them would bite the dust.
					The trappers retained the advantage gained at the outset until the prolonged combat
						began to exhaust their ammunition. The sagacious redskins at once divined the cause of
						the slackened fire, and charged on their foes. The hand to hand engagement is the one in
						which individual skill and heroism develops its noblest examples. The trappers, by the
						use of their reddened knives and smoking pistols, again and again drove back their
						assailants, but at last were driven to a stubborn retreat. In executing this movement,
						the horse of a mountaineer named Cotton, who was at the extreme right of the field of
						battle, stumbled and fell, pinning his rider to the earth. Carson's keen eye, which
						incessantly swept the entire field, perceived the accident at the same time that a half
						dozen dusky warriors bounded forward to scalp the unfortunate man. Springing from his
						horse, with a rallying cry to his now scattered men, Carson ran toward his friend, and,
						taking aim as he ran, shot the foremost savage down. The trappers now came running from
						all directions at their commander's call, and the remaining five braves started for
						cover. Only two of them ever reached it. Cotton, with a little help, extricated himself
						from the painful situation in which his accident left him.
					Seing that Cotton was all right, Carson turned to look for his horse, and found that he
						had run away. It was no time or place to remain on foot. The savages might overtake him
						at any moment. Ready for any emergency, Kit mounted behind one of his comrades, and in
						this position waited till his runaway horse could be recaptured. When the reserve came
						up with its precious supplies of ammunition, the trappers prepared to make a final and
						crushing attack on the Indians. This last struggle 
						resulted in the disastrous defeat of the tribe, and so broke its power and spirit that
						for years the trappers and hunters pursued their occupation without molestation from the
						humbled Blackfeet.
					At the summer rendezvous Kit arranged to join a couple of traders who had planned an
						expedition into the Navajoe country. This tribe had attained a sort of red man's
						civilization, a thing which is perfectly possible. All civilizations are not alike. The
						Chinese civilization is the oldest on the globe, yet among the lower classes a rat is a
						great dainty at the dinner table; from twelve to twenty persons of all ages and either
						sex sleep huddled together in a single small room; a few cents constitute a day's wages.
						India has her cities and commerce; her religions older far than Christianity; her
						temples of marble, ivory, and gold, the architecture of which is unequaled on the globe;
						but in India are found fanatics who have held their right arms upward for twenty years,
						until the joints have become solid bone, covered with shriveled parchment, and the
						extended members can not be lowered. There is, too, a civilization in Russia, a
						civilization of fashion, aristocracy, and wealth, of colleges, of railroads, of
						libraries, and palaces. In Russia it was that her ruler employed the idle laborers in
						constructing, at untold cost, a magnificent winter palace made entirely of ice, and
						destined to melt away as the summer sun flung his radiance across its crystal towers;
						and it was the czar of all the Russias who by the stroke of his pen peacefully
						emancipated twenty million serfs. Yet in this same country, where the body is free, the
						mind is in chains. Torture and the executioner's ax paralyze not merely the tongue but
						the intellect as well. Worse than these penalties are those by which wise and good men,
						valuable members of society, are sent to the terrible mines of Siberia. There in the
						darkness alike of day and night they spend the remainder of their lives. College
						professors, scientists, and editors, treated worse than the blackest felons, toil on in
						these fearful abodes of torture, losing eyesight, hair, teeth, strength,  intelligence, until at last they drop their fetters and
						leap into the skeleton arms of Death. Yet Russia is civilized.
					
						THE RESCUE OF COTTON.
					
					So we say that though an Indian civilization might possess many elements strange and
						grotesque in our eyes, still it was a possibility. The Navajoes had something
						approaching it. They were wealthy, and fond of their possessions. Their customs were
						somewhat settled. They knew the art of weaving beautiful blankets, and manufacturing
						many other articles which commanded high prices. Carson and his fellow traders found a
							 ready market among them for their merchandise, and
						returned from their trip with large herds of splendid horses and mules, loaded down with
						valuable blankets and furs.
					For the next year or two Carson went ahead with his life of hunting and trapping. His
						character is in marked contrast with those of his companions. Carson was a kind-hearted,
						even-tempered, and intensely practical man. Though a sparing talker, he was one of those
						geniuses who perform every thing they undertake with skill, rapidity, and success. He
						had a remarkably smooth, well-balanced, and symmetrical nature, which was rare for a
						trapper, who was generally a dare-devil, crack-brained fellow, utterly reckless,
						erratic, and without stability of purpose. So far from making trapping and hunting his
						life-work, he had ordinarily followed a dozen different callings—now making
						Sunday-school speeches in the Eastern cities; now selling patent medicine in the
						malarial districts of the Middle States; now preaching to the Indians; and now a New
						Mexican desperado and cut-throat.
					This was just about the career of Williams, an old fellow who was with Carson at this
						time. He had translated the Bible into two Indian dialects. His irregular genius showed
						itself in an incident in a Mexican town. He was at the time a trader or shopkeeper
						there. One day some of his customers complained of his prices, and undertook to jew him
						down. Williams flew into a terrible rage. He blasphemed and abused them in the most
						horrible manner. Finally, springing on them like a tiger, he kicked them all out of his
						little booth or lodge; and, as if disgusted with the whole community, commenced throwing
						his goods and merchandise, helter-skelter, into the street, nor did he stop till his
						booth was entirely dismantled. Then with horrid curses, and his eyes ablaze with insane
						fury, he seized his rifle, and shaking the dust of the place from his feet, he angrily
						took himself off to the mountains.
					Another one of these eccentric characters, one who stood high in the trapper
						profession, was a fellow named Mitchell.  He had at one
						time acquired the notion of some wonderful gold mines being hidden away in the mountains
						of northern Texas. With the purpose of discovering them, he joined the Comanche nation,
						became one of their braves, married a pretty Indian squaw, and for some years was one of
						their leaders in battle, and a terror to their foes. Becoming convinced that the gold
						mines were myths, he made to his Comanche friends some plausible excuse for a temporary
						absence, and left them forever.
					Some years after that period of Carson's life of which we are now speaking, Mitchell
						made a trading trip into Kansas. It was the first time in many years that he had been in
						the States. Kansas was just in the convulsion of political passion which preceded the
						civil war. The free-soilers and pro-slavery men were carrying on a guerrilla warfare,
						each trying to drive the other out of the state. Farm-houses were burned; men were fired
						upon from thickets as they passed along the road; corpses were found in the forest with
						knives sticking in their hearts. All this seemed natural enough to Mitchell, with his
						frontier notions, but his trip was a business one. In his lonely life in the mountains,
						Mitchell had remained ignorant of all political issues. With the instinctive caution of
						the frontiersman, as well as from the natural reserve which he felt when among
						civilized(!) men, he avoided all conversation on political questions. Patriotism and
						suspicion at once spotted him as a dangerous man, and caused him to be avoided or
						treated with indifference and marked reserve. Once he was seen reading a newspaper with
						great interest. It was a fragment of an old New Orleans paper, bitterly pro-slavery. He
						was observed to put it carefully in his pocket. That night a masked company of
						free-soilers told him to leave town in six hours, or he would be killed. He left. The
						article he had been reading related to a new way of making hats, in which silk was
						substituted for beaver fur, and prophesying that the latter would be entirely
						supplanted!
					On another occasion he went into a store to buy a lot of powder and ball to take back
						with him. The storekeeper looked  suspiciously at him, and
						asked him where he came from. "None of yer business," said Mitchell. "What do you want
						with ammunition?" "To load my gun. What d' ye s'pose; did you think I wanted ter make
						bread of it?" This was enough for the storekeeper. With a triumphant glance at the
						bystanders he said, "I understand what you free-soilers want with ammunition, you dogs;
						you want to kill us. We want all we have ourselves." All this to the poor mountaineer,
						who considered every white man his "brother," was insupportable. Hastily finishing his
						business, he gave up a long contemplated trip to the eastern cities, and started back to
						New Mexico. A friend fell in with him on his return trip, and asked where he had
						been.
					"After being away for twenty years, I thought I would like to see the whites once more.
						But what I saw in Kansas disgusted me so I could go no further. They do nothing but get
						up war-parties against each other. I would rather be in an Indian country than in
						civilized Kansas."
					We have already hinted at a fact which, though its origin was thousands of miles away,
						in Europe, reached in its effect the lonely mountains of New Mexico, and robbed Kit
						Carson and his friends of their occupation. The increasing scarcity and high prices of
						the beaver fur had induced the hat manufacturers of Europe to look for a substitute. It
						was found in silk, which, though not so durable, presented an equally beautiful
						appearance in the "plug" hat. Thus the market for beaver fur was seriously affected. The
						prices fell with the demand, and the lonely mountaineer, like Othello, found "his
						occupation gone."
					This fact, sad enough for the poor trappers, is repeated at every step in the progress
						of civilization. Human invention is constantly destroying old trades and occupations. It
						makes a reaping machine, and both the men who use and the men who manufacture the
						"cradle" are thrown out of employment. It builds a railroad, and all the innkeepers, who
						had their clean little hostelries distributed along the roads, so that, after each day's
							 journey, the tired traveler might find lodging and
						refreshment for "man and beast," find their inns deserted and their business gone. It
						invents a loom, by which, with one boy to fill the shuttles, the work of twenty
						hand-weavers is done, and better done. It constructs an automatic air brake for the
						express train, and the brakesmen are discharged; the engineer does their work, and does
						it better. All this presents a great problem. In order to live, men must have work.
						Every year an increasing multitude complain, and not without reason, that there is less
						labor to do than formerly, and that their hands, though willing, can find no task. Idle
						classes are dangerous. They are brought into the world without asking their consent, and
						being here they demand, and rightly, too, that they shall have an opportunity to earn
						money and procure food. All this, we say, presents a great and serious question. So it
						was, when their trade was taken away, the trappers were grieved and angry. They felt
						like striking back, but whom should they hit? Deep in their sullen hearts they cursed
						the inventor of the silk hat. He was a dog, a devil, a brute!
					Kit to some extent shared these feelings, but he cheerfully sought another occupation.
						There was a trading-post called Bent's Fort. Here he was offered the position of hunter
						to the fort. It was the duty of the hunter to provide the daily supply of game, summer
						and winter, for the table of the fort. If he had bad luck in his hunting, the fellows at
						the fort were sure to be cross. If his provision lacked variety, they were likely to
						speak of it. Carson's great skill with his gun caused him to be sought after for this
						position. He accepted it, and held it for eight consecutive years. It is said that,
						during all these years, "not a single word of disagreement passed between him and his
						employers." This fact is a monument to Kit's expertness as a hunter.
					If any thing in the world will bring on a fuss, it is an insufficient meal. Kit's
						boarders were unfailingly provided for. He never returned empty handed. On these
						expeditions Kit  was mounted on his magnificent horse,
						"Apache." They knew and loved each other. Neither horse nor rider had an equal, as
						hunters, in the Rocky Mountains. During these years Kit's fame spread over the entire
						West. 
							CARSON AND HIS FAVORITE HORSE, "APACHE."
						 He was called the "Monarch of the Prairies," the "Nestor of New Mexico;" but
						the name he was most pleased with was, the "Hero of the Rockies." Among the lodges of
						the Arrapahoes, Cheyennes, and Comanches, Kit was an honored guest on many occasions.
						One reason for his remaining so quiet for eight years is found in his marriage with  an Indian girl, of whom he was passionately fond. It was
						his misfortune to lose his dusky bride by death, when they had only been married two
						years. To an infant daughter, however, were transferred the entire wealth of his
						affections. When of suitable age, he sent her to St. Louis, to receive every advantage
						which education could bestow. During this time Carson guided many emigrants across the
						Sierra Nevada Mountains, patiently helping their toiling ox-teams along the rocky
						roads.
					In 1842, Carson made a trip to the States. For the first time in sixteen years, he
						looked upon the home of his childhood. But Time had swept his unsparing hand over the
						place. The old log cabin, in the door of which Kit's mother had stood sixteen years
						before, waving her hand to her boy as he rode proudly away that sunny morning, was now a
						crumbling ruin. No light gleamed from its cheerless window. No loving arms were clasped
						convulsively around the wanderer's neck.
					The father and mother slept the sleep that knows no waking, beneath the foot of a
						lonely forest tree, and within hearing of the ceaseless murmur of the Missouri River.
						Brothers and sisters, too, were gone; some dead; some, impelled by the same restless
						spirit which made its home in the heart of Carson, were scattered abroad in the
						wildernesses of the West. None left! Staggered at this desolation, Carson sat down in
						the shadows of a double darkness—the darkness of the night without, and of the
						night within. And as the night-bird, wandering from its mate, uttered its lonely cry in
						the gloom of the forest, the strong man, sensible of his utter loneliness, gave way to
						the melancholy of the hour, and wept in the solitude as only men can weep.
					Shaking off these sad memories, Kit went to St. Louis, where he spent ten days. It was
						his first visit to a great city. The roar of the streets and bustle of excited throngs
						contrasted strangely with his life in the mountains. But he was no "greeny," ready to
						bite at the traps of the city sharpers. He visited the places of interest, investigated
						the methods of doing  business, and availed himself of his
						opportunities for acquiring information.
					But this trip had one momentous result. Carson became acquainted with Lieutenant John
						C. Fremont, who was just proceeding on his first journey of exploration. Fremont was
						greatly in need of an experienced pioneer to guide his party through the mountains, as
						well as give them the benefit of his experience as to means of subsistence and defense
						against Indians. Opportunely meeting Carson, he employed him, and thus Kit was
						introduced into a work which has made his name a household word throughout the republic.
						The object of the expedition was to survey the South Pass, in what we know as Wyoming
						Territory, and obtain the altitude of the highest peaks. Up to this time, America was
						profoundly ignorant of the West.
					The success of the expedition was complete. Carson had proven invaluable, for his
						hunting and trapping career had made him familiar with the entire West, from Mexico on
						the south to British America on the north. In the following years Fremont made his
						second exploring expedition, on behalf of the United States Government. As before, he
						made Carson his right-hand man. His object this time was to push his investigations
						westward from the Rockies to the Sierra Nevadas, there connect his work with the Pacific
						coast surveys, which had already been made, and thus lay a foundation for a survey and
						map of the entire West.
					This party had many thrilling adventures. After leaving the Rockies, and traveling many
						days across the barren plains, their provisions began to give out. The journey was
						longer, and game scarcer, than they expected. Before them lay the snowy Sierras; to
						attempt to cross them in the enfeebled condition of the party was perilous in the
						extreme. Behind, lay the plains they had just traversed; to retrace their steps was to
						starve long before they reached a point where supplies could be had. So it was that the
						only record of Fremont's second  expedition came near
						being the horrible hieroglyphics of bleaching skeletons, which are so often left by
						explorers, the fearful meaning of which is so readily understood.
					To attempt a crossing of the mountains was urged by Carson as the only alternative. It
						was resolved upon. Snow-shoes for the entire party were indispensable to traversing the
						whitened expanse, into the depths of which a man unshod would sink out of sight forever.
						Kit swiftly instructed the men how to make them, and then, with an advance party, pushed
						on to explore the route, and see if it was practicable to break a path for the animals.
						The distance was three leagues. Carson said if they could make that, the green valley of
						the Sacramento, with its splendid game and abounding forage, would open before the weary
						wanderers. It was a labor of fifteen days to beat and pack the snow with mallets for the
						passage of the mules. But in this time, most of the animals had died. In the extremity
						of the situation; the famished beasts ate each other's tails and tore the leather from
						the pack saddles to devour it. At last, Sutter's Fort was reached, with its hospitable
						welcome and its abundant table. Carson cautioned the men to eat sparingly, but they
						could not be restrained. Partly from the terrible strain which they had endured, partly
						from too sudden indulgence, two of the party lost their reason and became raving
						maniacs.
					On the return trip, just at they were going to camp one evening, a man and boy ran up.
						The strangers hastily related that they belonged to a Mexican trading party. They, with
						four others, had been left in charge of the horses, and in the absence of the main
						party, these six, two of whom were women, were attacked by Indians. The two speakers,
						Fuentes and the boy, Pablo, had managed to get away. Anguish riven, the one by the
						unknown fate of his wife, the other by that of his father and mother, they implored the
						help of the explorers. Only two men volunteered their assistance, Kit Carson and his
						fellow mountaineer, Godey. The lips of sorrow never appealed in vain to the brave but
						unselfish Carson.
					
					There were thirty Indians in the attacking party. Carson and Godey, accompanied by
						Fuentes, determined to attempt a rescue of the unfortunate captives. Quickly striking
						the trail of the marauders, they commenced their pursuit. At the end of twenty miles the
						horse Fuentes rode broke down. To procure another was impossible. Leaving the
						unfortunate man behind, Carson and his companion dashed on their errand of kindness. It
						was two men against thirty. But fear was a stranger to the bold hearts. All day they
						rode. Night came on. Still they rested not. Much of the time they led their horses, and
						followed the trail in the darkness by feeling. The tracks grew fresher. A few hours only
						separated them from the chase. To be fresh for the fray they dismounted, and wrapped in
						their blankets, wet with heavy dew, they tried to sleep. But the cold, wet atmosphere
						rendered sleep impossible. No fire could be lighted. At early dawn they perceived a
						neighboring ravine. There they thought safe to build a small fire and warm themselves.
						The horses were again mounted.
					The sun was still on his upward journey when they discovered their enemies, thirty in
						all, engaged in their usual feast of horse-flesh. The stolen animals, which were yet
						alive, were picketed at a short distance. The two mountaineers determined to crawl in
						among the horses, and then be guided by events. The strange figures of the crawling men
						frightened a colt, and stirred up a commotion in the herd. The Indians, ever quick to
						read the signal of danger in the conduct of their animals, sprang for their weapons. As
						the savages came in range the trappers fired. Two braves bit the dust. The remainder,
						astonished at the conduct of Carson and Godey, suddenly seemed to believe that the two
						were a decoy, supported by a large party, which sought by stratagem to lure them into
						giving battle.
					As Kit had foreseen, the Indians at once fled, leaving their camp to the victors. Here
						the terrible scene presented itself of the mangled bodies of the two men, pierced with a
						hundred arrows. The women were found a little further off. Their  naked bodies each had a sharpened stake driven through it into the ground.
						With sad hearts at the comparative failure of their errand, the trappers interred the
						bodies, collected the horses, and took themselves back to their more selfish companions.
						The property was restored to the strangers; the sad story of the victims told to the
						wifeless husband and the lonely boy. Bowed down with grief, yet overflowing with
						gratitude, they offered all their horses as a gift to Carson and Godey. Hastily wiping
						away a tear with his shaggy sleeve, Kit refused to accept any thing, and instead, thrust
						a small sum of money into the boy's hand. Camp was broken. The men mounted, and with a
						farewell to the strangers, the party rode away, leaving them alone in the forest in the
						shadow of their mighty grief.
					In the spring of 1845 Kit, being out of employment, resolved to be a farmer. He
						determined to settle down, fell trees, grub stumps, plow the glebe, sow seed, and gather
						crops; to become acquainted with corn husking, potato hoeing, and butter making; to
						learn the mystery of weaning calves, killing hogs, and stringing dried pumpkin. It was a
						strange calling, that of the patient farmer, for the impetuous Kit to select. But as men
						approach middle life they become more and more conservative. Carson and a mountaineer
						named Owens purchased an eligible tract of land on which to make a farm. Kit furnished
						the money, and laid in a stock of wooden plows, Mexican axes, farm carts, and other
						utensils. With a company of hired hands he built temporary huts, and chopped away at the
						trees in fine style. True, they were a little green at the business. The fences were
						rather clumsy, the fields rather stumpy. The farm-house, which Kit insisted on having
						built, was very large and barny, while the barn was small and badly located. Still
						things moved on fairly, and Kit might some day have made a farmer. He tried to persuade
						himself he was contented. But when Fremont sent him word of a third expedition Carson
						just took twenty-four hours to sell out the whole place for a third of what it had cost,
						get out his rifle, saddle his horse, and start to join Fremont.
					
					The third expedition thus joined by Carson had many adventures. One night, through
						carelessness in keeping watch, some treacherous Klamath Indians stole in the camp and
						cleft the skulls of three of the sleepers before they were discovered. In retaliation
						Carson, at the head of a war party, burned their village and killed twenty braves. The
						war with Mexico, which was declared at that time, served to complicate the fortunes of
						the explorers. Carson was detailed to take dispatches to Washington City. On his way
						overland he met General Kearney, who was under orders to proceed with his command to the
						scene of hostilities in California. Kearney at once determined to forward the dispatches
						by another messenger, and have Carson return with him as a guide.
					Kit gave up his important trip to the capital with great secret reluctance, but it was
						smothered in his own breast. He saw how much he was needed. To serve others was always
						his first impulse; to consider himself, his last. Without a murmur he turned back to the
						wilderness. It was not long before Kearney's command came in conflict with the Mexican
						forces. His men, being nearly all on foot, suffered severely. In the first regular
						battle Carson and a squad of twenty-five of the mounted men headed a charge on the
						enemy. Just before reaching the foe Kit's horse stumbled and fell, throwing its rider
						under the feet of the advancing column, which dashed on right over him. This accident,
						though fraught with great danger, in all probability saved his life. Every man in the
						front squad of twenty five was killed except Kit.
					The Mexicans continued to harass Kearney, at last managing to surround him on a small
						hill; on which Kearney and his command were virtually besieged. At the close of the
						day's engagement, which found them in this perilous situation, a council of war was
						held. Three messengers had been previously dispatched to San Diego with a call for
						re-enforcements. Each of them had been made captive by the Mexicans before reaching
						their destination. To attempt to break through the besieging  lines meant, in view of their own shattered condition and the superior
						numbers of the enemy, certain destruction of the command. To remain where they were for
						more than a short time was impossible. The situation was gloomy in the extreme. After
						all had expressed their opinions and no plan had been suggested, Carson rose and said:
						"General, I will volunteer to undertake to creep through the Mexican lines, push on to
						San Diego, and bring you succor."
					The effect of the simple words was electric. Lieutenant Beale, a brave young naval
						officer, offered to join Carson. Kearney gratefully accepted the generous offer. Making
						farewells, which not improbably might be their last, Carson and Beale slipped out under
						cover of the darkness, determined to render up their lives rather than abandon the
						attempt. Crawling stealthily on hands and knees, over rocks and through thorny
						underbrush, stopping every few moments to listen, the brave men slowly made their way
						into the hostile camp. In spite of great care, their heavy shoes would sometimes strike
						a rock, and it was found necessary to remove them and thrust them into their belts.
					The Mexican pickets were found to be arranged in three rows, the sentinels in the
						second row being opposite the spaces in the first, and the third opposite the spaces in
						the second. Carson at once decided to take a diagonal course through the lines. Even
						this path took them within a short distance of the watchful sentinels. The gleam of the
						bayonet in the starlight shot through the overhanging branches; yet, with Carson's
						marvelous skill, the fruit of a lifetime of Indian warfare, they reached the third line
						of pickets. In five minutes they would have been safe. Though neither spoke, each felt the increased confidence of the other. But, hush! Kit, who was in
						the lead, with his quick ear caught the sound of crunching twigs, and a heavy foot-fall
						approaching. Pushing Beale with his foot, as a signal to follow his example, Carson
						threw himself perfectly flat on the ground, and awaited developments. The sounds grew
						louder.  Presently, the dim figure of a sentinel on
						horseback revealed itself to the piercing eye of the pioneer.
					On came the Mexican. The two Americans lay right in his path. Beale said afterwards: "I
						looked on myself as a corpse." When within six feet of Carson, the Mexican dismounted
						leisurely, drew out a cigarette and a bit of paper, which, by the help of flint and
						steel, he proceeded to ignite. The blaze of the paper distinctly revealed the two
						prostrate forms. In relating the story, Carson, who never exaggerated, said: "I heard
						every heart-beat of Beale, as we lay there, and they sounded to me like the strokes of a
						maul." But the Mexican, when the paper blazed, was intent on lighting his cigarette. He
						did not raise his eyes. The yellow flame lit up his sinister countenance. He leisurely
						drew three or four puffs, then, with a quick motion, flung the little torch on the
						ground, where it flickered for a moment and went out. With a grunt of satisfaction, he
						re-adjusted his accouterments, mounted his horse, which, with finer instinct than his
						master, was already snorting slightly at the figures in the grass, and shortly
						disappeared among the trees.
					Not till the Mexican was well out of the way, did Carson stir. Then he commenced his
						onward progress. Feeling that danger was now behind and not before them, they hurried
						forward. The Mexican camp was left far to the rear, and the disfigured heroes rose and
						warmly clasped each other's hands in the moment of thankfulness for their escape. To put
						on their shoes was their first thought. But, misery of miseries, these had not been
						thought of in the perilous journey of two miles on hands and knees, and both pairs were
						missing. To push on barefooted was the only alternative. Carson had no guide but the
						stars, no map but his knowledge of the country. Yet, to avoid all beaten trails, along
						which the enemy swarmed, and to select a circuitous route to San Diego, over rocks and
						through thickets, was easy work. The loss of their shoes was a terrible misfortune. Th
						country was covered with a thick growth of the prickly pear, which, at every step,
						lacerated their bleeding feet with  poison-tipped needles.
						All night and all the next day, without food or rest, sustained only by mental
						excitement and the thought of the little body of suffering troops which was folded in
						the fatal coils of the Mexican serpent, they proceeded. Another night closed in around
						them; yet they seemed insensible to fatigue and pain. Toward midnight, the outlines of
						San Diego were marked upon the horizon. Hurrying on, the poor fellows made their way at
						once to the bed-room of Commodore Stockton, and told him the situation of their
						comrades. Their condition was pitiable—clothing in rags, feet bleeding terribly
						and swollen to twice their natural size, mind and body exhausted to the last extremity.
						Their noble mission accomplished, poor Beale fainted away, only to wake a gibbering
						maniac. It was two years before reason fully re-asserted her sway. Carson, however,
						would neither eat nor sleep until the relief column was on its way. Then he, too,
						hardened, though he was, by exposure and frontier life, broke down, and for a month was
						prostrated by his fearful exertion. Kearney and his command were saved.
					Carson subsequently made two trips to Washington City, bearing dispatches to the
						government. At this time, he was appointed Indian agent for New Mexico, as a reward for
						his services in the war. Not being identified with any political party, he lacked the
						backing, which, far more than merit or service to his country, was required to obtain an
						office. The United States Senate refused to confirm the appointment of the honest and
						heroic pioneer.
					For the second time in his life Kit resolved to settle down as a farmer. This time he
						bought a place at Rayado. The location was beautiful; the valley rich in soil and
						teeming with noble game. Kit's second wife, whom he had married some years before, was a
						highly connected Mexican lady. He was attached to his children beyond any thing else on
						earth. He built himself a comfortable mansion; his farm was managed by experienced
						hands. In spite of all the terrible experiences, which lay like packs of wolves in the
						thicket of his memory, Carson was  a happy man. The claims
						upon his skill as an Indian fighter and his kindness to every suffering heart continued
						to reach him in his happy valley. Thence he was frequently called to guide United States
						troops, or attempt a rescue of some unfortunate captive. Perhaps he felt a more tender
						regret at leaving home than formerly; perhaps the effect which his death might have on
						the happiness of his little family circle sometimes occurred to him, but he was as quick
						to respond as ever.
					The Apaches at this time almost rendered life a burden in Northern Mexico. They are
						small in stature, but a marvel of symmetry in proportion, perfect in health, unequaled
						in athletic skill and performance. The Apache's limbs are straight, his muscles hard as
						iron, and his frame as elastic as rubber. Treachery glistens in his coal-black eye, and
						the instinct of the murderer is hidden in his heart. On one occasion word was brought of
						the killing of a Mr. White, and the capture of his wife and child. A detachment of
						troops undertook the rescue. Carson was riding some distance in advance when he sighted
						the redskins and their weeping captive on the opposite bank of a stream. Carson yelled
						for the men to advance at double quick, for he saw no time was to be lost. But for some
						reason the officer in command was jealous of Kit, and coolly halted his men. During that
						short halt Carson saw the tomahawk sink into the skull of Mrs. White and her little
						girl.
					Carson's adventurous disposition, instead of courting physical danger, began to
						manifest itself in bold speculations, in which he had great success. Nor was it
						remarkable. The same disposition of genius, placed in different surroundings, will
						manifest itself in a way externally different, but really the same. It is said that Jay
						Gould, with his vast organizing power, would equal Napoleon if placed in Napoleon's
						situation.
					Kit's fame was a great burden to him. When in San Francisco, he was lionized, passed
						free to theaters, on railroads, invited to countless entertainments. This was
						embarrassing to the quiet mountaineer. Once at Fort Laramie a fellow, who was but a  specimen from a large class, came in, eagerly seeking to
						have the great Kit Carson pointed out to him. The bystanders directed him to Kit. For a
						moment the stranger looked at the small, mild-eyed, soft-mannered man before him in dumb
						astonishment. He had looked for a large, fierce desperado to correspond with the great
						feats of Kit he had heard of. In a moment astonishment gave way to a knowing look, as he
						said, "See here, feller, what 's this yer givin' me? Yer not Kit Carson. Mind, I'm no
						greenhorn. Howsumever, I'll let yer off this wunst, ef yer 'll pint out the genooine
						Kit."
					Carson, with a face as grave as a parson, and an air of mock timidity, pointed to an
						enormous trader, with a tremendous mustache, dressed in a hunting shirt, buckskin
						leggins, and an enormous slouch hat. This personage satisfied the stranger's notion.
						Offering a "chaw of terbac" to Kit, who quietly declined it, he watched the big trader
						for an hour with the greatest interest, and then took himself off, well satisfied that
						he had seen the "genooine Kit." He, like the majority of people, looked to a large man
						for great deeds, one of the greatest delusions in the world, and one which is utterly
						refuted by history.
					The popular reverence for large men and expansive stomachs, is shown by the United
						States Senate, of which it is said only a half dozen men fall below six feet, one inch,
						in height, and two hundred and twenty pounds in weight. The Chinese, we once heard a
						lecturer say, believe that the brains are in the abdomen, and estimate a man's ability
						by his waist band. When they wish to call a man an idiot they say, "Your stomach is no
						larger than my little finger," while their rarest compliment is, "Your stomach is three
						miles around!" It is possible the lecturer was only satirizing the popular worship of
						stomachs, which prevails in American politics.
					One evening, as Kit returned to his comfortable farm at Rayado, leading his noble
						horse, which was laden with a black-tailed deer and some wild turkeys, a man informed
						him of a plot for robbery and murder, to prevent which Carson's  assistance was wanted. A ruffian named Fox had been engaged at Taos in
						raising a band of desperadoes, who were ostensibly to serve as an escort through the
						Indian country of two Englishmen, Brevoort and Weatherhead, who were supposed to carry a
						large amount of money for investment in stock. The real object of the villains was to
						murder the strangers and capture the money. By some means a hint of the plot was dropped
						and brought to Carson, who followed up the clue, satisfied himself of its truth, and
						became convinced that the crime was to be consummated in a lonely cañon near Cimaron
						River. One hour's preparation sufficed to place him at the head of thirty finely mounted
						dragoons. Selecting a short route, known only to himself, Carson required of his men the
						highest possible speed. It was the only hope, and was successful. The chase was
						overtaken. Fox was arrested before he could strike a blow. The astonished Englishmen
						were informed of their danger. The gang of desperadoes were ordered to leave camp.
						Messrs. Brevoort and Weatherhead afterward presented Kit with a superb pair of
						silver-mounted revolvers as a token of their gratitude.
					The following summer Kit went to St. Louis on a trading trip. On his return he brought
						with him a large stock of goods. One day, as the train wended its way over the green
						prairies, a village of Cheyennes was discovered by the party. One of their braves had
						been flogged for some misdemeanor by a party of whites a few days before, and the tribe
						was ablaze with wrath. Carson knew nothing of the grievance, but quickly perceived that
						an attack was contemplated. Orders were given for each man to be on the alert, and the
						village was left twenty miles to the rear, when small parties of warriors of twos and
						threes began to come in sight. These had on their war-paint and feathers. As they
						approached Carson spoke to them in a friendly way, and to show he was not afraid, went
						into camp, and invited the Indians to come in and have a smoke.
					No sooner had the pipe gone round than the Indians began to talk vigorously among
						themselves. It must not be forgotten  that several years
						before, while hunter at Bent's fort, Carson had been a great friend of the Cheyennes.
						His appearance had greatly changed, and he was not recognized. Every word of the
						visitors was understood by him. Supposing they were not understood, they were coolly
						perfecting a plot to massacre the whites. Suddenly Kit stepped forward, told them his
						name, how he had once been a friend, and had to his knowledge never wronged their tribe.
						Now they rewarded him with a plan to kill him. He closed by ordering them to leave the
						camp or they would be shot. Nonplused at the turn affairs had taken, with a threat of
						return, they hastily left.
					The train moved on. Each man walked beside his mule, a whip in one hand and a rifle in
						the other. Carson plainly told the men they were in great peril, but inspired them with
						his own courage. He scanned the horizon incessantly, but saw nothing more dangerous than
						a hungry wolf or a wandering antelope. Evening came. The wagons were arranged in a
						circle, inside of which the mules were tethered. Grass was cut and fed to them. The men
						gathered some driftwood, and built their camp fire also in the guarded ring. Carson felt
						that the responsibility of saving his men rested with him. In the party was one of those
						Mexican runners, a young man who, with a message in his head, can run with little
						fatigue seventy miles in a day. Calling the boy outside the wagons, when the supper was
						over, Carson pointed out the direction of Rayado, and told him he must leave many miles
						behind him by sunrise. The lad bent his dark intelligent face upon his master, and
						resolved to make every exertion to fulfill his command. Obtaining a few rations of
						provisions, which he bound about his waist, he received from Kit full instructions as to
						the dangerous places in the journey. He was to proceed with the utmost speed to Rayado,
						and start out a relief party. Making his bow, he started swiftly on his errand. Kit
						watched the agile figure, as it sped over the prairie in the dim moonlight, until it was
						but a speck on the horizon.
					
					The camp was not disturbed that night. The following morning five Indians appeared.
						Carson called to them, told them he had the night before dispatched a fleet messenger to
						Rayado, and that if his party was massacred, his friends, the soldiers, would surely
						inflict swift and terrible vengeance on the Cheyennes. The Indians said they would look
						for his moccasin tracks and see if the story was true. Carson saw that this was a
						turning point in his favor. An hour later the whole village of Cheyennes passed in
						sight, evidently making for safety as fast as possible. They had found the moccasin
						tracks, and saw the chase had been gone too long to be overtaken. The train proceeded
						without interruption, until they met a body of troops, who had started at once on the
						arrival of the Mexican runner. Under this strong escort the remainder of the trip was
						happily completed.
					In 1853, Kit was again appointed and this time confirmed as Indian agent, a position he
						graced and honored as no other living American would have done. His great knowledge of
						Indian character was a splendid equipment. Sometimes around their council fires he
						distributed the bounty of the government, and instructed them in the primary lessons of
						civilization. Sometimes it was at his own home that he received them as friends, and
						earnestly advised them to let whisky alone. Again at the head of a column of United
						States troops he filled the faithless hearts of the Apaches with a fear of justice if
						not a love of kindness. In one hand he offered the olive branch; in the other, he held
						his loaded rifle.
					Kit at last permanently quieted the Utahs and Apaches. Thenceforward he devoted himself
						to the works of peace among his Indian protégés. The fierce passion
						for war was supplanted in their breasts by a love of comfort and domestic life; the
						tomahawk and the scalping knife grew rusty and forgotten, while the sinewy hand which
						had wielded them learned to grasp the plow and the sickle. Kit, too, felt that in the
						remainder of his life war and adventure would have no place. He was mistaken.
					
					The flames of the civil war were already filling the heavens with the red light of
						doom. Carson was destined to serve his country as a soldier. A lover of the Union, he
						was made Colonel of the First New Mexico Volunteers. The Indians, always ready to seize
						a pretext for making war on the government, cast in their lot with the Confederacy. Far
						away on the plains and in the mountains of New Mexico, where the roar of Gettysburg was
						silent, and the story of bloody Chickamauga was unknown, there took place terrible
						struggles between combatants who knew not the ideas for which they fought. The red man
						fought to be fighting the whites. The brave New Mexican fought the Indian much as he had
						fought him all his life. The shock of the civil war hurled these ancient foes upon the
						frontier of civilization against each other. But while the ideas were not present with
						them as they were among the ranks on many a historic field of conflict, the battle was
						none the less bloody and the suffering none the less severe.
					The campaigns conducted by Carson were splendidly managed. On the sixth day of January,
						1864, he started out with a force of four hundred men, only twenty of whom were mounted,
						upon the famous expedition which forever crushed the power of the Navajoes. By
						maneuvering with a skill of which Carson alone was capable in an Indian war, he
						succeeded in entrapping the bulk of the Navajoe Nation in the Canon de Chelly, one of
						the largest on the globe. It is forty miles long, with perpendicular walls of rock,
						fifteen hundred feet high. Carson quickly divided his command, sending one detachment to
						enter at the east end, while he planted himself at the mouth. Far down in the gloomy
						depths, the narrow bit of sky looking like a blue ribbon above them, the column
						cautiously picked its way. Scattering bands of Indians, who saw the doom of their
						companions, posted themselves along the rocks and crags to annoy the troops, but their
						efforts were ineffectual. Sometimes a volley was fired from below, at the pigmy warriors
						on the dizzy height, but generally they reserved themselves for the larger game  which was in the trap. On the second day, Carson attacked
						the whole force of Indians as they attempted in vain to break out of the deadly chasm.
						They were terribly punished, and were at last forced to surrender.
					By this splendid strategy, between five and ten thousand Indians surrendered to Carson,
						the largest capture ever made in Indian warfare; and this was achieved by four hundred
						soldiers, with scarcely the loss of a man. The entire war presents no finer piece of
						generalship. The majority of the captives were placed on a reservation in Arkansas, but
						were subsequently permitted to return to their old hunting-grounds, where they are
						living in happiness and peace.
					In the official report to the War Department, is the following:"You have, doubtless, seen the last of the Navajoe war, a war that has continued,
							with but few intermissions, for the last one hundred and eighty years, and which
							during that time has been marked by every shade of atrocity, brutality, and ferocity
							which can be imagined. I beg to congratulate you on the prospect that this formidable
							band of robbers and murderers has been at last made to succumb. To Colonel Kit Carson,
							in command of the expedition, whose courage and perseverance excited all to great
							energy and inspired great resolution, the credit is mainly due."
					For his gallant services, "Colonel Kit Carson" was promoted to the rank of
						brigadier-general.
					After the close of the war, Kit, as we will continue to call him, found himself in
						failing health, the result of an accident in 1860. He was descending a steep mountain,
						leading his horse, when the animal slipped and fell on him, inflicting internal injury.
						In spite of sickness, he labored unceasingly to promote the welfare of the Indians. On
						the 27th of April, 1868, his wife died suddenly, leaving seven children. This threw him
						into the deepest dejection. In a few days, he found himself too weak to ride horseback,
						his lifelong pleasure. Then he took short walks around his yard. Then it was noticed
						that even  this was too much for him; he no longer left
						his room. Silent and thoughtful, the hero would sit in his arm-chair all day long.
						Sometimes, a smile would break over his face; again, the look would be one of intense
						concentration. Perhaps he was, in fancy, living over his life as a trapper, as hunter to
						Bent's Fort, or as guide for Fremont and rescuer of Kearney's command.
					One morning, Kit Carson was too weak to leave his bed. The next, the 23d of May, 1868,
						he refused all nourishment. Towards evening, a film coated the kindly eye, and the hand
						responded more and more feebly to the will. It was evening. The great sun had thrown its
						latest radiance upon the lowly couch, and was sinking behind the lonely Rockies, over
						which he had so often wandered. Suddenly he called out in a clear voice, "Doctor,
						Compadre, adios!" It was the end.
					One of Nature's noblemen had passed away.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVII.
						HEROES OF THE LONE STAR STATE.
					
						NELSON LEE, THE TEXAN RANGER.
						DURING the revolutionary struggles of the Lone Star republic, Texas
							was a great magnet, toward which were irresistibly attracted, from every portion of
							the Union, men of physical courage and restless appetite for adventure. This race of
							men, collected from all parts of the country, had much in common. By a principle of
							natural selection, they were all kindred spirits. War, adventure, scouting, Indian
							fighting were their pleasures. What to other men was tragedy, was to them comedy. When
							taken prisoners by the Mexicans, they drew the black beans, which doomed them to
							military execution within ten minutes, with the same light, airy demeanor with which
							they would have thrown dice for drinks or flirted with a Mexican maid. Strange, wild
							fellows they were, often of gigantic stature, shaggy as lions, and not less brave.
							Such were the men who, in the wars between Texas and Mexico, and later, between the
							United States and Mexico, formed those historic bands of scouts known as "Texan
							Rangers."
						Among the restless fellows who were drawn to Texas by the very troubles which drove
							other people from the State was Nelson Lee, a young man born and raised near
							Watertown, New York. He had volunteered for the Black Hawk war, but his company was
							scourged by small-pox while on their  way to the front,
							and before the men recovered, poor old Black Hawk had been captured and deposed from
							his chieftaincy. Disappointed in this, young Lee took up a seafaring life. Tiring of
							this, he, in 1839, resolved to abandon the sea, and cast his fortunes among the fierce
							Texans. The state at that time, as will be remembered, was an independent republic,
							but a bloody border warfare raged incessantly with Mexico. Perhaps less with the
							notion of reconquering Texas than with annoying her people and gathering plunder,
							Mexican bandits were continually crossing the border and falling upon some remote and
							unsuspecting settlement like destroying devils, and then retreating as rapidly as they
							advanced. Of course, the Texans retaliated in the bloodiest manner.
						For the purpose of protecting the settlers from these raids, as well as punishing the
							Mexicans, there came into existence bands of scouts, or bushwhackers, employed by the
							Texas government at a dollar a day, and known as the "Texan Rangers." Lee, finding no
							other employment so congenial or so profitable, soon enlisted in one of these
							companies, under Captain Cameron. The Ranger was usually dressed in buckskin, with a
							cap made from the fur of a wild-cat. Three or four revolvers and as many bowie knives
							were thrust through his belt, and a short rifle was thrown across his arm. The most
							important part of his equipment was a horse of great speed and endurance, on which a
							journey of eighty miles could be readily made between sunrise and sunset.
						Lee's first taste of Ranger warfare was a fight with a band of Comanche Indians, who
							worried the settlements quite as much as the Mexicans. He was green at the business,
							but won the respect of his companions by his boldness, even if he did little
							execution. When, after a two hours' fight, the Indians took to flight, they left
							behind a deep impression on the mind of the young Ranger. A month or two afterward Lee
							and fifteen companions, under command of Ben McCullough, were sent out on a scout.
							Falling in with the trail of seven hundred Comanches, 
							the little party of spies remained a respectful distance and shadowed their movements.
							The Rangers were compelled to behold from afar the sack and burning of the village of
							Lindville. Meanwhile a call had been sent for re-enforcements, and the scouts, who
							never let the enemy get out of their sight, were joined by recruits, the fighting
							force numbering three hundred men. The object of an attack was not merely to punish
							the Indians, but to rescue seven white women, who had been taken captive. These latter
							were rightly conjectured to be in the rear of the camp with the old men. One
							detachment was to move around to the rear and release the women if possible, while the
							men fought from the front.
						
							THE RANGERS PURSUING THE COMANCHES.
						
						The first company arrived within view of their victims. The Indians observed them at
							the same instant. In a moment the  red devils could be
							seen running toward the foot of a tree where sat the seven captive women. The Rangers
							heard despairing shrieks and saw the waving of white arms in the air, in the frenzy of
							supplication. Above the heads of the crowd could be seen tomahawks rising and falling.
							Horrified at the sight, the men rode at full speed into the Indian camp. The murderers
							had fled, leaving behind the corpses of five of their prisoners. In their hurry they
							failed to dispatch the two remaining women. These were rescued by the Rangers with
							tender gallantry.
						While this was taking place Lee, fighting with the other detachment, received a
							bullet in his left arm, causing him to drop his bridle rein. His spirited horse sprang
							forward, directly in the midst of the Indians. Perceiving their comrade's danger, the
							Rangers threw themselves upon the Indians, and in a hand to hand conflict almost
							exterminated their foes. A little later Lee joined a company of Rangers, under the
							famous Jack Hays, at San Antonio.
						In the intervals between scouting expeditions against the Mexicans, the Rangers
							occupied themselves with hunting and watching for Indian trails. One morning, while
							eating breakfast in their camp, on a short point of land at the intersection of
							Walker's Creek and the Guadaloupe River, the men discovered two Indians on the top of
							a high hill, near where they were encamped. It was evident that the men were in a
							trap. Hays called them together, and in a few ringing words explained the peril, then
							ordered them to follow him. He took his way directly up the hill toward the Indians,
							who were still watching the Rangers' movements with eager scrutiny. When half-way up
							the ascent, the savages suddenly disappeared. The same instant Hays wheeled his horse
							sharply to the right, and, followed by his men, swept around the side of the mountain
							at the top of his speed.
						The Indian camp, containing two hundred warriors, was taken completely by surprise.
							They fought boldly, but at a  disadvantage. At the first
							charge of the Rangers one of them, known as Big Sam Taylor, received an arrow through
							his cheek and neck. Failing to withdraw it he broke it off, and fought through the
							entire engagement with the cruel shaft thrust through his flesh. Later in the fight,
							when the dead Indians were heaped thickly upon the ground, Hays discovered a wounded
							chief, and resolved to take him captive. As the white man approached, he perceived a
							quick movement on the part of the Indian, and jumped aside. At the same instant an
							arrow sped from the bow of a fallen red man, and, missing Hays, buried itself in the
							throbbing heart of a Ranger named Mott. Even when assailed by several of his enemies,
							the stern old warrior, in spite of his broken leg, fought like a lion, beating off his
							foes again and again, until a pistol ball ended his struggles. When the battle was
							over, the Rangers found three of their men dead and four wounded. Of the Indians
							ninety corpses lay on the ground in the majesty of death.
						On the way back to San Antonio after this fight, Lee dismounted with the rest one
							evening on the bank of a small stream. As his feet struck the ground, he heard a loud
							rattle in the grass, and instantly felt a fearful pain in his right leg. He was bitten
							by a rattlesnake. A Spaniard in the party sprang forward, killed the monster snake,
							and quickly cutting pieces of flesh from its wriggling body, applied them to the
							wound. Lee says he could feel them draw. The prompt treatment saved his life,
						Arriving near San Antonio, the Rangers were enraged to find the town in the
							possession of a band of Mexican guerrillas. Entering the place at night, the Rangers
							surrounded a house where large numbers of the enemy were enjoying themselves in a
							grand fandango. A horrible fight ensued, which freed the town from the band of
							ruffians.
						On one occasion, Lee left his magnificent horse, the Black Prince, at the town of
							Seguin. After an absence of some days he returned, to find that Indians had taken
							nearly every horse  in the village, including the noble
							animal which he loved better than his life. Lee and a party of friends, mounted on
							mules, set out to make a reprisal. They traveled nearly all day, without success, when
							a black speck was discovered far away on the prairie. It attracted attention, and
							every eye was strained to watch the object. It grew larger. It came nearer. In time it
							could be seen to move. A little later, it assumed the outline of an animal. Two men
							declared that it was a horse. This conjecture proved correct. The animal, without rein
							or rider, was coming toward them at the top of its speed. In a little while the Black
							Prince, with mane and tail flying, eyes ablaze, nostrils distended, his black coat
							covered with flecks of white foam, dashed into the camp and, panting for breath,
							stopped by his owner's side. He had broken from his captors and traveled more than a
							hundred miles to rejoin his master.
						One day Lee met Hays in San Antonio, and learned that Christolphe Rublo, in boyhood a
							vicious vagabond, in manhood a desperate villain, had been in the town as a spy for
							the Mexicans. He was suspected to have gone to the mission of San Juan, nine miles
							down the river. A band of twenty Rangers galloped to the place. The great gates swung
							open, and Lee and the rest entered. Rublo concealed himself behind the gates and
							attempted to escape, but fell into a ditch and was captured. He was taken to San
							Antonio, the people of which demanded the execution of the ruffian.
						Jack Hays, however, declared that Lee and his fellow Rangers should conduct the
							prisoner to the town of Seguin, which was entitled to deal with him as its citizens
							wished, on account of Rublo's outrages upon them. The dispute over this question
							well-nigh involved the fiery Texans in a fight.
						In the afternoon, Rublo and his fellow-villain, called the Ranchero, were brought
							out, placed upon horses, and marched from the town between files of shaggy Rangers.
							The arguments of the San Antonio people, that they would be in great danger if the
							Rangers left them to take the two prisoners to  Seguin,
							contained great truth. In this emergency the fertile mind of Hays devised a
							stratagem.
						After leaving San Antonio and following the road toward Seguin till after nightfall,
							Lee and a companion named Escue, in whose special charge the two prisoners were,
							gradually fell to the rear of the Rangers, and then, under cover of darkness, turned
							sharply to the right, abandoning all roads and trails, and, with their two captives,
							struck out into the open plain. Meanwhile, the main body of Rangers wheeled about and
							marched back to San Antonio. Lee and his companion wrapped themselves and their
							prisoners in dark buffalo skins to avoid observation by the Mexican horsemen who were
							scouring the country, and hurried across the plain through a blinding rain.
						Sometime after midnight a halt was called. Lee took Rublo from his pony, bound him
							hand and foot, and, with cocked pistol in hand, sat down by his side. The desperado
							knew that, unless he escaped, the outraged citizens of Seguin would, on the next day,
							take his life. Lee says that, for his part, he was perfectly well aware that, if Rublo
							should escape from him, the same citizens of Seguin would take his own life for
							permitting the escape. With this understanding, let us proceed.
						Escue, who had charge of the Ranchero, selected a spot for passing the night some
							rods distant from Lee. His prisoner covered himself up with buffalo skins, and
							apparently fell into a deep sleep. Escue tied the halter of his horse to his ankle,
							believing this would keep him awake. In spite of this he went to sleep. The cunning
							Ranchero slipped out of his bonds, carefully arranged his hat among the buffalo skins,
							so that to the casual eye he was seen to be still lying there, took the halter off of
							Escue's horse and tied it to the limb of a tree, mounted and rode away.
						In the morning Lee discovered a band of Mexicans approaching. The moment was
							critical. Escue's own horse was gone. The one left by the Ranchero was a broken down
							animal, useless for escape. The pony on which Rublo was mounted was a  good one. Lee instantly made up his mind. He drew his
							revolver, shot his prisoner through the heart, yelled to Escue to mount the pony from
							which the lifeless desperado had fallen, and the two men began their flight, in which
							they were successful.
						Lee and Escue brought word to San Antonio of the approach of the Mexicans. The
							Rangers fought a hard battle on the banks of Salado Creek. This invasion of the
							Mexicans, under General Woll, raised a popular clamor for a counter expedition against
							Mexico.
						In the fall of 1842 the government of Texas gave a reluctant consent for the
							expedition. Twelve or fifteen hundred men, "renegades, refugees from justice,
							adventurers of all sorts, ready for any enterprise that afforded a reasonable prospect
							of excitement and plunder, dare-devils, afraid of nothing under the sun," assembled at
							San Antonio. General Somerville, who was placed in command, proved to be incompetent.
							He delayed marching for two months. Great numbers of the recruits deserted. When,
							finally, the Rio Grande was reached, various reasons induced Somerville to order a
							retreat of the expedition. Three hundred men, of which Lee was one, refused to obey.
							Somerville and the rest returned to their homes, but these bold fellows determined to
							push on into the enemy's country.
						On the 23d of December, 1842, about two o'clock in the morning, the three hundred
							Rangers entered the town of Mier, and commenced a street fight in the darkness with
							the Mexican troops. Some of the Rangers, with crowbars and picks, were busily engaged
							in breaking openings through the stone walls of the buildings, and thus making their
							way toward the square, where the Mexicans were posted. The fight lasted many hours. In
							this battle Big Foot Wallace, whose adventures we detail hereafter, had a narrow
							escape. In one of the charges he followed a party of retreating Mexicans too far. They
							suddenly turned upon him, and in a flash surrounded him, rendering escape apparently
							impossible. He made a lunge at an opening  in the circle
							of enemies, threw one man down, and, receiving a bayonet-thrust through his left arm,
							succeeded in escaping.
						At two o'clock in the afternoon there was a cessation of hostilities. The Mexicans
							sent out a flag of truce. For reasons never fully understood a surrender was made by
							the Texans. Both Lee and Wallace agree that this was a mistake.
						At the moment of the surrender, Lee, with ten companions, occupied a house at some
							distance from the main body. Noticing that the firing had ceased, Lee slipped out into
							the street to a point where he commanded a view of the Square, and discovered the
							Texans marching up and laying down their arms. Hurrying back to his comrades he
							explained the situation in a few short words, announced his determination to die
							rather than be taken to a Mexican prison, and suiting the act to the word, leaped
							through a back window. He found himself in a large garden, and discovering a clump of
							high weeds, he crawled into their midst, remaining there till nightfall.
						As soon as he felt safe in so doing, he left his hiding-place, stealthily made his
							way out of the town, and in half an hour found himself alone in the darkness on the
							banks of the rushing Rio Grande. Arranging his clothes in a bundle, and carrying his
							rifle, he plunged into the river. For a long time he swam. It seemed impossible to
							reach the opposite shore. Just as his strength was about to give way completely, Lee
							discovered the outline of the land. Putting forth all remaining strength, he managed
							to reach it only to find a perpendicular bluff, affording him not the slightest point
							of support. After a few faint and ineffectual struggles to clamber out of the water,
							he fell back into the waves, and floated hopelessly and helplessly down the tide.
						At last he came within reach of a tree, which had been blown down and extended over
							the water. By means of this he clambered on to the shore, only to find himself in the
							midst of the prickly pear, of which the needle-like thorns lacerated his bleeding feet
							and limbs at every step. Exercising all the  time in
							order to resist the cold of a stiff norther, he passed a miserable night.
						In the morning, the unhappy man discovered a column of smoke apparently rising from a
							camp fire about a mile away. He at once made his way to the spot, crawling through the
							grass, and discovered two Mexican herdsmen, one a youth, the other a man of forty
							years.
						Lee had pluck, and knew the Mexican character thoroughly. The two herdsmen were
							eating their breakfast. Near by stood their guns and ammunition. With an unloaded
							revolver in one hand, and a bowie knife in the other, the Ranger sprang out of the
							bushes and shouted for the Mexicans to surrender. The terrified herdsmen at once fell
							on their knees with a prayer for mercy.
						Having compelled the youth to bind the man hand and foot, and having secured their
							guns and ammunition, Lee calmly proceeded to devour the breakfast which the herdsmen
							had prepared for themselves. Refreshed by the food, he proceeded to talk the situation
							over with his friends, and told them, that if they would guide him to a certain trail,
							he would set them free. The bargain was struck. After a three days' journey, during
							which time he did not suffer himself to sleep a moment, Lee found himself in a region
							where he no longer needed a guide. He took one of the Mexicans' guns, placed it at the
							foot of a tree with a lot of ammunition, called their attention particularly to the
							spot, and then ordered them to proceed as before. When the party had marched five
							miles from the spot where the gun had been left, Lee turned his prisoners loose,
							telling them that the gun and ammunition were to enable them to kill game on their way
							back. Lee made his way home without trouble.
						Lee took an active part in the war of the United States with Mexico. His adventures
							during this war we will not here relate. He subsequently engaged in the cattle
							business, and in 1855 joined with a company of men in an enterprise, the object  of which was to purchase a large drove of mules and drive
							them overland to the San Francisco market.
						Among the articles which Lee purchased as an equipment for this trip was an enormous
							silver watch. It contained an alarm of remarkable noise and duration, which could be
							regulated to go off at any moment, and while ringing the alarm, the watch would
							actually move across a table.
						The company was made up and commenced its march, large purchases of mules being made
							from time to time, and the easy journeys day by day gradually carrying them far beyond
							the boundaries of the settlements. On the evening of the 2d of April they were
							encamped in a beautiful valley. The hunters brought in some capital game, and a
							neighboring stream furnished lovely trout. After an abundant meal the men one by one
							went to sleep. Lee was on watch till midnight, when he was relieved. At that hour
							there were no indications of danger. The only sound which disturbed the profound
							silence of nature, was the irregular tinkle of the horses' bells.
						Lee had been asleep but a short time when he was roused by a fearful shriek. He
							sprang to his feet, only to discover that the camp was full of painted Indians, who
							were killing the white men one after another. Lee had taken but a swift glance at the
							scene of horror, lit up by the dull glow of the dying camp-fire, when a lasso was
							thrown over his head, and he was jerked violently to the ground. A moment later
							several Indians sprang upon him and bound him. Three others besides Lee, named Thomas
							Martin, Stewart, and Aikens, escaped the massacre, and were bound similarly to
							Lee.
						In removing Lee's clothing, one of the Indians discovered the silver watch which we
							have mentioned. The savage was delighted at the bright toy. While regarding it with
							the greatest curiosity, the minute-hand reached half-past three. At that instant the
							alarm went off. The savage was dumfounded as the thing roared and rattled for two
							minutes. Frightened beyond measure, he held the thing at arm's length, seemingly  too much paralyzed by fear to let it drop, and looked
							away from it with an expression of sickly horror on his face. The other Indians
							quickly gathered about him. When the alarm ceased they began an unintelligible jabber.
							The first Indian pointed repeatedly to Lee, and finally the crowd of savages came
							toward him, and offered him the watch, with various gestures indicating that they
							wanted to hear it go off again.
						The Ranger saw his advantage. His hands were unbound. He took the watch and, with
							many ceremonies and great solemnity, regulated it, so that in a few moments it went
							off again. After this the Indians had a long consultation. From their frequent
							gestures toward the sky, Lee divined that they regarded it as something supernatural
							and himself as some sort of a prophet.
						When morning broke, the chief put the watch carefully away, and the Indians gave
							their attention once more to the white men's camp. The corpses of the poor fellows who
							had been murdered in their sleep were horribly mutilated. Some had arms and hands
							chopped off; some were disemboweled; some had their tongues drawn out and sharp sticks
							thrust through them. Toward the four men who were yet alive, the Indians behaved
							frightfully, flourishing tomahawks about their heads and pressing the blades of
							glittering knives against their throats as if unable to resist the fierce passion for
							murder.
						At last the four prisoners were blindfolded and bound on the backs of mules. These
							animals were unbridled, and were left to follow the bell-mare at their own sweet will.
							At times the mules would knock their blindfolded riders against trees, inflicting
							fearful wounds. Each accident of this sort made the whole party of Indians yell with
							delight.
						As evening approached, the hideous Comanches selected a camping-ground. A supper was
							made from horse-flesh. When the Indians had satisfied their own hunger, they tossed
							chunks of frying meat at the prisoners. These fiery bits, on which the fat was often
							ablaze, instead of being caught in their mouths,  fell
							on the naked legs of the white men, burning them severely. The prisoners were put to
							bed in a peculiar fashion. They were laid on their backs on the ground, their hands
							and feet extended as widely as possible, and fastened stiffly with buffalo thongs to
							four stakes conveniently driven in the ground. To say that they were unable to move
							hand or foot is to speak the literal truth. For several days they continued on their
							journey, butted against trees by the rascally mules, burnt with hot horse-flesh, and
							staked out at night in the fashion indicated.
						Lee kept his thoughts busy, reflecting how he might take advantage of the incident of
							the watch. By the time he reached the Indian village he had matured in his own mind a
							unique system of theology, which he determined to teach the Indians if possible. The
							sun, as the Indians already believed, was God. The watch, in Lee's new theology, was
							the brother of the sun, and on most intimate terms with him. The revolution of the
							hands each day, Lee determined to make the Indians believe had a mysterious and
							sympathetic connection with the movement of the sun. Finally, it remained to convince
							the savages that Lee himself was the Great Spirit of the watch, and that if any thing
							happened either to him or to it, it would also destroy the sun.
						Lee was taken to the house of the chief. Ordinarily a prisoner was the chief object
							of attention in the village. But on this occasion the watch was the favorite by heavy
							odds. A council was called. The watch was brought forth. After long and vociferous
							speeches the Indian sages pointed significantly to Lee and to the watch, desiring him
							to make it sound the alarm. Lee, pious fraud as he was, kneeled down, put up his hands
							toward the sun, as if in the attitude of prayer, then worked with the watch,
							pretending to persuade it to go, and finally rose to his feet, shook his head
							solemnly, and pointed to the sun as if to indicate that the celestial being prevented
							the watch from going off.
						
						Later in the day Lee, who was rapidly rising in importance in popular opinion, was
							taken by a strong guard to a spot outside of the village, where a large crowd had
							already assembled. Here he found his friends Martin, Stewart, and Aikens, each drawn
							up and tied to pairs of posts, planted three feet apart. Some terrible ceremony was
							taking place. The Indians formed in a circle about the wretched men and deliberately
							scalped Stewart and Martin. Then they took sharp arrow-heads and made gashes in the
							bodies of the two men. This "they continued until every inch of the bodies of the
							unhappy men was haggled and hacked and scarified and covered with clotted blood." The
							two men screamed out in their agony, begging that they might be put to death. Lee and
							Aikens, sickened beyond measure, shut their eyes to keep out the horrid sight. The
							Indians did not neglect to pull their hair and flourish knives and hatchets about
							their heads as if to impress them that the fate of Stewart and Martin would shortly be
							theirs.
						After two hours of torture the ring of warriors stopped dancing, formed closely about
							Stewart and Martin, and, at an appointed signal, a score of tomahawks were buried in
							the brain of each prisoner. When the scene of slaughter was ended, Lee and Aikens were
							separated.
						From this time on he longed only for death. One day his bonds were removed. Hoping
							only to exasperate his captors into killing him outright, he picked up a club and
							tried to kill the nearest Indian. Instead of attaining the desired result, he found
							the savages only laughed at him. Not a day passed that the Indians did not beseech Lee
							to make the watch go off. Through all these requests he maintained a sullen and
							obstinate refusal.
						One day Aikens was unexpectedly brought into the tent where Lee was kept, and the two
							men had a talk. Aikens, who was thoroughly familiar with Indian character and customs,
							told Lee that he himself was shortly to be put to death, but that he believed that Lee
							might yet escape through the  instrumentality of the
							watch, if, instead of being sullen and stubborn, he would comply with the Indians'
							wishes, and exert himself to win their favor.
						Lee took the advice. In time he was adopted into the tribe. He had long since lost
							sight of Aikens, and indeed never learned his fate. Little by little, Lee won their
							confidence, and acquired more and more liberty. He was allowed no weapons, but was
							permitted to walk about the village.
						One day, Lee was suddenly ordered to mount a big mule, and follow Big Wolf, the
							chief. A band of warriors accompanied them. They traveled all day. At evening, Lee
							hastened to cook Big Wolf's supper. He had, indeed, for a long time, been his servant.
							During this whole period, the chief never took a mouthful of food until after Lee had
							tasted it, a precaution against poison.
						At the close of the second day, they reached the village of the great chief, Spotted
							Leopard. Lee took an instinctive dislike to this chief and his people. Among the
							latter, however, was one who was his friend. She was Kianceta, the Weasel. Of her Lee
							speaks with enthusiam. She was of slender and beautiful figure, graceful and
							dignified. Her weird costume, with its gay embroidery and bead work, was partly
							obscured by her coal black hair, which fell in luxuriant profusion half-way to the
							ground.
						But Kianceta's spirit was even fairer than her form. "She sympathized with the poor
							captive, when others laughed at him. She sat down by his side and looked up
							sorrowfully into his face, when the young savages of the village beat him with stones
							and sticks. A hundred times she stood between him and those who threatened harm; gave
							him corn when others had it not; attended him when sick, casting red-hot stones into a
							trough of water to make him a steam bath, and wrapping him with thick buffalo skins,
							until his cold was broken up and his health restored."
						In spite of the charms of Kianceta, Lee furtively watched  his chances for escape. A half mile from the village was a dark, wooded
							ravine, which if he could reach Lee believed escape to be possible. After many nights
							passed in planning, he resolved on the attempt. 
								SPOTTED LEOPARD, THE COMANCHE CHIEF.
							 With the knife which he was at this time permitted to carry he cut up some
							strips of venison to serve him as food in his flight, and concealed the bundle of them
							in a log. One midnight, when the village was asleep, and Spotted Leopard snored
							loudly, on his royal couch, Lee slipped quietly from the tent, made his way quietly to
							the log where  his venison was hidden, secured the
							precious pack and started to leave the village. He had reached the outer row of
							wigwams, when he was startled by the growl of a big dog, which confronted him, showing
							his white teeth.
						In a moment the bark was caught up and answered by another cur at the farther end of
							the village. Others still disturbed the midnight air with fierce barks and lugubrious
							howls. On they came, one after another, with growls and snarls, to the spot where poor
							Lee stood, half dead with fright. It was but a moment from the time when the first dog
							discovered him until he found himself surrounded on all sides by barking curs.
						Another danger also appeared. The village was roused by the unusual disturbance among
							the dogs, and sleepy warriors could be heard, one after another, from their wigwams,
							cursing the dogs, and telling them to lie down. Lee no longer thought of flight, but
							only of avoiding discovery. He crawled back to his tent and lay down, bitterly
							disappointed at his failure.
						Still he did not give up. Days and weeks rolled by before he matured another plan.
							Although he was ordered not to go beyond the boundaries of the village, he disregarded
							the command, and ventured out from day to day, each time going a little farther. At
							first he was often told to go back. Then his disobedience was less and less noticed.
							Finally no one interfered with him at all.
						One evening, just at dark, he started off in a slow, careless walk toward the ravine.
							He had gone a considerable distance when three warriors suddenly confronted him. He
							pretended to be cutting a stick from some bushes on which to cook his master's meat.
							The trick was too thin. The suspicions of the Indians were aroused. They seized him
							roughly by the arm and marched him back to the village. They reported the occurrence
							to Spotted Leopard. A long and earnest consultation was had, at the close of which the
							chief came out, seized Lee, and jerked him forcibly into the wigwam. After binding the
							runaway, hand and foot, the Indian rolled up  his
							leggins and deliberately slashed a sharp knife across the muscle on the front of his
							leg just below the knee. This surgical operation was designed to cripple Lee, so
							escape would be impossible. The white man was kept tied for two weeks. Every day
							Spotted Leopard would seize his leg and work it back and forth, breaking open the
							wound anew. Eventually the limb healed, but was permanently stiff.
						From time to time, Lee accompanied Spotted Leopard and his people on long hunts
							around the head-waters of the Guadaloupe. Once they had a fierce battle with the
							Apaches. Lee prayed that the Comanches might be whipped, but in this he was
							disappointed. On another occasion, they were visited by a friendly tribe, with a chief
							named Rolling Thunder. This Indian was naturally reverent. He was more fond of
							worshiping the sun on his knees than of dancing the war-dance. Such a character is
							unusual among the Indians. Lee was called out to give an exhibition with his watch,
							which he did, with marked effect, the pious Rolling Thunder ascribing every thing
							wonderful to some supernatural power.
						Another party of Indians, on another occasion, encamped near them. In the afternoon
							Lee noticed an unusual stir among Spotted Leopard's people, which ended in the whole
							party's moving down toward the neighboring camp of the strangers. Lee felt something
							unusual was going to happen. Breathless with suspense, he listened. Presently a human
							voice rang out through the air in one awful scream of agony. At intervals it was
							repeated, growing feebler and feebler. An hour or two later, some Indians came after
							Lee, and took him through the strangers' camp. Scattered around he saw torn fragments
							of the uniform of a United States soldier. A few steps farther on, Lee saw the remains
							of the soldier. A stick had been thrust under his heel cords, and he had been hung up
							head downward, until at last, bleeding from many wounds, he gave up the ghost. No
							doubt he had been captured near some army post.
						
						One day Lee discovered three white women captives of another band of the same tribe.
							It was months before he could speak to them. At last, on the occasion of a great feast
							and dance he was enabled to do so. They were English by birth. A Mormon missionary had
							induced them to leave their home, and, with a party of two hundred others, come to
							America. After a long voyage from England, they had landed at Indianola, on Matagorda
							Bay. From that point, their way lay overland to the Great Salt Lake. On the journey
							through the mountains many of the teams gave out. The party became separated. The
							Indians became troublesome, and finally captured large numbers, among whom were these
							three women. Lee felt a burning interest in this story of the misfortunes of these
							poor creatures, compared to which his own, inasmuch as he was at best an adventurer,
							were trifling.
						After their capture the men were massacred. Mrs. Haskin's infant child was seized by
							an Indian, a hole cut under its chin, and then hung on the sharp limb of a tree, and
							left until death should relieve it. The three women were the common drudges of the
							camp. The elder, the mother of the others, becoming too feeble to work, was, soon
							after Lee met her, put to death by torture.
						The pious Rolling Thunder made visits of increasing frequency to Spotted Leopard,
							which resulted at last in a change of masters for Lee. The chief use which Rolling
							Thunder made of his new captive was to make him describe the wonders of the world and
							of civilization.
						Before long he invited Lee to choose a wife. To this the white man assented, and,
							after a careful inspection of the entire tribe, chose a young and slender squaw,
							rather dirty but good-looking, known as the Sleek Otter. The marriage resulted
							happily, and Lee received increased privileges.
						During Lee's residence with this tribe two young warriors, who had a fierce quarrel
							of long standing, which the council had again and again attempted to settle,
							determined to fight  the matter to the death. Both men
							were athletic and powerful. They met in the center of a ring, and their left arms, as
							far up as the elbow, were lashed together with buffalo hide so firmly that there was
							no possibility of the men breaking away from each other. In the right hand of each was
							placed a hunting knife with a sharp blade nine inches long. The brothers of the
							combatants stood at a little distance, similarly armed.
						At a given signal the two men raised their bright blades in air, then brought them
							down suddenly. In an instant they were again uplifted, no longer bright, but crimsoned
							with blood. For a minute the knives rose and fell incessantly, the men struggling with
							fury. "At length a mortal thrust by one was followed by a fierce blow from the other,
							gashing through the side of the neck, from which the purple tide of life spouted up in
							a wide, high arch, when both fell lifeless to the ground." Had either survived, the
							brother of the other would have at once put him to death.
						Lee took many trips with Rolling Thunder, but on no occasion did the chief sleep
							alone with him in the tent. At last they took a three days' journey together without a
							companion toward a village, three days' journey to the north. While at this place the
							chief got drunk, and on the way home was exceedingly thirsty. After a long search a
							little pool of water was discovered. He ordered Lee to get him a drink in his hunting
							horn. The latter being unable to do this without scooping up considerable mud, the
							thirsty Indian sprang from his horse, threw down his rifle, and lying flat on the
							ground, drank eagerly from the pool. On the spur of the moment, as Lee's eye caught
							sight of a hatchet hanging on the Indian's saddle, a fearful thought burst upon him.
							In a moment the idea was put into execution. Snatching the hatchet, he bent over, and
							deliberately buried it in the Indian's head.
						It was the work of a moment to seize the dead chief's gun and knife, mount his horse,
							and, leading the mule which he had himself ridden, dash away across the country. It
							was a lonely  journey through a lonely wilderness,
							across rocky ridges, and along dark ravines. Late at night he paused for the first
							time. His only resource in the way of food was to kill the mule. Building a small fire
							he prepared himself a meal from the meat. Though refreshed by eating, a new horror
							presented itself. The blood and smell of the animal was scented by wild beasts, which
							crashed through the forest with horrid cries throughout the night.
						At the end of fifty-six days' travel, Lee fell in with some Mexican traders, and,
							more dead than alive, was kindly cared for. When he had sufficiently recovered he left
							Texas, having had enough of life as a Ranger.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XVIII.
						HEROES OF THE LONE STAR STATE, CONTINUED.
					
						DAVID CROCKETT.
						THE man whose name stands at the head of this chapter deserves a
							place in any sketch, however brief, of the heroes of the Lone Star State. This is not
							on account of his life, but of his death. Although nearly his entire career was passed
							elsewhere, he did for Texas all that a man could do—he gave his life for her. He
							was the most original character produced upon the American frontiers, as well as by
							all odds the most famous one.
						David Crockett was born in a wretched cabin in East Tennessee, in the year 1786. His
							father was one of the worst specimens of frontier life. He kept a tavern, which
							consisted of nothing more than a tumbling cabin, with one room and an earthen floor.
							Its only accommodations consisted of a great jug of vile whisky. The old man,
							furthermore, was mean. When the boy was only twelve years old, the father hired him to
							a Dutchman to go on foot with him for four hundred miles and drive a herd of cattle.
							The trip was hard even for a man. Many a night the wretched boy, weary, supperless,
							spattered with mud, and drenched with rain, would lie on the ground without shelter or
							covering. The journey terminated in Virginia, where the Dutchman lived.
						As for the boy, it remained to make his way back home 
							through the wilderness, four hundred miles in extent. He obtained permission to follow
							an emigrant's wagon, but quickly tiring of their slow progress, struck out alone into
							the wilderness, and soon left the emigrants far behind. We neither know how he
							obtained food, how he crossed the rivers, nor how he defended himself from wild
							beasts. We only know that it was winter when he started and spring when he reached his
							journey's end.
						The home to which he returned was miserable enough. The father was an intemperate old
							dog, and frequently would take a stout hickory stick and chase David for a mile or
							two, threatening each moment to kill him. The boy had a marvelous knack for avoiding
							his pursuer, and simply shouted and laughed at his father's drunken failures. Crockett
							naturally drifted away from such a home and engaged in many wild trips over the
							country to the eastern cities, once even arranging to go to London. This he failed to
							carry out.
						He married an Irish girl in his neighborhood when quite young, and, after the birth
							of two children, he packed his little belongings, on one shaky old horse, placed his
							wife and children on its mate, and struck across the country to penetrate two hundred
							and fifty miles further into the western wilderness. This was not his only move.
							Apparently from innate vagrancy, he would no sooner gather a crop than he would
							abandon his crumbling shanty, and remove to some other location.
						When the Creek war broke out in 1811, such a restless woodsman as Crockett was eager
							to engage in the conflict. He had many thrilling adventures during the war which we
							may not here recount. The sufferings of the army for want of food, which were shared
							by Crockett, have been briefly related elsewhere. During the war his wife died, but,
							with ready adaptation to circumstances, he quickly married a widow whom he met. A few
							months after his marriage, intent on another change of location, he and three
							neighbors set out on an exploring tour in central Alabama.
						
						One morning when the explorers awoke, they discovered that their horses were gone.
							Crockett at once set out on foot, through forest, bog, and ravine, across creeks and
							over hills, to follow them. It is almost impossible to believe, yet true, that before
							nightfall he had traversed fifty miles. He stopped that night at a settler's cabin,
							but awoke in the morning to find himself so lame from his great walk that he could
							scarcely move. Though suffering greatly, he left the cabin and hobbled along a few
							miles, hoping that exercise would improve him.
						While proceeding in this way, consumed with fever and tottering with weakness, he
							fell, overcome by deathly sickness. A happy fortune prevented him from being left here
							to die or be devoured by wild beasts. Some Indians, coming through the forest, saw the
							prostrate form of the poor, sick, white man, and quickly attempted to minister to his
							wants. One of them had a watermelon, from which he cut a slice for the refreshment of
							the sufferer. Then, taking him in their arms, they carried him to the cabin of a white
							man, two miles distant. With true frontier kindness, the people of the place received
							him, put him to bed, and prepared such herbs and other primitive medicines as their
							resources afforded.
						The next day, as the delirium was beginning to settle down in dense clouds upon the
							mind of the patient, two white men, having been informed by the Indians that one of
							their country-men was lying sick at the place, came to the cabin. They proved to be
							acquaintances of Crockett. The latter was able to recognize them, and in his delirium
							begged and besought them to take him to his three companions whom he had left at the
							camp. He was placed upon a sort of litter, and they carried him all the way, fifty
							miles, to the spot where his companions were waiting.
						At the end of the journey his fever had risen to a fearful height. It was evident
							that a long spell of sickness was before him. All that could be done was to find the
							cabin of some  kind pioneer woman, and there leave
							Crockett, unaided by medical skill, to fight, single-handed, the battle of life and
							death. He received the kindest attention. His pallet occupied the corner on the
							earthen floor of the cabin. After weeks of suffering he began to recover. Although
							emaciated and tottering with weakness, he employed a wagoner to carry him home. He
							arrived there to find that his family had given him up for dead.
						In spite of this misadventure, Crockett, instead of settling down, removed with his
							family to a spot called Shoal Creek, in what is now Giles county, Tennessee. In a new
							country, cattle stealing is regarded as the worst of crimes, and is punished with
							instant death. This grows out of the fact that it is the crime to which society in
							such a region is most liable, and against which it has the least protection. Crockett,
							whose great force of character always asserted itself in every situation, became a
							self-appointed justice of the peace. Subsequently, he was legally appointed to the
							position.
						Before the appointment, whenever Crockett made up his mind that a fellow ought to be
							punished, he had simply ordered the young men who were his self-appointed constables
							to catch the culprit. When he was brought before him there was a short, sharp trial,
							lasting not more than three minutes, and then the judge passed sentence, saying: "Take
							the thief, strip off his shirt, tie him to a tree; and give him a good flogging. Then
							burn down his cabin and drive him out of the country." From this judgment no appeal
							would lie. When Crockett was legally appointed justice, he was greatly troubled in
							mind to learn that they required written warrants. In spite of this difficulty, he got
							along pretty well, and as he says, "My judgments stuck like wax."
						David Crockett would probably never have been known to fame had he not entered
							politics. He was a famous hunter, and popular; on this account, some of the rough
							settlers suggested that he become a candidate for the legislature. He was  ambitious, and took fire at the suggestion. In June,
							1821, he began his campaign. He says: "It was a brand-fire new business to me. It now
							became necessary that I should tell the people something about the government and an
							eternal sight of other things, that I know'd nothing more about than I did about Latin
							and law, and such things as that. I know'd so little about it, that if any one had
							told me that General Jackson was the government I should have believed it, for I had
							never read even a newspaper in my life."
						About this time there was a great squirrel hunt on Duck River, which Crockett
							resolved to attend. The people were to divide into two parties, and hunt for two days.
							Then they were to assemble, count the scalps, and the party which had killed the less
							number of squirrels was to pay for a big dinner and country frolic. Owing to
							Crockett's marvelous skill, his party killed the most squirrels.
						As the dinner proceeded and whisky began to flow like water, Crockett was called out
							to make a speech as a candidate, to be followed by his opponent. Crockett was, he
							says, "As ignorant of the business as an outlandish negro. I got up and told the
							people I reckoned they knowed what I had come for, but if not I could tell them. I had
							come for their votes, and if they didn't watch mighty close I would get them too. But
							the worst of all was that I could not tell them any thing about the government. I
							choked up as bad as if my mouth had been jamm'd and cramm'd chock full of dry mush."
							However, he managed to tell a story or two, and then seeing the people in a good humor
							took care to remark that he was "as dry as a powder horn, and that it was time for us
							all to wet our whistles a little." He then went off to a liquor stand, taking nearly
							the whole crowd with him, and leaving his competitor to speak to about six men.
						Crockett was elected to the legislature, as a matter of course. When he went to the
							State Capital he felt that the most important thing for him to do was to learn the
							meaning of the words 
							government and judiciary. Having learned these
							points by a great deal of adroit questioning, he felt quite well equipped. He became
							the fun maker of the legislature. While he liked to raise a laugh at others, he would
							not stand a laugh at himself. One day a legislator referred to him as "the gentleman
							from the cane." That evening Crockett invited the man pleasantly to take a walk with
							him, and when they reached a lonely spot announced that he brought his companion there
							for the purpose of whipping him within an inch of his life. The man pleaded so hard,
							however, that Crockett let him off.
						After the adjournment of the legislature, Crockett again determined to move further
							west. He and a companion struck out into a new region on the Obion River. Here he
							killed deer and elk almost without number. He built a cabin and planted a crop of
							corn. During the summer he killed no less than ten bears. In the fall he returned for
							his family and brought them to his new quarters.
						His physical endurance was wonderful. In the winter, about Christmas, he was trying
							to cross a slough by getting on a log and poling across. Somehow he fell into the
							water, which was ten feet deep. The weather was extremely cold. Getting out on the
							bank, which was covered with a deep snow, he removed his clothes and hung them on a
							tree to dry. He then attempted to warm himself by running, but found his legs taken
							with the cramp, so that he could not make a step six inches long. It was late in the
							evening before he dragged himself back to his cabin, a feat accomplished with infinite
							suffering. Yet he relates that he wrapped himself in bear skin, and lying down upon
							the floor with his feet to the fire, passed the night with comfort and awoke in the
							morning without feeling any ill effects whatever from his exposure.
						During the continuation of the same storm which was raging at the time of the above
							incident the meat gave out in the cabin, and the men set out in the blinding sleet to
							hunt game. Crockett, with three dogs, one of which was pretty old, started  in a direction where he thought he might find a bear.
							Every hour the storm grew more furious. The bushes, with which the forest was filled,
							became so thick with ice that he could no longer force his way through. He had seated
							himself on a log to rest, when he heard his dogs set up a terrible barking. He
							followed them as best he could, but no game was in sight, and he concluded the dogs
							were only making mischief. "Just at that moment," says he, "looking on before my dogs,
							I saw the biggest bear that ever was seen in America. At that distance he looked like
							a big, black bull." He hurried forward to find his dogs engaged in a life and death
							conflict with the bear. It required three bullets to kill him.
						The storm had not abated at all. Crockett hurried back through the icy forest to his
							cabin, twelve miles away. He and the other two men, who had returned unsuccessful from
							their hunt, taking four pack horses, set out at once, in spite of fatigue and tempest,
							to secure the game, an enterprise in which they succeeded. In this way the cabin was
							furnished with an abundant supply of splendid meat.
						It soon occurred to Crockett to again offer himself for the legislature. On a certain
							day he appeared at a great political gathering, and began his own peculiar method of
							electioneering. Having mounted a stump, he began to banter his opponent, Dr. Butler.
							He took care to assure his audience that though he was very poor, he proposed to
							furnish his supporters all the whisky they could drink. "When I goes electioneering, I
							goes fixed for the purpose. I've got a suit of deer leather clothes with two big
							pockets. I puts a bottle of whisky in one, and a twist of tobacco in t'other, and
							starts out. Then if I meets a friend, why I pulls out my bottle and gives him a drink.
							He'll be mighty apt, before he drinks, to throw away his tobacco. So, when he is done,
							I pulls my twist out of t'other pocket, and gives him a chaw. I never likes to leave a
							man worse off than I found him."
						Dr. Butler, Crockett's opponent, lived in a frame house. In  the front room the middle of the floor was covered with a piece of carpet.
							One day the doctor called to some men, passing, to come in and take a drink. The
							whisky sat on a table in the center of the room. The men came in and, of course, had
							never seen a carpet before. They walked cautiously around on the bare part of the
							floor without daring to put their feet upon the carpet.
						Soon afterward, they were heard inquiring of Crockett's friends how he lived. On
							learning that he lived in a log cabin of one room, without any glass for the window,
							and with earth alone for the floor, they declared that he was the fellow for them.
							"Why," said one of them, "when Butler called us into his house to take a drink, he
							spread down one of his best bed quilts for us to walk on. He's too proud for us."
							Crockett was elected to the legislature, and served two years.
						The bear hunter soon found himself a famous man. Without changing his mode of life,
							he announced himself as a candidate for Congress, and though unable to read, and
							barely able to sign his name, was elected by nearly three thousand majority. On his
							way to Washington City, he reached Raleigh, North Carolina, on a cold, wet evening.
							Entering the tavern and elbowing his way through the crowd toward the fire, some
							fellow gave him a shove, and said with an oath, "Who are you?" Crockett roared out, "I
							am that same David Crockett, fresh from the back woods, half horse, half alligator, a
							little touched with the snapping turtle. I can wade the Mississippi, leap the Ohio,
							ride upon a streak of lightning, and slip without a scratch down a honey locust. I can
							whip my weight in wild cats, and if any gentleman pleases for a ten-dollar bill he can
							throw in a panther. I can hug a bear too close for comfort, and eat any man opposed to
							General Jackson." They made room for Crockett around the fire!
						When the bear hunter got to Washington, he was invited to dine with President Adams,
							at a state dinner. The newspapers of the time gave what purported to be Crockett's own
								 account of that dinner. "I went to dinner, and I
							walked all around the long table looking for something that I liked. At last I took my
							seat beside a fat goose, and I helped myself to as much of it as I wanted. I hadn't
							took three bites when I saw a man away up the table talking French to a woman on t'
							other side. He dodged his head and she dodged hers, and then they got to drinking wine
							across the table. When I looked back again, my plate was gone, goose and all. I seed a
							white man walking off with it. I says, Hello mister, bring back my plate. He fetched
							it back in a hurry, but when he set it down before me, how do you think it was? Licked
							as clean as my hand. If it wasn't I wish I may be shot. Says he, What will you have,
							sir? And says I, you may well say that after stealing my goose. I then filled my plate
							with bacon and greens, and whenever I looked up or down the table I held on to my
							plate with my left hand.
						"When we were all done eating, I saw a man coming along carrying a great glass thing,
							with a glass handle below, something like a candlestick. It was stuck full of little
							glass cups with something in them that looked good to eat. Says I, Mister, bring that
							thing here—thinks I, let's taste 'em. I found they were mighty sweet and good,
							so I took six of them."
						Crockett found that his constituency were so much annoyed by this story that he
							obtained certificates of his good behavior at the table from three New York
							congressmen. This done, he felt better. Crockett passed two terms in Congress. The
							third time he stood for election he was beaten. But after two years of retirement was
							elected for another term. During this last term he made a tour of the eastern cities,
							attracting great attention.
						In Boston he made a speech full of force and rude eloquence, surprising in the
							knowledge which it displayed, when one considers the man, explaining why he had become
							opposed to the policy of President Jackson. The fifth time Crockett was a candidate
							for Congress, he made tremendous efforts. He appeared 
							at the political meetings in his old costume as a bear hunter, with his rifle on his
							shoulder, and accompanied by his three famous bear dogs. He made funny speeches and
							gave away whisky like water. But all in vain. His constituency could not forgive him
							for going back on Andrew Jackson. He was beaten. He was terribly crushed by the
							defeat. Bear hunting and pioneer life had lost their charm. To drown his sorrow, he
							determined to join the adventurers who were thronging to the state of Texas.
						
							COLONEL DAVID CROCKETT.
						
						
						His head-quarters were at San Antonio. Early in the month of February, 1836, Santa
							Anna, at the head of a large Mexican army, appeared before the town. The defenders of
							the place, seeing that they were being surrounded, withdrew to the fortress of Alamo,
							just outside the town of San Antonio. Crockett and a few followers constituted a most
							important part of the garrison, which consisted of only one hundred and fifty bold and
							desperate men. Over the battlements they unfurled an immense flag of thirteen stripes,
							and with a large, white star of five points surrounded by the letters of the word
								"TEXAS."
						The Alamo, at that time, consisted of a chapel, seventy-five feet long, sixty-two
							feet wide, and twenty-two and a half feet high, surrounded by walls of solid masonry
							four feet thick. The upper part of the walls were arranged for fourteen mounted
							cannon. Besides this building were two long and narrow barracks of similar
							construction, the walls being of solid rock. The singular structure was built by Roman
							Catholic missionaries from Spain, about the middle of the last century, and was
							occupied by them for many years. Here, long years before, the tireless priests had
							sought, by processions, chants, mystical emblems, and beautiful ceremonies, to win the
							hearts of the Indians, and induce them to adopt the true religion. These efforts were
							not unsuccessful. The good fathers found the savages far more disposed to virtue and
							more susceptible to religious impressions than the Spanish soldiers, their own
							countrymen, attached to the mission, who were gamblers and roustabouts of the worst
							sort.
						For several days the enemy devoted themselves to ravaging the surrounding country and
							picking off the defenders of the fortress by their sharp-shooters. On the morning of
							the 6th of March, just at dawn, the garrison, already weakened and shattered by a
							bombardment which had lasted for two days, were roused by the single blast of a bugle
							in the enemy's camp. At that moment, Santa Anna's entire army of three thousand men,
							divided into three columns, a certain number of men in each of  which carried axes and scaling ladders, moved forward at a double-quick to
							storm the fortress simultaneously at different points. The cannon from the fortress
							rendered but little service. The gates were battered down and the enemy swarmed over
							the walls. The outer wall was abandoned, and the garrison took refuge in the heavy
							buildings already described. All this passed within a few minutes after the bugle
							sounded.
						"The early loss of the outer wall, so thinly manned, was inevitable; and it was not
							until the garrison became more concentrated, that the main struggle began. They were
							more compact as to space, but not as to unity, for there was no communication between
							the buildings, nor often between rooms. There was now no retreat from point to point;
							each group of defenders had to fight and die in the den in which it was brought to
							bay. The struggle was made up of a series of separate and desperate combats, often
							hand to hand, between squads of the garrison and bodies of the invaders. From without,
							the Mexicans concentrated the fire of all their cannon upon the openings in the walls.
							Within was the roar of the musketry, the cries and curses of the maddened men, the
							deadly stabs given and received, the floors flowing with blood and encumbered with
							heaps of corpses.
						The contest was too unequal. Little by little the separate squads of Texans were
							butchered in the rooms in which they had taken refuge. Only six men of the entire
							garrison remained alive. Of these David Crockett was one. He stood in the corner of
							the room like a lion at bay. Twenty Mexicans lay dead at his feet. His few comrades,
							too, had fallen, and lay in death, their hands still clenching the hair and throats of
							their enemies. As the Mexicans poured in upon him, the brave man still fought, his
							eyes flashing fire, his shattered rifle in his right hand, and in his left a gleaming
							bowie-knife dripping with blood. His face was covered with blood from a gash in his
							forehead.
						He was seized, disarmed, and, with five other prisoners, also  captured alive in different portions of the fortress, taken to the spot
							where Santa Anna was standing. The Mexican commander cried out, "Kill them! kill them
							on the spot!" Instantly a dozen swords were uplifted. Crockett, at that moment, sprang
							like a tiger at the throat of Santa Anna, but, before he could reach him, a fatal
							thrust pierced his heart, and he fell without a word. There still remained, however,
							upon his brow the frown of indignation, and his lip was curled with a smile of
							defiance and scorn.
					
					
						THE FIGHTING PARSON.
						Andrew Jackson Potter was born in Chariton county, Missouri, April 3, 1830. His
							parents were from Kentucky, and settled finally in what is now called Gentry county,
							where he spent his childhood days. His father died in 1840. The boy was nimble,
							fearless, self-reliant, and at an early age earned a distinction as rider at horse
							races. "Andy's horse always won."
						At the beginning of the Mexican war he entered the army, but was rejected because he
							was under size. In a few days he was employed as teamster in a wagon train of army
							supplies destined for Santa Fe. About the fifth night after leaving Fort Leavenworth
							the caravan was attacked by the Indians. One man was killed by a ball which passed
							through Potter's clothes.
						A day or two afterward two Indians traveled with the teams all afternoon. In the
							evening three others of friendly bearing appeared. The next day, two or three small
							groups fell in with the train. Suddenly a band of Cheyenne warriors with drawn bows
							surrounded the train. The drivers, terror-stricken, huddled together behind the
							wagons. Potter stole toward a pony grazing at the road-side intending to mount the
							animal and fly when the killing commenced. The capture ended, however, by the savages
							loading themselves with merchandise from  the wagons,
							and leaving the train to proceed without other damage.
						A month afterward a more serious attack was made on them. While the teamsters were
							eating supper, the war whoop and a shower of arrows signaled them to arms. The
							train-master had drilled his men, fifty in number, armed with flint-locks, to form for
							the defensive in two divisions, the first to deliver their fire when ordered, and
							while they reloaded, the other company to fire. By this method the savages were given
							a hot reception, and in an hour or so, withdrew across the river, leaving a number of
							ponies and pools of blood as evidence of their loss. At the first volley fired Potter
							dropped, as his comrades thought dead. But the old blunderbuss of a gun had merely
							kicked him over. The sight and danger of savages soon lost their terror, and hunting
							excursions were indulged in by the less cautious of the company.
						On one occasion Potter found himself alone. While leisurely letting his mule graze he
							discovered a number of Indians stealing along to cut him off from the teams. Quick as
							thought, leaping from a prostrate position, he was on the mule and slashing his spurs
							into its sides. He thrashed the frightened brute wildly with his fists. In his insane
							haste to mount, he failed to catch the reins, which had been lengthened to let the
							mule graze. It happened that the animal was headed toward the wagons, and the rider
							had nothing to do but to kick and pound, and the mule nothing to do but run. And they
							were at it, each to the last extent of strength. The rider had been trained to race,
							and had always won. The mule was being trained at a fearful rate. They sped through
							brush and rocks and logs. Every leap seemed unto death. Potter, yet daring danger at
							every step, swept on and on. Arrows grazed him every moment. The savages, yelling,
							were at his very heels. They had been leveling their lances for a mile, preparing to
							hurl them at him. He was barely beyond their reach. A few yards to his right, they
							were abreast of him! A moment more, dead or safe! A 
							gully momentarily hindered those who were in the act of striking him down. A turn in
							the trail, and he was in the camp.
						Potter abandoned ox-driving in April, 1851, and took the position of interpreter,
							guide, property man, and generalissimo of a company of Mormons. His outfit was a
							musket, knife, revolver, and mule. The first night the Mexicans stole the mule. The
							Mormons turned pale at the rage of their guide. Mounted on a borrowed horse, he
							galloped away at early dawn to recover his property. He made an exhaustive search
							through the region before he found four greasers surrounding the animal and trying to
							"rope it." He dashed into their midst with his "pepper-box" revolver and shot one
							dead. The other three made at him with their knives. For ten minutes he was the
							busiest man alive, but kept their blades out of his body, if not his clothes.
							Well-nigh dead with exhaustion from the terrible struggle, he at length wounded two
							and the other fled. His Mormon employés saw the fight from a distance, and greeted the
							victor with a triumphant reception.
						As a Mormon escort, Potter was not happy, so he took a number of men and made his way
							to the mines of Arizona, where they gathered a quantity of precious metal. But game
							was scarce, and the Apaches were harassing. With seven picked men Potter made a
							journey of a thousand miles, to San Antonio, Texas. He was now of age, with an iron
							constitution, and a frame of the finest and most powerful build. His splendid muscles,
							compacted by a hardy frontier life, were perfect. His courage was superb; yet under
							this cover of brawn and in this gnarled and knotty creature, throbbed a heart of
							womanly tenderness. Frank, peaceable, kind-hearted, generous, brave, he was
							universally popular.
						At a Methodist camp-meeting he became a Christian. It was from midnight to noon with
							him in an instant. His Christianity was of the "Andrew Jackson" type; through and
							through, and well adapted to the purposes of the locality. A religious old gentleman
							had a tract of timber land which was being taken  by a
							saw-mill man in spite of all the remonstrances, threats, and persuasions that could be
							made. One day the injured neighbor came out and related his grievance to Potter. The
							job suited him. He was a peace-maker. The two called on the trespassing bully. Potter
							stated the case in his quiet way, and said, "Pay for what you have taken and stop." It
							was done.
						This little incident is a hint at a marvelous faculty which he possessed when aroused
							or enraged. He spoke in a low tone, which gave each word the emphasis of a
							sledge-hammer. His look, manner, and tone at such a time would instantly assuage the
							fury of the fiercest ruffian. In Texas, they said, "Potter's man always whips." The
							Church people, especially, gave him a liberal share of the various burdens.
						On a stormy evening he was called to see a pugnacious old Dutchman who had come home
							drunk, beaten his wife horribly, and driven his family out in the storm. This was in
							Potter's line. He went, pleased that so much of his border experience was available in
							religious work. The old Dutchwoman was found sitting by a fodder stack in the rain,
							bruised and crying. The cabin door was barred. With one kick, Potter smashed it in. He
							dealt the old man a terrific blow, which sent him headlong into the fire, then jerked
							him out, jumped astride him, and commenced to pound and exhort the old sinner with
							amazing vigor. The response from the prostrate congregation was so faint and slow,
							that he was tempted to close the exercises. With a minute's respite and a sup of
							water, the congregation called for its gun. A quiet "No," from the parson satisfied
							the audience that prayer could not be answered. Another intermission, a little more
							bathing and camphor, enabled the congregation to yell for its knife. A gesture with
							the fist at the congregation stopped this. When Potter left the house the Dutchman was
							subdued enough.
						In 1861 Potter visited the scenes of his childhood in Missouri. In the family where
							he visited was a man who abused his wife most cruelly. Guiltily suspecting that Potter
							might  interfere, he swore that he would knife the
							parson if he came in his way. This was a case after Potter's own heart. He told the
							fellow that he must never repeat this work. The man whipped out his knife, seized his
							gun, and was about to fire, when Potter quietly approached, took the weapon out of his
							hands, and pounded him in the stomach with the muzzle. The ruffian stood pitiable and
							unresisting, saying, "You have my arms, I can not fight." "Take your gun," said
							Potter, thrusting it at him, "and ask that woman's forgiveness, or you will never need
							a gun or knife again." It was done.
						When the war broke out, Potter enlisted in a cavalry regiment. He was a favorite
							among the soldiers. Long before his commission was issued he was, by common consent,
							made chaplain. Among the cavalrymen was a six-foot Texan, of powerful build,
							overbearing, and quarrelsome. He was a desperate character. No one cared to resist any
							bearable imposition from him. He became the terror of the camp.
						Texan justice is swift. The Fighting Parson resolved to take the matter in hand. A
							crowd gathered around as he walked toward the bully and shouted, "You are a liar. Now
							resent it." The stalwart Texan rushed at his antagonist to stamp him in the dust. A
							hundred soldiers who knew little of the parson, drew their knives to protect him. He
							pushed the ruffian in the breast, saying, "Coward, stop!" The Texan was cowed into a
							wilted puppy.
						A slanderous statement was made in a Brownsville paper about Wood's regiment, while
							they were in camp at that place. The chaplain sought out the editor who had thus
							defied the troops. The sermon was short, but the congregation grew pale and trembling
							as it proceeded. The announcement at the close, that the exercises would be resumed in
							half an hour, when the preacher and a squad of soldiers would pitch the press and
							audience into the Rio Grande, to be washed of their vileness, completed the conversion
							of the congregation, and it started through a back window pell-mell for a new field of
							usefulness.
						
						Colonel Debray's regiment, of which Potter was chaplain, was ordered to Navasota, in
							1864, to join in the campaign against General Banks. On reaching their destination,
							the commissary refused to honor the colonel's order for supplies. After two or three
							failures the parson went. "Who are you?" growled the officer. "A white man," said a
							quiet, deep voice. There was unburnt powder in the tone. The commissary glanced at his
							customer. "What do you want?" said the officer. "Corn," said Potter, "and we'll have
							it or arrest you." " Don't try that," said the commissary; "we will settle this with
							six shooters." "I am ready," said Potter. The corn was instantly furnished.
						In 1872 the Fighting Parson was returned by the West Texas Conference of the
							Methodist Church to the Uvalde Circuit, in a wild and mountainous region of the State.
							It was a country where the settlers' cabins were crowded into little valleys,
							peculiarly open to Indian attack. The circuit rider was concluding his first year of
							service when the Indians became very troublesome. He was on his way back to his home
							in the mountains, after having attended an appointment, at the time of the incident
							about to be related. He traveled in an ambulance drawn by a pair of small mules.
						The road led from Frio to Sabbinal cañon, through narrow defiles and along lonely
							mountain trails. The preacher was armed with his Winchester rifle, toward which he
							cast, from time to time, a satisfied glance as the road became more wild and lonely.
							Driving along the bottom of a deep ravine, he saw far below four Indians hurrying
							toward him. His experienced eye at once taught him that the situation was full of
							danger. He drove the ambulance into a sort of thicket, so that when the fight took
							place the mules should not be frightened, and cautiously advanced toward the spot
							where he had seen the Indians. He discovered them crouching near the road, expecting
							his coming. He instantly attempted to fire, but the weapon, being rusty, did not go
							off.
						
						At the click of a trigger the Indians turned around, and two of them fired, the
							bullets just missing Potter's right arm. The latter again attempted to fire—this
							time with success, the ball breaking the arm of one of the Indians. The other two
							savages were unarmed. They at once seized their wounded companion and hurried away.
							The white man might have killed them all, but his gun was rusty and he was afraid to
							fire.
						Returning to the ambulance, he got in, and drove rapidly across the country. Reaching
							a dense thicket, he halted, cleaned his gun, and was reloading it when, looking upward
							at the top of a neighboring mountain, his quick eye detected two Indians taking aim at
							him. He jumped aside just in time to save himself, and returned the fire. The Indians,
							however, dodged behind a rock, and were seen no more. Potter lost no time in getting
							out of the region, and reached his little cabin in the mountains in safety.
						With this incident our incomplete sketch of the Fighting Parson must terminate. He
							is, no doubt, the greatest living representative of a class of men who have been found
							ever on our frontiers; brave in beating back the savages; dauntless in rebuking the
							border ruffians; zealous and successful in planting the seeds of law and order, of
							civilization and religion, in the wild soil of the pioneer heart. The greater part of
							this man's career, his encounters with ruffians at revival meetings, his sermons in
							desperate neighborhoods, with a pair of huge revolvers lying before him on his pulpit,
							his eloquent addresses, his pure religious zeal, lie outside of the scope of this
							work. He is still living in Boerne, Western Texas, ardently engaged in his sacred
							calling. The days of fights are long since over. At the age of fifty-three, he is
							enabled to devote all his energies to the gospel of peace.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XIX.
						THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE.
					IN THIS country, where the purchase and sale of land—the real
						estate business—is such a constant factor in commercial and industrial activity,
						it is of invariable interest to note that a century ago our pioneers in statecraft
						consummated the greatest real estate deal that was ever known, area, natural wealth of
						the transferred land, and effect on national affairs being considered. Imagination fails
						in the effort to conceive how different might have been the whole course of world
						history, international relations and American progress if that huge trade had not been
						made between Jefferson, the great Democrat, and Bonaparte, the great Autocrat.
					Today the tremendous territory thus characterized as the Louisiana Purchase is divided
						into fourteen populous and prosperous commonwealths, component parts of the Pioneer
						Nation, dotted with cities, towns and happy homes, netted with railways, fruitful in the
						production of what man finds most useful and beneficial, and the republic has joined
						with the world to celebrate the event, in befitting manner, as is related in a
						succeeding chapter.
					But there were men, even centuries ago, who with prophetic vision saw dimly the
						possibilities of the future. Scorned as dreamers though they were by their
						contemporaries, we should honor them today for the part they played in discovering and
						exploiting the wonderful land which we have inherited. There  are pioneers of peace as well as pioneers of strife, who are not to be
						forgotten.
					Unless the narrative be confined to isolated and local events of daring or of conflict,
						it is almost impossible to separate rigidly by geographical lines the work of the
						pioneers of the farther west. In New England, New York, the Ohio Valley and the region
						of the Great Lakes this condition is less manifest. Hardy woodsmen of wonderful
						endurance and courage moved into the wilderness of forest and river, where amid savage
						foes they performed deeds of prowess, related in earlier chapters of this volume,
						compared to which the tales of knightly gallantry in the Middle Ages are hardly more
						than nursery tales. But hosts of the bravest of them lived and fought and suffered and
						died in a comparatively circumscribed district. A few hundred miles through the
						trackless forest measured tremendous difficulties and distance for them. But there was
						another band of pioneers who struggled with the wilderness in its larger aspect. Of some
						of these we have read in pages past, La Salle, Tonty, Marquette and their fellows, and
						Fremont, Carson and their comrades of a later day. Let us add to the list such men as de
						Soto, Cabeza de Vaca, Coronado, and Andres Docampo of the earlier pioneers, and Captain
						Robert Gray, Lewis and Clarke, John Jacob Astor, Marcus Whitman, and the Mormons of the
						later years, all worthy of inclusion and all with careers of dramatic and thrilling
						interest.
					These men builded on a large scale. Their journeys were measured by thousands of miles
						instead of hundreds, their absences in the unknown lands by years instead of months.
						Incredible hardships they underwent, for the love of adventure, the saving of souls, the
						gaining of riches, three inspiring motives that have been effective stimulants to
						pioneering in all history. In looking at what these men did it is impossible to localize
						them to a single chapter, for their wanderings were far afield, north, northwest and
						southwest variously. So it is with some degree of arbitrary choice that each is treated
						under the account of the particular region where most of his conspicuous work was
						done.
					
					Two thoughtful, earnest students of American history, A. F. Bandelier and Charles F.
						Lummis, have labored for many years to do justice to the name and work of some almost
						forgotten pioneers, and to them an acknowledgment is due from every lover of truth, no
						less than from the present writer, who has found in their pages matter almost
						inaccessible elsewhere. Let us accept the picturesque phrase of Mr. Lummis, and note
						Alvar Nuñez Cabeza de Vaca, "the first American traveler," and Andres Docampo, "the man
						who walked farther on this continent than any other." And both of these demand attention
						here because parts of their marvellous journeys were made in what long afterward became
						the Louisiana Purchase.
					Cabeza de Vaca, "head of a cow" it means, was a Spaniard, born about the time of the
						first voyage of Columbus to America. He was treasurer of the expedition under Narvaez
						which left Spain in 1527 to colonize Florida. A year later they came to disaster in
						Florida, and finally the remnants of the party built boats on the coast west of Tampa,
						hoping to follow around the shore of the Gulf, and ultimately reach the Spanish
						settlements in Mexico. Misfortune pursued them, boats were wrecked, men were drowned,
						arms, clothing and provisions were lost. At last the fourteen survivors found themselves
						spending a winter on an island on the coast somewhere west of the mouth of the
						Mississippi River. In the spring plans for escape were made, and eleven started, leaving
						three behind who were too sick to travel. One of the three soon died, and one wandering
						away was never heard of again. Vaca alone lived to return and tell his tale. The other
						party was captured and all slain but three who were enslaved. These three, ultimately
						escaping, at last met Vaca again in 1534, and these four were the sole survivors of the
						450 who had sailed from Spain on the expedition of conquest.
					For nearly six years Vaca had lived alone with the Indians, who had been surprisingly
						kind to him at all times. He had become a trader between the tribes as well as a doctor,
						and they highly prized his services. In his lonely trading expeditions he tramped over
						thousands of miles of trackless  wilderness in the lower
						Mississippi Valley. He was the first white man who saw the buffalo, then roaming in
						countless thousands, and he learned much of the beauty and richness of the great country
						over which he was traveling. Finally the four wanderers met in what is now Texas, and by
						the use of their assumed medical skill, pretended incantations, and the friendship of
						the Indian tribes, they painfully tramped across the plains and far into Mexico, where
						they came once more to Spanish settlements. Vaca was therefore the first white man to
						cross the continent, and this was nearly 100 years before the Pilgrim Fathers landed
						from the Mayflower at Plymouth Rock.
					Another of those brave old Spanish pioneers, of whom we know comparatively little,
						because of the fact that our interest has been so largely directed to the development
						from the British colonies of the northeastern coast, was Francisco Vasquez de Coronado.
						Lummis considers him "the greatest explorer that ever trod the northern continent,
						though his explorations brought to himself only disaster and bitterness."
					Like most of the other Spanish explorers who traversed parts of what we know as the
						Louisiana Territory, Coronado began his wonderful journey far to the southward in
						Mexico, that richest of the Spanish colonies in North America. He was a young man, and
						governor of one of the Mexican provinces when in 1539 a wandering missionary returning
						from a journey to the Arizona and New Mexico of today, brought rumors of seven rich
						cities where gold was plentiful, in the land he had visited. At once Coronado was put in
						command of a little army of 250 men to colonize these rich lands, and they moved
						northeastward toward the unknown. The expedition traversed Arizona and New Mexico,
						visited the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, fought with the Indians, and endured many
						hardships.
					In the spring of 1541, lured by the fable of Quivira—an Indian city where all was
						pure gold—he sent all but thirty of his men back to Mexico, and with this little
						remainder Coronado marched right on to the northeast across the plains. Texas and the
						Indian Territory of today were traversed, the Arkansas 
						river was crossed, and the march never ended till the party had reached northeastern
						Kansas, truly a tremendous journey from the little post far southwest on the Gulf of
						California from which they had started. Then they marched all the way back again, with
						little in the nature of immediate or tangible results to show for the brave
						undertaking.
					One of the companions of Coronado on this expedition to the vicinity of Kansas City was
						a good priest named Fray Padilla. He with the others suffered privations, want of food
						and water, and the treachery of false guides. But when the party had once more returned
						to the Spanish outpost in New Mexico, Fray Padilla decided that he should be a
						missionary among the plains Indians whom he had just visited. In order to return to his
						chosen field of labor he took with him three other Spaniards, headed by Andres Docampo,
						a soldier, and a few Mexican boys. They marched a weary journey of more than a thousand
						miles, across New Mexico, Colorado and Kansas, following most of the way the route that
						was afterwards known as the Santa Fe Trail, and now is the Santa Fe Railway.
					At last in 1542, in eastern Kansas, they reached a place where Coronado had erected a
						cross in a village of friendly Indians, and there the mission was started. After a time
						the pioneers moved on to another village that proved hostile. Fray Padilla was killed by
						the Indians, who cast his body into a pit and heaped it over with stones. And this
						martyrdom of a Spanish explorer in the heart of the continent was but fifty years after
						the first voyage of Columbus, and sixty-five years before the planting of the first
						English colony on the Atlantic coast at Jamestown.
					After the death of their missionary leader, Docampo and his companions were enslaved
						for ten months during which they suffered many hardships and cruelties. Finally they
						escaped, and then began the most wonderful walk on record. "For more than eight years,"
						says Mr. Lummis, "they wandered on foot, unarmed and alone, up and down the inhospitable
						plains, enduring incredible privations and dangers. At last, after  those thousands of footsore miles, they walked into the Mexican town of
						Tampico on the great Gulf. They were received as those come back from the dead. We lack
						the details of that grim and matchless walk, but it is historically established."
					Another of the brave old Spanish pioneers was Juan de Oñate, a wealthy and energetic
						young man whose home was at Zacatecas, Mexico. He had aspirations to explore the great
						country to the northward, and at his own expense he organized a colonizing expedition
						with two hundred soldiers, women and children, and herds of sheep and cattle. He took
						formal possession of New Mexico in 1598, two years later made a journey far into what is
						now Nebraska, and in 1605 marched westward to the Gulf of California and back to his New
						Mexican headquarters. It was in that year that he founded the city of Santa Fe, present
						capital of New Mexico, and now the second oldest settlement in the United States,
						antedated only by St. Augustine. All of this immense achievement in the exploration of
						the heart of the continent had been accomplished by the Spanish before the English had
						penetrated beyond the narrow strip of low land along the Atlantic where their first
						landings had been made.
					A century after the Spanish Pioneers had made these earliest expeditions into large
						parts of what later became the Louisiana Territory, entering it either from the far
						southwest or from the Gulf of Mexico, French explorers of similar energy, courage and
						persistence carried on their wonderful labors in the same field, entering it either from
						the northeast or, by way of the Mississippi River, from the south. We have read in
						earlier pages of Marquette, Tonty, La Salle, Joliet and their companions; of their
						perils by sea and lake and river and land; of their struggles with privation, cold, and
						hostile Indians. We have read how La Salle set up his cross at the mouth of the
						Mississippi River, with the metal plate bearing the arms of France, while with volleys
						of musketry and shouts of loyalty to their monarch, he and his men took formal
						possession of the entire vast territory watered by the great river and its myriad
						tributaries. To this region of unknown extent,  twice as
						large as France, Germany and Spain combined, he gave the name of Louisiana, in honor of
						Louis XIV, then the reigning sovereign of his native land. Then came the misfortunes of
						his later years—the voyage of La Salle from France to seek the delta of the great
						river, the landing by error on the Texas coast, the desertion of the shipmaster who
						returned to France to abuse the ear of the king with false tales, and finally the
						assassination of the great discoverer.
					But this was not the end of French pioneering in Louisiana. Ten years after La Salle's
						death, an expedition was fitted out in France to renew the effort to colonize the
						Mississippi Valley. Sieur Lemoyne d'Iberville was placed in command, by the king. He was
						one of the eleven sons of Baron Longueuil of Canada, all brave men and conspicuous in
						the colonial wars between the French and the English. In the party was a priest who had
						been with La Salle in his ill-fated undertaking, and he it was who noticed the outflow
						of the muddy current of the Mississippi into the clear waters of the Gulf, and so saved
						d'Iberville from making the mistake of his eminent predecessor. They turned up the
						river, and soon found Indians who had cloaks which La Salle had given them, and relics
						which the priest had left in 1682, seventeen years before.
					This d'Iberville, and his brother, Bienville, made successive voyages to the new
						country, and were the real founders of the French colonial settlement in lower
						Louisiana. One post was established on Biloxi Island, then moved to Mobile Bay, and
						finally shifted to a permanent place at the present site of the city of Mobile, in 1701.
						One year before, a post had been established on the Mississippi River some forty miles
						below the present city of New Orleans, and this was the first settlement made within the
						limits of the present state of Louisiana. For a number of years, as the settlement of
						the lower Mississippi Valley advanced, Bienville was an influential figure, being two or
						three times governor when in favor with the Court at Paris, and again superseded when
						some other favorite rose.
					Now comes forward into prominence the figure of John Law, that most fascinating
						character, whose name has entered  history as the one who
						made "The Mississippi Bubble." Such an important influence his work was, in the actual
						settlement of the Louisiana Territory, that it must be recorded here among the labors of
						the Pioneers, who underwent more personal hardships, but were no more active in the
						development of the great region.
					John Law was a Scotchman who had come to France early in the century, still a young
						man, after a varied career in many lands. He was a student of finance who looked to the
						future and sought to do things on the largest scale. He found a nation virtually
						bankrupt, ruled by the Duke of Orleans as Regent during the minority of the king. Law
						organized a great company for the development of the American territories, and a bank to
						finance the scheme, the whole "system" under the patronage of the Regent himself. Law
						virtually monopolized the commerce of Louisiana and the fur trade of Canada. Colonists
						and troops were sent to Louisiana, New Orleans was founded, the East India Company was
						absorbed by Law's "system," and among all classes in France speculation ran riot. It was
						a veritable orgy of unfounded prosperity for every one.
					Of course in time, after development, the region thus pledged for such tremendous
						issues of shares and securities would be worth incalculably more than even Law's glowing
						estimate. But his look into the future went too far. Inflation was too rapid. Shares
						rose to heights of extravagance. Adventurers and fortune hunters, instead of industrious
						farmers, were the colonists who flocked to the Mississippi Valley. In a few years the
						beautiful bubble burst. Law himself became a virtual fugitive, fortunes in France
						crumbled away, the bank and the great company failed, the colonial movement toward New
						Orleans was interrupted, the "system" was a wreck.
					And yet, although it is the fashion to scorn John Law and his "Mississippi Bubble,"
						calm judgment today finds him one of the great financiers of the world, a man in advance
						of his time, and surrounded by a rapacious court that would not countenance conservatism
						at any point when once the huge scheme had been launched. His theories had their sound
							 element, his hopes were not all selfish, he did much
						for France that merits praise. But more than all, he did much for America. His
						exploitation of Louisiana brought the new colony to the notice of the world. Money was
						poured into the enterprise. Under his auspices multitudes of valuable settlers came to
						establish homes along the great river, and wide explorations increased the European
						knowledge of the region. Above New Orleans beautiful farms and homes still exist,
						established by one of Law's German colonial parties, and now occupied by their
						descendants. John Law must not be forgotten when American pioneers in the Mississippi
						Valley are to be considered.
					In 1763, at the close of the great war between England and France, the French ceded to
						England all of Louisiana lying east of the Mississippi River, except the immediate
						vicinity of New Orleans, and to Spain all lying west of the great river, as well as New
						Orleans itself. It was at this time that the possessions of Spain in the new world
						reached their greatest extent, the Mississippi becoming the eastern boundary of a colony
						that reached westward to the Pacific Ocean, and southward countless miles to the
						southern extremity of South America. Nearly forty years later, in 1801, in the
						readjustment of affairs in Europe, Spain gave back to France the part of Louisiana that
						lay west of the new nation, the United States of America.
					These changes of title to the region which was the neighbor of the young republic, and
						the fact that the Spanish when in control were not as friendly as were the French in
						their turn, made much inconvenience for our own settlements in the Mississippi Valley.
						By the Spanish authorities the use of the New Orleans wharves for shipment was denied to
						the American settlers farther up the river.
					These were the times when Europe was seldom at peace, and peace was little more than
						fresh preparation for war. France and England were continually either in conflict or
						anticipating conflict, and the colonial possessions in America always had to be reckoned
						with in treaty-making as well as in  hostilities. During
						the first years of the nineteenth century, England anticipated the outbreak of another
						conflict and prepared for the occasion. Her greatest strength then, as now, was in her
						navy, and it was plainly the English policy to drive the French from the seas and to
						make war upon the French colonies that lay far from home and virtually unprotected.
					Napoleon understood clearly that he would be unable to make successful defence against
						that sort of a campaign, with the facilities he had at command. He forsaw that the
						English army and navy would have an easy victory in the campaign against New Orleans,
						which would probably initiate hostilities. Upon the return of that force to Europe he
						would have to meet a victorious army, with his own treasury almost empty. The treaty of
						Amiens, under which there had been three years of peace, was not abrogated until May
						1803, but several months' before that time the conditions were clearly understood by
						Napoleon and his counselors. The French Admiral in command in the West Indies indicated
						in his dispatches to Napoleon that the first blow of the English would be struck at New
						Orleans, and this information was immediately placed at the command of James Monroe,
						American Minister at the French Court, and afterwards President of the United States.
						Napoleon understood that the United States was quite as deeply interested in the matter
						as was France, because the closing of the lower Mississippi would stop all trade by way
						of that important route, and would be a serious blow to American prosperity and
						development. At that time the French government and the United States government were
						upon the most friendly terms. Mr. Monroe was in frequent association with Napoleon, and
						in recent years the publication of historical letters found in the French archives, as
						well as in the United States, has revealed the inside facts of this great transaction in
						the most interesting manner. From these letters the facts of the negotiations between
						the American minister and the French ruler are taken.
					"Unfortunately, Mr. Monroe, at this time, did not understand the French language well
						enough to follow a speaker  who talked as rapidly as did
						Bonaparte, and the intervention of an interpreter was necessary. 'We are not able alone
						to defend the colony of Louisiana,' the First Consul began. 'Your new regions of the
						southwest are nearly as deeply interested in its remaining in friendly hands as we are
						in holding it. Our fleet is not equal to the needs of the French nation. Can you not
						help us to defend the mouth of the Mississippi River?'
					"We could not take such a step without a treaty, offensive and defensive,' the American
						answered. 'Our Senate really is the treaty-making power. It is against us. The
						President, Mr. Jefferson, is my friend, as well as my superior officer. Tell me,
						General, what you have in your mind.'
					"Bonaparte walked the room, a small private consulting cabinet adjoining the Salles des
						Ambassadeurs. He had his hands clasped behind him, his head bent forward—his usual
						position when in deep thought. 'I acquired the great territory to which the Mississippi
						mouth is the entrance,' he finally began, 'and I have the right to dispose of my own.
						France is not able now to hold it. Rather than see it in England's hands, I donate it to
						America. Why will your country not buy it from France?' There Bonaparte stopped. Mr.
						Monroe's face was like a flame. What a diplomatic feat it would be for him! What a
						triumph for the administration of Jefferson to add such a territory to the national
						domain!
					"No man living was a better judge of his fellows than Bonaparte. He read the thoughts
						of the man before him as though they were on a written scroll. He saw the emotions of
						his soul. 'Well, what do you think of it?' said General Bonaparte.
					"'The matter is so vast in its direct relations to my country and what may result from
						it, that it dazes me,' the American answered. 'But the idea is magnificent. It deserves
						to emanate from a mind like yours.' The First Consul bowed low. Monroe never flattered,
						and the look of truth was in his eyes, its ring in his voice. 'I must send a special  communication at once touching the matter to President
						Jefferson. My messenger must take the first safe passage to America.'
					"The Blonde, the fastest ship in our navy, leaves Brest at once with orders for the
						West Indian fleet, I will detain her thirty-six hours, until your dispatches are ready,'
						the First Consul said. 'Your messenger shall go on our ship.'
					"How much shall I say the territory will cost us?' The great Corsican—who was
						just ending the audience, which had been full two hours long—came up to the
						American minister. After a moment he spoke again. 'Between nations who are really
						friends there need be no chaffering. Could I defend this territory, not all the gold in
						the world would buy it. But I am giving to a friend what I am unable to keep. I need
						100,000,000 francs in coin or its equivalent. Whatever action we take must be speedy.
						Above all, let there be absolute silence and secrecy,' and Bonaparte bowed our minister
						out. The audience was ended. The protracted audience between Napoleon and the American
						minister was such as to arouse gossip, but the secret was safe in the hands of the two
						men, both of whom were statesmen and diplomats who knew the value of secrecy in such an
						emergency.
					"The profoundly astonishing dispatch reached President Jefferson promptly. He kept it a
						secret until he could sound a majority of the Senators and be assured of the standing of
						such a proposition.
					"The main difficulty that was found would be in raising the 75,000,000 francs it was
						proposed to give. In those days, with a depleted treasury, it was a large sum of money.
						The United States had millions of unoccupied acres, but had few millions in cash in its
						treasury. But our statesmen, to their great honor, proved equal to the emergency.
						Through the agency of Stephen Girard as financier in chief, the loan necessary was
						negotiated through the Dutch house of Hapes in Amsterdam, and the money paid to France,
						and the United States entered into possession of the vast estate."
					Another eminent name figures in the negotiations between the American President and the
						French Consul. Robert  Livingstone served as one of the
						later negotiators between the parties, and contributed his diplomatic skill to the great
						undertaking. The sum of $15,000,000 finally paid, included not only the actual purchase
						money, but a considerable body of disputed claims resulting from the difficulties that
						had occurred at New Orleans. When the negotiations were at an end, Napoleon is said to
						have exclaimed, "I have given England a rival!" Clearly that was one reason why he
						desired to make the sale, and, indeed, the result was exactly what he had foreseen. The
						extension of the authority of the United States across the Mississippi caused the
						struggle for the Puget Sound region a few years later, between this country and
						England.
					The final transfer of authority over Louisiana territory was made in New Orleans on
						December 20, 1803, in the French government building known as the Cabildo, still
						standing. It is this building which has been duplicated accurately, to be erected at the
						grounds of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, and used as headquarters for the State of
						Louisiana at the Fair.
					Strangely enough, the people of the United States cared very little about the purchase
						of Louisiana, or the extension of the national boundaries across the Mississippi.
						However, the westerners of the day—those who lived in the Ohio Valley and the
						Mississippi Valley—were very glad to be freed from the annoyances that had been
						thrust upon them by the foreign authorities at New Orleans, and with the removal of this
						restraint against trade, the prosperity of the region was given a fresh impetus. So
						tempting became the opportunities for wealth and power in the lower Mississippi Valley
						that Aaron Burr, brilliant, ambitious and unscrupulous, succumbed to the enticement and
						entered upon the plan for conquest of that region which ultimately resulted in his
						downfall from influence and from the respect of his countrymen.
					From that day to this, the story of the immense territory included in the Louisiana
						Purchase has been a record of continuous and uninterrupted growth and development. This
							 has been manifested no less in the tremendous increase
						in population, than in the extension of industry, the increase of agricultural
						productivity, the discovery of mineral wealth, the construction of railways, and the
						birth of great cities. Some of this work has taken the form of true pioneering, but most
						of it has escaped the rigors and perils such as characterized the life of the pioneer of
						the earlier centuries. Civilization has had steam at its command, steam by which the
						rivers have become highways and by which railway trains have raced over their thousands
						of miles of track which ramifies in intricate system through every part of the
						country.
					But even within the memory of men who live today, there have been pioneer feats of
						daring, and expeditions of toil and hardship, as truly as those first penetrating the
						wilderness. Some of these have been related in earlier chapters of the present volume.
						The heroes of the Lone Star State, and Kit Carson, are among those whose memory is kept
						by those who knew them when they were doing their work.
					The facts relating to the pioneer development of California and the building of the
						Pacific Railroads which unite that western region with the rest of the country, will be
						related in the next chapter. But we may appropriately speak here of the methods of
						communication which existed prior to the building of the railways across the plains, the
						Rocky Mountains, and the intervening desert, to the Sierra Nevada Mountains and the
						Western Ocean. Various great highways were traversed by the pioneers who moved westward,
						and about them center a multitude of stories of romantic adventure and daring deeds. The
						Santa Fe Trail to the southward, and the Overland Trail to the northward, across those
						thousands of miles of mountain and plain from the civilization of the Mississippi
						Valley, formed paths by which thousands of gold seekers advanced toward their Golconda,
						with their supplies freighted by slow ox trains, fighting hostile Indians day by day,
						suffering and often dying in the struggle.
					Over the same trails went the stage coaches with passengers, and the pony express with
						mail, at a time when every driver  and rider took his life
						in his hands, so threatening were the red tribes on the way. The pony express was
						perhaps the most picturesque of these pioneer institutions. Organized as highly as a
						mail service of today, it provided for the transmission of letters by brave riders, with
						hardly an interruption except for the changing of the mail bags from one horse to
						another, half way across the continent at full speed.
					Indian troubles existed in the northern part of the Louisiana Territory, long since
						renamed, until comparatively recent years. In 1873, troubles broke out with the Modoc
						Indians in Dakota and Montana. A friendly conference with the Indians resulted in the
						murder of the American commissioners, including General Canby and a clergyman, and the
						punishment for this treachery was very severe. Hostilities however, were but little
						interrupted. In the spring of 1876, General Custer was in command of an expedition
						against the Sioux, under the famous chief, Sitting Bull, in Montana. Custer and his
						command of three hundred men attacked a superior force late in June of that year at the
						Little Big Horn River, and met the most disastrous defeat in the history of our Indian
						warfare. The commanding general and his whole force, except one man, met death in this
						battle, the one who escaped being a friendly Indian of another tribe, who disguised
						himself as a Sioux and thus made his flight.
					This was the period during which the Black Hills attracted a multitude of gold-seekers
						into what is now South Dakota, and the mines around Deadwood won their fame. It was the
						temptation of gold that induced the white settlers to flock into this region, which had
						been assigned to the Indian tribes as their own, and the invasion was resented by the
						Sioux, who made their futile stand against civilization here. The penalty the Indians
						paid for their uprising was a stern one, even though the victory over them was
						ultimately won at such bitter cost.
					The names of Crook, Custer, Canby, Reno, and other American commanders gained their
						greatest fame in the Indian warfare of the north during these years. General Miles, too,
						made some of his most noteworthy campaigns among these 
						Indians, and then, turning to the southwest, multiplied his successes in Arizona. The
						tribes of the southwest, including the Apaches, the Comanches, and some others, were
						among the most warlike of all with whom our army has ever had to deal, and not until
						General Miles came into the field with his untiring energy, his reckless bravery, and
						his absolute mastery of the methods of desert campaigning, were those tribes finally run
						to earth and compelled to a reluctant peace.
					One of the most spectacular and picturesque of pioneer movements ever known in the
						United States was that which resulted when the Oklahoma Territory was finally opened to
						settlers. This was a part of the reservation known as Indian Territory, occupied by the
						Indians under treaty with the United States. It is one of the most fruitful and
						productive districts included in the whole extent of the original Louisiana Purchase,
						and for many years settlers had been endeavoring to have the territory opened to the
						whites. As early as 1879, Captain Payne organized an expedition to colonize Oklahoma,
						but his invasion was interrupted by government troops, the leader was arrested, and the
						colonists were scattered. So famous became the persistence of the energetic captain that
						he became known, as "Oklahoma Boomer Payne," but not until the government obtained a
						release of the region from the Indian tribes involved, was a final settlement
						permitted.
					When the day arrived on which the country was thrown open to settlers, the race into
						the attractive land was a picturesque one. Thousands of pioneers rushed in in a single
						day, to secure the most favorable locations, and a dozen towns sprung up within
						twenty-four hours. The territory that had been a wilderness one day was a populous
						country the next, and all records were broken in the rapidity of settlement of Oklahoma.
						It is true that these pioneers did not have the same hardships to undergo that the ones
						who fought their way into the Ohio Valley a hundred years before faced, but this is
						merely another variation of the picturesque form which the pioneer settlement of our
						country has taken.
					
					
							ATTACKED BY THE NEZ PERCE INDIANS.
						
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XX.
						THE GREAT NORTHWEST.
					PIONEERS, like colonists, move in directions indicated by
						nature—the line of least resistance, the scientist calls it—unless some
						special influence induces them to violate this universal law. One recognized tendency is
						to move along lines of latitude instead of lines of longitude—that is, to emigrate
						east or west, instead of north or south. There are good reasons for this. To change in
						this direction is to meet conditions which seem more natural to the colonist, a
						similarity of climate, crops, trees and grasses, manners of life, to those he has known.
						He can fall into local conditions and habits, he can make his way in the world more
						easily than if he has entered a strange climate with all that this means.
					This is why it becomes much easier to induce emigration from Europe to the United
						States and Canada than to the South American countries which offer equally rich material
						opportunities. This is why Texas until recent years has been filled with settlers from
						the southeastern states of the Union, and why the succession of states west of the
						Alleghenies—Ohio, Iowa, Nebraska and the Far West have been pioneered and settled
						in turn by the same stock that made New England, New York and Pennsylvania.
					Here is the second recognized tendency—to advance along the rivers. So it is that
						in some degree the mighty Mississippi, with its multitude of ramifying branches, has
						modified the other influence, and has offered highways by which the earlier  explorers and pioneers penetrated far northwest to the
						Rocky Mountains and even beyond.
					A third recognized tendency—perhaps better called an influence—is to follow
						wherever the enticement of opportunity is held out, and if that opportunity be gold,
						then starts the tide to flow, whether it be to California, to the Black Hills, to
						Cripple Creek or the Klondike, a tide that begins with the prospector—the
						adventurer—and expands into the colonist—the settler.
					Finally among those influences to be named here is that of desire for freedom, either
						of movement, of industry, of government or of worship, a ruling passion no less strong
						to-day, though differently expressed, than when the Pilgrim Fathers sailed westward.
					The progress of settlement across the continent did not halt for an instant at mountain
						barriers or desert sands, nor did it divide suddenly where the geographical limitations
						of the Louisiana Purchase and the Great Northwest were marked. So it is that as we speak
						of Lewis and Clarke, of Astoria, of Marcus Whitman, and of the Pacific Railways we must
						emulate them, and sweep across barriers as they did, to treat the subjects in the
						broader aspect.
					It is to Captain Robert Gray, in the first instance, that we owe the fact that we have
						a Great Northwest on the Pacific coast. Gray was a Yankee sea-captain, born in Tiverton,
						Rhode Island, but sailing from Boston and Salem, Mass., on the good ship "Columbia." He
						was the first navigator, and this was the first vessel, to carry the American flag
						around the globe, surely a worthy errand for a ship with such a name. In 1791 Captain
						Gray rounded Cape Horn and entered the Pacific Ocean, sailing northward and coasting
						from country to country. In May, 1792, he discovered a great river flowing into the
						ocean, and entering the river far enough to become assured that it was no inlet flow
						from the Pacific, but a huge flood of fresh water coming out of the unknown land to the
						eastward, he named it the Columbia River, and continued his voyage of exploration. At
						this time no country had laid claim  to the coast that is
						now known as Oregon and Washington, and no one realized what an important bearing upon
						the future of a nation this pioneer voyage of a New England sailor would have.
					More than ten years later, when the Louisiana Territory had been acquired by the United
						States in the manner described in the preceding chapter, the President sent out an
						expedition to explore the new possessions of the young Republic. This is known as the
						Lewis and Clarke exploration, named for the brave young commanders who piloted it so
						successfully through thousands of miles of unknown country, to a sure destination and a
						safe return. One of these men, Lieutenant William Clarke, was a brother of that brave
						soldier, Captain George Rogers Clark of Virginia (in spite of the difference in
						spelling) who conquered the Illinois and Indiana territories from the British during the
						Revolution, and whose exploits have been related in earlier pages of this volume.
					The instructions under which Lewis, Clarke, and their party started, were to explore
						the waters of the Missouri River, cross the mountain ranges, and descend to the Pacific
						Ocean. They departed from St. Louis, May 14, 1804, and by July 19, 1805, they had pushed
						their boats up stream across or at the side of the present states of Missouri, Kansas,
						Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota and North Dakota into Montana to what they called "The
						Gates of the Rocky Mountains," where the river makes its way through a tremendous cleft
						in the rocks. This is near the point where Helena, the capital of Montana, is situated
						now. Not far away the Jefferson, the Gallatin and the Madison Rivers unite to form the
						Missouri. The voyagers ascended the Jefferson to its source, and then, leaving a
						considerable portion of the party to guard the boats, they crossed the mountains,
						mounted on horses which they had captured, and found the headwaters of a stream flowing
						westward.
					On this stream they launched canoes, October 7, 1805, and began the long journey down
						stream on which the rapid current bore them. The river was the Lewis, a tributary of the
						Columbia. In just one month, they traversed the successively  the larger stream in which they found themselves, and on November 7, 1805,
						they drifted to the north of the great river. When the dense fog lifted they found
						themselves looking out over the Pacific Ocean. The river that they had descended was the
						Columbia.
					On December 23, 1806, Lewis and Clarke reached St. Louis on their return journey. Their
						expedition of more than 8,000 miles, covering nearly two years and a half, gave the
						people of this country their first information concerning the immense extent, vast
						wealth and natural wonders of the far Northwest. Furthermore, the journey had great
						significance in the claims that were soon to arise as to the true ownership of the
						hitherto unexplored regions they had traversed, and the coast which had been their
						destination.
					The work of Lewis and Clarke upon this memorable exploration was accomplished with rare
						courage and intelligence. President Jefferson appreciated what they had achieved, and as
						tangible reward a large land grant was made to each, while one was appointed Governor of
						Louisiana, and the other, General Commissioner of Indian Affairs. But even then the
						journey was considered by many at the time to be a needless and unjustifiable expense.
						The report of the explorers was not printed and given to the public until nine years
						after the completion of the expedition, and after the death of one of the leaders. Even
						then it attracted little attention or applause. Fortunate it was that the country had
						for president a broad-minded, far-seeing man of such wisdom, discretion and
						statesmanship as Thomas Jefferson.
					Five years after the successful conclusion of the Lewis and Clarke expedition, the
						first American settlement on the Pacific was established at the mouth of the Columbia
						River by John Jacob Astor. At that time the great fur trading companies of Canada, the
						Hudson's Bay Company and the Northwest Company, had gained great power and great wealth
						in the wilderness of British America. John Jacob Astor, a New York merchant, entered the
						same field of activity on the United States side of the international boundary, and
						first  established his headquarters on the island of
						Mackinac at the junction of Lake Huron and Lake Michigan. From this point of vantage he
						pushed his trading posts farther westward across the plains and the Rocky Mountains,
						finally establishing this pioneer settlement which was named Astoria. Indeed, he planned
						the extension of his trading posts to the Hawaiian Islands and China, but the outbreak
						of war between the United States and Great Britain in 1812 put a stop to his
						undertakings, and he went into other lines of business. It was he who laid the
						foundation of the Astor fortune which is still held in the same family, largely invested
						in real estate in New York City.
					The Hudson's Bay Company, always jealous of intruders in the domain of the fur trade,
						bitterly resented the action of Astor in establishing this post on the Pacific, and at
						the first sign of the outbreak of hostilities between the two nations they used their
						superior power in the far Northwest to swoop down upon the isolated post and make it
						their own. Thus it was that Oregon became a bone of contention between the two nations
						and was a point of controversey which required many years for settlement.
					We have seen already how Captain Robert Gray discovered the mouth of the Columbia River
						in 1792 and thereby laid the foundation for the claims of the United States ownership.
						It is interesting to note that England and Spain both had vessels on the same coast at
						the same time hunting for the same river, and so near together that they met and hailed
						each other. The second point in the American claim to Oregon was based on the Louisiana
						Purchase, inasmuch as there had been a dispute for many years as to whether the
						Louisiana territory extended to the Rocky Mountains in the Northwest, or across the
						mountains to the Pacific Ocean. The third point in the American claim was based on the
						explorations of Lewis and Clarke, and fourth came the actual settlement at Astoria 1811.
						The fact that this town was captured a little later by the British squadron on the
						Pacific, and the Hudson's Bay forces on land, did not alter the original import of the
						settlement. In the treaty of 1814, which terminated our war with England, Astoria  with all its rights was ordered to be restored to its
						American owners.
					Other points which bore out the American claim might be named, but is sufficient to say
						here that the American people thought the territory belonged to the United States, while
						the British government with equal force claimed it for the crown. Year after year, the
						dispute went on with little progress toward a final settlement, with controversies
						arising continually between the pioneer settlers on one side or the other in the
						territory in question.
					During the first half of the century it was very hard to induce Congress to take much
						interest in such remote regions. In regard to the Far West even Daniel Webster, our
						greatest orator, spoke as follows in the United States Senate, when explorations looking
						toward the building of a Pacific Railroad were in progress: "What
							do we want with the vast, worthless area, this region of savages and wild beasts, of
							deserts, of shifting sands and whirlwinds of dust, of cactus and prairie dogs? To what
							use could we ever hope to put these great deserts, or these endless mountain ranges,
							impenetrable, and covered to their base with eternal snow? What can we ever hope to do
							with the Western coast, a coast of three thousand miles, rock-bound, cheerless, and
							uninviting, and not a harbor on it? What use have we for such a country? Mr.
							President, I will never vote one cent from the public treasury to place the Pacific
							coast one inch nearer to Boston than it is now."
					But Webster was not the only one who took this attitude, and many of the most
						influential statesmen distinctly argued against any effort to extend American influence
						to the Pacific. Senator Benton in 1825, said: "The ridge of the Rocky Mountains may be
						named as a convenient, natural and everlasting boundary. Along this ridge the western
						limits of the Republic should be drawn, and the statue of the fabled god Terminus should
						be erected on its highest peak, never to be thrown down."
					Even as late as 1848, Senator McDuffie, arguing as to the  value of Oregon, which he was urging should be relinquished by the United States in
						its treaty with Great Britain, said: "What is the character of this
							country? As I understand it, there are seven hundred miles this side of the Rocky
							Mountains that are uninhabitable, where rain never falls; mountains wholly impassable,
							except through gaps and depressions, to be reached only by going hundreds of miles out
							of the direct course. Well, now, what are you going to do in such a case? How are you
							going to apply steam? Have you made an estimate of the cost of a railroad to the mouth
							of the Columbia? Why, the wealth of the Indies would be insufficient. Of what use
							would it be for agricultural purposes? I would not, for that purpose, give a pinch of
							snuff for the whole territory. I wish the Rocky Mountains were an impassible barrier.
							If there was an embankment of even five feet to be removed I would not consent to
							expend five dollars to remove it and enable our population to go there. I thank God
							for his mercy in placing the Rocky Mountains there."
					Another embodiment of the ruling opinion concerning what is now our Pacific Northwest
						is found in the following quotation from the Louisville Journal,
						published in the National Intelligencer: " Of all
							the countries upon the face of the earth, Oregon is one of the least favored by
							heaven. It is the mere riddlings of creation. It is almost as barren as Sahara, and
							quite as unhealthy as the Campagna of Italy. Russia has her Siberia and England has
							her Botany Bay, and if the United States should ever need a country to which to banish
							her rogues and scoundrels, the utility of such a region as Oregon would be
							demonstrated. Until then, we are perfectly willing to leave this magnificent country
							to the Indians, trappers and buffalo hunters that roam over its sand banks."
					Why is it that such a strange and foolish judgment existed concerning a country which
						we know now to be one of the most fruitful and valuable of all parts of the United
						States? It could be charged chiefly to the clever work of the Hudson's Bay Company,
						which wanted the country kept as a wilderness  for the fur
						trade. The influx of settlers would be disastrous to their business, and if Americans
						realized its value they would strive more earnestly to bring it under American rule,
						instead of yielding it to British authority which would save it for the great Company.
						And how was it that the great region was preserved for Americans instead of falling into
						the hands of the British? The credit is due chiefly to one of our greatest pioneers and
						most loyal of citizens, the Rev. Marcus Whitman, whose name and fame are safe to be
						remembered as long as the states of the Pacific Northwest preserve their historical
						records.
					To all intents and purposes, Oregon was treated as foreign land by the authorities at
						Washington, and when travelers wanted to journey in that direction they were given
						passports by the Secretary of War, permitting them to pass through the Indian country to
						the Columbia River. It was chiefly missionaries to the Indians who attempted this long
						journey, and to the missionary spirit must be credited the early settlement of the
						country and its final possession by the United States.
					In 1832 four Flathead Indians from the Columbia River region came to St. Louis on a
						surprising journey. They had heard of the Bible, and had traveled all that distance to
						ask for information about what they called the "White Man's Book of Life," and to be
						taught from it. Such an errand made a profound impression, and immediately the request
						was responded to by the missionary boards. It was because of this invitation that the
						Methodists sent a party of missionaries in 1834, and that the Congregationalists
						followed with their own representatives a year later.
					Dr. Marcus Whitman was one of the two who started to Oregon in 1835 upon a trip of
						discovery to learn the real conditions. He went only as far as Wyoming, and then, having
						enough information at his command, returned to New York to obtain reinforcements. In
						February, 1836, he was married, and immediately the young couple started on the toilsome
						journey to the far Northwest. The young medical missionary was then thirty-three years
						old. The party of which he was  the head made its way down
						the Ohio and up the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, the voyage proving long and
						tedious, but uneventful. Reaching Council Bluffs at last they soon joined a convoy of
						fur traders on the way to Oregon, and the journey continued westward across the plains.
						Mrs. Whitman's diary of this strange march into an unknown country is interesting in the
						extreme, and well repays the reader who has opportunity to observe it in its printed
						form.
					In September, 1836, they reached the trading post at Fort Walla Walla and found that
						they must go on to Vancouver to consult with the Hudson's Bay Company officials who were
						in authority over the entire region. The chief factor at Vancouver was a man of sympathy
						and feeling, who wanted to do what he could for the Whitmans and their cause, even while
						protecting the interests of the Company. At his advice therefore they located their
						mission three hundred miles back from the coast in the Walla Walla country, at a place
						called Wai-i-lat-puy, and there, just before Christmas, 1836, began the work of
						civilization and Christianizing of the Indians. The Whitman mission was distinctly
						successful from the first, in spite of the disaster that came to it at a later time.
					Very soon after the Oregon mission was established, settlers from the United States
						began to come into the country. In 1842, one party of one hundred and twenty men, women
						and children passed westward through the mission settlement. One of this party, General
						Amos Lovejoy, brought news to Dr. Whitman concerning the treaty negotiations then under
						way for a settlement of the boundary dispute between the United States and England, and
						the fact was immediately apparent that the United States was in danger of losing the
						immensely valuable country now forming our Northwestern states. Dr. Whitman, from his
						knowledge of local conditions and the work being done by the Hudson's Bay officials, saw
						that immediate action was necessary to save the region to the United States. There must
						be American settlers and the government must be made to realize the value of the
						country.
					The only way to accomplish this was for some one to hurry  across the continent to Washington. Winter was approaching, and the hardships of the
						journey were appalling. No one but Whitman saw the importance of the situation, and he
						rose to the emergency. Whitman never stopped for obstacles. When he came with his wife
						to Oregon he traveled all the way in a wagon. The English, who were astonished at this
						resolute attempt to open up a passage on wheels to the country they coveted, told him
						that his wagon would be broken in splinters in crossing the Rocky Mountains.
						Nevertheless the young couple persisted, and finding a practicable pass through the
						mountains finally conquered and reached their destination.
					Like energy was necessary in the present instance. It was necessary for Whitman to
						violate the rule requiring a sanction from headquarters in Boston for leave of absence.
						He had to leave almost secretly, for fear some of the Hudson's Bay officials would
						discover his purpose, and there must be no delay in the start or on the way. A
						conference of missionaries in the vicinity was called to obtain authorization, and they
						gathered as rapidly as possible at Dr. Whitman's post. A resolution was passed giving
						leave of absence, and fixing the time for his starting in five days, which all of the
						missionaries took advantage of to prepare letters to send home to their friends in the
						east. That night at a dinner party in the Hudson's Bay Company's post, the fact
						developed that a colony of one hundred and forty Englishmen and Canadians were drawing
						near, and the Englishmen openly exulted over the certainty that Oregon would be theirs
						without a doubt.
					As soon as Dr. Whitman could get away from the banquet he hurried home to ponder the
						news. It was clear that no five days could be spared. Instead, within two days he bade
						good bye to his family and on October 3, 1842, mounted his horse and began the ever
						memorable journey. General Lovejoy, who had brought the alarming news from the east,
						volunteered to accompany Whitman, and in addition to their guide and three pack mules,
						they had with them several friendly Indians for the first stage of the journey. Perhaps
						the exasperation of the missionary band may be imagined when they sent in their  letters and learned that the messenger had been gone
						several days on his journey.
					The hardships of this journey of thousands of miles, most of the way on horseback, were
						tremendous. Whitman had to face winter storms and winds, the terrors of starvation, the
						perils of attacks from the Indians, and several times he nearly perished from cold and
						hunger. In addition, until he got out of the disputed country, obstacles were placed in
						his way whenever he came in contact with British officers. He forded dangerous rivers
						and crossed barren plains with a courage and zeal never excelled in human effort. At
						last he reached St. Louis, where he hastily sought information as to the status of the
						boundary dispute. The Ashburton treaty, he learned, had been signed in August, long
						before he left Oregon, and had been confirmed by the Senate in November while he was
						floundering in the snow among the mountains. But the Oregon question was still open, and
						it was still possible that he might reach Washington before Congress should adjourn.
						Even from St. Louis the journey to Washington in mid-winter in 1843 was a difficult
						undertaking, but it was little to Whitman after what he had already passed. On he went,
						and at last in five months from the time of his departure from Oregon he reached the
						national capitol before it was too late.
					Whitman came into the city in his coarse fur garments, buckskin breeches, buffalo
						overcoat and moccasins. Such a figure naturally attracted much attention upon the
						streets and in the public offices in Washington. He was given prompt audience by
						President Tyler and Secretary of State Daniel Webster, and to them he urged with native
						eloquence the value of the Oregon territory and the importance of holding it for the
						United States. Both of the polished easterners treated this man from the Far West with
						every courtesy, and his appeal was not lost upon them. Nevertheless, so fixed in the
						mind of Webster had become the worthlessness of the region in question, that for a time
						very little headway was made. At last the President, the Secretary of War and others
						became convinced that Whitman's attitude was sound, and a promise  was made to the effect that Oregon would not be relinquished until time had
						elapsed for Whitman's return with a band of settlers. He visited with Senators and
						Representatives in Congress and impressed his personality and the merit of his plea on
						every one.
					Whitman next went to Boston to report to the American Board under which his missionary
						labors had been conducted. Here he met cold treatment, for the New England office staff
						little realized the importance of the undertaking their representative had assumed. From
						them he returned westward, grieved that he had been rebuked for doing what he believed
						his duty, but firm in the consciousness that he had made no mistake. Then he began to
						gather his caravan for the Far West. A large body of emigrants gathered near Kansas
						City, and others encamped at Fort Leavenworth waiting for the opening of summer to favor
						their journey. The summer of 1843 was a noteworthy one in the history of Oregon, for
						during that season there moved westward across the plains and mountains the pioneers
						whose presence in the Northwest fixed the American rule for that region for all time.
						More than one thousand men, women and children with their wagons, cattle, horses and
						sheep followed Whitman's lead into Oregon that year.
					As a result of Whitman's mission to Washington, and this movement, the national feeling
						was aroused. Speeches began to be made, demanding that the boundary be moved far north
						of the original claim, and that the Oregon territory should become American. The motto
						"Oregon, fifty-four-forty or fight," became a campaign battle cry. It seemed for a time
						that war was imminent with England over this question. Nevertheless, both countries saw
						the wickedness of war for such a stake, and compromise was made by which latitude
						forty-nine became the boundary all the way to the Pacific, and Oregon was yielded to the
						United States.
					It is fair to say that history is not unanimous concerning the share of Whitman in
						saving Oregon. There are those who criticize because he left his mission station without
						authority,  and others who claim his motives were personal
						profit rather than national glory. But they have been little heeded, and it is seldom
						controverted now, that in truth by his foresight, energy and patriotism Marcus Whitman
						saved Oregon to the United States.
					Marcus Whitman's famous ride was made in the winter of 1842-43. The following summer he
						took with him to Oregon the large party of immigrants. The treaty with England was
						signed in 1846, and a little more than a year later came a disaster to Oregon that is
						the blackest memory in the history of the state. On the 29th of November, 1847, the
						mission station of Dr. Whitman was attacked by the Indians. In the cruel massacre that
						followed fourteen persons were murdered and forty women and children fell captives into
						the hands of the murderers. The Indians who were guilty of the massacre had been
						adherents of the mission or of the Catholic mission near by, and those who were killed
						had spent the best years of their lives in the service of the murderers, giving them
						every confidence and friendship. Dr. and Mrs. Whitman happily were killed instead of
						being taken prisoners. The Americans in Oregon promptly organized a force and attacked
						the Indians, who fled to the protection of a different tribe. The guilty were not
						arrested until some two years after the crime, at which time five of the leaders were
						tried and hanged at Oregon City. In spite of this terrible blow to the mission it was
						reorganized afterward, for comparatively few of the Indians in the vicinity had been
						implicated in the massacre, and the work of the Whitman mission and its successors has
						been considered very effective in the Christianizing of the native tribes of the Far
						Northwest.
					Since that time, in Oregon, Washington and Idaho, the states properly known as the Far
						Northwest, great commonwealths have been founded and great cities built, industrial
						development and intellectual development have kept side by side, and today we realize
						the region to be one of the most fruitful and valuable in the whole of the United
						States.
					Far to the south of the Oregon trail, but not less significant  in its effect, we must note the wonderful pioneer movement of the Mormons in
						Utah. These were a new religious community founded by Joseph Smith of Palmyra, New York,
						and then established in Illinois, where they built a city named Nauvoo. The community
						was joined by Brigham Young of Vermont, a man of keen judgment and high executive
						ability, who rose to the leadership of the community after its founder had been killed
						by a riotous mob. Because of the unfriendly feeling existing toward the Mormons in the
						Mississippi Valley, Brigham Young made up his mind to move further westward. In 1847 he
						crossed the Mississippi, and not long after set out with 2,000 followers for Salt Lake,
						Utah.
					It was a journey of 1500 miles through the wilderness, but Young led the caravan of
						men, women and children on the tedious march across plain and mountain to the
						destination he had chosen. The industry and thrift of the people under Young's guidance
						soon gained them a foothold, and the introduction of irrigation made the soil productive
						in the extreme. As a result the community grew and prospered, the settlement became a
						city, and Young was the head of a virtual kingdom, isolated as he was from the rest of
						the country. When immigration began to make its way across the plains to the Pacific,
						the Mormons frequently came into conflict with the gold-seekers. Various disturbances
						arose, and the strange community became subject to constant attack because of its alien
						laws, and its unnatural practice of polygamy. The industrial value of the work the
						Mormons had done was recognized everywhere, however, and in later years, with the
						enforcement of laws against polygamy, the admission of Utah as a state, and the
						interchange of commerce and settlement with the rest of the country, the Mormon
						community has been less conspicuous for its peculiarities.
					One of the most effective influences in stimulating the pioneer spirit in the Far West
						was the discovery of gold in California. This occurred in the spring of 1848 on a fork
						of the American River, about 100 miles northeast of San Francisco. San Francisco was
						then a little village of some  four hundred inhabitants.
						When the news of the great discovery came, every man who could, started for the mines.
						The next spring the gold fever reached the eastern states, and a tremendous rush of
						immigrants was made, across land and sea. It was at this time that the railway was built
						across the Isthmus of Panama, in order to connect the steamship lines running to the
						Isthmus from New York and San Francisco. Thousands of men went by this route, and other
						thousands of men went across the Great Plains, the Rocky Mountains, the Great American
						Desert and the Sierra Nevadas, lured by the golden prize that was thought to be awaiting
						every one who reached the western coast. San Francisco sprang into a city almost in a
						year. Great fortunes were made and great industries were founded as a result of this
						same rush for gold. Men found that the wealth of the country was greater in its grains
						and fruits, its sheep and cattle than its wealth of mines, and from that day to this
						California has been one of the richest of American commonwealths.
					Ten years after the discovery of gold in California, came the wonderful silver
						discoveries in western Nevada. These attracted attention second only to the gold of
						California, and many millions of dollars were sent out of those bonanza mines. It was at
						this time that Nevada was settled sufficiently to make it a state in the Union, but
						after the boom passed, the population began to fall off sadly, and today this is the
						most backward of all of our family of states.
					The trans-continental railways are the latest manifestations of the pioneer spirit of
						the Great West. The War of the Rebellion showed Americans that it was necessary to have
						better facilities for making connections between the East and West of this great
						country, if its strength was to be preserved. The people of the Far West also demanded
						better facilities for communication, and their rising wealth and industrial importance
						made their voice potent in deciding the important move. Stimulated by these conditions,
						various surveys were made for the trans-continental railways and finally the United
						States Government, by means of bonds, land grants and other official  assistance, promoted the construction of the first railway
						connecting East and West.
					It was on the 10th of May, 1869, at Promontory Point, Utah, that the last spike of the
						railway line was driven. The last tie, of laurel wood with a plate of silver, was laid,
						and the last spike, composed of iron, silver and gold, was driven, with many onlookers.
						Telegraph wires were connected with the spike, and as the blows of the hammer fell they
						telegraphed to all parts of the continent the completion of the railway.
					Nowadays we think but little of the tremendous significance of the trans-continental
						railway, so entirely accustomed to it have we become. In the days when it was built,
						however, it was realized to be the most wonderful achievement of the kind the world had
						ever seen, and interest in the event was universal. Now instead of one trans-continental
						railway reaching the Pacific Coast we have no less than seven, and for large parts of
						the distance this number could be multiplied many times. As a result the pioneer West is
						no longer pioneer. Of course it is different from the East. Its manners of life and
						thought are Western, but its industries, its commerce, and its spirit are national. The
						people of the Northwestern states are now organizing a splendid celebration of the
						hundredth anniversary of the Lewis and Clarke expedition, in the form of an exposition
						of the resources, industries and life of the great Northwest, to be held in Portland,
						Oregon, in the year 1905. A. prediction that this event would occur, made at the time of
						the journey, would have been looked upon as a vision of the veriest dreamer, and yet
						when we see what a century has wrought in the change from pioneer exploration to a state
						of advanced civilization, we wonder what another century may bring to our country.
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXI
						PANAMA AND THE CANAL.
					FOR more than 300 years a waterway connecting the two great oceans
						has been the desire of the inhabitants of the Western World. For two score years time
						and money have been spent at intervals in its construction. When it is completed it is
						to last for the ages. It is to alter the geography of a continent and the trade routes
						of the two hemispheres. The Panama railroad has been looked upon as the precursor of a
						ship canal across the Isthmus, and when the famous French engineer, De Lesseps, who had
						been so successful in the construction of the Suez canal, actually began work in Panama,
						the success of the enterprise seemed finally assured.
					The collapse of the De Lesseps Company caused a long delay, and for a time it seemed
						probable that the Panama route would be abandoned entirely and the Nicaragua route be
						chosen instead.
					However, early in November, 1903, a political move was made on the international board
						which rendered it certain that the great ditch was to be dug in Panama. The department
						of Panama had been up to this time one of the states of the Republic of Colombia. Our
						government had found it impossible to secure from that nation the ratification of a
						treaty which empowered us to build and control the canal. In this crisis, political
						leaders devised a plan which would allow the great work to be inaugurated at an early
						day.
					On November 3, a proclamation of independence from the 
						rule of Colombia was issued by the municipal council of the City of Panama, which was
						immediately ratified in Colon and throughout the Isthmus. A provisional government was
						at once established, and this nation was prompt to recognize the new republic.
					Although the history of the Isthmus of Panama records many remarkable events, yet
						nothing is more evident than that from the day of its discovery the execrable sed d'ora, or the "cursed thirst for gold," as the Spanish called it,
						has been the disease which has afflicted all who have been connected with the country's
						history.
					While Spain, with her almost inexhaustible resources, was sending her colonists to the
						Western World and gathering rich harvests of gold, and building fortifications for her
						protection and permanence, the hardy Puritans were struggling for a simple subsistence
						by cultivating the rugged soil upon the northern coast. The one trusted for the future
						upon her soldiers and her riches, while the other established the foundation of a great
						and permanent commonwealth by cultivating the soil. The Spaniards neglected this, and
						after having skimmed the mines of their surface gold left the country the same almost
						unbroken forest that they found it.
					About the year 1510 Vasco Nunez de Balboa established the town of Santa Maria on the
						Darien gulf. This man, whose career was short but brilliant, had owned an estate in
						Hayti, where, having become involved in some difficulty with the government, he was
						sentenced to be executed; but he escaped by secreting himself in a bread cask on board a
						vessel about to sail on an expedition to "capture Carthagena, Veragua, and other western
						countries." The vessel on which he was secreted was commanded by one Euciso, and was
						subsequently wrecked off St. Sebastian, after having visited Carthagena. By the energy
						and perseverance of Balboa, it was finally got off, and set sail under his charge for
						the coast, of which he took formal possession in the name of the Spanish monarch and
						commenced the town of Santa Maria.
					In the meantime he had gained a perfect ascendency over 
						Euciso, the original master of the ship. In the middle of September, 1513, he, in
						company with the afterwards celebrated Francis Pizarro, started on an expedition inland,
						which resulted in the discovery of the Pacific Ocean and the founding of the important
						city of Panama. We are told that "Vasco Nunez bade his men sit down, while he alone
						ascended and looked down upon the vast Pacific, the first man of the old world, so far
						as we know, who had done so. Falling on his knees, he gave thanks to God for the favor
						shown to him in his being the first man to discover and behold this sea."
					Balboa possessed in a remarkable degree the faculty of controlling the passions of men,
						and no commander ever had more loyal followers. He was rewarded for his great discovery
						by the title, without the offices, of Adelantado of the South Sea, and Governor of
						Coyba, and of the then Indian settlement of Panama. But shortly afterwards he was
						beheaded at the caprice of his implacable old father-in-law, the new governor of Darien,
						who had been sent out to rule the colony.
					Panama, when discovered by Balboa, was an Indian village, which gave place to the city
						the ruins of which are now known as Old Panama, and which was destroyed by the
						buccaneers under Morgan in 1670. During the prosperity of the old city, Porto Bello was
						built on the Beautiful harbor, which its name implies, about twenty-five miles east of
						Navy Bay, and was made the northern terminus of a paved mule road from Panama, which to
						this day remains, at some points, in a state of tolerable preservation, while at others
						all traces of it are swept away.
					The most remarkable statements have been made respecting this place as a depot for the
						trade of the South American coast. That it was made the shipping port for the products
						of the South American mines is undoubtedly true; but that "bars of silver and ingots of
						gold were piled in the streets without fear or anxiety for their safety," we can hardly
						credit, although all this is positively asserted.
					There was something magnificently ludicrous in the notion which the rulers of Spain
						conceived—of keeping the dicoveries  of the immortal
						Genoese a close secret to themselves. That this idea was seriously entertained there can
						be no doubt. But finding that this brilliant scheme of locking up the two Americas as
						"treasure trove" for the especial use and enjoyment of the finders could not succeed,
						the Spanish government, in 1524, secured from Pope Alexander VI. a bull which solemnly
						conferred the New Indies on the King of Spain and his successors. This gift required of
						those monarchs all the power they could command to enforce and maintain, and they
						consequently soon found themselves in collision with thousands of the hot and
						adventurous spirits of Europe. To check the audacity of these trespassers upon his new
						dominions the sovereign of Spain instituted a coast guard, whose duty it was to capture
						and slay all intruders upon the shores of the Spanish Main and West India islands.
					To aid the otherwise altogether insufficient efforts of this guard, the terror of
						mutilation and torture was added, and Europe rang with stories, doubtless somewhat
						exaggerated, of cruelties practiced by the Spaniards upon the luckless traders who fell
						into their hands. These iniquities were returned to the perpetrators with abundant
						interest. The American seas speedily swarmed with buccaneers, freebooters, consisting of
						English, Scotch, Welsh and Frenchmen, whose self-imposed mission it was, whilst
						enriching themselves by trade and plunder, to avenge upon the Spaniard whatever wrong or
						cruelty he had inflicted upon their countrymen. These desperadoes soon became extremely
						formidable, and the entire power of Spain, fiercely and lavishly exerted, proved utterly
						insufficient to seriously check, much less to put them down.
					The history of that period in the Spanish Main is but one series of aggressions on the
						Spanish possessions by numerous bands of these buccaneers. Among them was one desperate
						character named Henry Morgan, an Englishman. He was the most reckless and bloodthirsty
						among the thousands whose passion was blood, and whose trade was robbery. After having
						desolated a number of the young Spanish towns on  the main
						coast of the Caribbean sea, he decided to visit Panama, then regarded as the richest
						city on the continent.
					Morgan issued a proclamation, calling upon all the adventurers, English and French, who
						resided in Jamaica, Tortugas and Santo Domingo, to assemble on a certain day, when he
						would inform them of an adventure that would enrich them all, and allow them—if
						any wished—to return to England or France, and spend the rest of their days in
						opulence and peace.
					The place chosen for the rendezvous was Port Gongon, on the south of St. Domingo; and
						on and before the day, vessels from all quarters, full of daring, bold men, were to be
						seen entering the little harbor. Morgan, in his own twenty-four gun frigate, the "Kite,"
						arrived on the day. He unfolded his plans to the assembled buccaneers, and asked for
						volunteers. He was unanimously elected commander-in-chief on land, and admiral on water.
						He appointed a commander for each vessel, and set sail with thirty-seven ships, and
						2,200 men. Their course was directed towards the island of St. Catherine, which they
						took. Here they found three prisoners who had been sent from Panama. Morgan commanded
						them to act as guides, promising them freedom and money if faithful; instant death if
						treacherous.
					Captain Bradelet, a Frenchman, with four vessels was sent to take possession of Fort
						San Lorenzo, at the mouth of the Chagres river. The fort was taken after a desperate
						resistance; out of 300 men who garrisoned it, only fourteen were left alive, the rest
						having fallen in the hand-to-hand conflict.
					Morgan gave orders to repair the fort, and left 500 men for its defense, and 150 on
						board the vessels, to guard the harbor and prepare for any emergency. He loaded about
						1,300 of his daring followers on a fleet of canoes, and taking with him a few pieces of
						light artillery, he ascended the Chagres river, amid the shouts of that part of the
						little army he left behind. The voyage was perilous and tedious. They had little or no
						provisions with them, and the flying Spaniards had destroyed or driven away everything
						which could sustain life. Besides, on their arrival at Cruces, they found that place  had been fired by the retreating Spaniards, and there was
						no possibility of securing food.
					The fleet of canoes was sent back to Chagres, and the army marched towards Panama. In a
						few hours they saw the glittering spires of the city, but at the same time they
						perceived a large ship and five smaller ones departing for the Island of Taboga, and
						carrying with them part of the wealth they had already counted as their own. On nearing
						the city, they found a large force of armed Spaniards awaiting their
						arrival—nearly quadruple their own number. Morgan addressed his men; he pointed to
						the ships carrying away the treasure, but reminded them of that of the churches, and the
						immense sums of gold that had accumulated in the hands of the merchants; that the whole
						Spanish army stood before them, and that now was the time for them to achieve a splendid
						victory, or be totally annihilated.
					The Spanish force was a splendid-looking body of men, dressed in silks and satins, and
						riding magnificent horses, but when the rough, ferocious-looking buccaneers had grappled
						with them "their hour had come." Of the Spanish cavalry but fifty men escaped. The
						infantry, seeing the fate of the cavalry, after a few volleys, did not wait for the
						charge, but began to run in all directions, pursued with tiger-like ferocity by the
						buccaneers, who killed hundreds of them as they ran. An officer taken prisoner told
						Morgan that the city was deserted, and most of the women, children, and treasure sent to
						Taboga, and that the Governor had left to defend the place 3,000 infantry, 400 cavalry,
						and 600 Indians. This army was defeated and cut to pieces by Morgan, with a loss of two
						men killed and two wounded.
					The city of Panama fell into his hands after a battle of two hours. He sent, under the
						command of an English captain, in a small vessel (which they took in the act of cutting
						her cable), a party of twenty-five men to Taboga, to fire all the houses on the island
						and to bring back the treasure that had been taken there.
					The pursuing party returned the following day, bringing with them three of the larger
						ships, laden with specie and  valuable goods. They had
						found, besides, about a hundred mules loaded with the same cargoes, trying to push into
						the interior of the island to secrete them. Morgan and his band remained in Panama for
						three weeks, collecting all the valuables they could find. The prisoners were held to
						ransom according to their wealth, which contributed much to the general fund.
					When the buccaneers left the ruins of Panama, they took with them 175 mules laden with
						their spoils, and more than 600 prisoners, including women, children and slaves. The
						misery of these wretched captives exceeds description. They believed they were to be
						carried to Jamaica, England, or some other equally wild, distant, or savage country, to
						be sold for slaves. Morgan heightened these fears, the more readily to extort the
						ransoms he demanded for the freedom of his unhappy prisoners.
					When the spoils were divided, Morgan's share was sufficient to keep him in Jamaica the
						rest of his days in luxury.
					So complete was the destruction of the beautiful city, that when the miserable
						fugitives returned to it they had no courage to rebuild, assured that it would only
						serve again to attract the avarice of the remorseless pirates. When tidings of these
						events reached Spain, the king immediately sent orders to have the city removed to a
						more defensible locality, and rebuilt in such a manner as to defy future assaults, the
						expense thereof to be defrayed by the crown. In accordance with the king's edict a site
						was chosen on a rocky peninsula at the base of a high volcanic mountain, called Aucon,
						four miles to the westward of the old city. There, in 1671, the foundation of the
						present city was laid. "Born from the blood and sinews of the simple aborigines of that
						unfortunate country, this 'very noble and very loyal city,' was fed and nourished by a
						system of oppression and plunder." As the entrepot for the riches of
						the northern and southern Pacific coasts, Panama, during the next hundred years, grew to
						be a wealthy and beautiful city, boasting of temples adorned with gold and silver and
						pictures of great value.
					
					When the California gold fields began to attract thousands of emigrants, who had to
						make their way as best they could through the swamps and forests of the Isthmus, the
						absolute necessity of a railway connecting the two oceans was realized. The first
						surveys were made in 1848, work was commenced on the line in 1850, and it was opened and
						in working operation from the Atlantic to the Pacific in January, 1855.
					The entire credit for this great work belongs to American energy and capital. After
						both French and English speculators had obtained more favorable grants of the same
						route, a few Americans undertook the work, and spent almost the whole of their private
						fortunes in completing it. No imposing ceremony inaugurated the "breaking ground." Two
						American citizens, leaping, axe in hand, from a native canoe, upon a wild and desolate
						shore, their retinue consisting of a half a dozen Indians, who cleared the path with
						rude knives, struck their axes into the nearest trees, and the stately cocoas crashed
						upon the beach. Thus was announced the commencemont of a railway, which, from the
						interests and difficulties involved, might well be looked upon as one of the grandest
						and boldest enterprises ever attempted.
					The total length of the road is forty-seven and one-half miles. The line is a single
						one, but there are four commodious sidings. There is no difficulty in keeping the line
						in order at a reasonable expense, but, on the contrary, it continues in better condition
						than similar works in Northern latitudes, where the climate appears to have a more
						injurious effect than within the tropics.
					The total expenditure of the Panama Railway Company amounted to $7,407,553, or nearly
						$150,000 per mile. But even when this enormous cost is considered, the investment has
						been an unusually profitable one and the stock is held at a very high figure.
					Long years before the establishment of the Panama railway there had been numerous
						projects for a ship canal across the Isthmus. To Saavedra, the kinsman and commander
						under the famous Hernando Cortes, is ascribed the bold project of  cutting a canal from sea to sea. And it was a favorite scheme of the
						President of Colombia, the liberator Bolivar. Indeed, from the time of Humboldt, men of
						many nations have sailed along "the stormy shore of the gulf and penetrated its
						unhealthy streams, jotting down every landmark that might serve to guide the future
						navigator, or surveyed the crested Isthmus in search of a practical communication
						between the great seas on its borders."
					In 1878 the Colombian government granted a society known as the Civil International
						Interoceanic Canal Society the exclusive privilege of constructing a canal between the
						two oceans through the Colombian territory; and at the same time the ports and the canal
						were neutralized. In 1879 M. de Lesseps took the matter up, and the first meeting of
						this company was held in 1881, and during that year work was actually begun. After an
						expenditure of $156,000,000, and the completion of about two-fifths of the work, the
						project was abandoned by the de Lesseps company in 1889. Great scandals involving the
						disgrace of many prominent men signalized the bursting of the bubble. The company's
						affairs were placed in the hands of a receiver, who maintained control until 1894, when
						the concession and assets were turned over to a new company which had been organized.
						This company began a thorough study of the engineering and financial problems through an
						international commission of engineers.
					This commission estimated the cost of completing the canal at $102,400,000. The
						concession for the Panama canal was granted May 28, 1878, extended December 26, 1890,
						and August 4, 1893. The time for the completion of the canal was thereby fixed at
						October, 1904, but in December, 1898, the Colombian government granted an additional
						extension of six years. There can be no doubt that the new republic of Panama will grant
						further extensions should it be found that these are required.
					
					
						FREMONT ON THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS>
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER XXII.
						THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION.
					IT IS a leap of a century from the consummation of the purchase of
						the Louisiana Territory from France by the United States to the celebration of that
						event by the Louisiana Purchase Exposition at St. Louis, metropolis of the region thus
						acquired. But never before in the Christian Era has there been a single century so
						marked by the material and intellectual progress encompassed within its significant
						years.
					On our own continent the nation has swept from ocean to ocean, strengthening itself at
						home and extending its influence abroad. Three foreign wars and one within our borders
						have been fought and won. Possessions in the Tropics of both the Atlantic and Pacific
						Oceans have been added, so distant that a century ago their names were hardly known to
						our forefathers. Invention has changed the methods and habits of life. Railways and
						steamships, telegraphs and ocean cables, printing presses and agricultural implements,
						forces heretofore unknown or unutilized, have united virtually to make the world anew.
						Populous cities and rich commonwealths stand where maps a century old mark but the utter
						wilderness. Fitting it is that there should be rich commemoration by the nation and the
						world of the significant event that made memorable the first years of the nineteenth
						century, and advanced the republic so far in its marvelous history.
					Let us see what we have done to honor the event, the men who participated in it, and
						the success their prophetic action has wrought. To a rich city in the heart of the
						Mississippi  Valley we have delegated the execution of the
						memorial, and right nobly has St. Louis risen to the obligation, upheld by the energy
						and liberality of her own people, the fourteen states and territories which have been
						carved out of the Louisiana Purchase, the other commonwealths of the United States, the
						national government, and the sister powers of all the world.
					It is a day in midsummer, 1904. Through the busy streets of this typical American city
						of St Louis the visitor has made his way, companioned by a host of our fellow citizens
						from far and near, to the gates of the great tract set aside for the splendid
						commemorative display.
					Within the gates he looks upon a scene of bewildering variety, beauty and splendor. The
						main group of Exposition buildings in the northeastern part of the grounds, consists of
						twelve great structures in symmetrical arrangement somewhat in the form of a lady's fan,
						the avenues corresponding to the ribs. Eight of these palaces are upon a level sixty
						feet below the others, and as the visitor enters the broad central avenue which bisects
						the group, he beholds a scene inspiring in its grandeur.
					Every building is truly majestic. The richness of architectural detail has never been
						equalled in exposition structures. The landscape has the finish of a vast garden with
						every feature pleasing to the eye. In the distance, more than half a mile away, rises
						the beautiful Hall of Festivals, two hundred feet high, the central jewel of the
						beautiful architectural coronet which adorns the broad natural amphitheater which
						terminates the vista. The sides of this coronet, stretching in graceful curves seven
						hundred and fifty feet each way from the Festival Hall, are fifty-two feet high. They
						resemble a colonnade, except that square pylons alternate with pairs of columns, forming
						fourteen sections or bays, in front of which, upon the terrace, are fourteen great
						sculptured figures representing in allegory the fourteen States and Territories which
						form the huge area once the Louisiana Purchase. Two beautiful refreshment pavilions of
						circular form, one hundred and thirty feet in diameter, are placed at the ends of the
						colonnades.
					
					Facing the wonderful avenue down which the visitor is gazing, from the lawns in front
						of Festival Hall and the refreshment pavilions, three great cascades, the largest
						artificial creations of the kind ever made, pour down the slope. The central one of
						these three gushes forth a veritable flood, spreading into a stream fifty feet wide. The
						first fall is twenty-five feet, then a series of cascades for a distance of two hundred
						and ninety feet, with a total fall of ninety-five feet. At the Grand Basin the stream,
						divided into three parts, is one hundred and fifty-two feet wide. The two great
						fountains, one on either side, create cascades twenty feet wide at the top, and fifty
						feet wide at the point where the stream flows into the Grand Basin.
					All three of these streams flow into the cascade basin which forms a part of the lagoon
						system. The lagoons extend around and between the Education and Electricity buildings,
						and they afford an important means of transit, giving a ride of a mile or more.
						Elsewhere water is used most generously for landscape effects. In the courts of the
						buildings are fountains and pools. In these fountains the streams are from one and a
						half to three inches in diameter. They appear in the form of pillar jets, fans,
						bouquets, etc., and require more than fifty gallons of water each, per minute. The
						profusion of such flows has a welcome effect on the temperature when the summer days are
						hot.
					The landscape effects are the first impression traced upon the visitor's memory by the
						aid of sight. Everywhere the scene is one of charm. The natural forest growth of the
						slopes and uplands invites to shady paths and restful retreats. Upon other slopes are
						terraced gardens, and the open spaces between the buildings are enriched with flowers
						and fountains, trees and plants. The slope between the great cascades is a formal garden
						richly adorned with flowers and shrubs, architectural and sculptured devices. In every
						part of the landscape and upon the buildings is new statuary by modern masters of this
						majestic art. The immense areas of the tract assigned for the Exposition have been
						treated with highest skill to preserve the natural beauty of the hills and forests, as
						well as to create new  beauties in the more formal
						portions adjacent to the larger buildings. The Exposition is therefore complete in all
						details, artistic in every vista, and perfect in its loveliness. In the general aspect
						it shows definite advancement and noteworthy removal from influence of past
						expositions.
					Let us now turn from generalities to particulars, and observe some figures which do not
						lie, and comparisons which are not odious, but edifying. This World's Fair at St. Louis
						occupies 1280 acres, or twice as much as the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 at
						Chicago, and about as much as the total area of that Fair added to the Pan-American
						Exposition at Buffalo in 1901, and the Paris Exposition of 1900.
					The Exposition caught the reflected glory of the Spanish-American War. Increased
						interest in this Republic as a consequence of that demonstration of our power, attracted
						the attention of the world to the degree that foreign governments needed no urging to
						gather at St. Louis. Fifty-three nations have responded with displays costing six
						millions of dollars.
					The flush of triumphal conquest made its influence felt in the participation of home
						interests. Forty-three states have appropriated eight millions of dollars. The
						coincidence between the recent acquisition of the Philippines and an exposition
						commemorating the peaceful transfer to the United States of the Louisiana Province, a
						territory ten times the area of the original thirteen states, induced the federal
						government to contribute ten millions of dollars toward the tremendous celebration.
					Patriotic impulses stirred the citizens of the Exposition City to the generous
						subscription of ten millions more. Individual exhibitors of all countries have spent ten
						millions to prepare and install their displays. Showmen have expended five millions in
						building and equipping amusements. With this enormous aggregate of forty-nine millions
						of dollars, the greatest monument to enlightenment has arisen in three years.
					Such an astounding drama of Man demanded a theater of almost fabulous proportions.
						Nature was designing the enormous playhouse when the ancient hills arose from primordial
							 slumber. Master architects recognized her preparations
						in the far-sweeping landscape of Forest Park. Two square miles of woodland plateau and
						dipping valleys, land-locked lakes and wide reaches of meadow furnished the mammoth
						stage and its settings. A bowl-shaped amphitheater indented the northern apron of the
						wooded plateau, commanding nearly a mile of level downs. From the semi-circular crest of
						this natural coliseum, the architectural comission beheld the future keynote of the
						exposition. They dreamed of terraced gardens and cascades on the slopes; of boulevards
						radiating from their point of view, and of palaces ranging in a grand arc of one mile,
						with its concave facades marshalled around the decorative pivot.
					Three times did the exposition outgrow the original limits of six hundred and fifty
						acres before it encompassed twelve hundred and eighty acres. Thirteen exhibit palaces of
						extraordinary amplitude became a group of twenty-six buildings before the gates were
						thrown open. Almost incredible demands for space from the four ends of earth pushed the
						exhibit limits out of the buildings into two hundred acres of open-air displays. No
						government received as much space as it requested. In the event that every application
						had been granted, the exposition would have been twice its size. The result was a degree
						of selection far beyond any previous international show.
					Overshadowing the greatest monuments of the ancients, the palaces of this Forest City
						serve as types of the grandest architecture of all the ages. Columns and entablature of
						classical Greece, walls and obelisks of the Pharoahs, the magnificence of the
						Renaissance, the graceful fancies of the Moor, the frown of the Gothic and the vagaries
						of the mystic Orient contrast with the best and the fairest of modern architecture.
					Colossal sculpture has been used to heighten the heroic harmony. Impressive works of
						the sculptor represent two hundred and fifty groups containing more than one thousand
						figures, created at a cost of half a million of dollars. In  keeping with the classic style and heroic proportions of the architecture, the
						sculpture shadows the larger and grander phases in the adventurous lives of those
						pioneers and explorers who won the wilderness from its brute and barbarian inhabitants,
						as well as those achievements of later civilization, wrought by the genius of American
						intellect.
					Allegorical interpretation of the spiritual influence of this conquest on American
						character finds triumphant expression about the cascades already described. Amid these
						striking surroundings sculpture has reached the boldest flights of imagination. Along
						the balustrades and grand stairways approaching the falling waters, statues are erected
						to the explorers of the Louisiana domain, to the conquerors of its savage life, and to
						the statesmen through whose wisdom and diplomacy the title to the land was made clear to
						their descendents.
					The fame of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition may safely rest on its transcendent
						glory—the Cascade Gardens, the Homeric grandeur of which cannot be forgotten
						within this generation. H. A. Mac Neil's grand Fountain of Liberty forms the allegorical
						veil before the portal of the Hall of Festivals. Liberty, dominating from a serene
						height the outstretched figures of Genius and Inspiration, is flanked by male figures,
						typifying physical strength, bestriding fabled sea-horses. From this colossal group
						issues the waters of the main cascade. Mounted on pedestals attending the successive
						leaps of the joyous flood are heroic examples of the same sculptor's groups symbolizing
						the birth and progress of liberty and civilization.
					The designation of the east cascade as the Fountain of the Pacific and the west cascade
						as the Fountain of the Atlantic furnished an imaginative basis for the most fanciful
						treatment. The east cascade is therefore dominated by the Spirit of the Pacific, a group
						showing the airy figure of a graceful girl floating in space and attended by an
						albatross, the winged genius of that calm waste. Sportive cupids surround the base of
						the pedestal. In the Spirit of the Atlantic the figure of a youth stands in the clouds,
						with upraised arm, controlling the  tempestuous ocean.
						Vigor and power, with the grace of young manhood stamps the composition. At his feet
						soars the eagle, king of birds, typifying the restless and turbulent nature of the
						Atlantic. Both groups surmount globes from which gush the waters of the cascades. Other
						ideas associated with the same themes are presented in the series of groups extending
						down the water leaps to the grand basin. Babes and dolphins gambol along the dancing
						waters, girls with sea gulls and boys worrying bear cubs all ride on the rushing flood
						as it tumbles to the great pool.
					Landscapes of Versailles, old Italian gardens, Babylon pleasure haunts in mid-sky never
						surpassed the perfection of the Cascade-Gardens. Jeweled in its very heart, the golden
						dome of the Hall of Festivals gleams aloft in the mellow sunshine, a thing to uplift the
						soul. Snowy statuary, ever ascending in increasing masses from the pool to the skyline,
						the falling flood of the cascades, feathering into filmy lace and musical with the
						cadences of silver bells all unite to weave a spell of enchantment seldom felt in the
						cold commonplaces of everyday life.
					Yet Night has her victories. In this reign of electricity nothing has escaped the
						necromancy of the master illuminator. Every fertile resource of his science has been
						exhausted to achieve the highest art in the nocturnal treatment of the Cascade-Gardens.
						The moving waters and the flowers suggested a new thought. How to make the water itself
						resemble liquid fire was the inspiration of an instant. How to cause the flowers to
						become self-luminous jewels stirred the inventor to his best efforts. Experiments with
						mercury vapor proved that water might become to the eye a mass of opalescent wine. The
						new illumination is born. The opal fire retains its hues undimmed by zones of color
						thrown across the picture; the flaming flood stretches with its single luster through
						bands of brilliant cardinal, cerulean, and amethyst. Roses, geraniums, violets, all
						reveal themselves in their day colors. Persons sauntering along the Terrace of States,
						in front of the colonnade on the crest of the hill, may be bathed in royal purple,  lower down along the descending balustrades perhaps they
						are ensanguined in vivid red, while those hanging over the ramparts of the grand pool
						may be mellowed in orange. The Cascade-Gardens are an appeal to all the senses of
						man.
					The vast city of palaces lies in its glittering arc at the foot of the cascades. Nearly
						two-thirds of a mile of domes, spires and obelisks form the skyline to the east of the
						Terrace of States. Looking directly north from the Fountain of Liberty the full
						perspective of the monument court is revealed for twenty-five hundred feet to the
						immense peristyle closing the picture. In traversing this distance, the gaze is carried
						down the grand cascade, widening in its descent from eighty feet to one hundred and
						forty feet, at its final leap into the pool; then across 1500 feet of water in the
						lagoon to the shaft of the Louisiana Purchase Monument at the intersection of the court
						and the swinging boulevard; beyond are 1100 feet of the pink graveled concourse. The
						stately facades of Electricity and Varied Industries to the west and those of Education
						and Manufactures to the east, flank the view.
					Along the swinging boulevard to the east the eye encounters Liberal Arts and Mines and
						Metallurgy and to the west on the same avenue Transportation and Machinery. These eight
						palaces form the symmetrical composition of the main picture. Fine Arts, the only
						exhibit building on the wooded plateau, is veiled by the Hall of Festivals and the
						Colonnade of States. Half a mile to the west of the cascades begins a secondary picture
						including more than half of the entire Exposition. Within this sphere of interest are
						placed on wooded knolls the Palaces of Agriculture and Horticulture, the Palace of Fish,
						Forestry and Game, the Philippine reservation of forty acres, the Indian reservation and
						anthropological reservation of forty acres, a stadium for the Olympic games, one hundred
						acres for outside forestry and agriculture, immense stock pens, and the reservation for
						foreign government pavilions. This great section is overlooked by the Administration
						building, a permanent structure in the Tudor Gothic style of architecture,  being a part of the group of buildings leased by the
						Exposition from the new Washington University.
					One of the delightful recollections of the St. Louis contribution to the art of the
						world, will be its mural decoration. The utter absence of the garish or gaudy and the
						use of subdued tinting, adapted to the architecture of the buildings, emphasizing their
						purposes and originality while offering variety and beauty to the general picture leave
						an impression of refinement and repose.
					Soft grays, chromes, sky blues, Pompeiian reds and chocolate browns have been applied
						to recesses and doorways, pavilions and interiors and along the exposed roof surfaces.
						Towers have been touched with delicate hues which melt most charmingly into the ambient
						atmosphere. Color as Nature lays it on is used in the treatment of Agriculture,
						Horticulture and Fish, Forestry and Game. The blush which she gives to the grape, the
						orange, the corn, the squash and the pumpkin is reproduced in panels and portals. The
						waving corn, the fruit and vegetables appearing on portions of these buildings, in
						festoons and garlands, afford striking contrasts with colors laid on plain surfaces.
					Bronzes and old metals are the shades presented in the main entrances to the Palace of
						Mines and Metallurgy, giving a metallic effect to the whole. In the panels on either
						side of the entrances are elaborate mural paintings, representing the philosophy and
						poetry of the ideas connected with the building. A great frieze, in bas
							relief on the screen wall covering the loggia, is done in a bronze tone. The
						background of the sculptured figures is a rough golden colored glass, illuminated at
						night to show the figures in silhouette. The rear wall back of the columns forming the
						loggia is rich Pompeiian red.
					The east and west entrances to the Palace of Varied Industries are distinguished by
						Renaissance scrolls, with heads in circles, these heads suggesting the genius of
						invention and kindred subjects. Verdigris and purple kindle the forest of towers on the
						Palace of Machinery. Surfaces of its corner pavilions are all in color, lending an
						impression of filigree  work. The grand hemicycle entrance
						to Manufactures is a glow of colors. The triple arch front to Transportation has rich
						tones of reds and blues and greens. The severely classic outlines of Education preclude
						the application of much color, but Liberal Arts, with its gigantic triumphal arch
						entrances and huge frieze around the building, is enriched with lavenders and ashes of
						roses. The rolling roof is done in chocolate brown.
					Throughout the grounds a wealth of gilding sharpens the landmarks. A rich golden note
						has been added to the figures of the Pacific and Atlantic in the Cascade-Gardens. The
						Louisiana Purchase Monument has touches of gold treatment, extending to the galaxy of
						thirty-five sculptured groups forming part of the ensemble about the base of the shaft
						which was erected to commemorate the peaceful conquest of the Louisiana Province and
						subsequent civilization. A great figure of Peace crowns the pinnacle of the monument.
						Bridges and pylons and other strongly marked effects in the landscape are heightened by
						the use of the same tones. Arcades of parked maples along one mile of lagoons and
						waterways splash vivid greens against the prevailing ivory tints of the architecture. At
						conspicuous points on the Grand Basin colossal statues of Jefferson and Napoleon
						symbolize the act of transferring the Louisiana Territory. The Apotheosis of Saint
						Louis, a kingly equestrian statue of Louis IX., equestrian statues of De Soto and
						Joliet, groups of the American cowboys and trappers, Indian war dances and mounted
						braves, fill the air with the breath of old world adventurers and the later
						frontier.
					This historic interest pervades the Exposition. Foreign governments and the states of
						the Union have caught the contagion of giving significance to their representative
						buildings, and surrounding them with rare gardening in keeping with the natural
						environment. France reproduces the Grand Trianon, once the haunt of Napoleon and
						Josephine, and gives it a setting of Versailles landscape; Great Britain has built the
						Orangery of Kensington Palace, in the atmosphere of an old Elizabethan floral frame.
						Germany has erected the  celebrated castle of
						Charlottenberg on a high hill overlooking the Cascade-Gardens, and embowered it with
						Berlin horticulture; Japan has several of the most famous types of architecture within
						bits of the Imperial gardens of the Mikado; Italy is resplendent with the best period of
						Roman architecture, with a fine type of garden enclosed with Doric columns and
						entablature; a fragile pagoda and a pool of gold fishes in masses of Chinese lilies,
						peonies and roses lead a distinctly Oriental aspect to the country seat of Prince Pu
						Lun, nephew of the Emperor of China. The tropical luxuries of Mexico and Brazil, elbow
						those of Ceylon's bungalow, Siam's temple of Ben Chama, and India's relic of its mystic
						princess. Russia, Sweden and Belgium place striking types of their architecture in
						examples of their national gardening.
					Each state treats the landscape about its historic buildings from a different aspect.
						Louisiana has built the Cabildo, the structure in New Orleans where the transfer of the
						Louisiana Province was made in 1803; New Jersey shows the headquarters of Washington at
						Morristown; Connecticut entertains in the old Sigourney mansion of colonial fame;
						Virginia comes with Monticello, the home of Thomas Jefferson; Mississippi is represented
						by Beauvoir, the retreat of Jefferson Davis; the Hermitage, famous as the home of Andrew
						Jackson is reproduced by Tennessee and old Spanish missions are shown by California and
						Arizona.
					The Sunken Garden, stretching for 750 feet from the foot of the United States
						Government Building down the swinging boulevard, between Liberal Arts and Mines and
						Metallurgy, and twenty acres of roses in the great horticultural gardens along the
						sloping hillsides of the Palaces of Agriculture and Horticulture, enter into and
						complete the greatest cosmopolitan garden scheme ever attempted.
					Aerial navigation, that fascinating though yet unconquered realm of transportation, has
						been bidden to St. Louis by a princely prize of one hundred thousand dollars, offered
						for the solution of this stupendous problem. It has engaged the competition of
						Santos-Dumont, the Stanleys, and other inventors  of
						airships. Wireless telegraphy, the new transmission of thought on waves of atmosphere,
						is exemplified on the grounds by the highest towers at the Exposition. Marconi and De
						Forrest operate these wonders and commercial messages are sent from the Exposition to
						many western cities where receiving stations exist.
					China for the first time withdrew the veil of centuries from the mysteries of the
						celestial empire at the imperial command of the Son of Heaven to the Viceroys of the
						realm. Endless processions of marvelously carved life-size figures depict hitherto
						hidden life of the old nation, from the cradle to the grave. Her vast exhibit, the most
						complete national display at the Exposition, reveals every phase of her religion, art,
						philosophy, science and industries.
					Who had yet heard of flowers telling the time of day to the exactitude of the
						thousandth part of a second? A floral clock with a diameter of 100 feet accomplishes
						this feat with revolving hands done in natural flowers, changed with the seasons. A
						monster locomotive of 200 tons drives its ponderous wheels at a speed of sixty miles an
						hour in the Palace of Transportation, while a wonderful lighthouse flashes its rays
						throughout the Palace of Liberal Arts. Two thousand living birds of North America have
						their homes in a great open-air cage. The largest organ ever constructed is housed in
						the Hall of Festivals. Its ten thousand pipes speak from a frame as large as a
						three-story brick block.
					In the dominion of mechanics, engines of a hitherto unequalled power are shown in
						operation. No one before ever saw a gas engine of 3,000 horse power, but Belgium
						furnishes the marvel. New York has the honor of displaying the largest steam turbine
						engine ever constructed. It developes eight thousand horse power. Pittsburg sends
						another of the same variety, supplying five thousand horse power. These engines are only
						another intimation that the age of machinery is passing through an astonishing
						evolution. At the St. Louis Exposition none of these tremendous powers remains silent.
						They furnish an operative exhibit which becomes part of the forty thousand horse power
						plant driving the forces of the great show.
					
					The mere magnitude of the greatest palace in the Exposition is one of its wonders.
						Agriculture stretches for one thousand seven hundred feet along its elevated site, and
						displays a width of five hundred feet. The structure covers more than twenty acres. An
						intramural railway, thirteen miles long, which enables visitors to see all the wonders
						of the grounds, conveys an idea of the immensity of the Exposition. One bed of roses in
						the agricultural section contains fifty thousand plants.
					Outdoor attractions have been designed on such a scale as the world has never dreamed.
						Four immense spectacles of this order make the exposition memorable. Outspread over
						forty acres on a grand plateau, overlooking the picture in the western sphere of
						interest, the Philippine exhibit alone employs the services of one thousand natives of
						the archipelago to depict the life, manners and industries of the island peoples. The
						display cost the federal government seven hundred thousand dollars, in addition to one
						million dollars devoted to its own exhibit in the United States Government Building and
						elsewhere on the grounds.
					Parts of the walled city of Manila, a market place in Manila, native villages of many
						island tribes, those who build their habitations over water or swing their domiciles in
						the branches of trees, give the true touch of unfamiliar color to strange scenes. A
						great lake of eight millions of gallons of water surrounds this exhibit on the east and
						north, lying between the reservation and the Exposition. This beautiful body of water
						furnishes a marine theater for aquatic sports and transportation. Three native bridges
						span the lake. Four hundred of the native constabulary of the islands and two hundred
						Macabebe scouts illustrate the Filipino as a fighting man. Four hundred other natives,
						divided into families, are engaged in the peaceful pursuits of that clime.
					For the first time since the wondrous scenes of the life of the Nazarene were enacted
						in the city of David, the modern world has been given an opportunity to become steeped
						in the charm of Scriptural Palestine. Jerusalem has been transplanted from its far
						Judean hills to become a gigantic open air  spectacle
						covering thirteen acres, nearly one-eighth the size of the genuine city. The visitor may
						tramp through twenty-eight streets and scan three hundred and sixty buildings of
						patterns ranging from the time of Christ until the Saracenic invasion. The Mosque of
						Omar and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre are reproduced almost exactly the size of the
						originals. The Tower of David, the Jews' Wailing Place, the Via
							Dolorosa, the Garden of Gethsemane, the ancient wall about the city, pierced by
						the Jaffa Gate, the Golden Gate and many other entrances known to the Biblical student,
						have been built from photographs of the originals. One thousand natives of the Holy
						City, transported by ship from Jaffa, enact the life of the ancient place.
					Forty acres are devoted to the open-air exhibition of anthropology. On a high plateau
						receding from a precipitous bluff commanding an inspiring view over the skyline of the
						main picture, the pageant of a passing race holds sway. It is the last stand of the
						North American Indian, assembled in communities which represent the descendants of
						nearly all the great nations of red men who were the original owners of the country.
						Here famous chiefs receive a formal introduction to their conquerors. Tribes of
						aborigines from remote places of the earth, pygmies and giants from Africa; the Ainu, or
						hairy people from Japan, and other savage nations never before exhibited at any
						exposition, are gathered in this remarkable display of ceremonies, and religious rites
						older than civilization cause the visitor to ponder on the vast age of the world. A
						dignity and reliability never given before to such a show was happily assured by
						government direction of the exhibit.
					Last, but not the least interesting of the four great outdoor exhibitions, is the
						"Gulch," a natural ravine, penetrating the wooded plateau of the Exposition for half a
						mile, and covering about twelve acres of wild forestry. Mines are operating, aerial
						tramways are transporting precious freightage, coal is coming from a genuine vein
						discovered in the exposed strata of the ravine; oil wells are spouting and Mexican
						Indians are pounding out the treasures of Nature in mortars, as they did  in the time of Cortez. The hillsides are dotted by miners'
						cabins. Placer beds are being panned out. The whole scene is one of man's struggle with
						the forces of earth.
					Lesser exhibits in the open air include a map of the United States in cereals, covering
						ten acres, each state and territory being distinguished by those native products for
						which its particular section of the country is best known. Colored gravel walks form the
						boundaries of the commonwealths, and the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, with the Gulf of
						Mexico, are shown in blue grass. Along the northern limits of the Exposition a model
						city stretches for half a mile, where the best paved street in the world is flanked by
						the finest examples of municipal and private buildings. Reproductions of a war hospital,
						of the capital of the United States, and of a sea coast fortification, with those huge
						engines of destruction, the disappearing guns, are striking parts of the national
						display. Eight thousand dollars appropriated by Congress is used in a fine display of an
						operative life-saving station, situated on a lake in the western section of the
						Exposition.
					Art potteries in full blast, herculean lifting engines from England and Belgium
						illustrating their powers, a briquet manufactory, the manufacture of laces and
						embroidery in woven glass, the largest hotel ever constructed, a restaurant with walls
						of water and glass, containing living fish—these developments of the human mind
						could be continued indefinitely in describing the wonders of the Exposition.
					International Congresses of the arts and sciences serve to bring together learned men
						from the ends of earth. As a monument to these labors of the world's foremost thinkers,
						the Exposition will publish the proceedings of the congresses.
					Model schools for the deaf, dumb and blind are conducted with the teachers and scholars
						in the class rooms; an Indian school is part of the interesting exhibit of the
						government in the Indian Building; a Filipino school forms part of the exhibit in the
						insular display, being a timely object-lesson in the acquisition of foreign
						territory.
					The jubilee presents of the late Queen Victoria and the 
						Liberty Bell present a strong contrast in symbols of affection venerated by two
						continents. These priceless trophies are not of greater interest than the contribution
						from the Vatican, nor the relics of that great genius, Napoleon, whose name is
						inseparably associated with the event which the Exposition celebrates. Personal effects
						of Washington, Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, Lafayette and other famous founders of the
						country and later statesmen make rare contributions of intimate interest.
					Acres of outdoor forestry are shown by the United States, Germany and Great Britain, a
						feature new to expositions. The live-stock display covers thirty-seven acres. Canada
						alone has spent one hundred thousand dollars on her exhibit, in an endeavor to capture
						most of the premiums, amounting to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Blooded stock
						from Russia, England, Germany and France make the greatest exhibit ever shown in this
						line of industry.
					The powers of the world are represented by their military arms as well as by the
						products of their industries. The troops of all nations are shown in an encampment of
						one hundred acres, and the evolutions of these representative bodies of men are pleasing
						diversions. Martial music at the Exposition is provided by such famous organizations as
						Sousa's Band, the Garde Republicaine of Paris, the British Grenadiers of London, the
						Imperial Band of Berlin, a Russian army band, an engineers' band of the Mexican army,
						and other world renowned organizations.
					No international exposition is complete without its immense amusement section, and in
						this respect the Universal Exposition of 1904 has no parallel. "The Pike" will pass into
						exposition history as the most distinguished and satisfying collection of shows ever
						presented. Begun as a co-ordinate part of the immense spectacle, it became saturated
						with all the dignity of its more serious parent attraction. The street of the Pike is
						one mile long. Its doable facade is fully as imposing as the Exposition proper, because
						of the refinement of the architecture. Visitors are amazed to find no circus signs,
						nothing but the names of the attractions, emblazoned on the fronts  of stately buildings. He wanders through a city of fifty great shows.
					The Galveston Flood shows the effects of a great disaster and the restoration of the
						stricken city; Creation, an illusion under a mammoth dome, takes one back through the
						centuries to the genesis; Asia, with its rajahs and rites and a truly beautiful
						reproduction of the Taj Mahal, that gem of Indian architecture; Cairo and
						Constantinople; the Tyrolean Alps, a monster show, costing seven hundred thousand
						dollars and presenting a perfect reproduction of the most majestic Alpine scenery, with
						native villages and the Tyrolese in their native costumes—these are all part of
						the general scheme of the Pike to become a veritable tour of the world.
					Dainty Japanese and Chinese villages, are refulgent of the Geisha girl and the Boxer,
						two of the best things in this array are the Naval Show and the Fire Fighters. A mimic
						battle on real water between American and Spanish vessels, given in a large arena,
						excites thousands of patriotic spectators. The fire fighting exhibition combines a model
						fire station with splendid equipment, and a team of the most expert fire laddies in the
						world; they save women and children from burning houses and perform other remarkable
						feats. A Trip to Paris by Submarine Boat and Return by Air Ship is an astonishing
						illusion in which the use of the moving-picture machine produces startling effects. A
						Trip to the North Pole is a gigantic spectacle in which the visitor actually takes
						passage for the Polar regions on a vessel nearly as large as an ocean liner. A
						representative Celtic exhibit makes a valuable contribution in the Irish village.
					The Siberian Railway introduces the gaiety seeker to another form of illusion, which
						includes a really striking exhibit of peasantry, and the products of that section of the
						Great White Czar's domains. Old St. Louis illustrates the Exposition City as it appeared
						during the days when it was yet part of the French Province. The Palais du Costume
						presents the dress of the world for many centuries. The Cliff Dwellers' village is a
						highly creditable representation of the  ancestors of the
						Aztecs; the Streets of Seville enters fully into rare and most picturesque phases of old
						Spanish life. Paris is a spectacle of the gay French capital. The City of Fez is an open
						air reproduction of some of the most attractive features of that inland capital of the
						Sultan of Morocco. The Battle Abbey is a monster cyclorama of the greatest battles of
						the world. Many other attractions of equally enticing features make the Pike the most
						wonderful collection of shows ever gathered together. And in all that is here set down,
						not the half has been told.
					St. Louis has given to the world an epic. Its Homeric song is of the victories of Man
						over Matter; earth, the sea and the heavens yield their prophecies of greater
						triumphs.
					As the breath of the twentieth century vibrates with action, so the Universal
						Exposition of 1904 reflects the spirit of the age in its flight toward Truth.
				
			
		
	
