
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Rawles, William A., 1863-1936. The government of the people of the state of Indiana. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC1316
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				
					THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE
						OF THE STATE OF INDIANA
				
				
				BY
					WILLIAM A. RAWLES, A.M. INSTRUCTOR IN HISTORY AND ECONOMICS, INDIANA UNIVERSITY
				
				PHILADELPHIA
					ELDREDGE & BROTHER
					No. 17 North Seventh Street
					1897
			
			
			
				VERSO
				Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1897, by ELDREDGE
					& BROTHER, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
				
				WESTCOTT & THOMSON, ELECTROTYPERS, PHILADA.
				
				DORNAN, PRINTER,
					PHILADELPHIA.
			
			
			
				PREFACE
				"KNOWLEDGE and learning generally diffused throughout a community
					being essential to the preservation of a free government, it shall be
					the duty of the General Assembly .... to provide .... a general and uniform system of
					common schools." This quotation is introduced here to show that the makers of the
					Constitution of the State appreciated the truth that the first purpose of public education
					is the preparation of the youth for the duties and responsibilities of intelligent
					citizenship. They offered no other reason for the provision for schools. Is it not
					reasonable to suppose that a very important part of this "knowledge and learning" is a
					thorough understanding of the governments—both National and local—under which
					we live? It has seemed to the author that in the study of this subject the emphasis has
					been put too constantly upon the National Government and too little attention has been
					given to the institutions of the State and to local administration. The well-being,
					security and comfort of the citizen depend more intimately upon the management of local
					and State affairs than upon the administration of the General Government. It is in the
					hope that it may be helpful to a realization of the importance of the State and local
					governments and to a clearer conception of the obligations which grow out of the civic
					relation, that this book has been prepared.
				It makes no pretension to be an abridgment of the statutes of Indiana nor a text-book on
					the history of the State. It is an attempt to give a concise outline of the governmental
					machinery and the forces by which it is operated. To convey a better idea of the origin
					and  growth of our institutions, an historical sketch of
					Indiana precedes the discussion proper. It has not been possible within the scope of the
					book to include all the details and variations of local government. Peculiarities in the
					government of township, town or city should be noted and the attention of pupils called to
					them. Concrete illustrations serve to simplify the complexities of government. The
					Constitution is appended in the hope that it will be the object of careful study: with
					this idea in mind many of its provisions have not been incorporated into the text. A copy
					of some of the recent editions of the Revised Statutes should be in the possession of each
					school. When reference has been made to the Revised Statutes it is to Horner's Revision of
					1896. A scrap-book in which may be preserved clippings giving the proceedings of primaries
					and conventions, sample ballots, official blanks, and accounts of historical events will
					be helpful in arousing the interest of pupils.
				It is desired to acknowledge the obligations due to many friends for favors, and
					especially to Mr. John W. Cravens, editor of the Bloomington World, for
					criticising the manuscript and offering timely suggestions as to the management of local
					affairs.
				Criticisms and suggestions that will help to make the book more serviceable will be
					heartily welcomed.
				W. A. RAWLES.
				INDIANA UNIVERSITY,
					Bloomington, September, 1897.
			

			
			
				CONTENTS
				
					INTRODUCTION
						7
					I. HISTORICAL SKETCH OF INDIANA
						12
					II. THE STATE GOVERNMENT
						38
					III. COUNTY AND TOWNSHIP GOVERNMENT
						71
					IV. MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
						95
					V. PARTY ORGANIZATION AND ELECTIONS
						107
					VI. PUBLIC EDUCATION
						117
					CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE
						129
					APPENDIX
						161
					INDEX
						166
				
			
			
				ILLUSTRATIONS.
				
					WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
						7
					GEORGE ROGERS CLARK
						12
					OLIVER PERRY MORTON
						33
					SCHUYLER COLFAX
						34
					THOMAS A. HENDRICKS
						34
					BENJAMIN HARRISON
						38
					CAPITOL BUILDING AT INDIANAPOLIS
						42
					GREAT SEAL OF THE STATE OF INDIANA
						54
					MAXWELL HALL, INDIANA UNIVERSITY
						127
				
			
			
				MAPS.
				
					INDIANA TERRITORY, 1800 AND 1802
						24
					INDIANA TERRITORY, 1805, 1807,
								AND 1816
						26
				
			
			
			
				EPIGRAPH
				"It will not be denied that the State government touches
						the citizen and his interests twenty times, where the National government touches him
						once."
					—JAMES A. GARFIELD.
				"An American may, through a long life, never be
						reminded of the Federal government, except when he votes at presidential or
						congressional elections, lodges a complaint against the post-office, and opens his trunk
						for a custom-house officer on the pier at New York when he returns from a tour in
						Europe. His direct taxes are paid to officials acting under State laws. The State, or a
						local authority constituted by the State statutes, registers his birth, appoints his
						guardian, pays for his schooling, gives him a share in the estate of his father
						deceased, marries him, divorces him, entertains civil action against him, declares him a
						bankrupt, hangs him for murder. The police that guard his house, the local boards which
						look after the poor, control highways, impose water rates, manage schools—all
						these derive their legal powers from the State alone."
					—BRYCE'S
						American Commonwealth.
			
		
		
			
			
				
					WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON.
				
				THE CIVIL GOVERNMENT
					OF INDIANA.
				
				
					INTRODUCTION.
					
						1. The State.
						"As applied to an American Commonwealth the word State signifies a political
							community of free citizens, occupying a territory of defined boundaries, organized
							under a government sanctioned and limited by a written constitution, and established
							by the consent of the people. Each State or Commonwealth maintains a  republican form of government, which is guaranteed by the
							United States."
						Hence, when we speak of the State of Indiana, we may mean one of four things: (1)
							That portion of the earth's surface contained within defined boundaries; (2) the
							people living within that territory bound together by a common interest and organized
							for their protection and common welfare; (3) the body of rules or laws which regulate
							the people in their relations one with another and which restrain their officers; (4)
							the government, that is, the persons selected to make the laws and to enforce them. In
							its fullest sense, the State signifies all of these things; the land, the people, the
							laws and the government.
					
					
						2. The Land.
						In these days, a community of people in order to constitute a State must have a
							permanent abode—a definite territory, within which, it and it alone,1 exercises authority, and beyond
							which its laws are of no effect.
						The character, extent, situation, and development of the land determine the
							occupation of its citizens. And these occupations in turn determine, largely, the
							necessity for laws, the nature of these laws, and the number and duties of officers.
							Since the discovery of natural gas in Indiana there has been enacted a body of laws
							regulating its use and distribution. Similar laws are found in few other States. On
							the other hand, we have no need of laws which are necessary to the peculiar conditions
							found in the vast State of Texas, the manufacturing States of the East or the
							sea-coast States of California and Louisiana.
					
					
						3. The People.
						The habits, beliefs and political ideas of the people, adapted so as to fit the
							physical conditions of a new country, will mould the constitution, laws and
							institutions. Indiana's system of government, more than 1 For some purposes the National Government
								has authority within a State, which is superior to any power which that State may
								possess. (See THORPE'S
								Government of the United States, page 91.)
							 that of any other State north of the Ohio River,
							resembles the systems of the southern States. This is because the early settlement of
							the State was chiefly by people from the South. Michigan, in its political
							institutions, resembles the New England States for a similar reason. Then, too, the
							spirit and temper of the laws may change as the ideas of the people enlarge, as the
							sentiment changes, as industries develop, as immigration modifies the character of the
							people of the State. Thus the thoughts, feelings and conceptions of the people are
							reflected in their constitution and laws.
					
					
						4. The Laws.
						There are two kinds of law-making: the one, by the people directly; the other, by
							persons chosen to represent the people and to act for them. In the first place a set
							of men, selected by the people, meets in a convention and prepares a system of laws
							and maxims in the form of a written document. This document is submitted to the people
							for their approval or disapproval. If it be ratified by a majority of the legal
							voters, it is thereby enacted into law. It is then the Constitution, the fundamental
							law of the State. It describes the framework of the government, defines the powers and
							duties of the officers and declares the rights of the people. It can be changed only
							by the act of the people, in the manner provided in the Constitution itself. No
							officer or set of officers can change it and all acts or orders contrary to it are
							absolutely void.
						But direct legislation by the people on all matters would be clearly impossible. This
							difficulty is avoided by provisions in the Constitution, giving authority to the
							representatives of the people to enact laws, subject, however, to certain limitations
							therein prescribed. These laws are called statutes. The statutes must always be in
							conformity with the Constitution. The representatives may change statutes, but they
							cannot change the Constitution. Whether the laws are made directly or indirectly, the
							people are  responsible for the good or evil flowing from
							them and for their enforcement.
						The Constitution and statutes of Indiana must not conflict with the Constitution,
							treaties and laws of the United States. If there is a conflict the former must give
							way before the higher authority of the United States.
					
					
						5. The Government.
						The government is the instrument by which the State expresses and enforces its will.
							The people by means of the ballot select the men who are to represent them in the
							making of laws, those who are to interpret the laws and those who are to carry the
							laws into execution. This body of officials constitutes the Government. As private
							citizens these men may not be superior, in fact, may even be inferior, to the average
							citizen; but in their official capacity they stand in the place of the State and
							should command the respect and obedience which all citizens owe to the State. Officers
							must be made to suffer for conduct which dishonors the dignity or majesty of the
							State. Hence, provision is always made that they may be removed from office or
							otherwise punished for official misconduct.
					
					
						6. Importance of State and Local Governments.
						It is true that some of the national questions are vital and momentous, fraught with
							the greatest consequences to the welfare of the individual and of the Nation. But
							where there is one such national question, there are twenty within the scope of State
							authority; questions, too, that touch our life and happiness to the very quick. We are
							dependent upon the State for our civil and religious rights; for the right of
							suffrage; for the means of education; for the rules of marriage and the definition of
							the legal relations of husband and wife, and of parent and child; for laws regulating
							contracts, agency, partnership, debts, insurance, almost all corporations, the
							ownership and distribution of property and the exercise of trades; and for the
							definition of crimes and the punishment thereof (except 
							crimes against the laws of the United States and those committed on the high seas, or
							against the law of nations). "To enumerate the particulars of this vast range of
							powers, to detail its parts, would be to catalogue all social and business
							relationships, to examine all the foundations of law and order."
						Efficiency and honesty in the local government, in the school district, the township,
							the county, and the city contribute more than the National Government, to the
							well-being and happiness of the home, the family and the daily life of the citizen.
							When it is realized that, in Indiana, the expenditure in county governments exceeds
							$8,000,000 annually and that the indebtedness of towns, cities and counties aggregates
							more than $14,000,000,1 the
							importance of good local government can be appreciated. Governor Wright continually
							urged upon the people that it was more important to select good county commissioners
							than good Congressmen. Moreover it is only through an active participation in local
							government that a citizen is prepared to discharge intelligently his duties in the
							government of the Nation, which seems more picturesque and momentous.
						1 Exceeding the State
							indebtedness by $7,000,000.
					
				
				
				
					
						COL. GEORGE ROGERS CLARK.
					
					CHAPTER I. HISTORICAL SKETCH OF INDIANA.
					
					
						I. FRENCH EXPLORATION AND SETTLEMENT.
						
							7. The First Explorers.
							Before 1670, the French had passed up the Great Lakes and had established on their
								shores trading posts and missions. It is possible, though the evidence is slight,
								that the Maumee had been explored as early as 1656. It is pretty definitely
								established that during the winter of 1669-70, La Salle passed down the Ohio River
								as far as Louisville. Joliet and Marquette explored the Mississippi River in 1673.
								And it was in an effort to again reach that river that Indiana soil was traversed by
								La Salle in 1679. In that year, he with a few followers established Fort Miamis on
								the St. Joseph of Lake Michigan and in December pushed up the river to the place now
								occupied by South Bend, crossed by a  portage of four
								or five miles to the headwaters of the Kankakee, and proceeded down the Illinois.
								During the next few years he crossed and recrossed Indiana soil in his perilous
								journeys to and from Canada and in his visits to the various Indian tribes.
						
						
							8. Early Settlements.
							In 1695, a French settlement was made at Kaskaskia, one at Cahokia in 1700, and
								another at Detroit in 1701. Juchereau, an officer from Montreal, established a fort
								on the Ohio—erroneously called the Ouabache1—near the site of Cairo, in 1702; but it was abandoned
								within three years. In 1712, Louis XIV. granted to Antoine Crozat, a wealthy officer
								in his service, the commerce of the Mississippi Valley from the Gulf to the Illinois
								River, together with the Missouri and Ouabache. For its government, Louisiana was
								dependent upon the province of New France. In 1717, Bienville was appointed governor
								of Louisiana and all of the Illinois country was made a part of the province. The
								capital was at Mobile.
							In 1723, the Territory of Louisiana was made dependent directly upon the home
								government, with the capital at New Orleans. Although Indiana was subordinate to the
								Louisiana Province, the French officials at Detroit claimed and actually exercised
								jurisdiction over the Indian tribes living on the upper Wabash.
							Early in the eighteenth century the French determined to establish posts at
								advantageous points. François Morgan, Sieur de Vincennes, was sent by the governor
								of Canada to establish a post near the village of the Ouiatanon tribe of the Miamis.
								This was about 1720 and may be regarded as the earliest post within Indiana. It was
								on the north side of the Wabash, about four miles below the present city of
								Lafayette. Vincennes, a few 1 Even as late as 1747, a map published in London by Thomas Kitchin
									represented the Ouabache flowing into the Mississippi.
								 years later (1727),1 established a post on the Ouabache at the Piankeshaw
								village of Chippecoke, the present site of Vincennes. This was the first permanent
								settlement of white men in Indiana. With the exception of Fort Miamis on the Maumee,
								no further settlements were made in Indiana for many years.
							For administrative purposes, Indiana was divided somewhat indefinitely between the
								provinces of Louisiana and Canada: Vincennes was in the Illinois district of
								Louisiana, and was governed from New Orleans through Fort Chartres, Illinois;
								Ouiatanon and Fort Miamis were governed from Quebec through Detroit. This line of
								separation was later fixed in the vicinity of Terre Haute.
						
						
							9. The Character of the French Settlers.
							There was a marked difference between the character of the French colonists of the
								Mississippi Valley and that of the English on the Atlantic coast. The latter settled
								in permanent families, cultivated the soil, engaged in trade and industries in fixed
								communities. The Englishman was jealous of his political rights and insisted upon a
								large degree of self-government. The French pioneers were chiefly of three classes:
								the Catholic missionaries, the soldiers and the fur-traders. Their life did not
								permit of permanent homes. Even when an effort was made to till the soil, it was
								done in a rude way. The Frenchman, too, was indifferent as to his political rights,
								submitting to most arbitrary rules and exactions. But the French, in their treatment
								of the Indians, excelled the English in sagacity. The courage, devotion, and
								self-sacrifice of the missionaries have scarcely been equalled in history. They
								united many tribes in friendship to the French. The wily fur-traders and the
								soldiers also were skilful in the arts of conciliation. The 1 Just when the post at Vincennes was
									established is a matter of controversy. The years 1680, 1702, 1716, 1727, and
									1735, have been given by different historians as the proper date of its
									establishment, but that of 1727 seems to be supported by the most reliable
									evidence.
								
								voyageurs were, peculiarly, a product of the conditions and
								circumstances of the new world.
							The English bluntness and arrogance constantly irritated the Indians. But the
								practical Briton was gradually drawing to himself their traffic by offering better
								bargains. The English never assumed to occupy or dispose of their lands without
								having first purchased them of the natives. On the other hand, the French and the
								Spanish claimed not only the sovereignty over the land, but also absolute ownership
								of the soil.1
						
						
							10. Rival Claimants for the Mississippi Valley.
							The inevitable contest for possession of the Mississippi Valley culminated in the
								French and Indian War.
							The English based their claims upon four things: 1. The voyages of the Cabots
								(1497, 1498), whose patents reserved to the Crown dominion over such lands as they
								discovered; 2. Royal charters from 1609 to 1665, which granted territory extending
								from ocean to ocean; 3. Treaties with the Iroquois and the Miamis; 4. The
								explorations of British traders in the valleys of the Ohio, Tennessee, and
								Cumberland Rivers.
							The French rested their title upon the following grounds: 1. Verrazano's voyage
								(1524) along the coast from the mouth of the Savannah to Newfoundland; 2. The
								discovery and exploration of the St. Lawrence River by Cartier (1534, 1535-1540); 3.
								The discovery and exploration of the Ohio River by La Salle; 4. The exploration of
								the Mississippi River by Joliet and Marquette in 1673, Hennepin in 1680, and La
								Salle in 1682, and the early occupation by actual settlement along its banks and
								tributaries; 5. The treaty of Ryswick (1697), which gave them jurisdiction over the
								entire basins of rivers the mouths of which had been occupied by the French; 6. A
								denial that the 1 An
									exception to this custom is found in the case of the French settlers about
									Vincennes. They based their claims upon the Indian cessions.
								 Iroquois ever acknowledged their subjection to the
								English. The contest was to be decided not by the justice of the claims, but by the
								force of arms.
						
						
							11. Results of the French and Indian War.
							In 1759, Quebec, the bulwark of the province of Canada, fell; in the following year
								Montreal capitulated, and the French governor, Marquis de Vaudreuil, surrendered all
								Canada to the English. In this same year, Detroit surrendered without resistance,
								and in the spring of 1761, Ouiatanon was occupied. Vincennes was not taken at this
								time, being a part of the Louisiana province and "not included in the capitulation"
								of Quebec. But by the Treaty of Paris (1763), France surrendered to England all her
								vast possessions east of the Mississippi River except a small area in Louisiana.
							Undoubtedly, the claims of France were the more substantial, and it is equally
								beyond doubt that the world has gained immeasurably by the transference of this
								immense area from a nation having Gallic customs and polity to one having English
								laws, traditions and institutions. Mr. Fiske has said, "The triumph of Wolfe marks
								the greatest turning-point yet discoverable in modern history."
						
					
					
						II. ENGLISH OCCUPATION.
						
							12. The Last Posts Surrendered.
							Though the formal conveyance of this territory occurred on February 10, 1763,
								actual occupation was delayed several years because of the enmity of the Indians.
								The natives believed the English would dispossess them of their lands. Under the
								masterly and efficient leadership of Pontiac was formed a conspiracy to make a final
								effort to drive out the English. The plot was well-nigh successful. Detroit barely
								escaped capture and was the only fort held by the English west of Pittsburg. No
								attempt to seize Vincennes was made, as the French still had possession here. The
								vigorous policy of the English, the refusal of the French generals  and French governor of Louisiana to lend him aid, and
								the desertion of some of his allies, convinced the great chieftain of the folly of
								continuing the struggle. At Ouiatanon, in the spring of 1765, Pontiac declared his
								willingness to make peace. This declaration was carried out, with the usual
								ceremonies, at Detroit soon after.
							On the tenth day of October, 1765, Captain Sterling formally took possession of
								Fort Chartres in the name of the English. This was the most important post west of
								Detroit. But it was not till May 19, 1777, that an officer, bearing a royal
								commission to take possession, appeared at Vincennes.
						
						
							13. Proclamations of British Officers.
							(I.) Upon the occupation of Fort Chartres, Captain Sterling issued the proclamation
								of General Gage, the Commander-in-Chief of British forces in America. It was very
								liberal in its tone. It granted to the French inhabitants "the liberty of the
								Catholic religion," and the choice of selling their estates and retiring, or of
								remaining and enjoying the same rights, privileges and security as other subjects.
								They were only required to take the oath of fidelity and allegiance.
							(II.) The happy carelessness of the French on the Wabash was interrupted in 1772 by
								the announcement of a later proclamation by General Gage. He ordered all settlers
								along the river to quit that country instantly and retire to other colonies. The
								leading citizens protested against these arbitrary commands and the British ministry
								disavowed the policy of Gage. The motive of such an unjust order is to be found in
								an examination of the land policy of Great Britain after 1763.
						
						
							14. The Western Land Policy of Great Britain.
							Before the French title to the Northwest Territory was extinguished, the British
								government had insisted that the Sea was the western limit of the colonies, and had
								encouraged settlements west of the mountains. But when English  possession was assured by treaty, her policy changed. It is evident from
								reports of the period that Great Britain was jealous of the strength and progress of
								her colonies. To be debarred from this broad rich territory, to see it remain a
								wilderness, was extremely mortifying to the colonists who had spent blood and money
								in its conquest. In spite of royal proclamations, official threats, and military
								expulsions, hardy pioneers penetrated the new territory.1
							The narrow designs of the home government culminated in the Quebec Act of 1774. By
								this act, Parliament extended the limits of Quebec to the Ohio and Mississippi
								Rivers on the south and west, restored French law and institutions, abolished trial
								by jury in civil cases, guaranteed the Catholic clergy their extensive property
								rights, and assured the people the free exercise of their religion. The object of
								this legislation was to win the good will of the French habitants
								in case of trouble with the colonies.
						
					
					
						III. VIRGINIA OCCUPATION.
						
							15. Virginia's Conquest of the Northwest.
							The French settlers in the northwest were not reconciled to the English occupation,
								in spite of the conciliatory Quebec Act. The inherited enmity of five centuries
								could not readily be transformed into loyal attachment. But the friendship of the
								Indians was transferred from the French to the English. In the first year of the
								Revolution, Indian bands were supplied with arms and incited to fall upon the
								unprotected settlements west of the Alleghanies. Oftentimes the pioneers were
								themselves culpable for offering provocation to the Indians.
							Colonel George Rogers Clark proposed to Patrick Henry, governor of Virginia, to
								strike at the heart of the Indian difficulties by capturing the English forts. The
								Governor 1 "It has been
									estimated that from 1765 to 1768, some 30,000 whites settled beyond the
									mountains."
								 and Council approved the plan, for they saw, also,
								that success would give them a diplomatic advantage in the peace negotiations. With
								difficulty, Clark raised a small force of men, surprised the garrison at Kaskaskia,
								and possessed the place without opposition (July 5, 1778). He soon despatched a
								delegation of French to Vincennes. Lieutenant-Governor Abbot and the garrison were
								absent at Detroit. When matters had been explained to the French settlers there,
								they at once took the oath of allegiance, garrisoned the town, and hoisted the
								American flag. But the British recaptured Vincennes, December 15, 1778. The intrepid
								Clark was not dismayed by this threatened destruction, though cut off from aid, with
								short supplies and with but a small force of one hundred and seventy men. With
								unfailing spirits and incomparable courage, his men undertook in the midst of
								winter, a march of one hundred and sixty miles across inundated plains and swampy
								prairies. At last they arrived before Vincennes. The tact and boldness of Clark did
								not fail him here, and on February 25, 1779, Governor Hamilton surrendered. No other
								single exploit in Northwestern history is comparable with this in daring, in perils
								overcome, in hardships endured, and in momentous consequences. For when the battles
								of the Revolution had been fought and when our commissioners were engaged in the
								diplomatic contest, the strongest argument they could make for the Northwest
								Territory was that of conquest and actual possession. The great debt the United
								States owes to Clark's energy, courage, and strategy has been tardily recognized by
								the American people.
						
						
							16. Illinois County Created.
							In October, 1778, the Legislature of Virginia passed an ordinance for the
								government of the conquered territory. It provided that the citizens of the
								commonwealth of Virginia, settled on the Western side of the Ohio, should be
								included in a distinct county, called the Illinois County; that the governor  should appoint a county-lieutenant, who should have
								large powers; and that in civil matters the people should be governed by the French
								laws and customs, administered by civil officers "chosen by a majority of citizens
								in their respective districts." Under this law, the first election ever held in
								Indiana took place in June, 1779. Though the French settlers were left under their
								former laws, the years following were years of distress and hardship.
						
						
							17. Three States Claim Indiana.
							While Virginia asserted and partially exercised jurisdiction over the Northwest,
								her title was not undisputed. Massachusetts, Connecticut and New York also laid
								claim to large portions of this section. These were based upon their sea to sea
								charters and upon the treaties with the Indians. In the case of Virginia, her claim
								was reinforced by that of conquest. In the year 1780, New York and Virginia each
								asserted title to the entire Indiana district, and that portion north of latitude
								41° was also claimed by Connecticut.
						
					
					
						IV. UNDER NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION.
						
							18. Cessions of Western Lands.
							The whole Western land question was one of extreme difficulty and required great
								tact and delicate treatment. For nearly four years, Maryland refused to ratify the
								Articles of Confederation on the ground that the United States should assume
								jurisdiction over the western lands without regard to the conflicting claims, and
								lay it out preparatory to forming new States. This delay was preventing the plan of
								government from going into operation, obstructing the financial policy, and
								encouraging the enemies of the United States in their hope of internal quarrels and
								disruption.
							New York was the first claimant State to comprehend the significance of the trend
								of things, and exercised a most laudable generosity. On March 1, 1781, a deed was
								given to the United States to all her western claims. This same day Maryland
								ratified the Articles of Confederation.  Virginia
								ceded, upon certain conditions,1 her claim to lands northwest of the Ohio, March 1, 1784. Massachusetts
								followed in 1785, and Connecticut in 1786 with certain reservations. Southern States
								made their cessions somewhat later. On April 23, 1784, Congress passed an ordinance
								for the temporary government of the Western Territory. During the years from 1784 to
								1787, much confusion prevailed in the Indiana district.
						
						
							19. Survey of Public Lands.
							By an ordinance of 1785, Congress provided for the survey of public lands with a
								view to selling them to actual settlers. The essential features of the system are
								still retained.2 This
								ordinance, also, provided for the reservation of the sixteenth section in each
								township for school purposes. Since 1783, Congress had been petitioned to sell
								western lands. These requests were more numerous and more urgent after 1785. That of
								the Ohio Company of Associates was especially pressing and deserving. The chance of
								reducing the public debt and the prospect of immediate settlement of the Northwest,
								hastened the enactment of a system of government adequate to the conditions.
						
						
							20. The Ordinance of 1787.
							For three years Congress had been wrestling with the problem of the government of
								its newly acquired territory. The matter had been in the hands of committees, which
								had reported amendments to the Ordinance of 1784. But no modifications could be
								agreed upon which would make the scheme of government really effective. On July 13,
								1787, this ordinance was at last passed. It provided for the conveyance of the
								estates of persons dying intestate, it prescribed the form of 1 One of these conditions was that
									150,000 acres should be granted to Colonel George Rogers Clark, and to the
									officers and soldiers of his regiment who conquered the Northwest Territory. This
									tract was later laid off along the Ohio in what is now Clark County.
								2 See Appendix, and
										THORPE'S
									The Government of the United States, p. 127.
								 government, it guaranteed civil and personal rights,
								and religious and industrial freedom.
							(a) The Form of Government Established.—(I.) In the first stage, the management was almost absolutely in the hands of
								the governor and judges, who were appointed by Congress for three years. They had
								power to adopt and publish in the district such civil and criminal laws of the
								original States as seemed best adapted to the circumstances, which laws were to be
								in force unless disapproved by Congress. The governor was commander-in-chief of the
								militia, and was empowered to appoint, in each county or township, magistrates and
								other civil officers necessary to preserve peace and order.
							(II.) In the second stage, the people exercised more power. Upon
								attaining the number of five thousand males, a territorial government might be
								organized. It was to consist of a governor, a legislative council and a house of
								representatives. Authority to make all laws was to be vested in the house, council,
								and governor, who had an absolute veto. The governor, also, had arbitrary power over
								the sessions of the General Assembly, having the right to convene, prorogue and
								dissolve it. The council and house, in joint session, had the authority to elect a
								delegate to Congress, with the right to participate in the debate but not to vote.
								After repeated requests, the suffrage was extended and the congressional delegate
								was elected by a popular vote.
							(b) "The Compact."—But the part of the Ordinance which has
								given it an immortal fame and a rank among the fundamental documents of our country
								is that designated as the "articles of compact between the original States and the
								people and States in the said territory," which was to "forever remain unalterable
								unless by common consent." It guaranteed freedom of "worship and of religious
								sentiments," the right of trial by jury, "benefit of the writ of habeas
									corpus," representative legislation,  benefit of
								common law in judicial proceedings and it avowed the sanctity of contracts.
								"Religion, morality and knowledge being necessary to good government and the
								happiness of mankind," schools and the means of education were to be forever
								encouraged. This was the beginning of that liberal educational policy which has in a
								large degree contributed to the intelligence, morality and prosperity of the
								Northwest. The relation of the Territory and new States to the National Government
								and to the other States and citizens thereof, is defined. The number of new States
								to be formed, with their boundaries and conditions of admission among the States,
								was prescribed. But most important of all was the last article, which declared:
								"There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in the said territory,
								otherwise than in the punishment of crime whereof the party shall have been duly
								convicted." All statesmen and students of American political history have concurred
								in assigning this clause as the dominant influence during the formative period,
								which secured freedom in the Northwest Territory, and determined the result of the
								Civil War. Mr. Webster has said of it: "I doubt whether one single law of any
								law-giver, ancient or modern, has produced effects of more distinct, marked, and
								lasting character than the Ordinance of 1787."
						
						
							21. First Stage of Government.
							Major-General Arthur St. Clair was appointed governor October 5, 1787. He arrived
								at Marietta1 in July of the
								following year, and at once organized the government. The governor and judges in
								their legislative capacity adopted and published several laws. Furthermore, they
								exceeded their authority and enacted statutes, justifying their action on the ground
								that there were no laws adapted to the circumstances. These laws were afterward
								re-enacted by the territorial legislature in 1799.
							1 Founded April 7,
								1788.
							
							There was delay in the organization of counties due to the hostility of the
								Indians. The first laws were not enforced beyond the Scioto River. Winthrop Sargent,
								secretary of the Territory, and acting-governor in the 
									MAP NO. I. MAP OF INDIANA TERRITORY, 1800 AND 1802.
								 West, on June 20, 1790, organized Knox County. It included all the country
								between the Big Miami and a line drawn from Fort Massac on the Ohio to the mouth of
								Mackinaw Creek in Tazewell County, Ills., stretching 
								from the Ohio to the Great Lakes. This was really the first effective civil
								government at Vincennes since 1779.
						
						
							22. Second Stage.
							It was ascertained in 1798 that the Northwest Territory contained more than five
								thousand free males, and an election for members of a general assembly was called.
								The legislative assembly convened at Cincinnati in September, 1799, and on October
								3d elected William Henry Harrison delegate to Congress. At this first session, the
								legislature passed forty-eight acts, eleven of which the governor vetoed. These laws
								were similar in their scope and tenor to the laws of the States.
							Congress, by the act of May 7, 1800, divided the Northwest Territory. All that part
								lying east of a line drawn from the mouth of the Kentucky River to Fort
									Recovery,1 thence north to
								the national boundary, was constituted the Northwest Territory. All lying west of
								this line was the Indiana Territory.2 It was provided that whenever the eastern territory became a State,
								Indiana should extend to a line drawn due north from the mouth of the Miami.3 The government provided by the
								Ordinance of 1787 was extended over Indiana Territory. "Saint Vincennes" was made
								the capital.
						
					
					
						V. INDIANA TERRITORY.
						
							23. The First Stage.
							The government of Indiana Territory began July 4, 1800. William Henry Harrison was
								the first governor and served until 1812. John Gibson was secretary and
								acting-governor during the absence of Governor Harrison. The first laws published by
								the 1 The "Greenville
									Line."
								2 See heavy black line
									in Map No. I.
								3 When, on April 30,
									1802, Ohio was authorized to form a State government, all the territory west of a
									line drawn due north from the mouth of the Miami and intersecting one drawn due
									east from the extremity of Lake Michigan and north of this said line, was included
									in Indiana Territory. (See dotted line in Map No. I.)
								 Indiana court and governor treated of the courts,
								fees, ferries, and county levies.
							The population of the Territory was 5641. The number residing in what is now
								Indiana has been estimated at 
									MAP NO. II. MAP OF INDIANA TERRITORY, 1805, 1809 AND 1816.
								 2500. The slaves in Indiana Territory in 1800 have been judged at about
								175, twenty-eight of whom were around Vincennes. In all parts of the Territory,
								except Clark's Grant, the population was largely French, although the Americans seem
								to have had the dominating influence.
							
							An election was held on September 11, to obtain an expression of opinion on the
								question of passing to the second stage. Out of a total vote of 400, those favoring
								the second stage had a majority of 138. On December 5, 1804, Governor Harrison
								announced the result of the election, declared that Indiana Territory had passed
								into the second grade and ordered an election for January 3, 1805.
						
						
							24. The Second Stage.
							In accordance with this order the election was held, and nine members met on
								February 1, 1805, at Vincennes to begin the government under the new system. The
								House selected the names of the ten men from whom the president was to name the five
								councillors. President Jefferson delegated that power to Governor Harrison. The
								legislature as organized in July, 1805, was composed of seven representatives and
								five councillors. Benjamin Parke was elected the first delegate of Indiana
								Territory, which position he occupied till 1808.
							In the meantime,1 Congress
								had erected Wayne County into a separate government under the name of Michigan
								Territory, to take effect after June 30, 1805. It included all that district lying
								north of a line drawn east from the southerly extreme of Lake Michigan to Lake Erie
								and east of a line drawn from said southerly extreme through the middle of the lake
								to its northern extremity and thence due north to the national boundary.2
							After several petitions requesting separation had been received from the Illinois
								people, Congress authorized the division of the Territory, to take effect March 1,
									1809.3
							1 January 11,
								1805.
							2 For boundaries of
								Indiana Territory see heavy black line in Map No. II.
							3 The population was
								estimated at this time at 17,000 in Indiana and 11,000 in Illinois. By the act of
								division the western boundary of Indiana was defined as "the Wabash River and a
								direct line drawn from the said Wabash River and Post Vincennes due north" to the
								then northern boundary. (See dotted line in Map No. II.)
						
						
						
							25. The Battle of Tippecanoe.
							The continued sale of lands by the Indians alarmed some of the more aggressive
								chiefs. Under the leadership of Tecumseh and his brother the Prophet, two Shawanee
								warriors, a confederacy was organized among certain tribes to resist further sales,
								to punish chiefs conveying lands, and to prevent the survey and settlement of lands
								already ceded. Tecumseh's theory was, that no tribe had the right to dispose of its
								lands without the consent of the other tribes. The hostile design of the
								confederates was anticipated by Governor Harrison, who marched into the Indian
								country with a strong force. His purpose was to induce the tribes to return to their
								own lands and villages. But before a conference could be held, Harrison was attacked
								about daybreak on November 7, 1811, while encamped near the Tippecanoe River. The
								soldiers and militia, who had slept on their arms, endured the terrific assault
								bravely and the Indians were compelled to retire. The confederacy was broken up and
								the Prophet's town destroyed. By the Treaty of Greenville, July 22, 1814, peace and
								friendship were again established.
						
						
							26. A Change of Governors.
							On September 24, 1812, Governor Harrison received news of his appointment to the
								command of the Army of the Northwest, with the rank of Brigadier-General. From that
								time the Secretary of the Territory, John Gibson, was acting-governor until the
								arrival of Governor Posey (May 25, 1813). The influence of Governor Harrison, with
								the exception of his advocacy of slavery, was for the advancement of the Territory.
								His management of Indian affairs was just and humane. Again and again he recommended
								to the legislature liberal provisions for education—from the common school to
								the university. In 1806, Vincennes University was incorporated, and he was one of
								the trustees and served till his withdrawal from the Territory.
							The legislature of 1813 had ordered the capital of the  Territory to be located at Corydon "from and after the first day of May, 1813."
								At the first session held there in December, 1813, the two houses addressed replies
								to the governor's message. A law prohibiting dueling was passed at this session.
							In 1814, the legislature granted charters to the first banks—The Farmers' and
								Mechanics' Bank at Madison and the Bank of Vincennes. The latter, in 1817, became
								the State Bank of Indiana and adopted the former as a branch. In 1821 the State Bank
								was closed by order of the court.
						
						
							27. The First Constitutional Convention.
							In 1816, Congress passed an enabling act authorizing an election of delegates who
								were to determine whether or not a State government should be formed. If statehood
								were desired, they had the power to proceed at once to the formation of a
								Constitution or to order an election of delegates who should perform that duty. The
								convention met on June 10. Of the forty-three members, but few later attained any
								pre-eminence in politics or the professions. The majority of them were plain,
								common-sense pioneers who had a strong belief in the rights of men and a clear
								perception of justice. The convention completed its work June 29 and adjourned the
								same day.
						
						
							28. The Constitution.
							The Constitution, though not so democratic, did not differ materially from that now
								in force. It contained a bill of rights, and prescribed a republican form of
								government with three departments,—legislative, executive, and judicial. The
								General Assembly met annually. The term of senators was three years; that of
								representatives, one year. The governor's term was three years. He had the usual
								executive powers. He, also, appointed judges of the Supreme Court, to serve for
								seven years. The General Assembly elected the other State officers (secretary,
								auditor and treasurer of State). All white male citzens who had resided within the
								State  one year were given the right of suffrage.
								Slavery was forever prohibited. Every twelve years the people had an opportunity to
								vote upon the question of calling a general convention to amend the
								Constitution.
						
						
							29. Slavery in Indiana.
							When the Ordinance of 1787 was passed, slavery already existed in Indiana. The
								interpretation placed upon the Ordinance was that it prohibited the further
								importation of slaves, but did not free those then held in the Territory. The
								settlers, most of whom were from the Southern States, were eager for its further
								introduction. From 1796 to 1807, six petitions were presented to Congress asking for
								an abrogation or modification of the sixth article of the "Compact" which forbade
								slavery. These petitions were denied. But in the face of this opposition, the number
								of slaves had increased from twenty-eight in 1800 to two hundred and thirty-seven in
								1810, under a law permitting slavery by indenture.1 The sentiment against slavery gradually
								increased in the Territory. In the Constitutional Convention of 1816, the friends of
								freedom were overwhelmingly in the majority and slavery was forever prohibited. But
								so difficult was it to uproot this institution of evil that, in spite of
								constitutional prohibition, a few slaves were held in the State for several years
								afterward.
						
						
							30. Beginning of State Government.
							The first general election under the Constitution was held on the first Monday of
								August, 1816, and Jonathan Jennings was chosen governor. The first General
									Assembly2 met at Corydon,
								November 4, 1816. Three days later the 1 Under this law, an immigrant bringing slaves into the
									Territory might appear before the clerk of the court and determine and agree with
									the slaves the term of years they would serve him. If the slaves refused to enter
									into such a contract, the owner might carry them into another State. The law was
									clearly a violation of the Ordinance.
								2 The legislature
									consisted of ten senators and twenty-nine representatives.
								 governor and the lieutenant-governor took the oath of
								office in their presence. The next day the legislature elected James Noble and
								Waller Taylor United States senators, and later chose the secretary, the auditor and
								the treasurer of State.
							On December 11, 1816, the President signed the resolution of Congress which
								formally admitted Indiana into the sisterhood of States.1 The growth of the State was rapid. The
								population more than doubled in five years.2
							The task of inaugurating a new government among a frontier people, poor in purse,
								scattered far and wide, and devoid of means of communication and transportation, is
								arduous and exacting. Our first governor and legislators met the difficulties with
								tact, wisdom, intelligence and patriotism. Many obstacles prevented the
								establishment of an adequate system of public instruction. But several academies and
								library associations were incorporated within a few years.
						
						
							31. Removal of the Capital.
							In 1820, commissioners selected the present seat of government, which is within a
								few miles of the geographical centre of the State. In that year there was no white
								colony within fifty miles of the place. In 1825 the capital was removed to
								Indianapolis; at that time it required ten days to go one hundred and twenty-five
								miles.
						
						
							32. State Enterprises.
							(1) The most worthy venture was the Indiana State Bank. The State owned half of the
								stock and participated in its management. Its career was honorable and successful,
								bringing large profits to the State and to private stockholders. The charter
								extended from 1834 to January 1, 1857. Manufactures increased, private corporations
								were organized, and prosperity seemed assured. But with the panic of 1837 came a
								serious 1 For the
									boundaries of Indiana, as prescribed by the enabling act and accepted by the
									State, see Article XIV. of the Constitution. (See Map No. II.)
								2 The population was
									63,897 in 1815; 147,178 in 1820.
								 reaction. And the collapse of the improvement schemes
								brought disaster and misery to the people.
							(2) The successful prosecution of canal enterprises in the Eastern States
								encouraged the advocates of State highways and waterways in the West. The State had
								received cessions of land from the Indians and extensive grants from the National
								domain, and in 1836 it authorized the expenditure of more than $10,000,000 for the
								building of canals, roads and railroads. Many of the projects were wholly worthless;
								mistakes were made in the organization and management of others; the cost exceeded
								the estimates; the proceeds from the canal lands did not meet expectations; the
								panic of 1837 made it impossible to borrow money, so that the State was almost
								bankrupted and its credit well-nigh ruined. It was found necessary to transfer some
								of the public works to private corporations and wholly to abandon others. The total
								loss to the State was about $8,000,000.
						
						
							33. A New Constitution.
							On January 18, 1850, the legislature authorized the assembling of a constitutional
								convention, which was to be composed of one hundred and fifty delegates. It met on
								October 7, and after four months of assiduous deliberation it completed its task and
								adjourned February 10, 1851. The Constitution was ratified by the people August 4.
								The vote on the Constitution was 109,319 for, and 26,755 against, its adoption. The
								vote on the thirteenth article, which provided for the exclusion and colonization of
								negroes and mulattoes, was taken separately and resulted in 109,976 for and 21,066
								against. It took effect November 1, 1851, and the first general election under it
								was held in 1852.
						
						
							34. Indiana in the Civil War.
							In response to the President's call for 75,000 troops and Governor Morton's
								proclamation for 6000 volunteers—Indiana's quota—nearly 20,000 men
								offered their services. The difficulty was not to get men enough but to get few
								enough. In all, Indiana  furnished over 200,000 men for
								the suppression of the Rebellion, and they were found on almost every battle-field
								of the war. Individuals, corporations, towns and cities contributed money. The State
								not only furnished men, but supplied them with food, clothing and munitions until
								the General Government could meet the demands made upon it. Not satisfied with
								putting men into the field, the people established a relief corps and supplied the
								fighting soldiers with many comforts and conveniences. They made provision for the
								needy families of absent men, and cared for the children of those who perished.
							
								OLIVER PERRY MORTON.
							
							In the summer of 1863, the State rose as one man to repel the bold invasion of John
								Morgan. More than 60,000 men offered their services within two days.
							All in all, Indiana's record during the war is one that reflects great honor upon
								her name. And it is fitting that the finest soldiers' monument in the world should
								commemorate the loyalty, the heroism, the suffering and fortitude of her citizen
								soldiery, who were not justly rewarded by merited promotions in the army.
						
						
							35. Indiana in National Politics.
							While Indiana's position in National affairs has not been so conspicuous as that of
								some of the older States, she has played her part well and honorably.
							Three of her Congressmen—John W. Davis, Schuyler Colfax and Michael C.
								Kerr—have served as Speaker of the House of Representatives.
							She has had representation in the Presidents' Cabinets as follows: Caleb B. Smith
								and John P. Usher as  Secretaries of the Interior, Hugh
								McCulloch as Secretary of the Treasury under three Presidents, James N. Tyner and
								Walter Q. Gresham as Postmasters-General, Richard W. Thompson as Secretary of the
								Navy, William H. H. Miller as Attorney-General, and John W. Foster and Walter Q.
								Gresham as Secretaries of State.
							
								SCHUYLER COLFAX.
							
							
								THOMAS A. HENDRICKS.
							
							The importance of Indiana in presidential elections is shown by the fact that from
								1868 to 1892 a candidate from Indiana was found on one ticket or the other. In 1868,
								Schuyler Colfax was elected Vice-President on the Republican ticket. In 1884, Thomas
								A. Hendricks, the Democratic candidate for the Vice-Presidency, was elected but did
								not live to serve out his term. In 1888, Hon. Benjamin Harrison was elected
								President and as the Chief Executive of the Nation exhibited statesmanship of the
								highest order.
						
						
							36. Education.
							By an act of Congress (March 26, 1804) the sale of certain public lands was
								provided for, "with the exception of the section numbered sixteen, which shall be
								reserved in each township for the support of the schools within the same; also, of
								an entire township .... for the use of a seminary of learning." By the enabling act
								of April 19, 1816, this grant was re-affirmed  and one
								entire township in addition was reserved for the use of a seminary. President Monroe
								designated what is now the civil township of Perry, in the county of Monroe, to be
								devoted to this purpose.
							In pursuance of the act of 1804, the first General Assembly of the Territory
								incorporated Vincennes University, November 29, 1806. The trustees were authorized
								to raise $20,000 by lottery. The school was opened for instruction in 1810. On
								January 20, 1820, the State Seminary was established at Bloomington. Later, the
								assistance heretofore given the Vincennes University was diverted to the State
								Seminary. January 24, 1828, the Seminary was converted into the Indiana College by
								act of the General Assembly. The institution was changed in 1838 to the Indiana
								University.
							In 1869, Purdue University, the agricultural and mechanical college of Indiana, was
								located at LaFayette. The institution was opened to students in 1874. It is
								maintained at the expense of the State.
							The Indiana State Normal School was established in 1865, the object of which is
								"the preparation of teachers for teaching in the common schools of Indiana."
							Besides these State schools there are some twelve other institutions—colleges
								and universities—which are doing valuable and efficient work.
							Thus, the State school system began with higher education and not with the common
								schools. Under the first Constitution "no efficient school law was ever passed."
								Several academies and seminaries for secondary instruction were established; but
								these were supported in part by tuition fees. This was a period of preparation and
								experiment. Difficulties and impediments seemed to make fruitless every effort to
								establish a general system of education. In 1840, one-seventh of the adult
								population were unable to read. Of the children of school age, not 50,000—less
								than one-fifth—were attending primary and  common
									schools.1 In 1850, Indiana
								stood twenty-third in the list of States in regard to popular education, with only
								three slave States below her. Under the Constitution of 1851, the progress of the
								common schools has been rapid and substantial. The law of 1852 contained the essence
								of the present system. It has been modified and strengthened by subsequent
								amendments. The fundamental principle is that the educational system must be general
								and uniform, dependent for its support partially upon taxes derived from the local
								communities and partially upon revenues from the State.
							Gradually the cause of the common schools won its way and the indifference and
								obstinacy of its opponents were overcome. To-day Indiana ranks among the first
								States in regard to her educational system.
						
						
							37. Conclusion.
							It is impossible within the scope of this book to depict adequately, even the
								political history of Indiana, not to speak of the social life and industrial
								development. In the appendix will be found statistics illustrating her present
								condition. But they fail to convey a clear conception of the marvellous growth
								within the period of eighty years. The population has increased from 70,000 in
									18162 to nearly 2,500,000
								in 1897. The number of acres under improvement has risen from 1,750,000 in 18173 to over 15,000,000 in 1897.
								The annual products of farms in 1816 were scarcely sufficient to furnish sustenance
								to the settlers. Now they are worth more than $100,000,000. The value of
								manufactured products has advanced from $191,0004 in 1810 to about $250,000,000 in 1897. Facilities of
								transportation have progressed from the flat boat, the pack horse following Indian
								trails and the lumber wagon trudging over roads almost impassable, to powerful and
								magnificent 1
									Indiana Gazetteer, 1850, p. 44.
								2 DILLON'S
									History of Indiana, p. 563.
								3
									Indiana Gazetteer, 1850, p. 115.
								4 DILLON'S
									History of Indiana, p. 438.
								 trains, gliding over the six thousand miles of
								railroads operated by thirty-one companies. The enrollment of schools has risen from
								almost nothing to six hundred thousand in 1897, with an expenditure of $6,000,000
								annually. Religious worship, instead of being conducted under the shelter of trees,
								or in barns or log houses, is now performed in six thousand churches valued at more
								than $18,000,000. The total wealth in 1890, according to the United States Census
								for that year, aggregated $2,095,176,626. Advancement in other lines has kept pace
								with this stupendous material development. No longer does any stigma attach to the
								name of Hoosier.
							
								LEADING EVENTS IN THE HISTORY OF INDIANA.
								1669-70. La Salle's exploration of the Ohio River.
								1679. La Salle's exploration in Northern Indiana.
								1695. Kaskaskia settled.
								1720. Post established at Ouiatanon.
								1727. Post established at Vincennes.
								1763. The Treaty of Paris.
								1779. Vincennes surrendered to Col. George R. Clark.
								1787. Ordinance of 1787.
								1800. Indiana Territory organized with the capital at Vincennes.
								1800-10. Slavery by indenture permitted.
								1804. "The Western Sun," the first newspaper in the Territory, established at
									Vincennes.
								1804. Indiana Territory passed to the second stage.
								1805. Michigan Territory separated from Indiana Territory.
								1806. Vincennes University founded.
								1809. Illinois Territory separated from Indiana Territory.
								1811. Battle of Tippecanoe.
								1813. Removal of Capital from Vincennes to Corydon.
								1816. First State Constitution framed and adopted. Indiana admitted to the
									Union.
								1820. Bloomington Seminary (Indiana University) founded.
								1825. Removal of Capital from Corydon to Indianapolis.
								1834. Indiana State Bank chartered.
								1835. The Wabash And Erie Canal opened.
								1851. New State Constitution adopted.
								1889. Australian Ballot Law enacted.
							
						
					
				
				
				
					
						BENJAMIN HARRISON.
					
					CHAPTER II. THE STATE GOVERNMENT.
					
						I. INTRODUCTION.
						
							38. The Preamble
							to the State Constitution is the enacting clause which declares for what purpose
								the sovereign people have ordained the Constitution.
						
						
							39. The Bill of Rights1
							is the first article of the Constitution. It contains a statement of the
								fundamental principles which underlie the system of government and a declaration of
								the civil and political rights which are inviolably reserved to the people. Most of
								these are found 1 See
									the Constitution. Each section of the bill of rights should be carefully studied
									by the class. Frequent reference to the Constitution should be insisted
									upon.
								 also in the Constitution of the United States. They
								were wrung from unwilling kings by our own English ancestors during a contest which
								lasted more than five hundred years.
						
						
							40. Citizenship.
							"Citizens are the members of the political community to which they belong. They are
								the people who compose the community and who have established, or submitted
								themselves to, the dominion of a government for the promotion of their general
								welfare and the protection of their individual as well as their collective
									rights."1 The Constitution
								of the United States declares that "all persons born or naturalized in the United
								States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States and
								of the State wherein they reside." Thus all the people—men, women and
								children—living in Indiana, born or naturalized in the United States and
								subject to the jurisdiction thereof, have a dual citizenship: they owe allegiance
								and obedience to the State and to the Nation; and they are entitled to protection
								under each of these governments.2
						
						
							41. Electors.
							Those citizens who participate in government by voting are called electors. In
								Indiana not all citizens are electors, for women and children cannot vote; and not
								all electors are citizens, for by the Constitution suffrage has been given to
								persons of foreign birth who have not been fully naturalized.3 The qualifications of electors as to age,
								sex and residence are prescribed in the Constitution of the State.4 As provided in 1851, this right was
								restricted in Indiana to whites only. But the 1 Supreme Court decision in U. S. vs.
									Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542.
								2 Indians living in
									tribal relations, though born in the United States, are not citizens, for they are
									not "subject to the jurisdiction" of the laws of the United States but to the laws
									and customs of their respective tribes. All the Indians residing in this State are
									citizens, for they have severed their tribal relations.
								3 See Art.
										II. Sect. 2.
								4 See Art.
										II. Sects. 2, 3, 4, and 8.
								 Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments of the
								Constitution of the United States superseded this article, and in 1881 it was
								repealed. The right to vote in local or State elections gives one the right to vote
								for congressmen and for presidential electors.1
						
						
							42. Distribution of Powers.
							The Constitution of the United States guarantees to every State a republican form
								of government; that is, a government in which the affairs are administered by
								representatives chosen by the people. By the third article of the State
								Constitution, the powers are divided into three separate departments: the
								legislative, the executive, and the judicial. It is the prevalent theory that these
								branches should be as nearly independent as possible, and thus serve as checks upon
								one another. It is, therefore, provided that no officer in one department may
								exercise any of the functions of an officer in another department, except in the few
								cases provided for in the Constitution itself.2
						
					
					
						II. THE LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT.
						
							43. The Legislative Authority; Where Vested.
							That branch of government which has the power to make the laws is now generally
								conceded to be the most important. It represents more perfectly than any other
								department the views of every section of the State, and is elected to express the
								will of the people. The legislative authority is vested in a General Assembly
								consisting of a Senate and a House of Representatives.3
						
						
							44. The Senate.
							Every six years an enumeration of all the male inhabitants over twenty-one years of
								age is made. At the first session of the General Assembly following this
								enumeration, the number of senators (not exceeding fifty) is fixed by law and
								apportioned among 1 The
									manner of conducting elections is explained in Chapter V.
								2 See Art.
										III.
								3 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 1.
								 the several districts according to the number of males
								as above determined.1 The
								senators, now fifty, are chosen by the electors of the respective districts2 for a term of four years. The
								Senate is divided into two classes, so that one-half is elected biennially.3 Each legislature is sure,
								therefore, to have some experienced men in its service.
							A senator must be a citizen of the United States, an inhabitant of this State for
								two years next preceding his election, an inhabitant of his district for one year
								next preceding his election, and at least twenty-five years old.4 The only exclusive power conferred on the
								Senate by the Constitution is to try impeachments which have been made by the
								House.
						
						
							45. The House of Representatives.
							The number of representatives is determined in the same manner and at the same time
								as that of the senators.1 At
								present there are one hundred representatives.2 They are chosen by the electors of their respective
								districts, for a term of two years. Their qualifications are the same as those of
								senators, except that the age limit is twenty-one years.4 The House has the power to impeach any
								State officer.5
						
						
							46. Sessions.6
							The regular sessions of the legislature are held at the capital in the odd-numbered
								years. They begin on the Thursday following the first Monday of January7 and may continue sixty-one
								days. Special sessions 1
									Art. IV. Sects. 4, 5, 6. No county for senatorial apportionment
									may be divided, and if a district contains more than one county, the counties must
									be contiguous. Revised Statutes, sects. 4956-8.
								2 See Art. IV. Sect.
										2.
								3 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 3.
								4 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 7. No person holding a lucrative office or appointment under the
									United States or under this State is eligible to a seat in the General Assembly.
									See Art. II. Sect. 9.
								5 See Art.
										VI. Sect. 7.
								6 See Art.
										IV. Sects. 9 and 29.
								7 A different day and
									place may be established by law. The daily sessions begin at 9 A.M. and at 2 P.M.
								
									THE CAPITOL AT INDIANAPOLIS.
								
								 may be called at any time by the governor, if the
								public welfare require it. They cannot exceed forty days in length. The sessions of
								each house and of the committees of the whole must be open, unless, in the opinion
								of either house, secrecy may be required.1
							Two-thirds of each house is required to constitute a quorum for the transaction of
									business.2
							Each house determines its own adjournment with the limitation that neither house
								may, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any
								other place.3
						
						
							47. Compensation.
							The Constitution provides that the compensation of members shall be fixed by
									law,4 but it forbids any
								increase taking effect during the session at which it may be made. The present
								compensation is six dollars per day, and five dollars for every twenty-five miles
								traveled in going to and from the session.5
						
						
							48. Privileges.
							During the sessions of the Assembly and in going to and from the same, all members
								are privileged from arrest in all cases except treason, felony, and breach of the
								peace. They are not subject to civil process during the session, nor during the
								fifteen days just preceding. They cannot be questioned in any other place for
								speeches in the house.6 If it
								were otherwise there could not be freedom of debate. Any member may protest against
								the passage of any bill or resolution and have his protest entered on the
									journal.7
						
						
							49. Ineligibility.
							No member of either house is eligible during his term to any office the election to
								which is vested in the General Assembly; nor may he be appointed to any civil office
								of profit which has been created during 1 See Art. IV. Sect. 13.
								2 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 11.
								3 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 10.
								4 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 29.
								5 The amount of mileage
									due each member is determined by a committee appointed for that purpose.
								6 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 8.
								7 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 26.
								 his term, except to an office elective by the
									people.1 This is to guard
								against collusion and corruption.
						
						
							50. Punishment.
							Either house may punish its members for disorderly conduct, and with the
								concurrence of two-thirds, may expel a member. Either house, during its session, may
								punish by imprisonment not exceeding twenty-four hours, any person not a member, for
								disrespect by disorderly or contemptuous behaviour in its presence.2 Order is necessary for calm deliberation
								and judgment.
						
						
							51. Organization.3
							In order to secure the independence of each house it is provided that each shall
								elect its own officers4
								(except the president of the Senate5); judge the elections, qualifications, and returns of its own members;
								and determine its rules of procedure and adjournment. (See exception, § 46.)
						
						
							52. Journals.6
							Each house is required to keep and publish a journal of its proceedings. On any
								question the yeas and nays must be entered on the journal upon the proper request.
								Each house has a committee (the only one authorized by law) on the correction of the
								journal, whose duty it is to inspect the same and report any errors. The journal
								after approval is signed by the presiding officer and deposited with the secretary
								of State, and later printed.
						
						
							53. Committees.
							Legislative business is hastened by distributing the subjects of legislation among
								committees. The Constitution and statutes make no provision for the 1 See Art. IV.
										Sect. 30.
								2 See Art.
										IV. Sects. 14 and 15.
								3 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 10.
								4 The officers are,
									besides the president of the Senate and the speaker, the secretaries, clerks,
									door-keepers, postmasters, paper-folders, pages, messengers, and sweepers.
								5 Whenever the
									lieutenant-governor acts as governor or is absent from the Senate, that body
									elects one of its own members as president. See Art. V. Sect.
									11.
								6 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 12.
								 appointment of these committees. Each house determines
								by resolution the number and size of its committees.1 They are appointed in the House by the speaker, in the
								Senate by the president.2 It
								is seen, therefore, that the presiding officers have great influence over the course
								of legislation, since the recommendations of the committees are generally accepted
								as final. Without such a system it would be impossible for the house to give careful
								and thoughtful consideration to all matters which might be proposed for legislation.
								Yet there are some serious disadvantages in this method. It prevents unity and
								harmony in legislation, affords greater opportunity for corruption and lessens
								responsibility.
						
						
							54. Law-Making.3
							The Constitution provides that no law shall be enacted except by bill. A bill4 is the draft of a proposed law
								and must begin with the following words: "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
								the State of Indiana."5 All
								bills for raising revenue must originate in the House of Representatives; all others
								may originate in either house and either house may amend any bill of the other
									house.6 Each bill is read
								on three days unless the house7 dispenses with the first and second 1 At the sixtieth session of the General
									Assembly, the Senate had thirty-seven standing and three joint committees; the
									House of Representatives had forty-four standing, one select, and three joint
									committees. Most of the committees of the House of Representatives consist of nine
									members, those of the Senate of seven.
								2 In the Senate they
									are sometimes elected, when the lieutenant-governor differs in politics from the
									majority of the Senate.
								3 See rules of House
									and of Senate, 1897.
								4 A resolution is a
										law which affects only the house which enacts it.
									A concurrent resolution binds the two houses in matters relating to both of
										them.
									A joint resolution passes through the same steps as a bill. It is used in
										expressing opinions of the legislature, in appointing important committees, and
										in proposing amendments to the Constitution.
								5 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 1.
								6 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 17.
								7 In tracing the
									history of a bill, we have assumed that it was introduced in the House of
									Representatives. The procedure would be similar if the introduction were in the
									Senate.
								 readings by a two-thirds vote. The first reading is
								for information. The bill may be then and there rejected; but if it is not rejected
								(and bills seldom are rejected on the first reading), it is referred to a standing
								or select committee or to a committee of the whole house. If it is deemed of
								sufficient importance it may be printed.1
							The committee in charge of a bill may kill it by delaying to report until there is
								not sufficient time for consideration: it may report to the house with or without
								amendment, or with or without recommendation. The bill then goes to the speaker's
								desk to await its turn; when it is reached in the order of business, it is read the
								second time. It is then ready for amendment, re-commitment, or engrossment. It is at
								this point that the chief discussion on the merits of the bill occurs. A bill may be
								rejected here by a motion to strike out the enacting clause. If it is neither
								amended, re-committed, nor rejected, it is ordered to be engrossed "in a fair round
								hand." After engrossment it is presented to the committee on engrossed bills, whose
								"imperative duty" it is to compare the engrossed with the original bill and
								ascertain whether it has in all respects been accurately and correctly engrossed.
								After errors are corrected, it is taken up in the course of business and ordered to
								the third reading. The question is then "Shall the bill pass?" The vote is taken by
								yeas and nays and a majority of all the members elected is necessary to pass the
									bill.2 Then the question is
								"Shall the title of the bill stand as the title of the act?" It is generally so
								ordered without a vote, if no objection is raised. The clerk of the House then
								informs the Senate of the passage of the bill. The engrossed copy, signed by the
								clerk, is thereupon 1
									In the Senate, all bills reported favorably and all bills having majority and
									minority reports are printed.
								2 See Art.
										IV. Sects. 18 and 25.
								 transmitted to the Senate and passes through the same
								routine, except that a bill engrossed in one house is not engrossed in the other. If
								it is modified, the amendment is engrossed and is returned with the bill to the
								house in which it originated. If the House concurs, the bill is ready for
								enrollment. If it non-concurs, each house appoints two members to a joint conference
								committee. If the houses after the report of this committee are unable to agree, the
								bill is lost. If the bill is finally agreed to by both houses, it is enrolled on
								paper and indorsed on the back by the clerk of the house in which it originated. The
								enrolled bill is then examined by at least two members of the joint committee on
								enrolled bills, who compare it with the engrossed bill and correct any errors. If
								duly enrolled, the bill is signed, first by the speaker, then by the president of
								the Senate, and it is then presented by the joint committee on enrolled bills to the
								governor for his consideration. The committee report their action to their
								respective houses, which report is entered on the journal of each house. If the
								governor signs the enrolled bill, he notifies each house of his action and sends the
								bill to the secretary of State. If the governor vetoes the bill, he returns it
								unsigned with his objections to the house in which it originated, which house enters
								the objections at large upon its journal and proceeds to reconsider the bill. If a
								majority of the members elected pass it, they send it with the governor's objections
								to the other house for consideration; and if approved there by a majority of the
								members elected, it becomes a law, and is deposited with the secretary of State.1 If the governor retains the
								bill three days (excepting Sundays) it becomes a law, unless the general adjournment
								prevents its return. In case of adjournment it becomes a law, unless the governor
								files his objections with the secretary of State within five days (to be laid 1 See Art. V.
										Sect. 14.
								 before the legislature at the next session). No bill
								shall be presented to the governor within two days of the final adjournment.1
							No law takes effect until published and circulated in the several counties by
								authority, except in case of emergency, when it takes effect on its passage.2
						
						
							55. Restrictions on Law-Making.
							The legislature has authority to make laws on all subjects except where prohibited
								and restricted by the laws, treaties and Constitution of the United States and by
								the Constitution of Indiana.3
								Besides the restraints set forth in the bill of rights, the Constitution has imposed
								several other restrictions upon the legislature. As to methods, it prescribes that
								every act shall embrace but one subject and matters properly connected therewith,
								which subject must be expressed in the title. The purpose of this is to prevent the
								enactment of undesirable bills which might be passed under a misleading title, or by
								incorporation into a worthy measure. The use of technical terms must be avoided as
								far as possible, in order that laws may be clear even to the simplest.4
							The laws must be general in all cases where such laws are applicable. This is to
								prevent favoritism. To enforce this principle, the Constitution specifically forbids
								local or special laws relating to the following subjects: the punishment of crimes
								and misdemeanors; changing venue; 1 Sometimes, if the governor favors an important bill, he
									waives this right.
								2 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 28. Clerks of circuit courts are required to certify to the
									governor the day of receiving the laws of any session. As soon as the certificates
									from all the counties are received by the governor, he issues and publishes his
									proclamation announcing the date of the latest filing, which is the date of its
									taking effect. (Revised Statutes, sects. 238, 239.)
								3 See Art.
										IV. Sect. 16.
								4 See Art.
										IV. Sects. 19-21. For other restrictions see § 54, on Law-making.
								 divorces; changing names of persons; regulating county
								and township business; assessment and collection of taxes; fees and salaries;
								interest; the opening and conducting of elections; and others of less
									importance.1
							No money may be drawn from the treasury but in pursuance of appropriations made by
									law.2 The pay of judges may
								not be diminished during their term of office.
							No State debt may be created except to meet casual deficits in the revenue; to pay
								the interest on the State debt; to repel invasion; suppress insurrection; or to
								provide for the public defense.3
							No law may authorize the payment of the canal debt, the settlement of which was
								provided for by legislation in 1846 and 1847.4
						
						
							56. Taxation and Revenue.
							The most responsible duty resting upon the General Assembly is to provide for the
								raising and disbursement of the public revenue.5 The principal expenditures are for the offices, boards,
								bureaus and departments of the State; the judiciary; the benevolent, the penal and
								reformatory, and the educational institutions; the common schools; and the principal
								and interest of the State debt. The commonwealth does not engage in any industry
								from which it may derive an income. To meet these expenses, therefore, it must
								depend upon the contributions of its citizens and of others who enjoy its
								protection. The legislature has faithfully endeavored to provide this revenue.
								"Experience the impression deeper makes that Indiana does not follow, but leads, in
								fidelity to the great principle that should underlie the provisions of raising
								revenue by taxation, that of equal and exact 1 See Art. IV. Sect. 22,
									for the complete enumeration.
								2 See Art.
										X. Sect. 3.
								3 See Art.
										X. Sect. 5.
								4 See Art.
										X. Sect. 7.
								5 See Art.
										X. Sect. 1.
								 justice to all."1 The following are the chief sources of revenue: a tax on
								polls; taxes on all property within the jurisdiction of the State, not expressly
									exempted;2 incorporation
								fees; insurance fees and taxes; corporation taxes; and other fees. In addition to
								this revenue from taxation, there is an income from the interest on the school fund;
								from forfeitures; from escheats and certain fines; and from the earnings of
								benevolent, reformatory and penal institutions.3 The legislature authorizes by law, that on each one
								hundred dollars' worth of taxable property, a certain number of cents be raised for
								specific purposes. This is called the State tax levy.4 The revenue collected for a certain fund cannot be
								diverted to any other fund even for the purpose of meeting a deficiency there. The
								revenue derived from taxation for general State purposes is applied first to the
								payment of the ordinary expenses of government, then to the payment of interest on
								the State debt, and then to the payment of the principal of the public debt.5 An accurate statement of the
								receipts and expenditures must be published with the laws of each regular session of
								the General Assembly.6
								1 Report of State Board
									of Tax Commissioners for 1897, p. 3.
								2
									Revised Statutes, 6270-1. The following exemptions are
									authorized: (1) Property of the United States and of the State; (2) property of
									any county, city, town or township; (3) lands granted for common schools, so long
									as they remain unsold; (4) personal property and real estate of schools; (5) all
									property and endowments for educational, literary, scientific or charitable
									purposes; (6) buildings and land (not exceeding ten acres) for religious purposes
									and cemeteries. (Revised Statutes, 6273.)
								3 See Art.
										VIII. Sect. 2.
								4 The levy for 1897 is
									as follows: For general State fund, 9 cents, and 50 cents upon each taxable poll;
									for the State benevolent institution fund, 5 cents; for the State debt sinking
									fund, 3 cents; for the State common school tuition fund, 11 cents, and 50 cents
									upon each taxable poll; for the State educational institution fund, 1⅔ cents;
									total, 29⅔ cents.
								5 See Art.
										X. Sect. 2.
								6 See Art.
										X. Sect. 4.
						
					
					
					
						III. THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.
						
							57. The Executive Department
							is charged with the duty of carrying out the will of the people as expressed by the
								legislative branch. However good and just the laws may be, unless they are strictly
								and impartially enforced they are worse than no laws, for they tend to bring all
								laws into ill repute and disrespect. It is not the province of the executive
								department to inquire into the justice or wisdom or constitutionality of a law. If
								the executive were to use his own discretion as to what laws he would enforce, the
								will of the people as expressed by the legislature might be wholly annulled.
								According to the Constitution the executive power is vested in a governor.1 A lieutenant-governor is also
								provided for.2 They are
								elected by the people at the general elections.3
						
						
							58. The Governor.
							The term of his office is four years,1 and no person is eligible more than four years in a
								period of eight.4 To be
								eligible to the office of governor, a candidate must be thirty years of age, must
								have been five years a citizen of the United States and also a resident of the State
								for the five years just previous to his election, and must not be a member of
								Congress or office-holder under the United States or this State.5 He is ineligible to any other office during
								the term for which he is elected.6 The term begins on the second Monday of January of the odd-numbered years
								(1897, 1901, etc.).
							It is the duty of the governor to take care that all the laws be faithfully
								executed, and he is empowered to call out all the military and naval forces of the
								State to accomplish that purpose. He is commander-in-chief of such 1 See Art. V.
										Sect. 1.
								2 See Art.
										V. Sect. 2.
								3 In case there is no
									election because of a tie vote, the General Assembly elects.
								4 But a temporary
									appointment to fill out a term is not reckoned a part of that period. See Art. II. Sect. 11.
								5 See Art.
										V. Sects. 7 and 8.
								6 See Art.
										V. Sect. 24.
								 forces except when they are called into the service of
								the United States. He is required to inform the General Assembly of the condition of
								the State and to recommend such measures as he judges to be necessary and expedient.
								All bills passed by the legislature must be presented to him for his approval or
									disapproval.1 He may
								require information from the heads of the administrative departments. He is
								empowered to grant reprieves,2 commutations and pardons, after conviction, for all offences except
								treason and cases of impeachment; to suspend execution of sentence for treason until
								the next meeting of the Assembly; to remit fines and forfeitures; but he is required
								to report each case of clemency to the General Assembly at its next meeting.3 He has power to fill vacancies
								in State offices; and to issue writs of election to fill vacancies in the General
								Assembly and in the National House of Representatives. He may change the place of
								meeting of the General Assembly if there is danger from disease or a common
									enemy;4 and may summon it
								in special sessions.5 He
								appoints the chief officers of the National Guard,6 and a few other officers and members of certain boards;
								he signs commissions of all military officers and those of all judges and of all
								other officers except local officers: he proclaims the taking effect of all laws; he
								signs certificates of election of congressmen-elect. He may also remove certain
								officers for incapacity or unfaithfulness. His salary is $5000 a year and can
								neither be increased nor diminished during the term for which he is elected.7
							1 See § 54 for the method
								of law-making.
							2 A reprieve is a suspension of punishment of a convicted and sentenced person.
								A commutation is a change of punishment to a milder form. A pardon is a remission of the penalty and a forgiving of the
								offence.
							3 The legislature has
								never exercised its right to constitute a council whose advice would be necessary to
								grant pardons.
							4 See Art.
									V. Sects. 12-20.
							5 See Art.
									IV. Sect. 9.
							6 See Art.
									XII. Sects. 2. and 3.
							7 See Art.
									V. Sect. 22, and Revised Statutes, sect. 5588.
						
						
						
							59. The Lieutenant-Governor.
							The lieutenant-governor is elected at the same time, for the same term, and with
								the same qualifications as the governor.1 He presides over the Senate. In the committee of the
								whole he has a right to debate and vote, and when the Senate is equally divided he
								gives the casting vote.2 In
								case of the removal, death, resignation or inability of the governor, the duties of
								that office devolve upon the lieutenant-governor;3 and the General Assembly has provided by law that in
								case of the removal from office, death, resignation or inability of both governor
								and lieutenant-governor, the president of the Senate shall act as governor until the
								vacancy be filled. If there be no president of the Senate, the secretary of State
								shall convene the Senate for the purpose of electing a president thereof.4 As president of the Senate,
								the lieutenant-governor receives the same compensation as the speaker of the
									House,5 and in addition,
								$1000 annually. When acting as governor he receives the governor's salary.6
						
						
							60. Administrative Officers.
							Though the Constitution vests the executive power in the governor, it authorizes
								the election of other officers who divide with him the executive functions. They are
								not appointed by him, nor removable by him; they are not his subordinates but
								coordinate with him. The only control he may exercise over them is by virtue of his
								power to veto laws defining their duties.7 The important powers and duties of the governor are
								defined by the Constitution; those of the State officers, by statutes. The chief of
								these administrative officers—the secretary, the auditor and the treasurer of
								State, the superintendent of public instruction, 1 See Art. V. Sects.
									2-9.
								2 See Art.
										V. Sect. 21.
								3 See Art.
										V. Sect. 10.
								4 See Revised Statutes, sect. 5559.
								5 Eight dollars per
									day.
								6 See Art.
										V. Sect. 23.
								7 But the governor may
									arrest and suspend the treasurer of State for official misconduct. See Revised Statutes, sect. 5643.
								 the attorney-general, the State geologist and State
								statistician—are chosen at the general elections.1 The governor, secretary, treasurer and
								attorney-general are required to reside and to keep the public records at the seat
								of government.2 Every officer
								is required to give a bond and to take an oath to support the Constitutions of the
								United States and of this State, and faithfully to discharge the duties of his
								office. All State officers, all judges and prosecuting attorneys are for crime,
								incapacity, or negligence liable to be removed from office either by impeachment by
								the House to be tried by the Senate, or by a joint resolution; two-thirds of the
								members elected to each house are necessary in either case for conviction.3
						
						
							61. The Secretary of State
							is elected for a term of two years and no person is eligible more than four years
								in any period of six. 
									THE GREAT SEAL OF THE
											STATE OF INDIANA.
								 It is his duty to keep and preserve important documents, such as the
								enrolled copy of the Constitution of the State; a description of the State seal; the
								enrolled acts and joint resolutions of the General 1 See Art. VI. Sect.
									1.
								2 See Art.
										VI. Sect. 5, and Revised Statutes, sect. 5661.
								3 See Art.
										VI. Sect. 7.
								 Assembly, and all books, records, maps and parchments
								deposited in his office; all official bonds except his own; and a certified copy of
								the laws of each session. He is required to attest the official acts of the governor
								and affix the seal of the State to all public instruments; to lay papers relative to
								acts of the governor before the Assembly when requested; and to give information to
								the governor when required; to furnish a certified copy of any law or public
								document; to certify that the session laws are correctly printed;1 and to supervise their distribution. All
								corporations are required to file with him their articles of incorporation.
								Descriptions of trade-marks and brands must be filed with him to entitle any one to
								their exclusive use. The duties of the secretary as to elections are very
									important.2 His salary is
								$6500 a year.
						
						
							62. The Auditor of State3
							is the official book-keeper of the State. His term is two years, and no person is
								eligible more than four years in any period of six. He keeps all accounts of the
								State; he examines and liquidates accounts of all collectors of State revenues, and
								certifies the amount to the treasurer of State; he is required to keep clear and
								distinct accounts of all revenues and expenditures, showing the particulars of every
								expenditure and disbursement. He is empowered to examine, adjust and settle all
								accounts of public debtors; and to examine carefully all claims against the State to
								see that they are just and legal. No money can be paid out of the State treasury
								without his warrant on the treasurer, and no money can be received unless
								accompanied by his draft in favor of the treasurer and his certificate specifying
								the amount and the fund to which it is to be credited. He is required to furnish
								information concerning his department upon the request of the governor. It is his
									1 See Revised Statutes, sects. 5590-92.
								2 They are more fully
									described in the chapter on Elections.
								3 See Revised Statutes, sects. 5610-26.
								 duty to report to the General Assembly at its biennial
								session a complete statement of the revenues, taxable funds, resources, incomes and
								property of the State, and an exhibit of the public revenues and expenditures of the
								two preceding years with a detailed estimate of expenditures for the two ensuing
								years, showing also the resources and means from which the same may be obtained. He
								protects the people against frauds by exacting reports from State and savings banks
								and by causing a rigid examination of them. He also requires statements of the
								condition of insurance companies, building and loan associations and loan deposit
									companies.1 His salary is
								$7500 a year.
						
						
							63. The Treasurer of State
							is elected for a term of two years and no person is eligible more than four years
								in a period of six. Before entering upon the duties of his office, he must execute a
								bond in the penal sum of $700,000 with twenty or more good sureties, that he will
								faithfully discharge the duties of his office. It is his duty to receive and deposit
								all money of the State in the treasury of the State, and he is expressly prohibited
								from loaning or using it or depositing it elsewhere. He is also prohibited from
								receiving or paying out any money whatever, except upon the draft or warrant of the
								auditor. At the end of each month, the treasurer, with the auditor, makes out and
								causes to be published a statement of the amount of money in the treasury,
								specifying the amount in each particular fund. He is required to publish annually a
								tabular statement, exhibiting the receipts and expenditures for the last fiscal year
								and specifying the items of each account. A similar statement must be laid before
								the General Assembly on the first day of every session. He must permit an inspection
								of the treasury at any time by an accountant appointed by the governor or by a 1 See Revised
										Statutes, sects. 2701, 2702, 2748, 2749, 3420f, 3420bb.
								 committee appointed by the General Assembly.1 His salary is $6500 a
								year.
						
						
							64. The Attorney-General2
							is elected for a term of two years with no restrictions upon his re-eligibility. It
								is his duty to prosecute or defend all suits by or against the State; to represent
								the State before the supreme court in all cases in which the State is or may be
									interested;3 to defend all
								suits brought against State officers in their official relation, except those
								brought by the State. He is required to give legal advice to the governor, to any
								other State officer, and to either branch of the legislature when it desires his
								opinion as to the constitutionality of any proposed law. His salary is $7500 a year.
								All fees received by him must be turned into the State treasury.
						
						
							65. The Superintendent of Public Instruction4
							is elected for a term of two years with no limitation upon the number of terms. He
								is charged with the administration of the system of public instruction; a general
								superintendence of the business relating to the common schools; and a supervision of
								the school funds and school revenues. He is required to advise school officers
								concerning the administration and construction of school laws; to report to the
								General Assembly biennially, giving an exhibit of school funds and revenues, of
								statistics, of his labors, of estimates for the following year, and the estimated
								value of school property. It is his duty to visit each county once during his term,
								and examine the auditor's books to ascertain the amount and safety of the school
								funds and revenues. He has the power to apportion semi-annually the school revenue
								for tuition to the several counties 1 See Revised Statutes, sects. 5632-44,
									and 7339.
								2 See Revised Statutes, sects. 5656, 5659, 5663, 7340.
								3 In a case in which
									the public, as such, has an interest, it is the general practice of the supreme
									court to request the attorney-general to submit a brief on the side of the
									public.
								4 See Revised Statutes, sects. 4406-10, 4413, 4420, 4477 and 7343.
								 according to the last enumeration of school children.
								He superintends the purchase of books for township libraries. He is ex
									officio a member of the State board of education and of the State library
								board. He receives a salary of $2500 a year and his traveling expenses.
						
						
							66. The State Geologist
							is elected to serve for four years. The purposes of this department are to make a
								geological and scientific survey of the State, in order to discover, develop and
								preserve its natural resources; and to collect and disseminate information
								concerning its agricultural, mining and manufacturing advantages. He has charge also
								of the museum and the war relics. He is authorized to appoint a State
									Supervisor of Oil Inspection for a term of four years, whose compensation is
								the fees received; an Inspector of Mines for a term of two years
								at a salary of $1500; and a Natural Gas Supervisor for a term of
								four years at a salary of $1200. The salary of the State geologist is $2500 a
								year.
						
						
							67. The Chief of the Bureau of Statistics
							is chosen for a term of two years. It is his duty to collect, systematize, tabulate
								and present in annual reports statistical information relating to agriculture,
								manufacturing, mining, commerce, education, labor, social and sanitary conditions,
								vital statistics, marriages, deaths and the prosperity of the people. He is required
								to make a biennial report to the legislature. The officers of the bureau have power
								to examine witnesses under oath, to compel their attendance and the production of
								papers. His salary is $2000 a year.
						
						
							68. A Factory Inspector
							is appointed by the governor with the confirmation of the Senate, for a term of two
								years at a salary of $1500. It is his duty to cause the act regulating the
								employment of women and children in manufacturing establishments to be enforced.
						
						
							69. The State Librarian
							is elected by the State library board and serves until his successor is elected. He
								has charge of the State library under the management of the  State board. It is his duty to distribute the House and Senate journals,
								the documentary journals, and the laws of Congress received by the State. His salary
								is $1500 a year.
						
						
							70. The Commissioner of Fisheries
							is appointed by the governor for a term of two years. It is his duty to examine
								lakes, rivers and streams, to see if they can be made more productive in the supply
								of fish, and to ascertain what means are most expedient for the propagation and
								protection of fish. He is empowered to appoint deputies in each county to secure the
								enforcement of the fish laws. His salary is $300 and expenses.
						
						
							71. The Superintendent of Public Buildings and Property
							is appointed by the governor. He holds his office subject to removal at any time.
								It is his duty to care for the State capitol and grounds and to purchase supplies
								under the order of the board. His salary is $1500 a year. The governor appoints a
								State-house engineer for a term of four years at a salary of $1500.
						
						
							72. Three Metropolitan State Police Commissioners
							are appointed by the governor for a term of three years, one retiring annually, for
								each city having a population over 10,000 and not exceeding 35,000. They are charged
								with the management of all police matters of their respective cities. The salaries
								of the commissioners are fixed by the governor, but may not exceed $600 each per
								annum.
						
						
							73. Notaries Public
							are appointed by the governor for a term of four years. Their jurisdiction is
								co-extensive with the limits of the State. They are empowered to certify
								acknowledgments of deeds or other instruments, to administer oaths and to certify
								affidavits and depositions.
						
						
							74. State Boards.
							The legislature has from time to time created boards to which have been assigned
								the performance of particular duties. Furthermore, the State, in its endeavor to
								secure the "peace, safety and well-being"  of the
								people, has founded numerous institutions for the care of certain dependent classes,
								for the defective classes, and for the delinquent classes. The control and
								management of these laudable institutions have been delegated to boards. No uniform
								system of appointment to these boards has been adopted. The offices in the
								institutions have frequently been distributed as rewards for party service without
								regard to merit or competency. The people, if not the politicians, will certainly
								encourage the recent policy of entrusting their management to experienced officials
								without regard to their politics. The names of some of the boards are sufficient to
								indicate their purpose.
							
								The State Board of Tax Commissioners (governor, auditor and
									secretary of State, and two persons appointed by the governor) prescribes forms
									for assessment, construes tax and revenue laws, sees that assessments (especially
									of corporations) are made according to law and that taxes due are collected,
									enforces penalties for disobedience of revenue laws, and determines the amount
									necessary to be levied upon property in the several counties to cover a deficiency
									in the State revenue. At least one member visits each county in the State once a
									year to hear complaints. The most responsible duties of this board are to hear and
									determine appeals from the order or assessment of the county board of review; to
									assess the property of railroads, telegraph, telephone, palace-car, sleeping-car
									and express companies and corporations; and to equalize the assessment of real
									estate in the several counties. The salary of the appointed commissioners is $2000
									each, per annum.
								The State Board of Education (governor, superintendent of
									public instruction, the presidents of Indiana University, Purdue University, and
									the State Normal School and the superintendents of the common schools of the three
									largest cities in the State),1 considers the administration of the school system, grants State
									certificates to teachers, prepares questions for county examinations and selects
									and adopts the series of text-books for use in the schools of the State. They also
									elect five trustees of Indiana University. The 1 For this purpose the size of the cities
										is determined by the enumeration of school children. At present (1897), the
										three largest cities are Indianapolis, Evansville and Fort Wayne.
									 same board is constituted the State library board,
									which manages and controls the State library, purchases new books and appoints the
									State librarian.
								The Board of State Charities (six members appointed by the
									governor, who is an ex-officio member and president)
									investigates the whole system of public charities and correctional institutions of
									the State. It elects a secretary who is the real executive officer of the board.
									Its work has been of inestimable value to the State in preventing extravagance and
									in originating reforms. It also appoints a State agent to assist in enforcing the
									provisions of the act (of 1897) authorizing counties to establish orphan
									asylums.
								The State Board of Agriculture1 (sixteen members elected by the State board in
									conjunction with the presidents and delegates from county agricultural societies),
									meets annually for "deliberation and consultation as to the wants, prospects and
									condition of the agricultural interests throughout the State." It may hold annual
									State fairs.
								The Labor Commission (two members2 appointed for a term of two years by the
									governor, with the confirmation of the Senate, one representing the interests of
									labor, the other the interests of capital), is charged with the duty of mediation
									in labor controversies. If mediation fails, "they shall endeavor to induce the
									parties to submit their differences to arbitration."
								The State Board of Medical Registration and Examination
									(five members appointed by the governor for a term of four years), grants
									certificates entitling the holders thereof to licenses to practice medicine in the
									State.
								The State Board of Health (five members, four appointed by a
									board of appointment, consisting of the governor, secretary and auditor of State;
									the fifth, a physician, elected by the other 1 This is, in fact, a self-perpetuating private
										corporation which receives aid from the State. In like manner, the State
										Horticultural Society, the State Dairymen's Association, the State Florists'
										Association and the Indiana Academy of Science, receive slight assistance from
										the State.
									2 When sitting as a
										board of arbitrators the president of the tribunal is the judge of the circuit
										court of the county in which the controversy arises. To these may be added one
										member named by each party to the controversy.
									 four, acts as secretary of the board and is the
									health officer of the State), supervises the health and life of the citizens of
									the State, makes sanitary investigations, may regulate the plumbing, drainage and
									water supply of public buildings, and may supervise the registration of births,
									deaths and marriages. The salary of the health officer is $1200 per annum.
								The State Live Stock Sanitary Commission (three members
									nominated by the State board of agriculture and appointed by the governor), is
									established to protect the health of domestic animals from contagious or
									infectious diseases of malignant character, and is empowered to establish
									quarantine regulations. It appoints a veterinary surgeon, who is the chief
									administrative officer of the commission. His salary is fixed by the commission,
									but may not exceed $2000.
								The State Board of Election Commissioners (the governor and
									two electors appointed by him, one from each of the leading political parties), is
									charged with the preparation and distribution of the ballots and stamps for the
									election of State officers.
								The Commissioners of Public Printing (governor, secretary
									and auditor of State), have charge of all the public printing and binding
									authorized by law. They appoint a clerk of the bureau of printing, who is an
									expert and has immediate charge of the work.
								A Board of Control (three members, appointed by the
									governor), has charge of the State prison at Michigan City.
								A Board of Managers for the State Reformatory1 (four members appointed by the
									governor for the term of four years, without compensation), has the government and
									control of the penal institution in which are confined "the male prisoners found
									guilty of a felony other than treason or murder in the first or second degree and
									who are more than sixteen and less than thirty years of age."
								The Board of Managers for the Reform School for Girls and Women's
											Prison2 (three
									members, who must be women) is appointed by the governor.
								The Board of Control of the Indiana Reform School for Boys3 (three members
									appointed by the governor), has charge of the school for juvenile offenders. 1 Located at
										Jeffersonville.
									2 Located near
										Indianapolis.
									3 Located at
										Plainfield.
								
								
								Six Boards of Control (each of three members, appointed by
									the governor, not more than two of the same political party), have the management
									of the four insane hospitals,1 the institution for the education of the deaf and dumb and the
									institution for the education of the blind.2
								The Board of Trustees for the Indiana School for Feeble-minded
											Youth3 (three
									members, one a woman, the two men not of the same political party), is appointed
									by the governor.
								The Board of Trustees for the Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors'
										Orphans' Home4
									(three members, one a woman—the widow, wife or daughter of an honorably
									discharged Union soldier), is appointed by the governor.
								The Board of Trustees for the State Home for Disabled and
										Destitute Soldiers, Sailors or Marines and the Wives and Destitute Widows of
										such Soldiers, Sailors or Marines,5 is appointed by the governor. The five members
									must be honorably discharged soldiers or sailors of the Union army or navy in the
									war of the Rebellion and not more than three of the same political party.
								The Board of Trustees of Indiana University is composed of
									eight members, three elected by the alumni resident in the State, and five by the
									State board of education.
								The Board of Trustees of the State Normal School (four
									members), is appointed by the governor.
								The Board of Trustees of Purdue University (nine members),
									is appointed by the governor, two being nominated by the State board of
									agriculture, one by the State board of horticulture and six being selected by the
									governor himself.
							
						
						
							75. The Militia6
							is an important part of the executive department. It consists of all the
								able-bodied male citizens between the ages of eighteen and forty-five, except those
								exempted by National or State law. It is divided into two classes, the sedentary and
								the active militia. The 1 The hospitals for the insane are located near Indianapolis, Evansville,
									Richmond and Logansport.
								2 The institutions for
									the education of the deaf and dumb and of the blind are located at
									Indianapolis.
								3 Located at Fort
									Wayne.
								4 Located at
									Knightstown.
								5 Located near
									Lafayette.
								6 See Art.
										XII.
								 active militia consists of such citizens as may be
								enrolled, organized and mustered into the service of the State. It is styled the
								"National Guard." The sedentary militia consists of all other citizens subject to
								militia duty. The organized force consists of about 2900 men and officers. In case
								of emergency the governor may temporarily increase it. All members of the militia
								are exempt from service on jury. Applicants for admission must pass a physical
								examination and take a suitable oath. The governor appoints all staff officers and
								all others having a rank equal to or above the rank of a major. Persons
								conscientiously opposed to bearing arms are exempt from military duty, but may be
								required to pay an equivalent for such exemption. Whenever there is any tumult, riot
								or mob offering violence to any person or property, breaking and resisting the laws
								of this State or the laws and authority of the United States or threatening such
								disorder, the governor may order the military authorities to quell the tumult or
								prevent the disorder, upon the request of the mayor, or of a court of record sitting
								in the city or county, or of any judge thereof, or of the sheriff, or his
								deputy.
						
					
					
					
						IV. THE JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT.
						
							76. The Judicial Power
							of the State is vested by the Constitution in a supreme court, circuit courts and
								in such other courts as the General Assembly may establish.1 In accordance with this power the
								legislature has instituted an appellate court for the State at large, and superior
								and criminal courts for certain counties, has authorized mayors' courts and police
								courts for cities, and has recognized the superior court of Marion county as a court
								of claims. The courts of the justices of the peace are also established by the
									Constitution.2
						
						
							77. The Supreme Court.
							The supreme court is the highest court in the State. It has been wisely provided by
								the Constitution that the number of judges cannot be indefinitely increased or
								decreased by the General Assembly for partisan purposes. There cannot be less than
								three nor more than five. At present their number is five. They serve for a term of
								six years.3 The State is
								divided into five districts as nearly equal as possible, and one judge is elected
								from each district and must reside therein; but each judge is elected by all the
								voters in the State.4 Two
								terms of court are held each year at the capital, one beginning the fourth Monday in
								May, the other the fourth Monday in November. At each term the judges choose one of
								their number chief justice, who presides over the court; but no judge can serve
								twice until each of the other judges has presided. Three members constitute a
								quorum. The salary of each judge is $4500, and cannot be diminished during his term
								of office.
						
						
							78. The Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court5
							is wholly 1 See Art. VII. Sect. 1.
								2 See Art.
										VII. Sect. 14.
								3 See Art.
										VII. Sect. 2.
								4 See Art.
										VII. Sect. 3.
								5
									Jurisdiction is the power conferred by the Constitution upon a
									judge to take cognizance of and decide cases according to law and to carry his
									sentence into execution. A court is said to have original
									jurisdiction when a case is begun in that court. It has appellate jurisdiction when it has authority to review or re-try cases in
									which judgment has been given in a lower court. When a court has sole power to try
									and determine a suit, it has exclusive jurisdiction; when each
									of two or more courts possesses this authority, each has concurrent jurisdiction. appellate,
								but it is co-extensive with the limits of the State. However, the judges
								individually may preside at the trial of any case in any county of their respective
								districts wherein the circuit judge is incompetent to preside.
							The purposes of a trial in the supreme court are to determine whether a law has
								received the proper interpretation and application by the lower court and to
								ascertain whether a particular law is in harmony with the provisions of the
								Constitution and therefore binding upon the citizen. The court examines evidence and
								hears the arguments of counsel, but no new testimony is admitted and there is no
								jury. The judgment of the court is the opinion held by a majority of the judges. It
								may reverse, modify or affirm the decision of the lower court. It is final unless
								the case involves the Constitution or laws of the United States; in such a case an
								appeal may be taken to some United States court. The decisions must be in writing;
								these are prepared for publication by the reporter of the court and become
								precedents for all similar cases. The Reporter of the Supreme
									Court is elected by the people for a term of four years and receives a salary
								of $4000. A Law Librarian, appointed by the judges at a salary of
								$1000, has charge of the State law library.
							Any judge or prosecuting attorney who shall have been convicted of corruption or
								other high crime, may be removed from office by the supreme court,1 disfranchised and rendered ineligible to
								office during his lifetime or for such shorter period as the court may deem
								expedient.
						
						
							79. The Appellate Court.
							In order to relieve the supreme court of the great pressure upon it, an act was
									1 See Art. VII. Sect. 12.
								 passed in 1891 creating, for a period of six years,
								the appellate court. The General Assembly of 1897 extended its life four years
								longer. The number of members, the manner of their election and the terms of court
								are the same as in the case of the supreme court. But their term of office is four
								years and, unlike the judges of the supreme court, they are required to have certain
									qualifications.1 The
								jurisdiction of the appellate court is exclusive in the following cases of appeals:
								in the prosecution of misdemeanors; cases from the justices' courts, when more than
								fifty dollars is involved; for recovery of money under $3500 or specific personal
								property; cases between landlord and tenant involving the possession of premises;
								cases of claims against decedents' estates and exceptions to reports of
								administrators and guardians; and cases of foreclosure of statutory liens under
								$3500. Their decisions are final in all cases except the following: in any case
								where the constitutionality of a statute, Federal or State, or the validity of a
								municipal ordinance is in question and such question is duly presented; in suits in
								equity, and in suits where the title to real estate is in issue. The court decides
								what cases are to be reported and published. The salary of each judge is $3750.
						
						
							80. Circuit Courts.2
							The State has been further divided for judicial purposes into fifty-nine circuits,
								in each of which a judge is elected by the voters of the circuit for a term of six
								years. The judge presides over the court in each county of his circuit. The number
								and length of terms vary in the districts, depending upon the amount of business
								requiring adjudication. The circuit courts have exclusive original jurisdiction in
								all cases at law and in equity whatsoever, and in criminal cases and actions 1 They must be citizens of
									the United States, thirty years of age and lawyers of good standing. See Revised Statutes, sect. 6566.
								2
									Art. VII. Sects. 8 and 9.
								 for divorce, except where exclusive or concurrent
								jurisdiction is conferred by law upon justices of the peace. They have exclusive
								jurisdiction of the settlement of decedents' estates and of guardianship.1 They also have jurisdiction of
								all other causes, matters and proceedings where exclusive jurisdiction is not
								conferred by law upon some other court, board or officer. They have appellate
								jurisdiction of cases originating in city courts, mayors' courts or justices' courts
								and of appeals from the decisions of the county commissioners. They have power to
								make judgments, sentences and decrees, and to issue all processes and to do such
								other acts as are necessary to carry them into effect. Each day's proceedings are
								drawn up by the clerk, read in open court and signed by the judge. The salary of a
								circuit judge is $2500, but in circuits having a city of over 30,000 inhabitants, it
								may be increased by the county commissioners, but not more than $1500. The officers
								of the court are the clerk and the sheriff.2
						
						
							81. Prosecuting Attorneys.3
							A prosecuting attorney is elected in each judicial circuit for a term of two years.
								It is his duty to prosecute in the circuit courts all offenders against the State
								laws, and to act as counsel for the counties within his circuit, in all suits to
								which they are parties. His annual salary is $500 and fees.
						
						
							82. Superior Courts.
							In order to relieve the circuit courts of the excess of business, superior courts
								have been created in the counties of Allen, Marion, Tippecanoe, Vanderburgh, Vigo,
								Madison, Grant, and Howard, and in the district composed of the counties of Lake,
								Porter and La Porte. The voters of the respective counties and district elect one
								judge for each court, except for that of Marion county, in which three judges are
								elected. The term of 1
									Except in counties where such jurisdiction is conferred upon criminal or superior
									courts.
								2 See §§ 92 and
									96.
								3 See Art.
										VII. Sect. 11.
								 the judges is four years and their salaries range from
								$2500 to $4000. These courts do not all have the same jurisdiction. In general, it
								may be said that they have original and concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit
								courts in most civil causes. They have also concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit
								court in appeals from lower courts. The superior court of the district mentioned has
								also original and concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit courts in all criminal
								actions for misdemeanors.
						
						
							83. The Court of Claims.
							A State cannot be made a defendant in a suit except with its own consent. Indiana
								has recognized the Marion County superior court as a court of claims to decide cases
								in which persons make a money demand against the State. It is the duty of the
								attorney-general to defend the State in such cases. Either party may appeal to the
								supreme court. No execution is issued in case a person is adjudged a sum of money.
								He must depend upon the General Assembly for an appropriation to satisfy his claim.
								In case the next ensuing session of the legislature does not appropriate money to
								discharge the debt, the judgment draws six per cent. interest until paid.
						
						
							84. Criminal Courts.
							In the counties of Marion, Allen and Vigo, criminal courts have been created. In
								each case they consist of one judge elected by the legal voters for a term of four
								years. These courts have original exclusive jurisdiction of all crimes and
								misdemeanors except where jurisdiction is by law conferred upon justices of the
								peace, and such appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases as the circuit courts of
								those counties exercised before the creation of the criminal courts. The salary of
								the judge of Marion county is $3200, of each of the others $2500.
						
						
							85. Minor Courts.
							In each township in the State, one or more justices of the peace are elected who
								have jurisdiction in civil cases where the amount at issue is small, and in criminal
								cases where misdemeanors are charged.  In most of the
								cities are mayors' courts and police courts which try and punish petty
								offenders.
						
						
							86. Officers of the Courts.
							Each of the courts, except that of the justice, has a clerk and sheriff. The clerks
								administer oaths, sign processes and keep the records and papers of the court. The
								clerk of the supreme court acts as clerk for the appellate court. He is elected at
								the general election for a term of four years at a salary of $5000. The clerks and
								sheriffs of the circuit courts serve for the superior and criminal courts. It is the
								duty of the sheriffs to execute all orders and processes of their respective courts.
								The sheriff of the supreme court is appointed by the judges for a term of two years.
								He also serves for the appellate court.
						
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER III. COUNTY AND TOWNSHIP GOVERNMENT.
					
						THE COUNTY.
						
							87. Local Government
							is that portion of governmental control by which local affairs are regulated by
								local officers acting under local laws and statutes of the State government. Each
								community has special wants of which its residents are most competent to judge. The
								instinct of the Anglo-Saxon race has favored leaving the management of local affairs
								to local officers.1 However,
								if this principle should be carried to an extreme, it would result in the splitting
								up of the State into numerous small sovereignties without influence or power to
								accomplish great enterprises or to protect themselves against foreign aggression. In
								some respects the interests of each community cannot be separated from the interests
								of the State as a whole. The happiest solution of this question is that division of
								authority whereby the central government, under constitutional restrictions, enacts
								general laws uniform in their application which control and direct all executive
								officers, but whereby the greater part of the 1 The English colonists brought with them to America
									ideas of local self-government which they adapted to their peculiar needs. In New
									England, where the settlements were compact, the system was adopted in which the
									town or township was the unit. In the South, where the people lived far apart on
									large plantations, the county system prevailed. In the Middle States there was
									instituted a mixed system in which the management of local affairs was divided
									between the township and the county. In Indiana the mixed system exists.
								 executive work is performed by local officers selected
								entirely by the people of the locality. Although the Constitution says that "The
								executive powers of the State shall be vested in a governor," his administrative
								powers are comparatively insignificant. He cannot control the appointment (except in
								case of vacancy) nor the administration of the State officers. Nor can the governor
								and the State officers united reach out the executive arm into all parts of the
								State to control the execution of all the State laws. They have little discretionary
								power; they are not free to follow the bent of their own wills; for their official
								conduct is marked out with minuteness by statute. The chief administrative power of
								the State is diffused throughout nearly a hundred counties and thousands of
								officers. Over these officials the central authorities have little more than an
								advisory superintendence and can control them only by the enforcement of general
								laws in the courts of the State. For example, the counties conduct elections; care
								for the poor; manage the schools; secure police protection; administer justice
								through their courts; and collect revenues for the State.
						
						
							88. The County.
							The officers of a county serve, then, in two capacities: as the agents of the State
								in the administration of State laws;1 and as the agents of the people of the county in the performance of those
								services which concern the county and its inhabitants as distinct from the rest of
								the State. Their work is chiefly administrative and judicial, but the commissioners
								may within limitations legislate on certain subjects in the application of general
								laws to the county. The number, boundaries and offices of the counties have been
								determined by the State and may be modified or abolished by changing the laws or
								Constitution of the State. The number of counties since 1859 has been ninety-two.
								New counties may 1 See
										Art. VI. Sect. 2.
								 be formed out of existing counties; but no county may
								be reduced to an area less than four hundred square miles, nor may any county under
								that area be further reduced.1
						
						
							89. The County Seat
							is the place where the courthouse, the jail and other public buildings of the
								county are located. It is generally near the centre of the county. It can be changed
								from one place to another only upon a vote of the electors of the county.
						
						
							90. The County Officers
							are either elected or appointed. The commissioners, the clerk of the circuit court,
								the auditor, the recorder, the treasurer, the sheriff, the coroner, the surveyor and
								the assessor are elected at the general elections by the voters of each county. The
								county superintendent of schools is chosen by the township trustees; jury
								commissioners, master commissioners and the probate commissioners are appointed by
								the judge of the circuit court; the superintendent of the county asylum and the
								county physicians are appointed by the county commissioners. All county officers
								must be electors and inhabitants of their respective counties.2 There is no uniform date for the beginning
								of the terms of many of the county offices. It varies for different offices in the
								same county and often for the same office in different counties. Vacancies in the
								elective offices, except that of county superintendent, are filled by appointment
								made by the commissioners. Vacancies in the appointive offices are filled by the
								original appointing power. Officers may be removed upon conviction by a jury for
								offenses against the laws of the State. The salaries of the county offices are
								graded in proportion to population and service.3
						
						
							91. The Commissioners.4
							In the western States, where 1 See Art. XV. Sect. 7.
								2 See Art.
										VI. Sect. 4.
								3 All fees received by
									county officers, except those received by the coroner, the surveyor, and by the
									treasurer for the collection of delinquent taxes, must be paid in to the
									county.
								4 They are frequently
									referred to as the county board.
								 the mixed system of local government prevails, it may
								take one of two forms: in one, the township element is predominant; in the other,
								the county organization prevails. In the former, the unit is the township and the
								county is composed of several units and is managed by representatives from those
								units; in the latter, the county is the unit and its management is in the hands of
								commissioners elected by the whole county. In Indiana each county is divided into
								three districts, and from the residents of each district a commissioner is elected
								by the voters of the whole county for a term of three years, two being chosen at
								each election. The time and length of the regular sessions1 of the board of commissioners are fixed by
								law and vary according to the size and population of the counties.
							"In legal contemplation the board of commissioners is the county."2 The commissioners are the most important
								administrative officers of the county; they have, also, judicial and legislative
								authority. They authorize the erection of public buildings and have full control
								over all county property. They hear claims and allow accounts3 against the county not otherwise provided
								for. They have power to audit the accounts of all officers having charge of county
								money; to remove the county treasurer when suit is brought against him on his
								official bond; to audit the warrants of township trustees; to exact from them
								complete reports of receipts and expenditures, and to inspect their accounts of the
								school funds; to examine the records and fee books of county officers who receive
								fees for services; and to approve official bonds of county officers. They are
								authorized to fix the tax levy for the county and 1 The sessions must be held with open doors,
									and there must be at least four sessions a year, in March, June, September and
									December.
								2 State, ex rel., vs. Clark, 4 Indiana, 316.
								3 A statement of all
									allowances made must be published in a newspaper.
								 to advise and concur in the township tax levy;1 to make appropriations;2 to borrow money; and to
								publish annually a statement of the receipts and expenditures. They may exempt the
								poor from the payment of poll taxes; refund taxes wrongfully paid; and pay certain
								bounties. They have important duties in connection with elections.3 They grant licenses to owners of ferries
								and to vendors of liquors. They constitute the county board of health and appoint
								the health officer for the county; they may also appoint inspectors of food
								products. They divide the county into townships. They serve as a board of turnpike
								directors and have the management of all free turnpikes; they have power to control
								the location, construction and repair of all highways except in towns and cities; to
								change and straighten water-courses and to repair navigable canals. They may furnish
								relief to the poor, establish asylums for orphans and the indigent and provide for
								the confinement of criminals. These are the most important of their extensive
								powers. The compensation of commissioners in counties having over 100,000
								inhabitants is $1800 per annum; in counties having over 55,000 and less than 100,000
								inhabitants, $1200 per annum; in all other counties, three and one-half dollars per
								day for the time actually employed.
						
						
							92. The Clerk of the Circuit Court
							is elected for a term of four years, and no person is eligible more than eight
								years in any period of twelve. It is his duty to make an entry in the docket of
								every suit brought; to attend the sessions of the circuit court in his county; to
								administer oaths, and to enter in the proper record books all orders, judgments and
								decrees of the court. He receives and files certificates as to the standing of
								insurance companies. He has charge of probate matters and the 1 If a trustee fails to make the levy,
									the commissioners determine it.
								2 But no appropriation
									is lawful unless there is money in the treasury.
								3 See Chapter V.
								 settlement of estates. He issues marriage licenses and
								reports their number to the county health officer; he issues, also, licenses to
								practice medicine. In examinations as to sanity, he keeps record of the proceedings,
								makes application for admission to the asylum and sees that the necessary clothing
								is furnished the inmate. He is charged with important duties in connection with
								elections. The annual salary of the clerk varies from $1000 to $19,500.
						
						
							93. The Auditor
							is elected for a term of four years, and no person is eligible more than eight
								years in twelve. He is the chief business agent of the county. He acts as the
								secretary of the board of commissioners. It is his duty to examine and settle
								accounts and demands against the county; to issue orders on the county treasurer for
								the payment of such claims; and to keep a complete record of all accounts. He is
								charged with the loaning of the school fund and is authorized to bring suit against
								any borrower who fails to pay the interest or principal when due. He attends to the
								sale of university lands. In taking the enumeration of school children, he receives
								the reports of the township trustees, corrects mistakes and reports to the auditor
								of State. He apportions the school revenue, to which his county is entitled, to the
								several townships, towns and cities. It is his duty to make out from the reports of
								assessors an aggregate assessment of all taxable real and personal property in the
								county. When the rate of the tax levy is certified to him, he calculates the amount
								of the State, county, school, township, road, poll and all other taxes chargeable to
								each person, and makes and delivers a duplicate of this tax list to the treasurer.
								He is a member of the county board of review. He grants permits for keeping
								warehouses, keeps a set of standard weights and measures, and tests and seals the
								weights, and measures1 of
								those who desire to have them 1 This feature is practically obsolete.
								 authenticated. The annual salary ranges from $1100 to
								$17,500.
						
						
							94. The Treasurer
							is elected for a term of two years, and no person is eligible more than four years
								in any period of six. He must give bond with at least four freehold securities, in
								amount double the sum of money he may have at any time. He may be removed by the
								board of commissioners. Upon receipt of the tax duplicate he gives notice of the
								amount of tax assessed upon each $100 for each purpose and upon each poll. It is his
								duty to receive and receipt for all moneys coming to the county; to disburse the
								same on the proper order of the auditor; to keep his accounts so as to show
								distinctly the amount in each separate fund; to keep his books open to inspection by
								the county commissioners; to exhibit the money in his office at least once in each
								year; to make a complete statement annually; and to make payment to the State
								treasurer of the State taxes collected by him, and to the township trustee of the
								revenue due to the township. He is authorized to collect delinquent taxes and may
								seize and sell personal property to pay such taxes. He is a member of the county
								board of review. In the counties of Allen and Marion the county treasurer acts as
								city treasurer. The annual salary varies from $800 to $11,000, with an additional
								sum of six per cent. on all delinquent taxes collected.1
						
						
							95. The Recorder
							is elected for a term of four years, and no person is eligible more than eight
								years out of twelve. In every community there are many contracts and other legal
								instruments, the proof of which ought not to depend upon any oral statement or even
								upon a written statement in the hands of the interested parties. The public has an
								interest in knowing, and is entitled to 1 The treasurer of Marion County receives for his
									services as city treasurer $8500, with 5 per cent. on all delinquent taxes
									collected. His total fixed salary is $19,500.
								 a knowledge of, the facts. For these reasons an office
								is created and maintained at public expense in which important documents may be
								recorded and to which all have access. The following is a partial list of the
								instruments which this officer is bound to record: deeds for the conveyance of land;
								leases for a longer period than three years; mortgages and satisfactions of
								mortgages; notices of liens; assignments; certificates of incorporation; articles of
								association; maps and plats of the boundaries of the county and of the townships and
								cities within the county; articles of apprenticeship; certificates of dentists;
								descriptions of fence-marks and of ear-marks and brands of live stock. In order that
								these facts may be readily ascertained by any one, he is required to keep complete
								indexes of all records. To preserve an historical record of the life and events of
								the county a file of the county newspapers is kept in his office. The annual salary
								ranges from $700 to $12,500.
						
						
							96. The Sheriff
							is elected for a term of two years, and no person is eligible more than four years
								in a period of six. The office of sheriff had its origin in England many centuries
								ago, when that country was divided into shires. The reeve was an official of great
								importance who called the people together in the shire-moot or meeting, presided
								over its sessions and executed its decrees; whence came the name shire-reeve or
								sheriff. The office has been shorn of many of its duties and much of its dignity;
								but it is yet the chief executive office of the county and of the courts. The
								sheriff is a conservator of the peace within the county. It is his duty to arrest
								with or without a warrant persons committing crime or misdemeanor within his view;
								and to suppress all breaches of the peace within his knowledge—having
								authority to call to his aid the posse comitatus, or the power of
								the county.1 If this force is
									1 Whoever without
									valid excuse refuses or neglects to assist any sheriff or any other conservator of
									the peace in the execution of his office or in the service of any process is
									liable to be fined not more than $100 nor less than $5. See Revised
										Statutes, sect. 2041.
								 not sufficient, he may call upon the governor of the
								State. If the militia of the State cannot put down the disorder, the governor may
								call upon the President of the United States, whose duty it is to employ the
								national forces to suppress insurrection. The sheriff is also required to pursue and
								commit to jail all felons, and for this purpose he may go into any county in the
								State. He is charged with the keeping of the jail and the care of the prisoners and
								must protect them from mob violence. He attends and preserves order in the circuit,
								criminal and superior courts; he serves all processes issued to him by these courts,
								either in person or by deputy, and executes all decrees; he transfers all prisoners
								under death sentence to the State prison for execution.1 He acts as deputy to the sheriff of the
								supreme court. He performs certain duties in relation to elections. The annual
								salary attached to the office varies from $1000 to $13,000.
						
						
							97. The Coroner
							is elected for a term of two years, with no restriction on his re-eligibility. This
								office is also very old, and was created as a sort of check upon the power of the
									sheriff.2 The coroner held
								court in the name of the king. Only a remnant of his great power and honor remains:
								when necessary he serves writs commanding the arrest of the sheriff, and in case of
								a vacancy in the office, or in case the sheriff is interested, absent, or otherwise
								incapacitated, he acts as sheriff. The principal duty of the coroner is to hold an
								inquest or examination upon the body of any person supposed to have come to his
								death by violence or casualty. He has power to summon witnesses to ascertain all the
								facts, and renders his verdict in 1 Prior to 1889 it was the duty of the sheriff to inflict
									the death penalty when judgment had been pronounced.
								2 Coroner is derived
									from coronarius, the representative of the corona, or crown.
								 writing. If he finds that a crime has been committed,
								he may issue a writ commanding a constable to arrest the person accused of the
								crime, and to take him before a justice of the peace. The justice may commit the
								accused person to jail to await trial by the circuit court. For compensation the
								coroner receives the fees of his office.1
						
						
							98. The County Assessor
							is elected for a term of four years, and no person is eligible more than eight
								years in a period of twelve. He must be a resident freeholder and householder of the
								county for at least four years prior to his election. It is his duty to examine the
								books of the township assessors and to assess and enter the true valuation of all
								property omitted by them. He also advises and instructs them as to their duties, and
								visits each assessor in April or May. He is a member of the county board of review.
								His compensation is three dollars per day for the time actually employed.2
						
						
							99. The Surveyor
							is elected for a term of two years, and is re-eligible without restriction. The
								purpose of this office is to secure accuracy in the survey of lands and efficiency
								in the construction of roads and drains. He has charge of the maps, books, charts
								and papers belonging to his office. Whenever an owner of land after due notice
								requests another survey of his land the surveyor is required to make it and to
								re-locate and perpetuate the corners of it and to preserve the record of his survey.
								He is ex officio a drainage commissioner; he makes the necessary
								surveys for drains; oversees their construction; and superintends their repair. For
								his compensation he retains the fees received.
						
						
							100. The County Superintendent
							is elected by the township trustees3 for a term of two years, subject to 1 In Marion county he receives a salary of $3000 and no
									fees.
								2 In Marion county the
									salary is $1800 annually.
								3 In case of a tie, the
									deciding vote is cast by the county auditor, who acts as clerk.
								 dismissal for cause by the board of commissioners.
								There is no restriction upon his re-eligibility. He has general supervision of the
								schools of the county except the city schools. It is his duty to grant teachers'
								licenses to all applicants when their fitness has been ascertained by examination.
								He may revoke such licenses for causes specified in the statute. He is further
								required to visit each school annually; to encourage and attend teachers'
								institutes; to render opinions in controversies arising under the school law; to
								make to the State superintendent and to the bureau of statistics annual reports
								embodying the enumeration of children of school age and statistical information
								relative to the school fund, the condition of school property, and to the general
								progress of education. He acts as the medium of communication between the State
								superintendent and subordinate school officers. It is his duty to make requisition
								for the text-books needed in the county and to see that a sufficient number are on
								hand. He is authorized to inspect the books of county officers having the care of
								the county school funds and may institute suit to recover moneys due the school
								fund. He is a member of the board which appoints the truant officers of the
									county.1 His compensation
								is four dollars for every day actually employed in the discharge of his duties.
						
						
							101. Two Jury Commissioners
							for each county are appointed by the judge of the circuit court to serve for one
								year. They must be freeholders and voters of the county and of opposite political
								faith. From the names of the legal voters and citizens of the United States on the
								tax-duplicate of the county they select and deposit in a box the names, written on
								separate slips of paper of uniform color and size, of twice as many persons as will
								be required by law for grand and petit jurors for the ensuing year. 1 See Chapter VI., on
									Education.
								 They are required to exclude the name of any person
								who has acted within one year as a juror, who is not either a freeholder or
								householder of the county, or who is interested in a case or has one pending which
								may be tried by a jury chosen from these names. The box is locked and delivered to
								the clerk and the key held by the commissioner who differs from the clerk in
								politics. Within the week preceding the commencement of any criminal or circuit
								court the clerk shakes the box and in the presence of the commissioner draws the
								names of six persons, who are summoned as the grand jury; he also draws the names of
								twelve other persons, who constitute the petit jury.1
							No person may be appointed a jury commissioner who is a party to or is interested
								in a suit pending. Any one appointed to this office who fails to accept it or to
								perform its duties, is guilty of contempt of court and may be punished by a fine of
								any sum from $5 to $100. The pay of each commissioner is three dollars per day for
								the time actually employed.
							Jurors are paid two dollars per day while in actual attendance and five cents for
								each mile traveled.
						
						
							102. A Probate Commissioner
							may be appointed by the judge of the circuit court, in any county having a voting
								population of 10,000, whenever the probate business of the court requires it. He has
								jurisdiction of the proof of wills, of guardianships and of the settlement of
								estates. He has power to administer oaths, take acknowledgments and do all other
								acts legally pertaining to the duties of his office. His salary is fixed by the
								judge, and he serves for a term of four years.
						
						
							103. Master Commissioners,
							at least one for each county, are appointed by the judge of the circuit court. They
								have power to administer oaths, take depositions, 1 After a petit jury has served four weeks
									the court may discharge it and direct the clerk to draw a new jury.
								 and to sell real estate when the court orders a sale
								to be made.
						
						
							104. A Short-hand Reporter
							may be appointed by the judge of any inferior court to prepare a complete record of
								the evidence and proceedings of any trial.
						
						
							105. The Superintendent of the County Asylum
							is elected by the county commissioners. Every county is required to care for the
								poor and indigent lawfully settled in it. When a county may deem it advisable an
								asylum for the poor may be established. It is the duty of the superintendent to
								receive those who may become public charges, employ and support them. He reports
								semi-annually to the county board the time and manner of the admission of paupers,
								their health, ability to labor, the results of their labor and the expenses
								incurred.
						
						
							106. The County Physician.
							The board of commissioners may contract with one or more physicians to attend upon
								prisoners confined in the jail or paupers in the asylum, or to attend upon the poor
								generally in the county.
						
						
							107. The County Board of Review
							is composed of the auditor, treasurer and assessor of the county and two
								freeholders appointed by the circuit judge. Their duty is to review the assessments
								and equalize the valuation of all real and personal property in the county for the
								purpose of making the burdens of taxation equal throughout the county.
						
					
					
						THE TOWNSHIP.
						
							108. The Origin of the Township
							is remote. It may be traced back to our Anglo-Saxon ancestors, while they still
								lived on the Continent. Several families there grouped themselves about a spring or
								in some other favorable location. To protect themselves against enemies they
								constructed a fence or hedge called a tun: they gave the name tun-scipe or township to the village and the surrounding country
								containing their fields and pastures.
							
							This, the simplest of our governmental institutions, is the oldest. But in the
								newer States the State government was first established, and it has the power to
								create or change these civil subdivisions. The county commissioners are authorized
								to divide the county into as many civil townships as the convenience of the citizens
								may demand. They are required to conform the boundaries of such townships to those
								of congressional townships as nearly as practicable.1 Each civil township is a body politic and corporate and
								may make contracts, sue and be sued.
						
						
							109. The Township Officers2
							are a township trustee, an assessor, one or more justices of the peace, an equal
								number of constables, a supervisor for each road district and a director for each
								school district. The supervisors are appointed by the trustee; the school directors
								are elected annually by the voters of the districts. All other officers are elected
								at the general elections, and take possession of their offices ten days thereafter,
								each for a period of four years.
						
						
							110. The Township Trustee
							is the most important officer of the township, and no person is eligible more than
								four years in eight. It has been truly said that no other officer in the State has
								the authority and discretionary power which the trustee possesses. He has
								legislative authority in the levying of taxes and incurring of debts.3 He has quasi-judicial power in
								the auditing of the accounts of the supervisor and the examination and settlement of
								all other accounts against the township. But it is in his executive or
								administrative capacity that he exercises his 1 A congressional township consists of a tract of land
									six miles square. It was created by the government survey; it has no political
									life; it was devised to make it easy to identify the location and description of
									lands.
								2 See Art.
										VI. Sect. 3 and Art. VII. Sect. 14.
								3 The concurrence of
									the board of commissioners is necessary in some cases.
								 ample sway. His powers may be considered under five
								subdivisions: financial affairs, roads, elections, the poor and schools.
							
								Financial Affairs.—The trustee superintends the
									pecuniary concerns of the township. At the annual June session of the county
									board, with the advice and concurrence of the board,1 he levies a tax on the property of such township for
									township, road and other purposes, and reports it to the county auditor, who
									enters it in the tax duplicate. The treasurer collects the amounts levied and upon
									the warrant of the auditor pays to each trustee all the money belonging to his
									township. The trustee examines and settles all claims against the township and
									keeps accounts so as to show the receipts and expenditures of each fund and of the
									whole revenue. He must register and number the township orders or warrants,
									showing the fund on which each is drawn, the number, date and amount of the
									warrant, to whom issued, for what purpose and when redeemable; and also a complete
									statement of all outstanding indebtedness of the township. On the first Monday of
									August of each year he must post up a statement showing the indebtedness in
									detail; within ten days after filing his annual report he must have a copy of it
									published in a newspaper. His records and books must always be open for
									inspection. By an act of 1897, the county board is required to meet in March of
									each year to audit the warrants of the trustees. They have power to investigate
									the purpose of each warrant, its legality, the propriety and the reasonableness of
									the purchase, and the need of the article purchased or service rendered. Any
									taxpayer may appear before the board and make exception to the payment of any
									warrant. The board of audit reports to the circuit court the protested orders. The
									court hears the cases and renders judgment, but an 1 The county commissioners have no control
										over the trustees in the levying of special school taxes.
									 appeal may be taken to the appellate court or to the
									supreme court.
								Roads.—The trustee is authorized to re-divide his
									township into road districts upon the proper petition. He appoints a supervisor
									for each district. He orders the expenditure of the road tax in the improvement of
									highways under such regulations as he deems expedient. He is also fence-viewer,
									and is required to see that drains are repaired and kept open.
								Elections.—It is his duty every six years to make an
									enumeration of all the male inhabitants over twenty-one years of age within his
									township. The list of the names and ages of all such inhabitants is filed in the
									auditor's office.1 The
									apportionment of senators and representatives is based upon this information. The
									trustees are inspectors of elections in their precincts and are authorized to
									appoint the election judges.2
								The Poor.—The township trustee is "overseer of the
									poor" within his township and when discharging such duties he is so designated.
									The importance of having honesty and efficiency in the administration of this
									office is just being appreciated. In 1896 there were in Indiana more than 71,400
									persons who received out-door relief from the trustees; and the amount of money
									distributed aggregated $355,255.3 It is his duty to inquire into any complaint and to see that the poor
									are not ill-treated and are 1 Mistakes are corrected by the auditor, who certifies to the auditor
										of State the aggregate number in the county. The auditor of State certifies a
										tabular statement of the number in each township and county and the total number
										in the State. He publishes the same and submits it to the General Assembly at
										its next session.
									2 Their responsible
										duties in this connection are more fully described in Chapter V., on
										Elections.
									3 See Report of the Board of State Charities (1897), pp. 77-79. The total
										expenditure made by the counties in 1896 for the aid of the poor amounted to
										$973,655. See Report of the Bureau of Statistics (1895-96), p.
										339.
									 sufficiently provided for by those having them in
									charge. He must keep a list of those who are not able to care for themselves and
									who are likely to be entitled to aid. He is required to pay the expenses of the
									burial of ex-Union soldiers in some other place than the pauper cemetery, when
									sufficient means are not left by the deceased. Every overseer and every one
									administering relief from the public funds to the poor, sick and needy, not
									inmates of any institution, must keep a record of the full name, age, sex and
									nationality of every person receiving aid, with the date and amount of money or
									value of goods furnished. If relief is given for the use of others, a similar
									record of each recipient must be given. The reason for giving aid must be shown in
									each case. Two copies of this record are filed in the office of the auditor every
									three months; one copy is sent to the board of State charities; the other is
									retained by the auditor, and the commissioners cannot lawfully pay out money for
									relief until such a record is made. A recent law has further attempted to restrict
									extravagance and carelessness by making the burden of the expenditure for this
									purpose fall directly upon the township which expends it and not upon the county
									as a whole.
								Schools.—The trustee of the civil township is also the
									trustee, treasurer and clerk of the school township. "The two corporations are as
									distinct and separate legal entities as if they existed in different territory,
									had an entirely different set of officers, and had no connection in any way with
									each other."1 The trustee
									receives the school revenue apportioned to his township, keeps it separate from
									the funds of the civil township and applies it to the purposes specified. He
									employs teachers, establishes and furnishes school-houses and provides for the
									management of schools and of all school property. Each year between April 10 and
									April 30 he takes an 1 See 62 Ind. 230, Utica Township, Clark Co., vs.
										Miller et al.
									 enumeration of all unmarried persons between the
									ages of six and twenty-one, resident in his township, town or city. Separate lists
									of whites and colored are kept. This list includes the names of parents or
									guardians and designates the congressional township in which each resides. A copy
									of the enumeration is reported to the county superintendent. He has the care and
									custody of the lands belonging to the congressional township fund; and may with
									the consent of the voters of the township lease them for seven years or sell them.
									He has charge of the township library and is accountable for its preservation. The
									compensation of trustees is two dollars per day for the time actually
										employed.1
							
						
						
							111. A Township Assessor
							is elected for four years, and no person is eligible more than four years in eight.
								It is his duty to list and assess property for taxation and to make a return to the
								auditor of the property so listed. The assessment of real estate is made every four
								years. The pay of assessors is graded as that of the trustees.2
						
						
							112. A Supervisor
							for each road district is appointed by the trustee for a term of four years. Any
								person liable to perform highway labor who fails to accept the office of supervisor
								when duly appointed must forfeit the sum of six dollars for the benefit of the road
								district; but no person is compelled to serve more than four years in six. It is the
								duty of the supervisor to carry into effect all orders of the trustee touching
								highways and bridges within his district and to keep them in good repair. To this
								end he may call out all able-bodied men except those exempted by law and require
								their services during not less than six nor more than twelve days in each year. The
								supervisor is responsible for all tools belonging to the 1 In townships having between 25,000 and
									75,000 inhabitants he receives annually from $1000 to $1500; in townships having
									between 75,000 and 100,000 inhabitants, $1800; in townships having over 100,000
									inhabitants, $2500.
								2 See § 110.
								 road district. It is also his duty to arrest and
								prosecute all violators of the game and fish laws. His compensation is one dollar
								and a half for each day of service.
						
						
							113. A School Director
							is elected annually on the first Saturday in October by the voters of the school
								district. In case of a failure to elect, the trustee may appoint one. The director
								or any five electors may call a special meeting of the voters. Subject to the
								discretion of the trustee, the voters at this meeting may decide what branches in
								addition to those prescribed by law shall be taught and the length of the school
								term; direct repairs of the school-house; and petition the trustee for the removal
								of the school-house or for the erection of a new one. All tax-payers except married
								women and minors are entitled to vote. This is the nearest approach to a pure
								democracy of any of our political organizations. The director presides at all school
								meetings, records their proceedings and communicates with the trustee. He has charge
								of the school-houses and property. He visits and inspects schools and may exclude
								refractory pupils subject to appeal to the trustee.
						
						
							114. The Justices of the Peace
							are the judicial officers of the township, and the peace and good order of the
								community are, probably, more dependent upon them than upon the judges of the
								supreme court. Their history in England can be traced back to the twelfth century,
								when the king appointed knights of the shire to perform certain police duties in the
								preservation of the peace. Later, judicial powers were transferred from the sheriffs
								to these officers; and they were regarded with great respect and honor. The number
								for each county is determined by the board of commissioners; but it must not exceed
								more than three for each township, with one in addition for each town and two in
								addition for each city therein. Their authority is limited in civil cases to their
								townships; in criminal cases to their counties respectively. They have  concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit courts to try
								and determine suits founded on contracts or tort1 where the debt or damage claimed or the value of
								property sought does not exceed $200. They have no jurisdiction whatever in any
								action of slander, or for malicious prosecution, or for breach of marriage contract,
								nor where the title to land is in question, nor where the justice is related by
								blood or marriage to either party. They have power to subpoena witnesses and compel
								attendance. If either party demands a jury, it must be summoned. Either party may
								appeal from the judgment of any justice to the circuit court within thirty days.
								They are empowered to issue all writs necessary to execute their decrees. They may
								also issue search warrants, writs of ne exeat,2 and writs of attachment when the amount
								claimed does not exceed $200. They issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged
								with the commission of felony or misdemeanor. In criminal cases they have exclusive
								original jurisdiction in all cases where the fine can not exceed three dollars;
								concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit and criminal courts to try and determine
								all cases of misdemeanors punishable by fine only; and they have authority to make
								examinations in all cases. Any prisoner adjudged a punishment may appeal to the
								criminal or circuit court within ten days. Justices preside in examinations as to
								the insanity of persons. They also have authority to solemnize marriages within
								their respective counties.
						
						
							115. The Constable
							also holds a very old office. The number of constables in each township is equal to
								that of the justices. They are the executive officers of the 1 A tort is a wrong or injury
									inflicted upon a private person, for which the injured party may obtain
									compensation.
								2 A writ of ne exeat is an order for the arrest of a person who is about to
									leave the State without performing a contract. The defendant may be admitted to
									bail.
								 justices' courts, attending trials, preserving order,
								enforcing all legal orders and levying executions. They are conservators of the
								peace and have power to seize and take before the nearest justice all who violate
								the law in their presence, and there charge them with such violation. They have
								power to act throughout their respective counties and may in the pursuit of a
								fugitive from justice arrest him in any county where he may be found. They have the
								same right that the sheriff has to call upon the citizens for aid. It is their duty
								also to enforce the game and fish laws.
						
					
					
						ADDENDUM. The Trial of Cases in the
							Courts.
						A case is a contested question before a court—a suit or an
							action. A trial is a judicial examination of the issue. There are
							two parties to every action; the one making the complaint is known as the plaintiff; the adverse party is the defendant. There are two
							classes of cases. A criminal case is undertaken by the State as
							plaintiff and prosecuted for the punishment of a person charged with a public offense;
							the entire people of the State are the injured party, because the peace and dignity of
							the State have been violated. All other cases are civil cases. There
							are two kinds of public offenses. All crimes and offenses punishable with death or
							imprisonment in the State prison are called felonies; all other
							offenses against the law are called misdemeanors.
						(a) Procedure in Criminal Cases.—Any justice, on complaint
							made on oath charging the commission of any felony or misdemeanor upon any person,
							must issue a warrant for his arrest and cause him to be brought before his court for
							trial or examination. When the accused1 has been arrested by the proper officer he is taken before the justice. If
							the justice has jurisdiction,2
							he proceeds to try and determine the case. Either the accused or the State may demand
							a jury; otherwise the case will be decided by the justice alone. The defendant may
							appeal from the verdict of the court to the criminal court or to the circuit court.
								1 See Art.
									I. Sects. 13-17, 19, 27, 29, 30 for the privileges of persons accused of
								crime.
							2 See § 113.
						
						If the offense is serious, if the punishment which the justice may assess is
							inadequate to it, and if the justice thinks the evidence sufficient, he may hold the
							accused to bail for appearance before the proper court or commit him to jail in
							default of bail.1 But this does
							not determine his guilt or innocence. It is merely a preliminary examination to hold
							one against whom there is suspicion.
						The more serious criminal cases are tried in the criminal courts, or, where such do
							not exist, in the circuit courts. Before the commencement of any term of these courts
							a grand jury is summoned.2 This jury is composed of six men. They must inquire into
							the case of every prisoner in the county jail on a criminal charge and not indicted,
							of every person under bail on a criminal charge and not indicted and into violations
							of the criminal law generally.3
							Jurors having knowledge of crime must disclose it to the jury and they must preserve
							secrecy as to their proceedings. They may compel witnesses to attend and testify. The
							prosecuting attorney appears before the grand jury to give information or advice, or
							to question witnesses; but no officer or person can be present when the jury expresses
							its opinion or votes. If, after hearing the testimony, five of the jurors concur in
							the opinion that the evidence against any person is sufficient to warrant his arrest
							and trial, the formal accusation of the person of the crime or misdemeanor is signed
							by the prosecutor and indorsed by the foreman of the jury as "A true bill." This is
							called an indictment.4 When an indictment is found 1 If he is confined in jail, he or his friends
								may ask for a writ of habeas corpus to test the justice of his
								restraint. This writ may be granted by the circuit, superior or criminal courts, or
								by the judges of these courts in vacation. It is an order commanding the officer
								restraining a person, to have that person before the court or judge at the place and
								time specified. The party must be produced; the judge hears and determines the case
								and, if there is no legal cause for restraint or for the continuation thereof, the
								prisoner is discharged.
							2 See § 101.
							3 They also investigate
								the misconduct of county officers and the management of the public prisons and
								poor-houses of the county.
							4 Public offenses except
								treason and murder may, under some circumstances, be prosecuted upon "an
								information" filed by the prosecuting attorney and based upon the affidavit of some
								reputable person. The General Assembly may modify or abolish entirely the grand jury
								system. See Art. VII. Sect. 17.
							 or an information is filed the clerk of the court issues
							a warrant to the sheriff, whose duty it is to pursue and arrest1 the accused in any county and commit him to
							jail or hold him to bail.2
							After the arrest of the accused, if he requests a copy of the indictment, it must be
							furnished him. When the case comes before the court for trial the defendant may move
							to quash or set aside the indictment. If the court3 overrules the motion, the defendant is then arraigned by
							the reading of the indictment or the information to him by the clerk. He is required
							to enter immediately his plea. If he pleads "guilty," he is sentenced at once; if he
							pleads "not guilty," the trial proceeds. In case he is too poor to employ an attorney
							the court may assign one to defend him. The State is represented by the prosecuting
							attorney. Every criminal action must be tried publicly in the county where the offense
							was committed, unless the defendant can show that he cannot receive a fair trial
							because of bias and prejudice. In that case a change of venue may be granted by the
							court. He has also a right to a trial by an impartial jury of twelve men; but the
							defendant and the prosecutor with the assent of the court may submit the trial to the
							court, unless the crime is a capital offense. In the selection of the jury the
							defendant may, without assigning a cause, object to twenty jurors in prosecutions for
							capital offenses; to ten jurors in prosecutions for offenses punishable by
							imprisonment; and to three jurors in all other prosecutions. The prosecutor has the
							same number of peremptory challenges. Each party may also challenge for cause any
							number of jurors, and the judge must decide whether the cause alleged is a good ground
							for the exclusion of the jurors. After the jury has been empaneled and sworn the
							prosecuting attorney presents the case of the State and offers the evidence to support
							it. The defendant or his counsel then states his defense and supports it with his
							evidence. Each party may then offer rebutting testimony. The usual arguments by the
							attorneys and the charge to the jury follow. The judge must inform the jurors that
							they are the exclusive judges of all questions of fact, and that they have the right
							also to determine the law. The jury 1 An arrest is taking a person into custody,
								that he may be held to answer for a public offense.
							2 The judge fixes the
								amount of bail, which must not be excessive. See Art. I. Sect. 16
								and Art. I. Sect. 17.
							3 The word "court" used
								in this way signifies the judge of the court.
							 may decide the case in court or they may retire to
							deliberate. When they have unanimously agreed upon a verdict, they return and render
							it in open court. If the defendant is guilty, they state the amount of the fine and
							the punishment to be inflicted, and the court renders judgment accordingly. Conviction
							or acquittal is a bar to another indictment for the offense charged or for any lower
							degree of that offense.1 If
							sufficient cause can be shown, the court may grant a new trial—that is, a
							re-examination of the issues in the same court. The parties are in the same position
							as if no trial had been held. In case the jury fail to agree upon a verdict there is a
							mistrial and the same ground must be gone over again. Exceptions to the decisions of
							the judge may be taken and an appeal made to the appellate court or to the supreme
							court within one year.
						(b) Procedure in Civil Cases.—In civil actions there are no
							preliminary examinations, although some cases may be brought originally in the
							justices' courts.2 Civil
							actions are usually commenced by filing a complaint in the office of
							the county clerk. This must contain the name of the court, the names of the parties to
							the action, a statement of the facts constituting the cause of action and a demand of
							the relief to which the plaintiff thinks himself entitled. A summons
							is thereupon issued under the seal of the court directed to the sheriff, giving notice
							to the defendant of the commencement of the suit. The clerk is required also to give
							notice of all civil actions brought against parties who are non-residents or absent
							from the State, by publication in some newspaper. There are two kinds of
							issues—issues of law and issues of fact. The
							former are tried by the court, the latter by the court, by the petit jury or by a
							special jury.3 But a jury trial
							may be waived by the parties in all civil actions. The number of jurors may be any
							number from three to twelve. If the parties cannot agree upon the number, it is
							twelve. The statement of the case and the submission of the evidence, arguments and
							instructions are the same as in criminal cases. The verdict of the jury is either For
							the plaintiff" or "For the defendant." Judgments against the defendant are enforced by
							the execution of writs issued to the sheriff, who must levy if necessary upon his
							property and sell it to pay the judgment. New trials may be granted and appeals taken
							as in criminal cases.
						1 See Art. I.
								Sect. 14.
						2 See § 113.
						3 See Art. I.
								Sect. 20.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER IV. MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT.
					
						116. Municipal Corporations.
						County government is sufficient for the needs of a community which is sparsely
							settled and little developed. As the varied industries unfold and as transportation
							facilities multiply, the population naturally increases and congregates in towns and
							cities. Thence it follows that many new problems arise as to the preservation of
							health, the maintenance of order, the protection from fire, the construction of
							water-works, the improvement and lighting of streets, the opening of parks, and many
							other matters promoting the public convenience. Because the needs of communities
							differ widely on account of diversity in size, location and people, these problems can
							be solved satisfactorily only by the people who are most deeply interested in them. In
							consequence of such conditions the State has created special local governments. Such
							governments are known as municipal corporations. They have more extensive powers than
							those of counties, and, as the cities increase in size, the number and scope of these
							powers increase. While municipal corporations co-operate slightly in the
							administration of general State laws, their chief function is the administration of
							local affairs.
						In general terms the powers possessed by municipal corporations are as follows: 
								"1. Those granted in express words.
								"2. Those necessarily or fairly implied in or incident to the powers expressly
									granted.
								
								"3. Those essential to the declared object and purposes of the
									corporation—not simply convenient but indispensable."
							
						These powers are subject to the constitutional limitation that no political or
							municipal corporation shall ever become indebted in any manner or for any purpose to
							an amount exceeding two per cent. on the value of the taxable property within the
								corporation.1
					
					
						117. Classification of Municipal Corporations.
						In some States municipal corporations are divided according to population into
							hamlets, villages, towns or boroughs, and cities of different classes and grades. In
							Indiana the popular use of the terms "village," "town" and "city" is somewhat vague;
							but the only municipal corporations authorized by law are towns and cities. The
							classification is not so clearly made as in some States. There is no minimum
							population required for towns; and while there is a minimum required for cities, a
							town having a much greater population may or may not become a city, as the majority of
							its voters prefer. The term village is popularly used to designate a community or
							neighborhood where the people are gathered into a small settlement which may or may
							not have a town government. If the majority of the voters of a small community desire
							it, they may be incorporated into a town with a government distinct from the township.
							If the majority of the voters of a town having over 2000 inhabitants desire it, the
							town may be incorporated into a city. Incorporation is made under general State laws
							which define the form of government and the powers enjoyed under it. The Constitution
							requires that all laws shall be general and of uniform application throughout the
							State, where a general law is applicable. In legislation affecting cities, the laws
							have been enacted for cities having over 100,000 1 See Art. XIII. Sect. 1.
							 inhabitants; for cities having between 50,000 and
							100,000 inhabitants; for cities having between 35,000 and 49,000 inhabitants; and for
							cities in general (having a population less than 35,000 inhabitants). Thus the General
							Assembly seems to recognize four classes of cities.1
					
					
						THE TOWN.
						
							118. Incorporation and Organization.
							When the people of a community desire a government of larger powers than those
								possessed under the township organization, they take the proper steps prescribed by
								statute to attain that end. It is first necessary to procure an accurate survey and
								map of the territory to be included within the town limits. A correct census of the
								people residing within the district must also be taken. A petition signed by
								one-third of the qualified voters of the district is then presented to the county
								board of commissioners. If satisfied that the requirements have been complied with,
								they declare that the territory shall be an incorporated town with the consent of
								the voters; and they order an election to determine that point. Although a majority
								of the electors may favor incorporation, the town is not deemed incorporated until
								its officers and board of trustees have been elected and a president chosen.
								Therefore, it is provided that the town shall be divided into not less than three
								nor more than seven districts and that an election shall be held to fill the town
								offices. The officers are one trustee for each district, a clerk, a treasurer2 and a marshal. The inspectors
								must file with the county 1 This is in part an evasion of the Constitution; for in each class,
									except the last mentioned, there is but one city: in the first class Indianapolis;
									in the second, Evansville; in the third, Fort Wayne. Many other laws have been
									passed applicable only to cities having more or less than a certain population
									specified in the law.
								2 The offices of clerk
									and treasurer may be held by the same person.
								 clerk a certified statement of the names of the
								persons elected. A correct plat of the town must also be filed in the office of the
								recorder. When all these steps have been duly taken the community is deemed an
								incorporated town, and a statement of that fact must be filed with the county
								clerk.
						
						
							119. The Trustees
							are elected for a term of two years, one from each district, by the voters of the
								whole town. They are divided into two classes as nearly equal as possible, one class
								retiring each year. They are the most important officers of the town. They have
								power to make and establish such by-laws, ordinances and regulations, not repugnant
								to the laws of the State, as may be necessary to secure the following ends: the
								purchase of property for the use of the town; protection against fire; the abatement
								of nuisances; the preservation of the public health; the prohibition of gambling;
								the maintenance of peace and order; the prevention of vice and immorality; the
								licensing and regulation of auctioneers, peddlers and vendors of intoxicating
								liquors; the construction and improvement of streets, sidewalks and sewers; the
								lighting of streets; and the erection of school-houses. They fix the annual tax
								levy, and may require the marshal to collect the taxes and pay them over to the town
								treasurer or they may authorize the collection to be made by the county treasurer.
								They also elect three school trustees for a term of three years, one retiring
								annually. This school board has charge of the educational affairs of the town.
						
						
							120. The Administrative Officers
							are elected annually. The clerk has charge of the books and papers of the trustees
								and keeps a record of their proceedings. He sees to the publication of the
								ordinances and gives notice of town elections.
							The treasurer has charge of the town funds and accounts. He pays out money only
								upon the warrant of the president of the board attested by the clerk. He is required
								to make  an annual settlement with the trustees, who
								must publish a financial statement.
							The marshal has the powers and duties of a constable in enforcing the by-laws and
								ordinances of the town. There is no judicial department distinct from that of the
								township. Justices of the peace have jurisdiction over violations of the ordinances.
								The salaries of the town officers are fixed by the trustees.
							An incorporated town may be dissolved if a majority of the voters favor its
								dissolution, provided the total vote cast equals two-fifths of the entire number of
								voters.
						
					
					
						THE CITY.
						
							121. The City Government.
							It will occur even to a casual observer that there is a close resemblance between
								the form of the city government and that of the State. The charter1 corresponds to the Constitution; the mayor,
								to the governor; the administrative boards and officials, to the executive officers
								of the State; the city council, to the General Assembly; and the city courts to the
								State judiciary.
							Mr. Bryce has pointed out that the functions of city government are tripartite:
									(a) to assist the central or State government in administration,
								as in enforcing the police laws, collecting taxes, and in the execution of certain
								protective laws; (b) to do those things which properly pertain to
								local matters and which are regulated by local laws, subject to the general laws of
								the State, such as providing for education, caring for the poor and for the public
								health; (c) to perform duties of a purely business nature, such as
								pertain to all kinds of public improvements. The city is, in respect to the first
								and second functions, a political being; and in respect to the third, 1 In this State special
									charters are not granted to cities. The charters of all cities are derived from
									the general statutes.
								 it may be considered a business corporation, in which
								the taxpayers are the stockholders, doing through public agents things which each
								might do for himself with greater cost and trouble.
						
						
							122. The Organization of the City.
							When a town has attained a population of two thousand it may be incorporated into a
								city, if a majority of the voters favor such action.l The city is thereupon divided into wards, the number and
								boundaries of which are determined by the trustees or council; except that the
								number cannot be less than three. The chief difference between smaller cities and
								towns is in the number of officers; their powers are very similar. The larger cities
								differ from the smaller not only in size, but also in the complexity of the
								government. The discussion of this subject must be confined to the general features
								of city governments. The varied details cannot be given here. A copy of a city
								charter should be secured and be made the object of an interesting and profitable
								local study.
						
						
							123. The City2
								Officers
							are a mayor, a clerk, a marshal, two councilmen from each ward, and (if so ordered
								by the council) an auditor and city judge—all elected by the people; a civil
								engineer, a street commissioner, a chief of the fire department, a health officer
								and (if so ordered by the council) a city attorney—all appointed by the common
								council. Each officer serves for a term of four years.
						
						
							124. The Common Council
							is the legislative body of the city. The members are elected, one-half biennially,
								by the voters of their respective wards. The mayor is president of the council, but
								votes only in case of a tie. The general authority of the council is the same as
								that of the 1 The
									charter of any city having less than 7000 inhabitants may be surrendered and the
									municipal corporation extinguished by order of the judge of the circuit court upon
									the petition of two-thirds of the resident taxpayers twenty-one years old.
								2 We refer here to
									cities having less than 35,000 inhabitants.
								 town trustees except that their powers include a
								greater variety of subjects and are more extensively used. They have the management
								and control of the finances and of all property of the city. All ordinances must be
								recorded, signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk. Every by-law imposing a
								penalty for a violation of it, must be published unless there be a great emergency,
								in which case proclamation is sufficient. The common council may by a two-thirds
								vote expel any member of the council or remove any municipal officer; and they fill
								vacancies in the offices of mayor, clerk and councilmen. They elect three school
								trustees for a term of three years, one retiring annually. They fix the salary of
								every city officer, but that of councilman must not exceed $150 annually.
						
						
							125. The Mayor
							is the chief executive officer. It is his duty to see that the statutes of the
								State and the by-laws and ordinances of the common council are faithfully executed
								within the city. He is a conservator of the peace and has the powers and
								jurisdiction of a justice of the peace within the city.1 He has supervision of subordinate officers
								and makes recommendations to the council, and signs all commissions, licenses and
								permits granted by the council.
						
						
							126. The Marshal
							is the chief ministerial officer of the city. He has the powers of a constable and
								is required to arrest persons violating the laws and to suppress all breaches of the
								peace, having authority to call to his aid the power of the city. It is his duty to
								execute all processes directed to him by the mayor, city judge or common council. In
								every city having a board of metropolitan police commissioners2 the office of marshal is abolished.
						
						
							127. The Judicial Department.
							In cities of 5000 or 1
									His jurisdiction for crimes and misdemeanors is co-extensive with the
									county.
								2 See § 72.
								 more inhabitants a city judge may be elected, if the
								council so direct. He has the same jurisdiction in all civil and criminal matters
								that justices of the peace and mayors exercise; and with the circuit court in civil
								cases where the amount in controversy does not exceed $500.1
							The city attorney is the legal adviser of the city officers in relation to their
								official acts and of the common council in matters of law submitted to him. He
								prepares all contracts, ordinances and legal documents required by the council. He
								prosecutes actions brought by the city and defends it in all suits brought against
								it.
						
						
							128. The Duties of the Other Officers
							—the clerk, the treasurer, the auditor, the civil engineer, the street
								commissioner, the chief of the fire department and the health officer—are
								either suggested by the names of the officers or have been sufficiently explained in
								the description of corresponding officers in the county or town.
						
					
					
						THE LARGER CITIES.
						
							129. The Larger Cities2
							differ from the smaller cities as to the form of government, in the concentration
								of greater power and responsibility in the hands of the mayor. It is believed by
								students of municipal problems that under such a system irregularities and
								mismanagement of the business of the city may be more easily prevented and more
								readily traced to a responsible source. The elective offices being few, the
								candidates are more closely scrutinized by the voters, and more competent and more
								scrupulous men are usually chosen.
						
						
							130. The Officers Elected
							by the people are a mayor, a city clerk, a police judge3 and councilmen. The term of each is two
								years.
							1 For exceptions, see Revised Statutes, sect. 3206.
							2 For convenience the
								cities will here be designated by name instead of by the number of inhabitants. See
								§ 117, note 1.
							3 In Evansville the clerk
								is elected by the common council and serves until removed; and the police judge is
								appointed by the mayor. In Fort Wayne there is no police judge, but three
								water-works trustees are elected by the people for a term of two years.
							
							One councilman is elected from each ward1 and the others from the city at large. The powers of the
								council differ materially from those exercised by the common councils of the smaller
								cities. In the large cities council powers are purely legislative; while in cities
								of less than 35,000 inhabitants councils have large administrative and contract
								powers. In the former the contract powers now rest in the executive and
								administrative departments, subject in certain cases to the approval of the common
								council and subject to the council's power to levy taxes and appropriate revenues.
								The council has authority to investigate the departments and to impeach and try all
								officers. It elects its own presiding officer.2 Every ordinance must have the approval of the mayor
								unless it is passed over his veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members
								elected.
							It is the mayor's duty to see to the enforcement of the ordinances; to send to the
								council annually a statement of the financial and general condition of the city,
								with such recommendations as he sees fit to make; to approve or veto ordinances; to
								appoint the heads of all departments,3 who are subject to his power of removal; and to call
								together these chiefs for consultation.4 In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor the
								comptroller is acting-mayor. The annual salary of the office in Indianapolis 1 In Indianapolis, 15 are
									elected from wards and 6 from the city at large. In Evansville, 7 are elected from
									wards and 4 at large. In Fort Wayne they are elected as in the smaller
									cities—two from each ward and none from the city at large.
								2 Except in Fort Wayne,
									where the mayor presides.
								3 Except the heads of
									assessment and collection in Indianapolis and Fort Wayne.
								4 In Fort Wayne he has
									the same judicial power that mayors of smaller cities have.
								 may be from $4000 to $5000; in Evansville it is
								$4000; in Fort Wayne it may be from $2500 to $3000.
						
						
							131. The Departments.
							There are seven1 executive
								departments: finance, law, public works, public safety, assessment and collection,
								public health and charities, and public parks. The head of each department has power
								to prescribe for its government and management rules and regulations not
								inconsistent with any statute or ordinance; and to appoint and remove all its
								subordinates. Before the commencement of each fiscal year, the head of each
								department at a joint meeting of the departments and boards submits an estimate of
								the amount of money needed in his department for the ensuing year. The comptroller
								has power to revise such statements, and he reports to the mayor, who presents the
								report to the council. It fixes the rate of taxation for the ensuing year and makes
								the necessary appropriations; it may reduce but cannot increase the amounts
								recommended.
							
								The head of the department of finance is the city comptroller. He has in
									general the management and direction of the finances and accounts of the city. His
									duties are similar to those of an auditor.2
								The head of the law department is the attorney and counsel of the city. He has
									control of all law business of the city.3
								The department of public works has for its head a board of three members. The
									mayor appoints a city civil engineer, who is subject to the board. This department
									has charge of all public property; controls the opening, repairing, cleaning and
									lighting of streets; prepares a system of drainage and sewerage; and may undertake
									such public enterprises as the construction of water-works,4 gas-works, electric-light works,
									street-car lines, telegraph and telephone lines for the city. No contract for the
									payment of 1 In Fort
										Wayne there are six.
									2 See §§ 62 and
										93.
									3 See § 127.
									4 In Fort Wayne a
										separate board has charge of the water-works.
									 money is valid unless the council has first made
									the appropriation.
								The department of public safety is under the charge of a board of three
									commissioners. They have the care, management and exclusive control of all matters
									relating to the fire and police force, the erection of fire escapes, the
									inspection of buildings, boilers, market places and food sold therein, pounds and
									prisons. They appoint a superintendent of police, a chief of the fire force and
									all other officers necessary for the department.
								The treasurer of the county and the assessor of the township in which the city
									is located are treasurer and assessor of the city and head of the department of
									assessment and collection.1
									The treasurer collects and cares for the city revenues and pays them out upon the
									warrant of the comptroller.
								The department of public health and charities is controlled by a board of
									three commissioners who must be physicians. They have charge of all matters
									relating to the public health and the enforcement of laws in relation thereto,
									including city hospitals, city dispensaries and all other city charities. They
									appoint a city sanitarian,2
									who is the secretary and the executive officer of the board. He has charge of the
									registration of births and deaths and of the sanitary police. The board prepares
									the health ordinances, which must be passed by the council as other
									ordinances.
								The department of public parks3 is under the 1 In Evansville the department is called the department of collection,
										at the head of which is a city treasurer appointed by the mayor. In Fort Wayne
										the treasurer of the county is the head of the department.
									2 In Evansville and
										Fort Wayne a member of the board is appointed sanitarian.
									3 In Fort Wayne there
										is no seventh department. In Evansville the seventh department is that of the
										water-works. It has for its head a board of three trustees appointed by the
										mayor.
									 control of a board of five members, each appointed
									for a term of five years, one retiring annually. The board has control of all
									parks which may be established.
							
						
						
							132. The Judicial Power1
							is vested in a police court, the officers of which are a judge, a clerk and a
								bailiff. The judge is elected by the voters of the city for a term of two years.2 He has exclusive jurisdiction
								of all violations of ordinances; he has also original concurrent jurisdiction with
								the criminal courts in all cases of petit larceny and in other minor offenses. The
								bailiff is one of the police officers designated and assigned to such court by the
								superintendent of police. He has the powers and duties of a constable and executes
								all orders of the court. The prosecuting attorney of the county prosecutes all
								violators of the State laws.
						
						
							133. The Schools
							are managed in each city by a school board, which appoints the superintendent and
								the teachers. The mode of selection of this board is different in each city. In
								Indianapolis eleven commissioners are elected for a term of three years by the
								voters in the several districts. In Evansville three trustees are appointed by the
								mayor, subject to removal by him.3 In Fort Wayne three trustees are elected by the common council as in the
								smaller cities.
							The diversities in the government of these three larger cities are a good
								illustration of the significance of local government.
							1 In Fort Wayne the
								judicial power is vested in the mayor.
							2 In Evansville the judge
								is appointed by the mayor, subject to removal by him.
							3 The mayor may not
								remove more than one member each year except for neglect of duty or
								disability.
						
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER V. PARTY ORGANIZATION AND ELECTIONS.
					
						134. Political Parties.
						In all countries where the individual citizen is free to have and to express opinions
							and is an actual participant in government, there must of necessity be diverse views
							as to the proper policies to be pursued by the State. When a body of voters agree to
							the same political creed and effect an organization to carry out their theories in
							some particular way, they constitute a political party. Party organization of itself
							is not a bad thing. Ideas of government can only be enacted into law through the
							medium of parties. Individuals acting separately can accomplish little. Besides, the
							conduct and administration of the party in power are watched closely by the other
							party to discover, if possible, some act that will give it an advantage. The evils of
							parties appear when corrupt managers attempt to make a party the instrument of private
							gain and advancement, and seek to confuse the voters and to convince them that loyalty
							to party and loyalty to State are identical. But, in fact, these interests are often
							in conflict, and then the true patriot must make the cause of his party subordinate to
							the welfare of his State. When public affairs are administered corruptly it is due in
							part to the negligence and selfish love of ease of the "better class."
						From the very beginning of the National government public questions have not only
							divided men into parties in respect to national affairs, but they have also extended
								 into the politics of the State, the county and even
							of the city and the township—wholly obliterating the natural party lines. It is
							difficult to find a rational answer to the question: "Why should the election of a
							town trustee or a county treasurer depend upon a man's belief in free trade or
							protection; in free silver or a gold standard?" The reply of the party man is, that in
							order to win national elections the party spirit must be kept alive and the party
							machinery must be oiled constantly with local patronage. For this reason national
							politics are thrust into local affairs and party fealty is demanded even in the most
							trivial elections.
					
					
						135. The Organization.
						The success of a party depends very largely upon the excellence of its organization.
							The purposes of party organization are to keep the party united and enthusiastic, to
							bring new members into it, to instruct its adherents on the issues and to select the
							candidates for the offices. This organization consists of three parts: the primary,
							the convention and the committees.
						The term primary is used in two senses. It may signify the assembling of all the
							voters of a party, residing within defined limits, in a mass meeting for the purpose
							of naming the candidates and delegates and of performing other party services. Or it
							may denote an election for the same purposes, at which only members of the party may
							vote. In either case it is practicable only within narrow limits.
						A convention is a meeting of the delegates selected at primaries or mass meetings for
							the purpose of making nominations and selecting delegates to other conventions. Such a
							method is uniformly used to determine nominations for President, for State officers,
							for congressmen, for State senators and representatives, for circuit judges and
							prosecutors and usually for county and city officers. The convention may also adopt a
							platform endorsing the national administration of their party (if in power) and  arraigning the opposite party; it may appoint the
							committees for the district and prescribe certain regulations for the direction of the
							officers and committeemen. The importance of primaries and conventions has been too
							much ignored by the better element. Where one party is greatly in the majority a
							nomination is virtually equal to an election. And where parties are more evenly
							balanced, after the nominations are made the voter often has but a choice of two
							evils. Keener interest and greater activity in primaries and conventions will, in a
							degree at least, prevent the election of corrupt or inefficient officers.
						While primaries and conventions are important in the preliminary stages of the
							campaign, great consequence attaches to the management of the campaign by the
							committees. The former are merely temporary bodies; the latter are permanent and
							frequently are composed year after year of the same men, who become expert in the
							conduct of committee affairs. The members of the national committee are appointed at
							the time of the national convention.1 The State central committee has the general direction of the campaign
							within a State. In Indiana each party has a State central committee, composed of
							thirteen members, one selected by the convention of each congressional district. The
							county central committees—usually one from each township—the township
							committees, the city committees and the ward committees all act under the general
							supervision of the State committee, with a certain degree of independence allowed to
							each. They control the raising and expenditure of funds, the organization of meetings,
							the selection of speakers, the formation of clubs, the preparation of parades, the
							taking of a poll and many other matters, some of which are not proper and
							legitimate.
					
					
						136. Nomination by Petition
						is another method of 1
								The delegation of each State appoints the member from that State.
							 selecting candidates. It is resorted to at times when
							the nominees of the regular parties seem so undesirable that an independent candidate
							has a chance of winning. To secure a nomination in this way a petition containing the
							names of the persons desired to be nominated and of the offices to be filled must be
							presented to the proper officers, signed by a sufficient number of electors.1
					
					
						137. The Ballots.
						The governor of the State and two qualified electors2 appointed by him3 constitute the State board of election commissioners. It
							is their duty to prepare and distribute the ballots and pencils for the election of
							all State officers. The clerk of the circuit court and two electors4 appointed by him constitute the county board
							of election commissioners.5
							They prepare the ballots for the election of all other officers. When nominations are
							made the names of the candidates are certified to the respective boards by the
							officers of the primary or convention or by the petitioners, together with the title
							of the party and the device by which its list of candidates can be designated on the
							ballots. The names of all candidates for State offices are on one ballot of red paper
								1 The number of
								petitioners required for a State office is five hundred; for congressmen, two
								hundred; for county officers, twenty-five; for the officers of a township, ward or
								other division less than a county, twenty.
							2 The student should be
								required to note carefully the qualifications of electors and office-holders as
								prescribed in the Constitution, Art. II.
							3 One from each of the
								two leading parties, nominated by the chairman of the State central committee of
								each party.
							4 One from each of the
								two leading parties, nominated by the chairman of the county central committee of
								each party.
							5 Town and city elections
								at any other time than the general elections are held in conformity with the plan
								here outlined, with the following exceptions: the duties required of the circuit
								clerk are performed by the town or city clerk; those of the county commissioners by
								the town trustees or city council; those of the county sheriff by the town marshal
								or chief of police; those of the county chairman by the town or city
								chairman.
							 arranged in party columns under the proper name and
							device. The names of candidates for township offices are similarly arranged on yellow
							paper; and the names of all other candidates on white paper. Great care is taken to
							guard against frauds in the printing, delivery and distribution of the ballots.
					
					
						138. Election Days.
						In Indiana a general election is held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of
							November in the even-numbered years. On this day are chosen the presidential electors
							(every four years, 1896, 1900, etc.); all State officers (some for two, others for
							four, and others for six years); congressmen; circuit judges (for six years) and
							prosecutors; and all county officers (some for two, others for four years); and all
							township officers (for four years). Town officers are elected annually on the first
							Monday in May. In cities generally the elections are held on the first Tuesday in May
							every four years.1 In the
							larger cities2 officers are
							elected biennially in the odd-numbered years; in Indianapolis on the second Tuesday of
							October; in Evansville on the first Monday of April; in Fort Wayne3 on the first Tuesday in May. All election
							days are holidays throughout the district or municipality in which the election is
							held. The clerk certifies to the sheriff the offices to be filled and the sheriff must
							give due notice to the electors fifteen days before election day.
					
					
						139. Precincts and Voting Places.
						The boards of county commissioners divide the townships of their respective counties
							into election precincts and designate a voting place in each precinct. In cities the
							common council, in towns the trustees exercise this authority. The 1 1894, 1898, etc. Every two years
								one-half of the councilmen are elected to serve four years.
							2 See § 129.
							3 The first election in
								Fort Wayne under this law as amended will be held in 1898, and the officers then
								elected will serve until 1901, from which time the elections will be held
								biennially.
							 county commissioners must provide a suitable room at
							each voting place with a chute or passageway fifty feet long leading to it. That part
							of the room to be occupied by the election board must be separated by means of a
							railing from the remainder of the room. Three booths or compartments containing
							shelves must be provided for each room; these must be so constructed that when the
							elector passes within to mark his ballot he will be screened from view and at the same
							time the presence of more than one person may be revealed to the election board.
							Separate ballot boxes must be provided: a red box for the State ballots, a white box
							for the county ballots and a yellow box for the township ballots.
					
					
						140. Election Officers.
						Besides the boards of election commissioners already mentioned,1 there are other important officers. The
							township trustees are inspectors of elections in the precincts in which they reside.
							If any township includes more than one precinct, the additional inspectors are
							appointed by the county commissioners. The inspectors appoint as judges of election
							two qualified electors2 of the
							precinct. The inspector and the two judges constitute the board of election for the
							precinct. This board appoints two poll clerks.2 The county sheriff appoints two deputies, known as
							election sheriffs,2 for each
							precinct in the county. It is their duty to preserve order at the polls and to enforce
							the provisions of the election law under the direction of the election board. No other
							peace officer is allowed within fifty feet of the polls.3 In all cases except treason, felony and breach of 1 See § 138.
							2 One from each of the
								two leading parties, nominated by the chairman of the county central committee of
								each party.
							3 Each party may appoint
								one challenger and one poll-book holder, who may stand inside the chute within the
								fifty-foot limit. They are not, however, officers of the State and must look to
								their party for compensation.
							 the peace, electors are free from arrest in going to
							and returning from elections.1
					
					
						141. Voting.
						Elections are opened at eight o'clock in the forenoon and continue open until four in
							the afternoon,2 except that in
							cities or towns having a population of 1000 or more the hours are from six in the
							forenoon until six in the afternoon. When a voter has been admitted to the election
							room he announces his name to the poll clerks, who register it. One of the clerks
							delivers to him a ballot for each election with the initials of each clerk on the back
							of it; the other clerk gives him a blue pencil. The voter then retires into one of the
							unoccupied booths and indicates the candidates for whom he wishes to vote by making a
							cross, thus X, on the square preceding each name. If he desires to vote a "straight"
							ticket, he marks a cross within the circle containing the party device at the top of
							the column.3 The ballot must
							contain no mark such as would distinguish it from others. While still in the booth he
							folds the ballots separately so that no part of the faces can be seen and so that the
							initials of the clerks are exposed to view. He then returns the pencil to the poll
							clerk and delivers his ballots to the inspector or to one of the judges, who deposits
							them in the proper boxes in the presence of the voter. If the voter spoils a ballot,
							it may be returned and another obtained. If a voter declares that he is unable to
							prepare his ballot, he may indicate his choice of candidates to the clerks, who
							prepare the ballot in his presence. Voters must engage in no conversation except with
							the election board, must not 1 See Art. II. Sect. 12.
							2 When the proper steps
								are taken the polls may be kept open from 6 A. M. until 6 P. M.
							3 In case an elector
								wishes to vote for any person whose name is not on the ballot, he may prepare a
								printed paster containing a complete list of all officers to be voted for and paste
								it on the ballot.
							 occupy a booth longer than five minutes, and must leave
							the room as soon as they have voted.
					
					
						142. The Canvass.
						Immediately on closing the polls the election board counts the ballots remaining
							unvoted, records the number of them on the tally-sheet and destroys them by burning.
							It proceeds first to count the State ballots, then the local ballots, and lastly the
							township ballots. Any ballot without the initials of the clerks, or any ballot having
							a distinguishing mark or any ballot from which the choice of the elector cannot be
							determined is not counted as to the candidate or candidates affected by it. All
							protested, disputed or defective ballots are preserved, placed in bags securely
							sealed, and delivered to the county clerk,1 and a record of such ballots is made on the tally-sheet.
							After the count is completed all the remaining ballots are burned. The board makes a
							memorandum of the total vote for each candidate and each member receives a copy of it.
							The board of judges also makes out a certificate stating the number of votes each
							person has received: this certificate with one of the lists of voters and one of the
							tally-papers is deposited with the inspector or one of the judges selected by the
							board. These officers who have charge of the certificates constitute a board of
							canvassers for the county.2
							They meet at the court-house between 10 A. M. and 6 P. M. on the Thursday following the election. They examine the certificates
							and other papers, aggregate and tabulate the total vote of the county, a statement of
							which is drawn up giving the vote for each candidate and the whole number of votes
							cast. This statement is signed by each member of the 1 The clerk is required to keep them in his
								office six months, or, in case of a contest, until the contest is determined.
							2 The canvassing board
								for township officers in a township having but one precinct is the election board of
								that precinct; in all other townships the inspectors or judges having charge of the
								certificates constitute the board.
							 board and, together with the poll-books and
							tally-papers, is delivered to the county clerk and by him filed in his office and
							preserved, open to inspection by any legal voter. The board declares the person having
							the highest number of votes for any office to be filled by the voters of any single
							county duly elected and certifies the same in the statement mentioned above. In case
							of a tie vote the board declares there is no person elected for that office. Any
							person elected to an office by the voters of a county not to be commissioned by the
							governor, may obtain after ten days a certificate of election from the clerk. Where
							the governor commissions an officer the clerk certifies his vote to the secretary of
							State. When two or more counties compose a senatorial or representative district the
							county clerks certify the vote to the sheriffs respectively, who meet and jointly
							prepare the certificate and send it to the person elected. The county clerks on the
							day after the return-day (on Friday) make out certified statements of the number of
							votes given to each candidate for State offices; for representatives in Congress; for
							judges and prosecuting attorneys of the circuit courts; and for senators and
							representatives in the General Assembly: these are sent to the secretary of State.
							That officer in the presence of the governor compares and estimates the number of
							votes for all of the State officers (except for governor, lieutenant-governor,
							senators and representatives); for all congressmen; and for all judges and prosecuting
							attorneys of the circuit courts; and certifies to the governor the persons having the
							highest number of votes. The governor, thereupon, transmits to them their commissions.
							Each clerk of the circuit court also makes out two certified statements of the number
							of votes each candidate for governor and lieutenant-governor has received; one of
							these he transmits to the speaker of the next house of representatives through his
							senator or representative; the other he directs to the speaker in care of the
							secretary  of State. The speaker opens and publishes
							them in the presence of both houses and the person having the highest number of votes
							for each office is declared elected. In case of a tie between the two candidates
							having the highest number of votes for either office the General Assembly elects by a
							joint vote.1
					
					
						143. Contested Elections.
						The election of any candidate may be contested by any elector. A contest of the
							election of a State officer is tried by a joint committee of both houses of the
							General Assembly and their judgment is conclusive. Each house determines the contested
							elections of its own members. The county commissioners try the contested elections of
							all county and township officers; but appeals may be had to the circuit court. The
							contests of the election of municipal officers are tried in the circuit courts.
					
					
						144. Purity of Elections.
						Unless here can be an honest expression of the will of the people, free government
							cannot long exist. The State has attempted to protect the purity of the ballot-box by
							declaring all forms of bribery, intimidation and corruption to be most serious crimes,
							punishable in many cases by fines, imprisonment and disfranchisement. But all such
							admirable laws are but empty declarations unless the civic virtue of every community
							is active enough to demand the same standard of honesty in politics that is demanded
							in business life, and to teach the corrupters and debauchers of the electors a
							wholesome fear of a righteously indignant public spirit.
						1 See Art. V.
								Sects. 4 and 5.
					
				
				
				
					CHAPTER VI. PUBLIC EDUCATION.
					
						145. The School System
						is required by the Constitution to be general and uniform and to offer free tuition
							equally open to all. The State has appreciated that the realization of the highest
							possibilities of her children cannot be attained unless she offers to them all the
							fullest opportunities for the best education possible. To that end provision has been
							made for the establishment of elementary or graded schools, comprising the first eight
							years of school work; secondary schools1 offering more advanced instruction for a period of four
							years; a professional school for teachers; and two institutions for higher
								education.2 So that it is
							possible for any child having the industry and mental capacity to enter at the age of
							six the primary school of any town, city or country district, and by winning promotion
							to pass by regular steps through the graded schools, through a commissioned high
							school and finally to graduation from the State University. If a pedagogical or
							technical training is preferred, the State Normal School and Purdue University are
							open to him. The State has not stopped here. It has provided instruction peculiarly
							fitted 1 "There is
								nothing in the law directly providing for such an institution as the high school. It
								has no statutory existence; it is the natural outgrowth of the popular
								demand."
							2 The following schools
								are also authorized by law: kindergarten schools in any incorporated town or city;
								night schools in any city having a population of 3000 or more; and manual training
								schools in any city having a population of 100,000 or more.
							 for those children whose infirmities or misfortunes
							have rendered them incapable of enjoying the privileges accorded to others, by
							establishing the Institute for the Education of the Blind, the School for Deaf Mutes,
							the School for the Feeble-Minded Youth and the Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans'
							School. It has also recognized a duty even to those who have wilfully and criminally
							ignored their opportunities, by founding a Reform School for Boys and a Reformatory
							for Girls, and by providing at public expense instruction for the inmates of the
							Indiana Reformatory and the State prisons for men and women. More and more nearly is
							being realized that ideal school system in which the State endeavors to furnish to all
							its youth of every class and condition that education which is most suitable to their
							needs and which may be most helpful to them in the effort to live self-supporting and
							virtuous lives.
					
					
						146. The School Fund
						is the pride of every citizen of Indiana. The present efficient system by which the
							means for the support of the schools are provided has been generally commended by
							schoolmen. But it is the result of many years of experiment. It is based upon the
							theory that their maintenance should be furnished partly by the State and partly by
							the local communities. Experience has shown that in this case local self-government is
							not the ideal plan; for it leaves the poor, ignorant and indifferent communities alone
							in their poverty and ignorance. Neither is support wholly by the State the ideal
							method, for this makes the people dependent, indifferent and perhaps extravagant.
							Under the present system the aid given by the State secures at least a minimum term to
							the poorer districts and stimulates the local authorities to more earnest effort.
						The school fund is the permanent endowment of the schools. It includes money loaned
							at interest and rented lands. The principal must remain a perpetual fund  which may be increased but must never be diminished; and
							the income thereof must be inviolably appropriated to the support of the common
							schools and to no other purpose.1 It consists of two distinct parts: the congressional township
								fund and the common school fund. The former came from the
							sale of land given to the State at the time of its admission to the Union.2 It has been decided by the
							Indiana supreme court that by the terms of the grant the fund derived from the sale of
							the "school section" cannot be diverted by legislation from the use of the inhabitants
							of the congressional township. This fund amounted in 1896 to $2,503,998.3
						The common school fund is the consolidation of all other funds
							devoted to common school purposes. In 1896 it amounted to $7,714,433. The sources4 from which it has been derived
							are the following: the surplus revenue fund; the saline fund; the bank tax fund; the
							proceeds from the bank sinking fund; the fund obtained from the sale of county
							seminaries and their property; all fines assessed for breaches of the penal laws and
							forfeitures; all escheats; all lands granted to the State without an expressed
							purpose, including the swamp-land grants made by Congress in 1850; funds from
							delinquent taxes; proceeds from the sale of estrays; and taxes on the property of
							corporations assessed for common school purposes.5
						1 See Art.
								VIII. Sect. 3.
						2 See §§ 20 and 36.
						3 This includes the
							estimated value of 1159 acres remaining unsold.
						4 See Art.
								VIII. Sect. 2.
						5
							The Surplus Revenue Fund. When the surplus revenue of the United
								States was distributed among the States in 1836, the share allotted to Indiana was
								$860,254. The next year the General Assembly set aside for school purposes
								$537,502.96 of this fund. By the terms of the act of distribution the State is bound
								to repay this money or any part of it whenever it is called for by the United States
								government.
							The Saline Fund and the lands belonging thereto. By the enabling
								act of 1816 Congress granted to Indiana all the salt springs within the State and
								the lands reserved about them. In 1833 the legislature ordered these lands to be
								sold and the proceeds to be appropriated to the common schools. The amount received
								from this source was about $85,000.
							The Bank-tax Fund. When the State Bank of Indiana was chartered,
								in 1834, it was stipulated that each share not owned by the State should pay an
								annual tax of 12½ cents, to be applied to the school fund. From an observance of
								this provision there accrued to the fund $80,000.
							The Sinking Fund. In order to take stock in the State Bank and to
								make loans to individuals who wished to take stock in the bank, it was necessary for
								the State to borrow money. This loan was to be paid from the proceeds of a sinking
								fund, which consisted of the unapplied balances of the loan made to the State; the
								sums (principal and interest) paid on the loans made by the State to the
								stockholders; and the dividends or profits received by the State as a stockholder.
								It was provided that after the payment of the loan made to the State and all
								expenses the residue should be a permanent fund and be appropriated to the cause of
								common schools. This sinking fund was so skilfully managed that the school fund has
								realized the generous sum of $4,255,731.87.
							The Seminary Fund. Under the provisions of the Constitution of
								1816 county seminaries were established, the support of which came from exemption
								moneys, fines for breaches of the penal laws and "unclaimed gaming money recovered."
								When the reorganization of the school system was effected by the Constitution of
								1851 and the laws of 1852 it was provided that all the buildings and property
								belonging to these seminaries should be sold and the proceeds be added to the common
								school fund. The exact amount received from such sales is not known, but it exceeded
								$100,000.
							Fines and Forfeitures. All fines assessed for breaches of the
								penal laws of the State and all forfeitures on recognizances are turned into this
								fund. Great carelessness or corruption in the collection and management of such
								moneys existed prior to 1868. But since that time the annual increase of the fund
								from this cause has averaged more than $50,000. The total amount realized is about
								$1,600,000.
							Escheats. While nominally a source of revenue, for fifty years
								only $1278 has been added to the fund from money derived from "the sale of escheated
								real estate."
							All lands granted to the State with no special purpose mentioned
								in the grant; and the proceeds of the sale of swamp-lands. The
								swamp-lands granted to Indiana in 1850 by Congress aggregated 1,257,588 acres. But
								from this gift nothing has been realized directly for the school fund. The proceeds
								were recklessly, if not dishonestly, expended in the draining and surveying of the
								lands. It was also the purpose of the legislature that whatever surplus might remain
								after the construction of the Michigan road from the lands donated for that object
								should be applied to the school fund. But all the proceeds were absorbed in the
								building of the road.
							Estrays. After the payment of expenses attendant upon the
								impounding and sale of animals astray or adrift the proceeds from such sales are
								added to the school fund. The receipts from this source have been about $1000.
							Delinquent Tax Funds. When lands are returned delinquent for
								seven years, county treasurers are authorized to sell them and apply the proceeds to
								the common school fund.
							Corporation taxes that may be assessed by the General Assembly
								for school purposes. Whatever money has been received from such a source has gone as
								revenue and not into the endowment fund.
						
						The management of the school fund is intrusted to the counties in the care of the
							county auditors. The money  is loaned by them at the
							rate of six per cent. If for any reason there is a loss of any part of the principal
							or interest, that deficit must be made good by the county and not by the State. No
							part of the revenue derived from this fund can be used for any other purpose than for
							tuition. No buildings or equipment may be purchased with it; not even a school
							superintendent may be paid from it.
					
					
						147. The School Revenues
						consist of all moneys from whatever public source expended or which may be expended
							upon the public schools. They are of two kinds: the State revenue and the local
							revenue. The former is made up of the State tax (11 cents on the $100 and 50 cents
							poll); interest on the common school fund; and unclaimed witness fees. The local
							revenues include the interest on the congressional township fund; liquor licenses; the
							surplus dog-tax fund; and local tuition taxes.
						The State revenue is apportioned semi-annually. The county auditors report
							semi-annually to the superintendent of public instruction the amount of revenue for
							tuition  collected and ready for apportionment in each
							county. The State superintendent apportions this to the several counties upon the
							basis of the enumeration of the school children between the ages of six and twenty.
							Upon the same basis each county auditor apportions to the school corporations1 of his county the share of
							revenue received. However, he must first ascertain the amount of congressional
							township revenue each school corporation receives and must apportion the State
							revenue, so as to equalize the amount of tuition for each city, town and township,
							according to the enumeration of the children; but the income from the congressional
							township fund cannot by such apportionment be diminished, diverted or distributed to
							any other township. Each school corporation may levy a special tax for the
							construction and repair of buildings and for other necessary expenses (except for
							tuition), and a local tax for tuition revenue to supplement the tuition fund of the
								State.2
					
					
						148. The Administration
						of the schools must, from the very nature of the system, be largely central as well
							as local. The centralization of authority has tended to make the interpretation of
							laws consistent; to establish uniformity in the curricula of the graded schools; to
							elevate the standard of the poorer schools; to equalize 1 Each civil township and each incorporated
								town or city is a corporation for school purposes distinct from the civil or
								municipal corporation.
							2
								Summary of school revenue for 1896: 
										
												Tuition revenue—
												State revenue
													$2,143,711.31
												Congressional township revenue
													154,817.02
												Local tuition revenue
													1,635,581.88
												Revenue from liquor licenses
													351,757.12
												County dog fund
													15,545.71
												Total
													$4,301,413.04
											
										
												Special school revenue
													2,275,857.89
												Grand total
													$6,577,270.93
											
									
							 privileges; to avoid unsound policies; to prevent
							mismanagement of the funds and evasion of the laws; and to inspire teachers and pupils
							alike in the thought that each is a component part of a great unified system in which
							more than a half million pupils and teachers are working to the same noble end. The
							officers especially charged on the part of the State with the execution of the system
							are the State superintendent of public instruction and the State board of
								education.1 The local
							administration is assigned to the county superintendent, the county board of
								education,2 the township
							trustees, the school directors, the school trustees and superintendents of towns and
								cities.3
					
					
						149. School Books.
						In 1889 a text-book law was enacted, by which the maximum price of fifteen books was
							determined. The State board of education has entered into contracts with publishers
							for the furnishing of the required books at the stipulated prices. The effects of the
							law have been beneficial in two ways: the cost of books has been reduced about fifty
							per cent. and this reduction has been followed by an increased attendance; and the
							work has been made more nearly uniform,4 and thus the standard of the graded schools has been
							raised. 1 Their duties
								are explained with sufficient detail in §§ 65 and 74, 2.
							2 The county board of
								education is composed of ex officio members—the township
								trustees, the chairmen of the school boards of towns and cities within the county
								and the county superintendent. It has authority to adopt a course of study and to
								make reasonable rules for carrying it out. Its function is chiefly advisory and its
								purpose to secure uniformity in the schools of the county.
							3 For explanation of the
								duties of such officers see §§ 100; 110, 1 and 5; and 113.
							4 The branches taught are
								orthography, reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, English grammar, physiology
								(with the effects of alcoholic drinks and narcotics), history of the United States;
								good behavior; and such other subjects as the advancement of the pupils may require
								and the trustees may direct.
					
					
					
						150. Compulsory Education
						was provided for by an act of. March 8, 1897.1 By the provisions of this law parents and guardians are
							required to send all children between the ages of eight and fourteen to a public or
							private school for at least twelve consecutive weeks in each school year.2 Truant officers are appointed by
							the county and city superintendents with the secretary of the board of State charities
							and a member of the State board of education, whose duty it is to see that the
							provisions of the act are complied with. For violations of this law parents and
							guardians are liable to a fine of from ten to fifty dollars and imprisonment for from
							two to ninety days. The school authorities are required to furnish to indigent
							children the necessary books and clothing with which to attend school. Boards of
							trustees are empowered to maintain "Parental Homes," which truant or incorrigible
							children not over twelve years of age may be compelled to attend.
					
					
						151. The Examination and Training of Teachers
						is of the greatest importance to the efficiency of the schools. Trustees are
							forbidden to employ teachers without the requisite license. There are two kinds of
							licenses: county and State. The former are issued by the county superintendent for the
							term of six months, twelve months, twenty-four months and thirty-six months, according
							to the grade obtained in an examination upon questions furnished by the State board of
							education. The State licenses are granted by the State board upon examination. There
							are two grades of these: the professional license for a term of eight years and the
							life State license. 1 The
								school enumeration for the year 1896 was 734,640. The school enrollment for the year
								1896 was 543,665. The average daily attendance for the year 1896 was 401,702.
							2 Children having
								completed the first eight years' work and children physically or mentally
								incapacitated are exempt from the provisions of the law.
						
						The State has recognized that the character of the schools depends more upon the
							character, scholarship and professional training of the teachers than upon buildings
							and equipment. It has therefore wisely provided for the literary and technical
							instruction of its teachers by establishing institutions of higher learning. The State
							Normal School, located at Terre Haute, includes the normal school proper and the model
							school. The latter serves as a practice and model school for the normal students. The
							normal school proper is designed to "confer that knowledge which constitutes the
							science of education and to train students in the art of instruction and school
							management." A department of pedagogy is a part of the curriculum of Indiana
							University. There are, besides, the following supplementary educational agencies:
							county and township institutes, giving instruction in methods; the reading circles,
							imparting culture and professional knowledge; and the teachers'
							associations—State and local—directing in a large degree school
							legislation and awakening and intensifying the professional spirit.
					
					
						152. The State Universities.
						"It is as essential to the welfare of a State that its leaders be thoroughly educated
							as that its voters have a common-school education. In an important sense, then, the
							colleges are the life of the State."1
						Indiana has answered the demand for higher education by the establishment of the
							Indiana University and Purdue University. The latter institution, located at La
							Fayette, embraces now a government "experiment station" and six special schools
							bearing upon the scientific and industrial life of the State. It derives sustenance
							from three sources: (1) the interest on a permanent endowment obtained from the sale
							of lands donated by the United States, from gifts from Hon. John Purdue and from
							grants by 1 W. A. BELL, in The Schools of Indiana, p. 133.
							 Tippecanoe county; (2) an annual appropriation by
							Congress; and (3) a revenue of one-twentieth of a mill upon every dollar of taxable
							property in Indiana. The school has grown constantly in favor and efficiency.
						Indiana University, located at Bloomington, has made rapid progress in the last dozen
							years. Its income is derived from three sources: (1) rents from unsold lands donated
							by the United States; (2) interest on the permanent endowment, which is in part the
							proceeds of land sales and in part a fund obtained by State taxation; and (3) revenue
							from a tax of one-fifteenth of a mill on the dollar.1 Work of a literary and scientific nature is offered in two
							hundred and twenty-three courses classified into seventeen departments, including the
							school of law. There are more than fifty members of the faculty who have received
							their training at thirty-eight of the leading universities of Europe and America.
							Well-equipped libraries, museums and laboratories give excellent opportunity for
							breadth of culture and special investigation. The university has no preparatory
							department of its own. It draws its students directly from the secondary schools. The
							graduates from one hundred and thirty commissioned high schools are admitted to the
							freshman class without any examination except in English. Since this relation has been
							established, the courses of the high schools have been enlarged, systematized and made
							more nearly uniform, and the attendance of the university has grown from 144 in 1884
							to 944 in 1897. This illustrates well how intimately the interests of all the
							educational institutions are interwoven and how steadily the influence of higher
							education permeates down to the most elementary schools.
					
					
						153. Denominational Institutions and Independent Normals.
						This brief account of the educational forces 1 The legislature has in addition at various times made
								special appropriations to these three institutions.
							
							
								MAXWELL HALL (LIBRARY), INDIANA UNIVERSITY
							
							 would be still more incomplete if it omitted to mention
							the denominational schools and independent normals. The former were founded "to
							provide for the higher Christian education of young men and women" and to propagate
							the gospel by securing a pure and enlightened ministry. The latter were established in
							response to a demand throughout the State for schools in which mature men and women
							could, in a brief period, prepare themselves as teachers in the common schools.
						The work offered by them is in character similar to that done by the corresponding
							State schools. Their numerous graduates, occupying prominent places in the
							professional, political and business life of the commonwealth, attest the valuable
							influences that have gone out from these institutions.
					
				
				
				
					CONSTITUTION
						OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
					
						PREAMBLE.
						To the end that justice be established, public order maintained, and liberty
							perpetuated: We, the people of the State of Indiana, grateful to Almighty God for the
							free exercise of the right to choose our own form of government, do ordain this
							Constitution.
					
					
						ARTICLE I.
							BILL OF RIGHTS.
						
							SECTION 1. Natural
								rights.
							We declare that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator
								with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit
								of happiness; that all power is inherent in the people; and that all free
								governments are, and of right ought to be, founded on their authority, and
								instituted for their peace, safety, and well being. For the advancement of these
								ends, the people have at all times an indefeasible right to alter and reform their
								government.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Right to
								worship.
							All men shall be secured in their natural right to worship Almighty God according
								to the dictates of their own consciences.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Freedom of
								opinion.
							No law shall, in any case whatever, control the free exercise and enjoyment of
								religious opinions, or interfere with the rights of conscience.
						
						
							SEC. 4. No preference to any
									creed.
							No preference shall be given, by law, to any creed, religious society or mode of
								worship; and no man shall be compelled to attend, erect or support any place of
								worship, or to maintain any ministry against his consent.
						
						
						
							SEC. 5. No religious
								test.
							No religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office of trust or
								profit.
						
						
							SEC. 6. No support for religious
									institutions.
							No money shall be drawn from the treasury for the benefit of any religious or
								theological institution.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Competency of
								witness.
							No person shall be rendered incompetent as a witness, in consequence of his opinion
								on matters of religion.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Administration of
								oaths.
							The mode of administering an oath or affirmation shall be such as may be most
								consistent with, and binding upon, the conscience of the person to whom such oath or
								affirmation may be administered.
						
						
							SEC. 9. Free speech and
								writing.
							No law shall be passed restraining the free interchange of thought and opinion, or
								restricting the right to speak, write, or print, freely, on any subject whatever;
								but for the abuse of that right every person shall be responsible.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Justification in
								libel.
							In all prosecutions for libel, the truth of the matters alleged to be libelous may
								be given in justification.
						
						
							SEC. 11. Unreasonable search and
									seizure.
							The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects,
								against unreasonable search or seizure shall not be violated, and no warrant shall
								issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly
								describing the place to be searched, and the person or thing to be seized.
						
						
							SEC. 12. Justice without
									purchase.
							All courts shall be open; and every man, for injury done to him, in his person,
								property or reputation, shall have remedy by due course of law. Justice shall be
								administered freely and without purchase; completely, and without denial; speedily,
								and without delay.
						
						
							SEC. 13. Rights of
								accused.
							In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the right to a public trial, by
								an impartial jury in the county in which the offense shall have been committed; to
								be heard by himself and counsel; to demand the nature and cause of the accusation
								against him, and to have a copy thereof; to meet the witnesses face to face, and to
								have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor.
						
						
							SEC. 14. No person twice in
									jeopardy.
							No person shall be put in jeopardy twice for the same offense. No person, in any
								criminal prosecution, shall be compelled to testify against himself.
						
						
						
							SEC. 15. No unnecessary
								rigor.
							No person arrested, or confined in jail, shall be treated with unnecessary
								rigor.
						
						
							SEC. 16. No excessive bail and
									punishment.
							Excessive bail shall not be required. Excessive fines shall not be imposed. Cruel
								and unusual punishment shall not be inflicted. All penalties shall be proportioned
								to the nature of the offense.
						
						
							SEC. 17. Offenses
								bailable.
							Offenses, other than murder or treason, shall be bailable by sufficient sureties.
								Murder or treason shall not be bailable when the proof is evident, or the
								presumption strong.
						
						
							SEC. 18. Reformation the basis of
									penal code.
							The penal code shall be founded on the principles of reformation, and not of
								vindictive justice.
						
						
							SEC. 19. Jury in criminal
									cases.
							In all criminal cases whatever, the jury shall have the right to determine the law
								and the facts.
						
						
							SEC. 20. Jury in civil
								cases.
							In all civil cases the right of trial by jury shall remain inviolate.
						
						
							SEC. 21. Compensation for services
									and property.
							No man's particular services shall be demanded without just compensation. No man's
								property shall be taken by law without just compensation; nor, except in case of the
								State, without such compensation first assessed and tendered.
						
						
							SEC. 22. Exemption: no imprisonment
									for debt.
							The privilege of the debtor to enjoy the necessary comforts of life, shall be
								recognized by wholesome laws, exempting a reasonable amount of property from seizure
								or sale for the payment of any debt or liability hereafter contracted; and there
								shall be no imprisonment for debt, except in case of fraud.
						
						
							SEC. 23. Equal privileges to
									all.
							The General Assembly shall not grant to any citizen, or class of citizens,
								privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms, shall not equally belong to all
								citizens.
						
						
							SEC. 24. No ex post facto
								law.
							No ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of
								contract, shall ever be passed.
						
						
							SEC. 25. No delegation of
									authority.
							No law shall be passed, the taking effect of which shall be made to depend upon any
								authority, except as provided in this Constitution.
						
						
							SEC. 26. Suspension of
								laws.
							The operation of the laws shall never be suspended except by the authority of the
								General Assembly.
						
						
						
							SEC. 27. Suspension of habeas
									corpus.
							The privileges of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be
								suspended, except in case of rebellion or invasion, and then only if the public
								safety demand it.
						
						
							SEC. 28. Treason.
							Treason against the State shall consist only in levying war against it, and giving
								aid and comfort to its enemies.
						
						
							SEC. 29. Conviction of
								treason.
							No person shall be convicted of treason, except on the testimony of two witnesses
								to the same overt act, or upon his confession in open court.
						
						
							SEC. 30. Effect of
								conviction.
							No conviction shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture of estate.
						
						
							SEC. 31. Right to assemble, to
									instruct and to petition.
							No law shall restrain any of the inhabitants of the State from assembling together,
								in a peaceable manner, to consult for their common good; nor from instructing their
								representatives; nor from applying to the General Assembly for redress of
								grievances.
						
						
							SEC. 32. Right to bear
								arms.
							The people shall have a right to bear arms for the defense of themselves and the
								State.
						
						
							SEC. 33. Military subordinate to
									civil power.
							The military shall be kept in strict subordination to the civil power.
						
						
							SEC. 34. Quartering of
									soldiers.
							No soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house without the consent
								of the owner; nor in time of war but in a manner to be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 35. No titles of
								nobility.
							The General Assembly shall not grant any title of nobility, nor confer hereditary
								distinctions.
						
						
							SEC. 36. Free
								emigration.
							Emigration from the State shall not be prohibited.
						
						
							SEC. 37. No slavery.
							There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, within the State,
								otherwise than for the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly
								convicted. No indenture of any negro or mulatto, made or executed out of the bounds
								of the State, shall be valid within the State.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE II.
							SUFFRAGE AND ELECTION.
						
							SECTION 1. Elections
								free.
							All elections shall be free and equal.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Qualifications of
									electors.
							In all elections not  otherwise provided for by this
								Constitution, every male citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one
								years and upwards, who shall have resided in the State during the six months, and in
								the township sixty days, and in the ward or precinct thirty days immediately
								preceding such election; and every male of foreign birth, of the age of twenty-one
								years and upwards, who shall have resided in the United States one year, and shall
								have resided in this State during the six months, and in the township sixty days,
								and in the ward or precinct thirty days, immediately preceding such election, and
								shall have declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States,
								conformably to the laws of the United States on the subject of naturalization, shall
								be entitled to vote in the township or precinct where he may reside, if he shall
								have been duly registered according to law. [As amended March 24,
									1881.]
						
						
							SEC. 3. Soldiers: seamen:
									marines.
							No soldier, seaman or marine, in the army or navy of the United States, or their
								allies, shall be deemed to have acquired a residence in this State in consequence of
								having been stationed within the same; nor shall any such soldier, seaman or marine,
								have the right to vote.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Residence.
							No person shall be deemed to have lost his residence in the State by reason of his
								absence either on business of the State or of the United States.
						
						
							SEC. 5.
							[Stricken out by constitutional amendment of March 24, 1881.]
						
						
							SEC. 6. Bribery a disqualification
									for office.
							Every person shall be disqualified from holding office during the term for which he
								may have been elected, who shall have given or offered a bribe, threat, or reward to
								procure his election.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Challenge to
								duel.
							Every person who shall give or accept a challenge to fight a duel, or who shall
								knowingly carry to another person such challenge, or who shall agree to go out of
								the State to fight a duel, shall be ineligible to any office of trust or profit.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Disfranchisement.
							The General Assembly shall have power to deprive of the right of suffrage, and to
								render ineligible any person convicted of an infamous crime.
						
						
							SEC. 9. Lucrative
								offices.
							No person holding a lucrative office or appointment, under the United States, or
								under this State, shall be eligible to a seat in the General Assembly; nor shall any
								person  hold more than one lucrative office at the
								same time, except as in this Constitution expressly permitted: Provided, That offices in the militia, to which there is attached no annual
								salary, and the office of Deputy Postmaster, where the compensation does not exceed
								ninety dollars per annum, shall not be deemed lucrative; And provided,
									also, That counties containing less than one thousand polls may confer the
								office of Clerk, Recorder and Auditor, or any two of said offices, upon the same
								person.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Defaulters
								ineligible.
							No person who may hereafter be a collector or holder of public moneys, shall be
								eligible to any office of trust or profit until he shall have accounted for and paid
								over, according to law, all sums for which he may be liable.
						
						
							SEC. 11. Appointments pro
									tempore.
							In all cases in which it is provided that an office shall not be filled by the same
								person more than a certain number of years continuously, an appointment pro tempore shall not be reckoned a part of that term.
						
						
							SEC. 12. Electors free from
									arrest.
							In all cases, except treason, felony and breach of the peace, electors shall be
								free from arrest in going to elections, during their attendance there, and in
								returning from the same.
						
						
							SEC. 13. Methods of
								election.
							All elections by the people shall be by ballot; and all elections by the General
								Assembly, or by either branch thereof, shall be viva voce.
						
						
							SEC. 14. Time of
								elections.
							All general elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
								November; but township elections may be held at such time as may be provided by law:
									Provided, That the General Assembly may provide by law for the
								election of all judges of courts of general or appellate jurisdiction, by an
								election to be held for such officers only, at which time no other officer shall be
								voted for; and shall also provide for the registration of all persons entitled to
								vote. [As amended March 24, 1881.]
						
					
					
						ARTICLE III.
							DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS.
						
							SECTION 1. Three
								departments.
							The powers of the Government are divided into three separate departments: the
								Legislative, the Executive (including the Administrative), and the Judicial; and no
								person charged with official duties under one of these  departments shall exercise any of the functions of another except as in this
								Constitution expressly provided.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE IV.
							LEGISLATIVE.
						
							SECTION 1. The General Assembly:
									laws.
							The Legislative authority of the State shall be vested in a General Assembly, which
								shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. The style of every law shall
								be: "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana"; and no law
								shall be enacted except by bill.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Number and election of
									members.
							The Senate shall not exceed fifty, nor the House of Representatives one hundred
								members; and they shall be chosen by the electors of the respective counties or
								districts into which the State may, from time to time, be divided.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Terms of office: classes of
									senators.
							Senators shall be elected for the term of four years, and Representatives for the
								term of two years, from the day next after their general election: Provided, however, That the Senators elect, at the second meeting of the
								General Assembly under this Constitution, shall be divided, by lot, into two equal
								classes, as nearly as may be; and the seats of Senators of the first class shall be
								vacated at the expiration of two years, and those of the second class at the
								expiration of four years; so that one-half, as nearly as possible, shall be chosen
								biennially forever thereafter. And in case of increase in the number of Senators,
								they shall be so annexed by lot, to the one or the other of the two classes, as to
								keep them as nearly equal as practicable.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Enumeration.
							The General Assembly shall, at its second session after the adoption of this
								Constitution, and every sixth year thereafter, cause an enumeration to be made of
								all the male inhabitants over the age of twenty-one years. [As amended
									March 24, 1881.]
						
						
							SEC. 5. Apportionment.
							The number of Senators and Representatives shall, at the session next following
								each period of making such enumeration, be fixed by law, and apportioned among the
								several counties, according to the number of male inhabitants, above twenty-one
								years of age, in each: Provided, That the first and second
								elections of members of the General  Assembly, under
								this Constitution, shall be according to the apportionment last made by the General
								Assembly before the adoption of this Constitution. [As amended March
									24, 1881.]
						
						
							SEC. 6. Districts.
							A Senatorial or Representative district, where more than one county shall
								constitute a district, shall be composed of contiguous counties; and no county, for
								Senatorial apportionment, shall ever be divided.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Qualifications.
							No person shall be a Senator or a Representative, who, at the time of his election,
								is not a citizen of the United States; nor any one who has not been, for two years
								next preceding his election, an inhabitant of this State, and for one year next
								preceding his election, an inhabitant of the county or district whence he may be
								chosen. Senators shall be at least twenty-five, and Representatives at least
								twenty-one years of age.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Privileges.
							Senators and Representatives, in all cases except treason, felony, and breach of
								the peace, shall be privileged from arrest during the session of the General
								Assembly, and in going to and returning from the same; and shall not be subject to
								any civil process during the session of the General Assembly, nor during the fifteen
								days next before the commencement thereof. For any speech or debate in either House,
								a member shall not be questioned in any other place.
						
						
							SEC. 9. Sessions.
							The sessions of the General Assembly shall be held biennially, at the capital of
								the State, commencing on the Thursday next after the first Monday of January, in the
								year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three, and on the same day of every second
								year thereafter, unless a different day or place shall have been appointed by law.
								But if, in the opinion of the Governor, the public welfare shall require it, he may,
								at any time, by proclamation, call a special session.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Officers:
								adjournment.
							Each House, when assembled, shall choose its own officers (the President of the
								Senate excepted), judge the elections, qualifications and returns of its own
								members, determine its rules of proceeding, and sit upon its own adjournment. But
								neither House shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three
								days, nor to any place other than that in which it may be sitting.
						
						
							SEC. 11. Quorum.
							Two-thirds of each House shall constitute a quorum to do business; but a smaller
								number may meet, adjourn  from day to day, and compel
								the attendance of absent members. A quorum being in attendance, if either House fail
								to effect an organization within the first five days thereafter, the members of the
								House so failing shall be entitled to no compensation from the end of the said five
								days, until an organization shall have been effected.
						
						
							SEC. 12. Journal.
							Each House shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and publish the same. The yeas
								and nays, on any question, shall at the request of any two members, be entered,
								together with the names of the members demanding the same, on the journal: Provided, That on a motion to adjourn, it shall require one-tenth of
								the members present to order the yeas and nays.
						
						
							SEC. 13. Sessions open.
							The doors of each House, and of Committees of the Whole, shall be kept open, except
								in such cases as, in the opinion of either House, may require secrecy.
						
						
							SEC. 14. Punishment of
								members.
							Either House may punish its members for disorderly behavior, and may, with the
								concurrence of two-thirds, expel a member; but not a second time for the same
								cause.
						
						
							SEC. 15. Punishment for
									contempt.
							Either House, during its session, may punish, by imprisonment, any person not a
								member, who shall have been guilty of disrespect to the House, by disorderly or
								contemptuous behavior in its presence; but such imprisonment shall not, at any time,
								exceed twenty-four hours.
						
						
							SEC. 16. Powers of each
								House.
							Each House shall have all powers necessary for a branch of the legislative
								department of a free and independent State.
						
						
							SEC. 17. Bills.
							Bills may originate in either House, but may be amended or rejected in the other,
								except that bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of
								Representatives.
						
						
							SEC. 18. Reading and
								vote.
							Every bill shall be read by sections, on three several days in each House; unless,
								in case of emergency, two-thirds of the House where such bill may be depending
								shall, by a vote of yeas and nays, deem it expedient to dispense with this rule; but
								the reading of a bill by sections, on its final passage, shall in no case be
								dispensed with; and the vote on the passage of every bill or joint resolution shall
								be taken by yeas and nays.
						
						
							SEC. 19. Subject matter and
									title.
							Every act shall embrace but one subject, and matters properly connected therewith;
								which  subject shall be expressed in the title. But if
								any subject shall be embraced in an act, which shall not be expressed in the title,
								such act shall be void only as to so much thereof as shall not be expressed in the
								title.
						
						
							SEC. 20. Wording.
							Every act and joint resolution shall be plainly worded, avoiding, as far as
								practicable, the use of technical terms.
						
						
							SEC. 21. Revision of
								acts.
							No act shall ever be revised or amended by mere reference to its title; but the act
								revised, or section amended, shall be set forth and published at full length.
						
						
							SEC. 22. Special
								legislation.
							The General Assembly shall not pass local or special laws in any of the following
								enumerated cases, that is to say: 
									Regulating the jurisdiction and duties of justices of the peace and of
										constables;
									For the punishment of crimes and misdemeanors;
									Regulating the practice in courts of justice;
									Providing for changing the venue in civil and criminal cases;
									Granting divorces;
									Changing the names of persons;
									For laying out, opening and working on, highways, and for the election or
										appointment of supervisors;
									Vacating roads, town plats, streets, alleys and public squares;
									Summoning and impaneling grand and petit juries, and providing for their
										compensation;
									Regulating county and township business;
									Regulating the election of county and township officers, and their
										compensation;
									For the assessment and collection of taxes for State, county, township or
										road purposes;
									Providing for supporting common schools, and for the preservation of school
										funds;
									In relation to fees or salaries; except that the laws may be so made as to
										grade the compensation of officers in proportion to the population and the
										necessary services required; [As amended March 24,
										1881].
									In relation to interest on money;
									Providing for opening and conducting elections of State, county or township
										officers, and designating the places of voting;
									
									Providing for the sale of real estate belonging to minors, or other persons
										laboring under legal disabilities, by executors, administrators, guardians or
										trustees.
								
						
						
							SEC. 23. Laws shall be
								general.
							In all the cases enumerated in the preceding section, and in all other cases where
								a general law can be made applicable, all laws shall be general and of uniform
								operation throughout the State.
						
						
							SEC. 24. Suits against the
									State.
							Provisions may be made by general law, for bringing suits against the State, as to
								all liabilities originating after the adoption of this Constitution; but no special
								act authorizing such suit to be brought, or making compensation to any person
								claiming damages against the State, shall ever be passed.
						
						
							SEC. 25. Passage of
								bills.
							A majority of all the members elected to each House shall be necessary to pass
								every bill or joint resolution; and all bills and joint resolutions so passed shall
								be signed by the presiding officers of the respective houses.
						
						
							SEC. 26. Right of
								protest.
							Any member of either House shall have the right to protest, and to have his
								protest, with his reasons for dissent, entered on the journal.
						
						
							SEC. 27. Statutes public
								laws.
							Every statute shall be a public law, unless otherwise declared in the statute
								itself.
						
						
							SEC. 28. Taking effect of
								laws.
							No act shall take effect until the same shall have been published and circulated in
								the several counties of this State, by authority, except in case of emergency; which
								emergency shall be declared in the preamble or in the body of the law.
						
						
							SEC. 29. Compensation.
							The members of the General Assembly shall receive for their services a
								compensation, to be fixed by law; but no increase of compensation shall take effect
								during the session at which such increase may be made. No session of the General
								Assembly, except the first under this Constitution, shall extend beyond the term of
								sixty-one days, nor any special session beyond the term of forty days.
						
						
							SEC. 30. Ineligibility to certain
									offices.
							No Senator or Representative shall, during the term for which he may have been
								elected, be eligible to any office, the election to which is vested in the General
								Assembly, nor shall he be appointed to any civil office of profit, which shall have
								been created, or the emoluments of which shall have been increased, during such
								term; but this  latter provision shall not be
								construed to apply to any office elective by the people.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE V.
							EXECUTIVE.
						
							SECTION 1. Governor.
							The executive powers of the State shall be vested in a Governor. He shall hold his
								office during four years, and shall not be eligible more than four years in any
								period of eight years.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Lieutenant
								Governor.
							There shall be a Lieutenant Governor, who shall hold his office during four
								years.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Election.
							The Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be elected at the times and places of
								choosing members of the General Assembly.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Method of
								voting.
							In voting for Governor and Lieutenant Governor the electors shall designate for
								whom they vote as Governor, and for whom as Lieutenant Governor. The returns of
								every election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be sealed up and
								transmitted to the seat of government, directed to the Speaker of the House of
								Representatives, who shall open and publish them in the presence of both Houses of
								the General Assembly.
						
						
							SEC. 5. Election by General
									Assembly.
							The persons, respectively, having the highest number of votes for Governor and
								Lieutenant Governor, shall be elected; but in case two or more persons shall have an
								equal and the highest number of votes for either office, the General Assembly shall,
								by joint vote, forthwith proceed to elect one of the said persons Governor or
								Lieutenant Governor, as the case may be.
						
						
							SEC. 6. Contested
								election.
							Contested elections for Governor or Lieutenant Governor shall be determined by the
								General Assembly, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Qualifications.
							No person shall be eligible to the office of Governor or Lieutenant Governor, who
								shall not have been five years a citizen of the United States, and also a resident
								of the State of Indiana during the five years next preceding his election; nor shall
								any person be eligible to either of the said offices who shall not have attained the
								age of thirty years.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Officers
								ineligible.
							No member of Congress, or  person holding any office
								under the United States, or under this State, shall fill the office of Governor or
								Lieutenant Governor.
						
						
							SEC. 9. Term.
							The official term of the Governor or Lieutenant Governor shall commence on the
								second Monday of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three;
								and on the same day every fourth year thereafter.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Vacancies.
							In case of the removal of the Governor from office, or of his death, resignation or
								inability to discharge the duties of the office, the same shall devolve on the
								Lieutenant Governor; and the General Assembly shall, by law, provide for the case of
								removal from office, death, resignation, or inability, both of the Governor and
								Lieutenant Governor, declaring what officer then shall act as Governor; and such
								officer shall act accordingly until the disability be removed or a Governor be
								elected.
						
						
							SEC. 11. President of Senate pro
									tem.
							Whenever the Lieutenant Governor shall act as Governor, or shall be unable to
								attend as President of the Senate, the Senate shall elect one of its own members as
								President for the occasion.
						
						
							SEC. 12. Commander-in-chief.
							The Governor shall be commander-in-chief of the military and naval forces, and may
								call out such forces to execute the laws, or to suppress insurrection, or to repel
								invasion.
						
						
							SEC. 13. Messages.
							He shall, from time to time, give to the General Assembly information touching the
								condition of the State, and recommend such measures as he shall judge to be
								expedient.
						
						
							SEC. 14. Bills signed or
									vetoed.
							Every bill which shall have passed the General Assembly shall be presented to the
								Governor; if he approve, he shall sign it, but if not, he shall return it, with his
								objections, to the House in which it shall have originated, which House shall enter
								the objections at large upon its journals, and proceed to reconsider the bill. If,
								after such reconsideration, a majority of all the members elected to that House
								shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, with the Governor's objections, to
								the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by a
								majority of all the members elected to that House, it shall be a law. If any bill
								shall not be returned by the Governor within three days, Sundays excepted, after it
								shall have been presented to him, it shall be a law without his signature, unless
								the general adjournment shall prevent its return, in which  case it shall be a law, unless the Governor, within five days next after
								such adjournment, shall file such bill, with his objections thereto, in the office
								of the Secretary of State, who shall lay the same before the General Assembly at its
								next session in like manner as if it had been returned by the Governor. But no bill
								shall be presented to the Governor within two days next previous to the final
								adjournment of the General Assembly.
						
						
							SEC. 15. Information from
									officers.
							The Governor shall transact all necessary business with the officers of Government,
								and may require any information in writing from the officers of the administrative
								department, upon any subject relating to the duties of their respective offices.
						
						
							SEC. 16. Execution of
								laws.
							He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.
						
						
							SEC. 17. Pardons.
							He shall have the power to grant reprieves, commutations and pardons, after
								conviction, for all offenses except treason and cases of impeachment, subject to
								such regulations as may be provided by law. Upon conviction for treason, he shall
								have power to suspend the execution of the sentence until the case shall be reported
								to the General Assembly at its next meeting, when the General Assembly shall either
								grant a pardon, commute the sentence, direct the execution of the sentence, or grant
								a further reprieve. He shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, under such
								regulations as may be prescribed by law, and shall report to the General Assembly at
								its next meeting, each case of reprieve, commutation or pardon granted, and also the
								names of all persons in whose favor remission of fines and forfeitures shall have
								been made, and the several amounts remitted: Provided, however,
								That the General Assembly may, by law, constitute a council, to be composed of
								officers of State, without whose advice and consent the Governor shall not have
								power to grant pardons, in any case, except such as may, by law, be left to his sole
								power.
						
						
							SEC. 18. Appointment to
									vacancies.
							When, during a recess of the General Assembly, a vacancy shall happen in any
								office, the appointment to which is vested in the General Assembly, or when, at any
								time, a vacancy shall have occurred in any other State office, or in the office of
								Judge of any court, the Governor shall fill such vacancy by appointment, which shall
								expire when a successor shall have been elected and qualified.
						
						
						
							SEC. 19. Vacancies in the
									Assembly.
							He shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies as may have occurred in the
								General Assembly.
						
						
							SEC. 20. Change of place of
									meeting.
							Should the seat of Government become dangerous from disease or a common enemy, he
								may convene the General Assembly at any other place.
						
						
							SEC. 21. Duties and rights of
									Lieutenant Governor.
							The Lieutenant Governor shall, by virtue of his office, be President of the Senate;
								have a right, when in Committee of the Whole, to join in debate, and to vote on all
								subjects, and, whenever the Senate shall be equally divided, he shall give the
								casting vote.
						
						
							SEC. 22. Compensation of
									Governor.
							The Governor shall, at stated times, receive for his services a compensation which
								shall neither be increased nor diminished during the term for which he shall have
								been elected.
						
						
							SEC. 23. Compensation of Lieutenant
									Governor.
							The Lieutenant Governor, while he shall act as President of the Senate, shall
								receive for his services the same compensation as the Speaker of the House of
								Representatives; and any person acting as Governor shall receive the compensation
								attached to the office of Governor.
						
						
							SEC. 24. Ineligibility.
							Neither the Governor nor Lieutenant Governor shall be eligible to any other office
								during the term for which he shall have been elected.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE VI.
							ADMINISTRATIVE.
						
							SECTION 1. Secretary, Auditor and
									Treasurer of State.
							There shall be elected by the voters of the State, a Secretary, an Auditor, and a
								Treasurer of State, who shall severally hold their offices for two years. They shall
								perform such duties as may be enjoined by law; and no person shall be eligible to
								either of said offices more than four years in any period of six years.
						
						
							SEC. 2. County officers:
								terms.
							There shall be elected in each county, by the voters thereof, at the time of
								holding general elections, a Clerk of the Circuit Court, Auditor, Recorder,
								Treasurer, Sheriff, Coroner, and Surveyor. The Clerk, Auditor and Recorder shall
								continue in office four years; and no person shall  be
								eligible to the office of Clerk, Recorder or Auditor more than eight years in any
								period of twelve years. The Treasurer, Sheriff, Coroner, and Surveyor, shall
								continue in office two years; and no person shall be eligible to the office of
								Treasurer or Sheriff more than four years in any period of six years.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Other officers.
							Such other county and township officers as may be necessary, shall be elected or
								appointed, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Qualifications.
							No person shall be elected or appointed as a county officer, who shall not be an
								elector of the county; nor any one who shall not have been an inhabitant thereof
								during one year next preceding his appointment, if the county shall have been so
								long organized; but if the county shall not have been so long organized, then within
								the limits of the county or counties out of which the same shall have been
								taken.
						
						
							SEC. 5. Residence of State
									officers.
							The Governor, and the Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of State, shall, severally,
								reside and keep the public records, books and papers, in any manner relating to the
								respective offices, at the seat of government.
						
						
							SEC. 6. Residence of other
									officers.
							All county, township, and town officers shall reside within their respective
								counties, townships, and towns, and shall keep their respective offices at such
								places therein, and perform such duties as may be directed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Impeachment of State
									officers.
							All State officers shall, for crime, incapacity, or negligence, be liable to be
								removed from office, either by impeachment by the House of Representatives, to be
								tried by the Senate, or by a joint resolution of the General Assembly; two-thirds of
								the members elected to each branch voting, in either case, therefor.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Impeachment of other
									officers.
							All State, county, township, and town officers may be impeached, or removed from
								office, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 9. Vacancies.
							Vacancies in county, township, and town offices shall be filled in such manner as
								may be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Powers of county
									boards.
							The General Assembly may confer upon the Boards doing county business in the
								several counties, powers of a local administrative character.
						
					
					
					
						ARTICLE VII.
							JUDICIAL.
						
							SECTION 1. Judicial
								power.
							The Judicial power of the State shall be vested in a Supreme Court, in Circuit
								Courts, and in such other courts as the General Assembly may establish. [As amended March 24, 1881.]
						
						
							SEC. 2. Supreme Court.
							The Supreme Court shall consist of not less than three, nor more than five Judges;
								a majority of whom shall form a quorum. They shall hold their offices for six years,
								if they so long behave well.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Judicial
								districts.
							The State shall be divided into as many districts as there are Judges of the
								Supreme Court, and such districts shall be formed of contiguous territory, as nearly
								equal in population as, without dividing a county, the same can be made. One of said
								Judges shall be elected from each district, and reside therein; but said Judge shall
								be elected by the electors of the State at large.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Jurisdiction of Supreme
									Court.
							The Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction, co-extensive with the limits of the
								State, in appeals and writs of error, under such regulations and restrictions as may
								be prescribed by law. It shall also have such original jurisdiction as the General
								Assembly may confer.
						
						
							SEC. 5. Written
								decisions.
							The Supreme Court shall, upon the decision of every case, give a statement in
								writing of each question arising in the record of such case, and the decision of the
								Court thereon.
						
						
							SEC. 6. Reports.
							The General Assembly shall provide by law, for the speedy publication of the
								decisions of the Supreme Court, made under this Constitution, but no judge shall be
								allowed to report such decision.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Clerk.
							There shall be elected by the voters of the State, a Clerk of the Supreme Court,
								who shall hold his office four years, and whose duties shall be prescribed by
								law.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Circuit Courts.
							The Circuit Courts shall each consist of one judge, and shall have such civil and
								criminal jurisdiction as may be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 9. Circuit judges.
							The State shall, from time to time, be divided into judicial circuits, and a judge
								for each circuit shall be elected by the voters thereof. He shall reside within the
									 circuit, and shall hold his office for the term of
								six years, if he so long behave well.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Special judges.
							The General Assembly may provide, by law, that the judge of one circuit may hold
								the courts of another circuit, in cases of necessity or convenience; and in case of
								temporary inability of any judge, from sickness or other cause, to hold the courts
								in his circuit, provision may be made, by law, for holding such courts.
						
						
							SEC. 11. Prosecuting
								attorneys.
							There shall be elected, in each judicial circuit, by the voters thereof, a
								prosecuting attorney, who shall hold his office for two years.
						
						
							SEC. 12. Removal of judges and
									prosecutors.
							Any judge or prosecuting attorney, who shall have been convicted of corruption or
								other high crime, may, on information in the name of the State, be removed from
								office by the Supreme Court, or in such other manner as may be prescribed by
								law.
						
						
							SEC. 13. Pay of judges.
							The judges of the Supreme Court and Circuit Courts shall, at stated times, receive
								a compensation, which shall not be diminished during their continuance in
								office.
						
						
							SEC. 14. Justices of the
								peace.
							A competent number of justices of the peace shall be elected by the voters in each
								township in the several counties. They shall continue in office four years, and
								their powers and duties shall be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 15. Conservators of the
									peace.
							All judicial officers shall be conservators of the peace in their respective
								jurisdictions.
						
						
							SEC. 16. Ineligibility.
							No person elected to any judicial office shall, during the term for which he shall
								have been elected, be eligible to any office of trust or profit under the State,
								other than a judicial office.
						
						
							SEC. 17. Grand jury
								system.
							The General Assembly may modify or abolish the Grand Jury system.
						
						
							SEC. 18. Criminal
								prosecutions.
							All criminal prosecutions shall be carried on in the name, and by the authority of
								the State; and the style of all processes shall be, "The State of Indiana."
						
						
							SEC. 19. Courts of
									conciliation.
							Tribunals of conciliation may be established, with such powers and duties as shall
								be prescribed by law; or the powers and duties of the same may be conferred upon
								other courts of justice; but such tribunals or other courts, when sitting as such,
								shall have no power to render judgment to be obligatory on the parties unless they
								voluntarily  submit their matters of difference and
								agree to abide the judgment of such tribunal or court.
						
						
							SEC. 20. Revision of
								laws.
							The General Assembly, at its first session after the adoption of this Constitution,
								shall provide for the appointment of three commissioners whose duty it shall be to
								revise, simplify and abridge the rules, practice, pleadings and forms of the courts
								of justice. And they shall provide for abolishing the distinct forms of action at
								law now in use; and that justice shall be administered in a uniform mode of
								pleading, without distinction between law and equity. And the General Assembly may,
								also, make it the duty of said commissioners to reduce into a systematic code the
								general statute law of the State; and said commissioners shall report the result of
								their labors to the General Assembly, with such recommendations and suggestions, as
								to the abridgment and amendment, as to said commissioners may seem necessary or
								proper. Provision shall be made by law for filling vacancies, regulating the tenure
								of office and the compensation of said commissioners.
						
						
							SEC. 21. Lawyers.
							Every person of good moral character, being a voter, shall be entitled to admission
								to practice law in all courts of justice.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE VIII.
							EDUCATION.
						
							SECTION 1. Education
								free.
							Knowledge and learning generally diffused throughout a community, being essential
								to the preservation of a free government, it shall be the duty of the General
								Assembly to encourage, by all suitable means, moral, intellectual, scientific and
								agricultural improvement, and to provide by law for a general and uniform system of
								common schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to
								all.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Common school
								fund.
							The common school fund shall consist of the congressional township fund, and the
								lands belonging thereto; 
									The surplus revenue fund;
									The saline fund, and the lands belonging thereto;
									The bank tax fund, and the fund arising from the one hundred and fourteenth
										section of the charter of the State Bank of Indiana;
									
									The fund to be derived from the sale of county seminaries, and the moneys
										and property heretofore held for such seminaries; from the fines assessed for
										breaches of the penal laws of the State; and from all forfeitures which may
										accrue;
									All lands and other estate which shall escheat to the State for want of
										heirs or kindred entitled to the inheritance;
									All lands that have been or may hereafter be granted to the State, where no
										special purpose is expressed in the grant, and the proceeds of the sales
										thereof: including the proceeds of the sales of the Swamp Lands granted to the
										State of Indiana by the act of Congress, of the 28th of September, 1850, after
										deducting the expense of selecting and draining the same;
									Taxes on the property of corporations that may be assessed by the General
										Assembly for Common School purposes.
								
						
						
							SEC. 3. Principal
								perpetual.
							The principal of the Common School Fund shall remain a perpetual fund, which may be
								increased, but shall never be diminished; and the income thereof shall be inviolably
								appropriated to the support of Common Schools, and to no other purpose whatever.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Investment and
									interest.
							The General Assembly shall invest, in some safe and profitable manner, all such
								portions of the Common School Fund as have not heretofore been entrusted to the
								several counties; and shall make provisions, by law, for the distribution, among the
								several counties, of the interest thereof.
						
						
							SEC. 5. Re-investment.
							If any county shall fail to demand its proportion of such interest for Common
								School purposes, the same shall be reinvested for the benefit of such county.
						
						
							SEC. 6. Counties liable.
							The several counties shall be held liable for the preservation of so much of the
								said fund as may be entrusted to them, and for the payment of the annual interest
								thereon.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Trust fund
								inviolate.
							All trust funds held by the State shall remain inviolate, and be faithfully and
								exclusively applied to the purposes for which the trust was created.
						
						
							SEC. 8. State Superintendent of
									Public Instruction.
							The General Assembly shall provide for the election, by the voters of the State, of
								a State Superintendent of Public Instruction, who shall hold his office for two
								years, and whose duties and compensation shall be prescribed by law.
						
					
					
					
						ARTICLE IX.
							STATE INSTITUTIONS.
						
							SECTION 1. Benevolent
									institutions.
							It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide by law for the support of
								Institutions for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, and of the Blind; and, also,
								for the treatment of the Insane.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Juvenile
								offenders.
							The General Assembly shall provide Houses of Refuge for the correction and
								reformation of juvenile offenders.
						
						
							SEC. 3. County asylums.
							The County Boards shall have power to provide farms as an asylum for those persons
								who, by reason of age, infirmity, or other misfortune, have claims upon the
								sympathies and aid of society.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE X.
							FINANCE.
						
							SECTION 1. Assessment and
									taxation.
							The General Assembly shall provide, by law, for a uniform and equal rate of
								assessment and taxation; and shall prescribe such regulations as shall secure a just
								valuation for taxation of all property, both real and personal, excepting such only
								for municipal, educational, literary, scientific, religious or charitable purposes,
								as may be specially exempted by law.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Application of
									revenues.
							All the revenues derived from the sale of any of the public works belonging to the
								State, and from the net annual income thereof, and any surplus that may, at any
								time, remain in the Treasury derived from taxation for general State purposes, after
								the payment of the ordinary expenses of the government, and of the interest on bonds
								of the State, other than bank bonds, shall be annually applied, under the direction
								of the General Assembly, to the payment of the principal of the public debt.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Appropriations.
							No money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in pursuance of appropriations made
								by law.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Exhibit of receipts and
									expenditures.
							An accurate statement of the receipts and expenditures of the public money shall be
								published with the laws of each regular session of the General Assembly.
						
						
						
							SEC. 5. Contracting of
								debts.
							No law shall authorize any debt to be contracted, on behalf of the State, except in
								the following cases: To meet casual deficits in the revenue; to pay the interest on
								the State debt; to repel invasion, suppress insurrection, or, if hostilities be
								threatened, provide for public defense.
						
						
							SEC. 6. County ownership of
									stock.
							No county shall subscribe for stock in any incorporated company, unless the same be
								paid for at the time of such subscription; nor shall any county loan its credit to
								any incorporated company, nor borrow money for the purpose of taking stock in any
								such company; nor shall the General Assembly ever, on behalf of the State, assume
								the debts of any county, city, town or township, nor of any corporation
								whatever.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Wabash and Erie
								Canal.
							No law or resolution shall ever be passed by the General Assembly of the State of
								Indiana that shall recognize any liability of this State to pay or redeem any
								certificate of stock issued in pursuance of an act entitled "An act to provide for
								the funded debt of the State of Indiana, and for the completion of the Wabash and
								Erie Canal to Evansville," passed January 19, 1846, and an act supplemental to said
								act passed January 29, 1847, which by the provisions of the said acts, or either of
								them, shall be payable exclusively from the proceeds of the canal lands, and the
								tolls and revenues of the canal in said acts mentioned; and no such certificates of
								stock shall ever be paid by this State.
							[NOTE.—Agreed to by a majority of the
								members elected to each of the two houses of the General Assembly, Regular Session
								of 1871, and referred to the General Assembly to be chosen at the next general
								election. Agreed to by a majority of the members elected to each house of the
								General Assembly, Special Session of 1872. Submitted to the electors of the State by
								an act approved January 28, 1873. Ratified by a majority of the electors, at an
								election held on the 18th day of February, 1873. Declared a part of the Constitution
								by proclamation of Thomas A. Hendricks, Governor, dated March 7, 1873.]
						
					
					
						ARTICLE XI.
							CORPORATIONS.
						
							SECTION 1. Incorporation of
									banks.
							The General Assembly shall not have power to establish, or incorporate any bank or
								banking company, or moneyed institution, for the purpose of issuing bills of credit,
								or bills payable to order or bearer, except under the conditions prescribed in this
								Constitution.
						
						
						
							SEC. 2. General banking
								law.
							No bank shall be established otherwise than under a general banking law, except as
								provided in the fourth section of this article.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Control of circulating
									notes.
							If the General Assembly shall enact a general banking law, such law shall provide
								for the registry and countersigning, by an officer of State, of all paper credit
								designed to be circulated as money; and ample collateral security, readily
								convertible into specie, for the redemption of the same in gold or silver, shall be
								required; which collateral security shall be under the control of the proper officer
								or officers of the State.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Bank with
								branches.
							The General Assembly may also charter a bank with branches, without collateral
								security, as required in the preceding section.
						
						
							SEC. 5. Mutual
								responsibility.
							If the General Assembly shall establish a bank with branches, the branches shall be
								mutually responsible for each other's liabilities, upon all paper credit issued as
								money.
						
						
							SEC. 6. Responsibility of
									stockholders.
							The stockholders in every bank, or banking company, shall be individually
								responsible to an amount over and above their stock, equal to their respective
								shares of stock, for all debts or liabilities of said bank or banking company.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Specie payments.
							All bills or notes issued as money, shall be, at all times, redeemable in gold or
								silver; and no law shall be passed, sanctioning, directly or indirectly, the
								suspension, by any bank or banking company, of specie payments.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Preference to
									note-holders.
							Holders of bank notes shall be entitled, in case of insolvency, to preference of
								payment over all other creditors.
						
						
							SEC. 9. Rate of
								interest.
							No bank shall receive, directly or indirectly, a greater rate of interest than
								shall be allowed by law to individuals loaning money.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Time-limit.
							Every bank, or banking company, shall be required to cease all banking operations
								within twenty years from the time of its organization, and promptly thereafter to
								close its business.
						
						
							SEC. 11. Safety of trust
								funds.
							The General Assembly is not prohibited from investing the trust funds in a bank
								with  branches; but in case of such investment, the
								safety of the same shall be guaranteed by unquestionable security.
						
						
							SEC. 12. State not a
									stockholder.
							The State shall not be a stockholder in any bank, after the expiration of the
								present bank charter; nor shall the credit of the State ever be given, or loaned, in
								aid of any person, association, or corporation, nor shall the State hereafter become
								a stockholder in any corporation or association.
						
						
							SEC. 13. Corporations under general
									laws.
							Corporations, other than banking, shall not be created by special act, but may be
								formed under general laws.
						
						
							SEC. 14. Individual
								liability.
							Dues from corporations, other than banking, shall be secured by such individual
								liability of the corporators, or other means, as may be prescribed by law.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE XII.
							MILITIA.
						
							SECTION 1. Composition and
									organization.
							The militia shall consist of all able-bodied white male persons between the ages of
								eighteen and forty-five years, except such as may be exempted by the laws of the
								United States, or of this State; and shall be organized, officered, armed, equipped
								and trained in such manner as may be provided by law.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Aids.
							The Governor shall appoint the Adjutant, Quartermaster and Commissary Generals.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Commissions.
							All militia officers shall be commissioned by the Governor, and shall hold their
								offices not longer than six years.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Division of
								militia.
							The General Assembly shall determine the method of dividing the militia into
								divisions, brigades, regiments, battalions and companies, and fix the rank of all
								staff officers.
						
						
							SEC. 5. Sedentary and
								active.
							The militia may be divided into classes of sedentary and active militia in such
								manner as shall be prescribed by law.
						
						
							SEC. 6. Exemption.
							No person conscientiously opposed to bearing arms shall be compelled to do militia
								duty; but such person shall pay an equivalent for exemption; the amount to be
								prescribed by law.
						
					
					
					
						ARTICLE XIII.
							POLITICAL AND MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS.
						
							SECTION 1. Limitation on
								debts.
							No political or municipal corporation in this State shall ever become indebted, in
								any manner or for any purpose, to any amount, in the aggregate exceeding two per
								centum on the value of taxable property within such corporation, to be ascertained
								by the last assessment for State and county taxes, previous to the incurring of such
								indebtedness, and all bonds or obligations, in excess of such amount, given by such
								corporations, shall be void: Provided, That in time of war,
								foreign invasion, or other great public calamity, on petition of a majority of the
								property owners, in number and value, within the limits of such corporation, the
								public authorities, in their discretion, may incur obligations necessary for the
								public protection and defense, to such an amount as may be requested in such
								petition.
							[The original Article 18 is stricken out and the
									amendment of March 24, 1881, inserted in lieu thereof.]
						
					
					
						ARTICLE XIV.
							BOUNDARIES.
						
							SECTION 1. Boundaries.
							In order that the boundaries of the State may be known and established, it is
								hereby ordained and declared, that the State of Indiana is bounded on the east by
								the meridian line which forms the western boundary of the State of Ohio; on the
								south by the Ohio River, from the mouth of the Great Miami River to the mouth of the
								Wabash River; on the west, by a line drawn along the middle of the Wabash River,
								from its mouth to a point where a due north line, drawn from the town of Vincennes,
								would last touch the northwestern shore of said Wabash River; and thence by a due
								north line, until the same shall intersect an east and west line, drawn through a
								point ten miles north of the southern extreme of Lake Michigan; on the north by said
								east and west line, until the same shall intersect the first-mentioned meridian
								line, which forms the western boundary of the State of Ohio.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Jurisdiction.
							The State of Indiana shall possess jurisdiction, and sovereignty co-extensive with
								the boundaries  declared in the preceding section; and
								shall have concurrent jurisdiction, in civil and criminal cases, with the State of
								Kentucky on the Ohio River, and with the State of Illinois on the Wabash River, so
								far as said rivers form the common boundary between this State and said States
								respectively.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE XV.
							MISCELLANEOUS.
						
							SECTION 1. Election of
									officers.
							All officers whose appointment is not otherwise provided for in this Constitution,
								shall be chosen in such manner as now is, or hereafter may be, prescribed by
								law.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Term of office.
							When the duration of any office is not provided for by this Constitution, it may be
								declared by law; and if not so declared, such office shall be held during the
								pleasure of the authority making the appointment. But the General Assembly shall not
								create any office, the tenure of which shall be longer than four years.
						
						
							SEC. 3. Holding over.
							Whenever it is provided in this Constitution, or in any law which may be hereafter
								passed, that any officer, other than a member of the General Assembly, shall hold
								his office for any given term, the same shall be construed to mean that such officer
								shall hold his office for such term, and until his successor shall have been elected
								and qualified.
						
						
							SEC. 4. Oath.
							Every person elected or appointed to any office under this Constitution shall,
								before entering on the duties thereof, take an oath or affirmation to support the
								Constitution of this State and of the United States, and also an oath of office.
						
						
							SEC. 5. State Seal.
							There shall be a seal of the State, kept by the Governor for official purposes,
								which shall be called the Seal of the State of Indiana.
						
						
							SEC. 6. Commissions.
							All commissions shall issue in the name of the State, shall be signed by the
								Governor, sealed by the State Seal, and attested by the Secretary of State.
						
						
							SEC. 7. Size of
								counties.
							No county shall be reduced to an area less than four hundred square miles; nor
								shall any county under that area be further reduced.
						
						
							SEC. 8. Lotteries
								forbidden.
							No lottery shall be authorized, nor shall the sale of lottery tickets be
								allowed.
						
						
						
							SEC. 9. State grounds.
							The following grounds owned by the State in Indianapolis, namely: the State House
								Square, the Governor's Circle, and so much of out-lot numbered one hundred and
								forty-seven as lies north of the arm of the Central Canal, shall not be sold or
								leased.
						
						
							SEC. 10. Tippecanoe Battle
									Ground.
							It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide for the permanent enclosure
								and preservation of the Tippecanoe Battle Ground.
						
					
					
						ARTICLE XVI.
							AMENDMENTS.
						
							SECTION 1. Method.
							Any amendment or amendments to this Constitution may be proposed in either branch
								of the General Assembly; and if the same shall be agreed to by a majority of the
								members elected to each of the two houses, such proposed amendment or amendments
								shall, with the yeas and nays thereon, be entered on their journals and referred to
								the General Assembly to be chosen at the next general election; and, if in the
								General Assembly so next chosen, such proposed amendment or amendments shall be
								agreed to by a majority of all the members elected to each house, then it shall be
								the duty of the General Assembly to submit such amendment or amendments to the
								electors of the State, and if a majority of said electors shall ratify the same,
								such amendment or amendments shall become a part of this Constitution.
						
						
							SEC. 2. Separate votes.
							If two or more amendments shall be submitted at the same time, they shall be
								submitted in such manner that the electors shall vote for or against each of such
								amendments separately; and while such an amendment or amendments which shall have
								been agreed upon by one General Assembly shall be awaiting the action of the
								succeeding General Assembly, or of the electors, no additional amendment or
								amendments shall be proposed.
						
					
					
						SCHEDULE.
						Taking effect of Constitution.—This Constitution, if adopted,
							shall take effect on the first day of November, in the year one thousand eight hundred
							and fifty-one; and shall supersede the Constitution adopted in the year one thousand
							eight hundred and  sixteen. That no inconvenience may
							arise from the change in the government, it is hereby ordained as follows: 
								Laws continued.—First. All laws now
									in force, and not inconsistent with this Constitution, shall remain in force until
									they shall expire or be repealed.
								Judicial proceedings continued.—Second. All indictments, prosecutions, suits, pleas, plaints and other
									proceedings pending in any of the Courts, shall be prosecuted to final judgment
									and execution; and all appeals, writs of error, certiorari and injunctions shall
									be carried on in the several Courts, in the same manner as is now provided by
									law.
								Fines, etc., continued.—Third. All
									fines, penalties and forfeitures, due or accruing to the State, or to any county
									therein, shall inure to the State, or to such county in the manner prescribed by
									law. All bonds executed to the State, or to any officer, in his official capacity,
									shall remain in force, and inure to the use of those concerned.
								Corporations continued.—Fourth. All
									acts of incorporation for municipal purposes shall continue in force under this
									Constitution, until such time as the General Assembly shall, in its discretion,
									modify or repeal the same.
								Governor to continue.—Fifth. The
									Governor, at the expiration of the present official term, shall continue to act
									until his successor shall have been sworn into office.
								General Assembly.—Sixth. There shall
									be a session of the General Assembly, commencing on the first Monday of December,
									in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one.
								Legislators to continue.—Seventh.
									Senators now in office and holding over, under the existing Constitution, and such
									as may be elected at the next general election, and the Representatives then
									elected, shall continue in office until the first general election under this
									Constitution.
								First election.—Eighth. The first
									general election under this Constitution shall be held in the year one thousand
									eight hundred and fifty-two.
								Election of State officers.—Ninth.
									The first election for Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Judges of the Supreme Court
									and Circuit Courts, Clerk of the Supreme Court, Prosecuting Attorney, Secretary,
									Auditor, and Treasurer of State, and State Superintendent of Public Instruction,
									under this Constitution, shall be held at  the
									general election in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two; and such of
									said officers as may be in office when this Constitution shall go into effect,
									shall continue in their respective offices until their successors shall have been
									elected and qualified.
								Officers to continue.—Tenth. Every
									person elected by popular vote, and now in any office which is continued by this
									Constitution, and every person who shall be so elected to any such office before
									the taking effect of this Constitution (except as in this Constitution otherwise
									provided), shall continue in office until the term for which such person has been,
									or may be, elected, shall expire: Provided, That no such person
									shall continue in office after the taking effect of this Constitution, for a
									longer period than the term of such office in this Constitution prescribed.
								Oath.—Eleventh. On the taking effect
									of this Constitution, all officers thereby continued in office shall, before
									proceeding in the further discharge of their duties, take an oath or affirmation
									to support this Constitution.
								Vacancies.—Twelfth. All vacancies
									that may occur in existing offices prior to the first general election under this
									Constitution, shall be filled in the manner now prescribed by law.
								Vote on Thirteenth Article.—Thirteenth. At the time of submitting this Constitution to the electors
									for their approval or disapproval, the article numbered thirteen, in relation to
									negroes and mulattoes, shall be submitted as a distinct proposition, in the
									following form: "Exclusion and Colonization of Negroes and Mulattoes," "Aye," or
									"No." And if a majority of the votes cast shall be in favor of said article, then
									the same shall form a part of this Constitution, otherwise it shall be void and
									form no part thereof.
								General submission.—Fourteenth. No
									article or section of this Constitution shall be submitted as a distinct
									proposition to a vote of the electors otherwise than as herein provided.
								Perry and Spencer counties.—Fifteenth. Whenever a portion of the citizens of the counties of Perry and
									Spencer shall deem it expedient to form, of the contiguous territory of said
									counties, a new county, it shall be the duty of those interested in the
									organization of such new county, to lay off the same by proper metes and bounds of
									equal portions as nearly as practicable, not to exceed one-third of the territory
									of each of said counties. The proposal to create such new county shall be
									submitted to the voters of said counties, at a general election, in such manner as
										 shall be prescribed by law. And if a majority of
									all the votes given at said election shall be in favor of the organization of said
									new county, it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to organize the same out
									of the territory thus designated.
								Clarksville.—Sixteenth. The General
									Assembly may alter or amend the charter of Clarksville, and make such regulations
									as may be necessary for carrying into effect the objects contemplated in granting
									the same, and the funds belonging to said town shall be applied according to the
									intention of the grantor.
							
						
						Done in Convention, at Indianapolis, the tenth day of February, in the year of our
							Lord, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one; and of the independence of the United
							States, the seventy-fifth.
						GEORGE WHITFIELD CARR.
							President and Delegate from the County of Lawrence.
						Attest: WM. H. ENGLISH,
							Principal Secretary. GEO. L. SITES, HERMAN G. BARKWELL, ROBERT M. EVANS,
							Assistant Secretaries.
					
					
						ADDENDA.
						The original sections stricken out or amended read as follows:
						
							ARTICLE II.
								SUFFRAGE AND ELECTION.
							SECTION 2. In all elections, not otherwise provided for by this
								Constitution, every white male citizen of the United States, of the age of
								twenty-one years and upwards, who shall have resided in the State during the six
								months immediately preceding such election; and every white male, of foreign birth
								of the age of twenty-one years and upwards, who shall have resided in the United
								States one year, and shall have resided in this State during the six months
								immediately preceding such election, and shall have declared his intention to become
								a citizen of the United States, conformably to the laws of the United States on the
								subject  of naturalization, shall be entitled to vote
								in the township or precinct where he may reside.
							SEC. 5. No negro or mulatto shall have the right of
								suffrage.
							SEC. 14. All general elections shall be held on the second
								Tuesday in October.
						
						
							ARTICLE IV.
								LEGISLATIVE.
							SECTION 4. The General Assembly shall, at its second session
								after the adoption of this Constitution, and every six years thereafter, cause an
								enumeration to be made of all the white male inhabitants over the
								age of twenty-one years.
							SEC. 5. The number of Senators and Representatives shall, at the
								session next following each period of making such enumeration, be fixed by law, and
								apportioned among the several counties, according to the number of white male inhabitants, above twenty-one years of age, in each: Provided, That the first and second elections of members of the General
								Assembly, under this Constitution, shall be according to the apportionment last made
								by the General Assembly, before the adoption of this Constitution.
							SEC. 22. In relation to fees or salaries:
						
						
							ARTICLE VII.
								JUDICIAL.
							SECTION 1. The Judicial power of the State shall be vested in a
								Supreme Court, in Circuit Courts, and in such inferior courts as the General
								Assembly may establish.
						
						
							ARTICLE XIII.
								NEGROES AND MULATTOES.
							SECTION 1. No negro or mulatto shall come into, or settle in,
								the State, after the adoption of this Constitution.
							SEC. 2. All contracts made with any negro or mulatto coming into
								the State, contrary to the provisions of the foregoing section, shall be void; and
								any person who shall employ such negro or mulatto, or otherwise encourage him to
								remain in the State, shall be fined in any sum not less than ten dollars, nor more
								than five hundred dollars.
							
							SEC. 3. All fines which may be collected for a violation of the
								provisions of this article, or of any law which may hereafter be passed for the
								purpose of carrying the same into execution, shall be set apart and appropriated for
								the colonization of such negroes and mulattoes, and their descendants, as may be in
								the State at the adoption of this Constitution, and may be willing to emigrate.
							SEC. 4. The General Assembly shall pass laws to carry out the
								provisions of this article.
							[NOTE.—All of the amendments to the
								Constitution (except the seventh section of Article X.) were agreed to by the
								General Assemblies at the sessions of 1877 and 1879. Gov. Albert G. Porter on
								February 21, 1881, in accordance with an act passed that same day, issued a
								proclamation submitting the proposed amendments to the people at a special election
								to be held March 14, 1881. On that day they were ratified by a majority of the
								electors, and on March 24, 1881, Governor Porter in proclamation declared them a
								part of the Constitution.]
						
					
				
			
		
		
			
			
				APPENDIX.
				
					THE OFFICIAL LIST OF THE GOVERNORS OF INDIANA, WITH TIME OF
						SERVICE.
					
						TERRITORIAL GOVERNORS.
						
							NORTHWEST TERRITORY.
						
						
							
							From
							To
						
						
							Arthur St. Clair
							1787
							1800
						
						
							INDIANA TERRITORY.
						
						
							John Gibson (acting)
							1800
							Jan. 10, 1801
						
						
							William H. Harrison
							1801
							18121
						
						
							Thomas Posey
							1812
							1816
						
					
					
						GOVERNORS OF THE STATE.
						
							
							From
							To
						
						
							Jonathan Jennings
							1816
							18222
						
						
							Ratliffe Boone (acting)
							Sept. 12
							Dec. 5, 1822
						
						
							William Hendricks
							1822
							1825
						
						
							James B. Ray (acting)
							Feb. 12
							Dec. 11, 18253
						
						
							James B. Ray
							1825
							1831
						
						
							Noah Noble
							1831
							1837
						
						
							David Wallace
							1837
							1840
						
						
							Samuel Bigger
							1840
							1843
						
						
							James Whitcomb
							1843
							1848
						
						
						
							Paris C. Dunning (acting) 
							1848
							18494
						
						
							Joseph A. Wright
							1849
							1857
						
						
							Ashbel P. Willard
							1857
							1860
						
						
							Abram A. Hammond (acting)
							1860
							18615
						
						
							Henry S. Lane
							Jan. 14
							Jan. 16, 18616
						
						
							Oliver P. Morton (acting)
							1861
							1865
						
						
							Oliver P. Morton
							1865
							1867
						
						
							Conrad Baker (acting)
							1867
							18697
						
						
							Conrad Baker
							1869
							1873
						
						
							Thomas A. Hendricks
							1873
							1877
						
						
							James D. Williams
							1877
							1880
						
						
							Isaac P. Gray (acting)
							1880
							18818
						
						
							Albert G. Porter
							1881
							1885
						
						
							Isaac P. Gray
							1885
							1889
						
						
							Alvin P. Hovey
							1889
							18919
						
						
							Ira J. Chase (acting)
							1891
							1893
						
						
							Claude Matthews
							1893
							1897
						
						
							James A. Mount
							1897
							——
						
					
					1 Governor Harrison was
						appointed early in the year 1800, but was not sworn into office until January 10, 1801.
						John Gibson, the secretary of the Territory, acted as Governor until his arrival.
					2 Jonathan Jennings, having
						been elected to Congress, resigned the office of Governor September 12, 1822, and was
						succeeded by Ratliffe Boone, who served until December 5, 1822.
					3 Governor Hendricks, having
						been elected a senator of the United States, resigned his office, and was succeeded by
						James B. Ray, the Lieutenant-Governor.
					4 Governor Whitcomb was
						elected a senator of the United States December 27, 1848, and Paris C. Dunning,
						Lieutenant-Governor, served as Governor during the remainder of the term.
					5 Governor Willard died on
						October 3, 1860, and Abram A. Hammond, the Lieutenant-Governor, served as Governor
						during the remainder of the term.
					6 Governor Lane was elected a
						senator of the United States January 16, 1861, and Oliver P. Morton, the
						Lieutenant-Governor, served as Governor the remainder of the term.
					7 Governor Oliver P. Morton
						was elected a senator of the United States January 23, 1867, and Conrad Baker, the
						Lieutenant-Governor, served as Governor during the remainder of the term.
					8 Governor Williams died
						November 20, 1880, and Isaac P. Gray, Lieutenant-Governor, served as Governor the
						remainder of the term.
					9 Governor Hovey died
						November 23, 1891, and Lieutenant-Governor Ira J. Chase served as Governor the remainder
						of the term.
				
				
					THE CONGRESSIONAL SURVEY.
					According to the system adopted in 1785, the surveyors first establish a meridian line
						starting from some conspicuous object, as a principal meridian. A
						parallel at right angles to this is selected as a base line. East and
						west of the principal meridian, at every sixth mile, are run additional meridians,
						called range lines; north and south of the base-line, at every sixth
						mile, are drawn additional parallels called township lines. This
						divides the land into squares of 36 miles each, called townships. The
						townships are numbered north and south of the base line, and the ranges east and west of
						the principal meridian.
					
					
						DIAGRAM I.—Illustrating the division of land into townships.
							P M=principal meridian; B L=base line. The figures mark the townships; the Roman
							letters, the ranges. B is in township 2 south, and range 4 east.
					
					Each township is divided by lines parallel to both the base line and the principal
						meridian into 36 sections, each containing one square mile or 640 acres. These sections
						are numbered beginning at the northeast corner.
					Distinguishing marks are located at the corners of the sections and at the half-mile
						points between them, and are recorded in the surveyors' books. From these
						starting-points, the sections are subdivided into halves, quarters, eighths, and
						sixteenths by the local surveyors. With such a system, the location and description of
						land is a comparatively easy thing.
					The first principal meridian is a line running due north from the mouth of the Miami
						River, and forms the eastern boundary line of the State. The second principal meridian
						runs from the mouth of Little Blue River. The only base line which runs through the
						State is the parallel of 38° 30' north latitude. In Indiana the townships are numbered
						north and south from this line and the ranges east and west from  the second principal meridian, with the following exceptions: the lands in
						"Clark's Grant," the French Lands in Knox County, and the lands lying east of the
						"Greenville Line" (see § 22 and foot-note 1). The last mentioned were surveyed west from
						the first principal meridian and north from a base line 15 miles north of the parallel
						of 38° 30'.
					
						DIAGRAM II.—Illustrating the division of a township (marked
							A in Diagram I). The part q would be described as the northeast
							quarter (¼) of the southeast quarter (¼) of section 1, township 5 north, range 3
							west.
					
				
				
					STATISTICAL INFORMATION OF INIDIANA.
					
						Total population (1890)1
							2,192,404
						Number of inhabitants to the square mile1
							61.05
						Native-born population1
							2,046,199
						Foreign-born population1
							146,205
						Illiterate population (10 years of age and over)1
							105,829
						Population 1897 (estimated)
							2,500,000
						Gross square miles in the State2
							36,350
						Square miles in water2
							440
						Extreme length north and south in miles2
							276
						Average width east and west in miles2
							140
						Value of lands and improvements1
							$754,789,110
						Value of implements and machinery1
							21,172,255
						Value of live stock1
							93,361,422
						Value of farm products1
							94,759,262
						
						Amount of capital invested in manufactures1
							131,605,366
						Amount of wages paid annually1
							51,749,976
						Value of materials used1
							130,119,106
						Value of manufactured product1
							226,825,411
						Number of dwellings1
							452,043
						Total value of property1
							2,095,176,626
						Total value of property per capita1
							956
						State expenditures (1896)3
							6,363,112
						County expenditures (1896)2
							7,709,0354
						County expenditures for care and relief of poor2
							973,655
						State indebtedness (1896)3
							6,920,615
						County indebtedness (1896)2
							7,817,6745
						Total school fund (1896)6
							10,218,432.19
						Total value of school property (1895), more than
							19,000,000
					
					1 See United States census of
						1890.
					2 See Report of the Bureau of
						Statistics of Indiana for 1896.
					3 See Acts of 1897,
						appendix.
					4 This does not include
						expenditures made by the civil and the school municipal corporations, which in 1890
						exceeded $9,500,000. (See Report of the Bureau of Statistics for 1896, p. 321, for
						interesting facts as to county expenditures.)
					5 This does not include the
						indebtedness of municipalities and school districts, which in 1890 aggregated
						$9,498,333.
					6 See Report of the State
						Superintendent of Public Instruction of 1896.
				
				
					SOME AUTHORITIES USED IN THE PREPARATION OF THIS WORK.
					Indiana. By J. P. DUNN. Houghton, Mifflin &
						Co., Boston, Mass., 1888.
					
					A History of Indiana. By JOHN B. DILLON. Bingham & Doughty, Indianapolis, Ind., 1859.
					
					Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana. By W. W.
							WOOLLEN. Hammond & Co., Indianapolis, Ind., 1883.
					
					The Old Northwest. By B. A. HINSDALE, PH.D. Townsend MacCoun, New York, 1888.
					
					A Popular History of Indiana. By MRS. T. A.
							HENDRICKS. "Sentinel" Co., Indianapolis, Ind.
					
					The Indiana Gazetteer. Published by E. Chamberlain, Indianapolis,
						Ind., 1850.
					
					A History of Education in Indiana. By RICHARD
						G. BOONE, A. M., PH.D. D. Appleton & Co., New
						York, 1892.
					
					The Forty-second Report of the State Superintendent of Public
							Instruction. By D. M. GEETING. The State, Indianapolis, Ind.,
						1896.
					
					Revised Statutes, 1896. Compiled by FRANK A.
							HORNER. E. B. Myers & Co., Chicago, 1896.
				
			
			
			
				INDEX
				[The references are to paragraphs, except when the page is indicated.]
				
					ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS, 60-72, 74.
					Agriculture, State board of, 74 (4).
					Appellate court, 79.
					Assessor, county, 98; township, 111.
					Attorney-general, 64.
					Auditor, county, 93.
					Auditor of State, 62.
				
				
					BALLOT, 137.
					Bank, State, 26, 32.
					Bill of rights, 39.
					Blind Institute, 74 (15), 145.
					Board of review, 74 (1), 107.
					Boards, State, 74.
				
				
					CANALS, 32.
					Canvass, 142.
					Capital, 22, 26, 31.
					Cases, trial of, pp. 191-194.
					Circuit courts, 80, 81, pp. 91-94.
					Citizenship, 40.
					City council, 124, 130.
					City departments, 131.
					City government, 116-133.
					City officers, 123-128, 130-133.
					Claimants to Mississippi Valley, 10.
					Claimants to Western lands, 18.
					Clark, George Rogers, 15.
					Clerk of circuit court, 92.
					Commissioner of fisheries, 70.
					Commissioners, county, 91.
					Common schools, 36, 100, 110 (5), 113, 133, 145-152.
					Compulsory education, 150.
					Congressional survey, 19, p. 163.
					Constable, 115.
					Constitution, 4, 27, 28, 33, 38, 39, 41, 42.
					Constitutional convention, 27, 33.
					Contested elections, 143.
					Conventions, 135.
					Coroner, 97.
					Corydon, 26, 31.
					County, 88.
					County auditor, 93; assessor, 98; board of review, 107; clerk, 92; commissioners,
						91; coroner, 97; officers, 90-107; physician, 106; recorder, 95; -seat, 89; sheriff, 96;
						superintendent of schools, 100; surveyor, 99; treasurer, 94.
					Court of claims, 83.
					Courts, 77-86; minor, 85; officers of, 86.
					Criminal courts, 84.
				
				
					DEAF AND DUMB INSTITUTE, 74
						(15), 145.
					Denominational institutions, 153.
					Departments of government, 42.
				
				
					EDUCATION. See Schools.
					Education, State board of, 74 (2).
					Election commissioners, State board of, 74 (9).
					Election officers, 140.
					Elections, 110 (3), 137-144.
					Electors, 41.
					English, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14.
					Executive department, 57-75
					Explorations, 7.
				
				
					FACTORY INSPECTOR, 68.
					
					Fisheries, commissioner of, 70.
					French and Indian War, 11.
					French in America, 7-10.
				
				
					GENERAL ASSEMBLY, 24, 28, 30, 46, 51, 54,
						48.
					Gibson, John, 23.
					Government, 5.
					Governor, 28, 30, 34, 54, 58, 87.
				
				
					HARRISON, WM. HENRY, 22,
						23, 25, 26.
					Health, State board of, 74 (7).
					House of Representatives, 45, 52, 53, 54.
				
				
					ILLINOIS, 16, 24.
					Indiana, 30, 34, 35, 36, 37.
					Indiana Territory, 22-30.
					Indiana University, 36, 74 (19), 152.
					Indians, 40 (foot note).
					Insane hospitals, 74 (15).
					Internal improvements, 32.
				
				
					JENNINGS, JONATHAN, 30.
					Judicial department, 76-86, 114,127, 132, pp. 91-94.
					Jury, 101, p. 92.
					Jury commissioners, 101.
					Justices of the peace, 114, 115, p. 91.
				
				
					LABOR COMMISSION, 74 (5).
					Land, 2.
					Land grants, 32, 36.
					Land policy of England, 14.
					Laws, 4, 54-56.
					Law-making, 54-56.
					Legislature. See General Assembly.
					Lieutenant-governor, 51, 53, 59.
					Local government, 6, 87.
					Louisiana Territory, 8.
				
				
					MASTER COMMISSIONERS, 103,
					Mayor, 125, 130.
					Metropolitan police commissioners, 72.
					Michigan Territory, 24.
					Militia, 75.
					Mines, inspector of, 66.
					Morton, Oliver Perry, 34.
					Municipal corporations, 116, 117.
					Municipal government, 116-133.
				
				
					NATURAL GAS INSPECTOR, 66.
					Nominations, 135, 136.
					Normals, independent, 153.
					Northwest Territory, 15, 18, 20, 21, 22.
					Notaries public, 73.
				
				
					OIL INSPECTION, SUPERVISOR OF, 66.
					Ordinance of 1787, 20, 29.
				
				
					PEOPLE, 3.
					Police commissioners, 72.
					Political parties, 134-136.
					Pontiac, 12.
					Poor, the, 105, 106, 110 (4).
					Posey, Thomas, 26.
					Preamble, 38.
					Primaries, 135.
					Probate commissioner, 102.
					Prosecuting-attorney, 81, pp. 91-94.
					Public education. See Schools.
					Purdue University, 74 (21), 152.
				
				
					QUEBEC ACT, 14.
				
				
					RECORDER, COUNTY, 95.
					Reform schools, 74 (13, 14), 145.
					Reporter, short-hand, 104.
					Revenue, 56, 147.
					Roads, 110 (2), 412.
				
				
					ST. CLAIR, ARTHUR,
						21.
					School director, 113.
					School fund, 146.
					School revenues, 147.
					
					School teachers, 151.
					Schools, 36, 100, 110 (5), 113, 133, 145-152.
					Secretary of State, 61.
					Senate, 44, 52-54.
					Sheriff, county, 96.
					Slavery in Indiana, 23, 29.
					Soldier's Home, 74 (18).
					Soldiers' Orphans' Home, 74 (17), 145.
					State, the, 1.
					State Bank of Indiana, 26, 32.
					State boards, 74.
					State charities, board of, 74 (3).
					State enterprises, 32.
					State geologist, 66.
					State government, 6, 38-86.
					State librarian, 69.
					State Normal school, 36, 74 (20), 151.
					State officers, 60-73.
					State prison, 74 (11), 145.
					State reformatory, 74 (12), 145.
					State universities, 36, 74 (19, 21), 152.
					Statistics, bureau of, 67.
					Statutes, 4.
					Superintendent, county, of schools, 100, 148.
					Superintendent of county asylum, 105.
					Superintendent of public buildings, 71.
					Superintendent of public instruction, 65.
					Superior courts, 82.
					Supervisor of roads, 112.
					Supreme court, 77, 78.
					Surveyor, county, 99.
				
				
					TAX COMMISSIONERS, STATE BOARD OF, 74
						(1).
					Taxation, 56, 91, 110 (1), 119, 124, 130, 147.
					Tippecanoe, battle of, 25.
					Town, the, 118-120.
					Town officers, 119, 120.
					Town trustees, 119.
					Township, 108-115.
					Township assessor, 111.
					Township officers, 109, 111.
					Township, origin of, 108.
					Township, trustee, 110.
					Treasurer, county, 94.
					Treasurer of State, 63.
					Trial of cases in the courts, pp. 91-94.
				
				
					VINCENNES, 8, 12, 15, 21, 22, 26.
					Vincennes University, 26, 36.
					Virginia, 15, 18.
					Voting, 141.
				
				THE END.
			
			
			
				MODEL TEXT-BOOKS.
				CHASE & STUART'S CLASSICAL SERIES.
				COMPRISING
				First Year in Latin, A Latin Grammar, A Latin Reader, Cæsar's Commentaries,
					First Six Books of Æneid, Virgil's Eclogues and Georgics, Cicero's Select Orations,
					Horace's Odes, Satires, and Epistles, Selections from Horace, with Lexicon, Sallust's
					Catiline et Jugurtha, Cicero De Senectute, et de Amicitia, Cornelius Nepos, Cicero's
					Select Letters, Cicero de Officiis, Cicero's Tusculan Disputations, Cicero de Oratore,
					Juvenal, Terence, Tacitus, Ovid, Pliny, Livy.
			
			
			
				A SERIES OF TEXT-BOOKS
					ON THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
				By JOHN S. HART, LL.D.,
					Late Professor of Rhetoric and of the English Language in the College of New
						Jersey.
				The Series comprises the following volumes—viz.: 
						Language Lessons for Beginners,
						Elementary English Grammar,
						English Grammar and Analysis,
						First Lessons in Composition,
						Composition and Rhetoric.
					
				Hart's Composition and Rhetoric is more generally in use throughout the country than any
					other work on the subject.
				Prof. Moses Coit Tyler says of it: "In the transition from
							grammar to what may be called the mechanics of literary workmanship, we are obliged to
							insist upon a particular text-book—Hart's 'Composition and
							Rhetoric'—simply because that book is the only one as yet in the market which
							deals so fully and so well with the topics which we desire to emphasize."
				Its Practical Character is one of its most valuable features. Rhetoric is an art as well
					as a science, and no text-book for the class-room is of much value which is not well
					furnished with "Examples for Practice." In this respect, this book is far ahead of any
					other work of the kind.
				Its Adaptability to all grades of schools is another feature of value. It is equally in
					place in the graded school, the academy, the female seminary, and in the higher
					institutions of learning.
				The Thousands of Schools of every grade, in all sections of the country, in which this
					book is being used, not only with satisfaction, but with enthusiasm, testify to its merit.
					Unless peculiarly meritorious, no book could possibly attain the widespread popularity
					which has been accorded to this manual.
			
			
			
				ADVERTISEMENTS.
				Easy Lessons in Natural Philosophy. For children. By EDWIN J. HOUSTON, A. M.
				Intermediate Lessons in Natural Philosophy. By EDWIN J. HOUSTON, A. M.
				Elements of Natural Philosophy. For Schools and Academies. By EDWIN J. HOUSTON, A. M.
				Elements of Physical Geography. NEW EDITION. By EDWIN J. HOUSTON, A. M.
					Houston's New Physical Geography is the realization of what a text-book on this subject
					should be. It is a book that will gladden the hearts of teachers and pupils. It is
					concise, comprehensive, up to the times, and in every respect an ideal
						text-book. Great care has been taken to avoid the mistake, common to most
					books of its class, of crowding both text and maps with a mass of technical detail which
					simply confuse and bewilder the pupil. As a working text-book for class-room use,
					Houston's New Physical Geography stands to-day at the head of the list of similar works,
					and is practically without a peer.
				Christian Ethics; or, The Science of the Life of Human Duty. A New
					Text-Book on Moral Science. By Rev. D. S. GREGORY, D. D., Late
					President of Lake Forest University, Illinois.
				Practical Logic; or, The Art of Thinking. By Rev. D. S. GREGORY, D. D.
				Groesbeck's Practical Book-Keeping Series. By Prof. JOHN GROESBECK, Late Prin. of the Crittenden Commercial College.
					In Two Volumes—viz.: 
						COLLEGE EDITION, for Commercial Schools,
							Colleges, etc.
						SCHOOL EDITION, for Schools and
							Academies.
					
				An Elementary Algebra. A Text-Book for Schools and Academies. By
						JOSEPH W. WILSON, A. M., Late Professor of
					Mathematics in the Philadelphia Central High School.
				The Crittenden Commercial Arithmetic and Business Manual. Designed
					for the use of Teachers, Business Men, Academies, High Schools, and Commercial Colleges.
					By Professor JOHN GROESBECK, Late Prin. of
					Crittenden Commercial College.
				A Manual of Elocution and Reading. Founded on Philosophy of the
					Human Voice. By EDWARD BROOKS, Ph.D., Late Prin. of
					State Normal School, Millersville, Pa.
				
				The Government of the People of the United United States. By FRANCIS NEWTON THORPE, Professor of
					Constitutional History in the University of Pennsylvania. "If we were asked to name
					one book that was a fitting representative of the modern American text-book, we should
					name Thorpe's Civics."
				American Literature. A Text-Book for High Schools, Academies,
					Normal Schools, Colleges, etc. By A. H. SMYTH, Prof. of Literature,
					Central High School, Philadelphia.
				The Normal English Grammar. By GEO. L. MARIS, A. M., Principal of Friends' Central High School,
					Philadelphia. Intended for use in Normal Schools, High Schools, Academies, and the
					higher grade of schools generally. It is not a book for pupils beginning the study of
					English grammar.
				The Model Definer. A Book for Beginners, containing Definitions,
					Etymology, and Sentences as Models, exhibiting the correct use of Words. By A. C. WEBB.
				The Model Etymology. Containing Definitions, Etymology, Latin
					Derivatives, Sentences as Models, and Analysis. With a Key containing the Analysis of
					every word which could present any difficulties to the learner. By A. C. WEBB.
				A Manual of Etymology. Containing Definitions, Etymology, Latin
					Derivatives, Greek Derivatives, Sentences as Models, and Analysis. With a Key containing
					the Analysis of every word which could present any difficulties to the learner. By A. C.
						WEBB.
				First Lessons in Physiology and Hygiene. With special reference to
					the Effects of Alcohol, Tobacco, etc. By CHARLES K. MILLS, M. D.
				First Lessons in Natural Philosophy. For Beginners. By JOSEPH C. MARTINDALE, M. D.
				A Hand-Book of Literature, A Short Course in Literature, English AND American. By E. J. TRIMBLE, Late
					Professor of Literature, State Normal School, West Chester, Pa.
				Short Studies in Literature, English and American. By A. P. SOUTHWICK, A. M.
				
				A Hand-Book of Mythology. By S. A. EDWARDS,
					Teacher of Mythology in the Girls' Normal School, Philadelphia.
				3000 Practice Words. By J. WILLIS WESTLAKE, A. M., Late Professor in State Normal School, Millersville, Pa.
					Contains lists of Familiar Words often Misspelled, Difficult Words, Homophonous Words,
					Words often Confounded, Rules for Spelling, etc.
				In the School-Room; Or, CHAPTERS IN THE PHILOSOPHY OF EDUCATION. Gives the experience of nearly
					forty years spent in school-room work. By JOHN S. HART, LL.D.
				Our Bodies. By CHARLES K. MILLS, M. D., and A. H. LEUF, M. D. A series of five charts for
					teaching Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene, and showing the Effects of Alcohol on the Human
					Body.
				The Model Pocket-Register and Grade-Book. A Roll-Book, Record, and
					Grade-Book combined. Adapted to all grades of Classes, whether in College, Academy,
					Seminary, High or Primary School.
				The Model School Diary. Designed as an aid in securing the
					co-operation of parents. It consists of a Record of the Attendance, Deportment,
					Recitations, etc., of the Scholar for every day. At the close of the week it is to be sent
					to the parent or guardian for examination and signature.
				The Model Monthly Report. Similar to the Model School Diary,
					excepting that it is intended for a Monthly instead of a Weekly report of the Attendance, Recitations, etc. of the pupil.
				The Model Roll-Book, No. 1. The Model Roll-Book, No. 2. The
					Model Roll-Book, No. 1, is so ruled as to show at a glance the record of a class for three
					months, allowing five weeks to each month, with spacing for weekly, monthly, and quarterly
					summary, and a blank space for remarks at the end of the quarter. The Model
					Roll-Book, No. 2, is arranged on the same general plan, as regards spacing, etc.,
					excepting that each page is arranged for a month of five weeks; but, in addition, the
					names of the studies generally pursued in schools are printed immediately following the
					name of the pupil, making it more  convenient when it is
					desirable to have a record of all the studies pursued by a pupil brought together in one place.
					Specimen Sheets sent by Mail on Application.
				Manuals for Teachers. A Series of Hand-Books comprising five
					volumes—viz: 
						On the Cultivation of the Senses.
						On the Cultivation of the Memory.
						On the Use of Words.
						On Discipline.
						On Class Teaching.
					
				We shall be gratified to have teachers correspond with us. We offer some
					of the best of Modern Text-Books, and shall be glad at any time to make liberal
					arrangements for their introduction, or to exchange for others that do not give
					satisfaction. Please address
					ELDREDGE & BROTHER,
						17 North Seventh Street, PHILADELPHIA.
			
		
	
