
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Lockridge, Ross F. (Ross Franklin), 1877-1952. How government functions in Indiana. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2013).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC2093
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
			
			
				
					How Government Functions in Indiana
				
				BY
					Ross F. Lockridge, A.B., LL.B.
					ASSOCIATE STATE DIRECTOR OF LABOR FOR INDIANA EMPLOYMENT AND
						WELFARE DIRECTOR OF WAYNE KNITTING MILLS, FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
				An Indiana Supplement to Thomas Harrison
						Reed's FORM AND FUNCTIONS OF AMERICAN
						GOVERNMENTYONKERS-ON-HUDSON, NEW YORK
					WORLD BOOK COMPANY
					1918
			
			
			
				VERSO
				Copyright, 1918, by World Book Company All rights
						reserved LHGFI—1
			
			
			
				TABLE OF CONTENTS
				
				
					VOCATIONAL CIVICS
						7
					CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY
						11
						
							Beginning of Statehood
								11
							Method of Revision
								11
							Some Criticisms of the Constitution of 1816
								12
							Convention of 1850-51
								12
							Amending the Constitution
								12
							Demands for Revision
								14
							Proposed Constitution of 1911
								15
							Attempts to Call Convention
								16
						
					SUFFRAGE AND ELECTIONS
						19
						
							Qualifications for Voters
								19
							Woman's Suffrage
								19
							Alien Suffrage
								20
							Registration
								21
							Elections
								21
							Corruption in Elections
								22
							The Long Ballot
								23
							Conclusion
								25
						
					EDUCATION
							27
						
							Education as a Function of Government
								27
							Magnitude of System
								27
							State Superintendent
								28
							State Board of Education
								29
							County Superintendent
								30
							School Trustees
								30
							Teachers
								31
							Teachers' Pensions
								32
							Consolidation of Schools
								33
							Higher Institutions of Learning
								34
							
							University Extension
								35
							Vocational Education
								36
							War Work in the Schools
								38
						
					DEPARTMENTS AND ADMINISTRATION
						40
						
							Distribution of Powers
								40
							EXECUTIVE
								41
								
									Executive Powers
										41
									Administrative Relations
										41
									Lack of Harmony
										42
									The Governor May Demand Publicity
										43
									Relation of Legislature
										43
									Veto Power
										43
									The Budget System
										45
									Pardoning Power
										46
									Appointments
										46
									Military Powers
										46
									The Spokesman of the People
										47
									Short Ballot
										47
									Local Administration
										48
								
							LEGISLATIVE
								48
								
									Membership of Houses
										48
									Length of Session
										49
									Bicameral System
										50
									Representative Government
										50
									Special Legislation
										51
									Representation in Congress
										52
								
							JUDICIAL
								52
								
									Organization of Courts
										52
									Delay
										55
									The Jury
										56
									Selection and Term of Judges
										57
									Lawyers' Qualifications
										57
									Impeachment
										58
									Federal Jurisdiction
										58
								
							TAXATION
								59
						
					
					CITY GOVERNMENT
						63
						
							Peculiar Problem
								63
							City Growth in Indiana
								64
							Lack of City System
								64
							Classification of Cities
								65
							System of Government
								66
							Public Utilities
								67
							Need of Home Rule
								68
							Special Legislation
								69
						
					GENERAL WELFARE
						72
						
							Public Policy and the Individual
								72
							Public Health
								72
							Charities and Corrections
								74
							Reformative System
								75
							Compulsory Education
								76
							Child Labor
								77
							Anti-Cigarette Law
								78
							Liquor Prohibition
								78
							Labor and Social Justice
								79
							Indiana and the War
								81
						
					BIBLIOGRAPHY
						85
					ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
						87
					CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF
								INDIANA
						95
				
			
			
		
		
			
			
				How Government Functions in Indiana
				
					VOCATIONAL CIVICS
					THE state of Indiana is a great, modern civic forum. Every community
						offers a complete setting for the study and practice of vocational civics.
					The primary purpose of a course in present-day civics is to enable the student to
						acquaint himself with the civic life of which he is a part. The object of the course is
						not attained unless it creates and cultivates in the young citizen the civic sense of
						close relationship with everything about him that affects the public welfare. This
						cannot be accomplished by a perfunctory knowledge of official facts and legal details.
						Learning a catalog of public powers and forms from a textbook will in itself accomplish
						little or nothing. The facts will be forgotten and the lesson lost.
					Civic life in full significance is teeming around us as never before, and the student
						can come to understand functions of government directly by getting into touch with
						actual civic operations. He should become familiar with the powers and duties of offices
						by personal acquaintance with the officers and by witnessing the performance of duties
						in their actual setting. Thus he can see government in the functioning.
					
					Functions may have widely different significance from forms and both forms and
						functions are constantly changing or developing, especially in such thrilling times as
						these in which we live. It is much better that the student actually get some first-hand
						understanding made vital through direct touch and through his own interested initiative
						than that he study and try to remember volumes of technical details.
					Having this in view, this supplement attempts to do no more than project some of the
						main phases and conditions touching governing functions. The text cannot possibly be an
						encyclopedia of civic knowledge. Compilations of fact and detail for which there is no
						space in the text can be obtained first hand in the most up-to-date, concrete and
						authoritative forms through official reports and documents without expense. The list of
						general references appended, consisting of official reports and bulletins, published
						mostly at the cost of the state for free distribution, can be made to repay the state
						richly by their use for research and investigation in civics classes. All these should
						be collected at the very beginning of the course and made easily available for all
						students. Some of these documents can be procured in such numbers as to offer copies to
						students individually.
					Every lesson in the course devoted particularly to Indiana civics should be a
						consideration and discussion of first-hand reports upon actual public
						work—government functioning—civics. Students should be taken into public
						offices and places of official action and public officers should be brought to the civics class. Careful and complete plans should be made at the
						beginning of the course so that the whole direct program of vocational civics can be
						carried out during that part of the course covering Indiana civics.
					Students should be given special appointments for investigation far in advance, and a
						carefully arranged program of visits by the class and an even more carefully arranged
						and conducted program of visits to classes by public officers should be put into effect.
						The course can be so managed that public officers will feel the compliment of an
						invitation to meet with the civics class and will keenly appreciate the opportunity to
						further in this way their own official functions and perform an extraordinary public
						service by bringing their work into touch with forward-looking young citizens.
					It should be possible to have at least one state officer visit the class, and certainly
						it can be easily arranged to have several local officers. There is no better way to give
						a fair and accurate understanding of the workings of our system, as it is, than by
						having it explained directly by those who are responsible for operating the system.
					On the other hand, public-spirited citizens should be invited to meet with the class
						for the purpose of discussing proposed reforms of vital interest. In every community
						there are leading citizens who have taken a noteworthy position in the study or
						promotion of some one or more important proposals for fundamental civic reform. Let them
						be heard in the proper relation in the civics class. This will help in a primary way to introduce the vocational idea into civics—the
						laboratory method.
					It will be possible, except in cases of schools in the most distant parts of the state,
						to have the entire class visit the state house. This will be of especial interest when
						the legislature is in session. There should be many visits to the courthouse and city
						hall, calling at all offices, attending court and meetings of the council. Where the
						class cannot go as a body, individual students may be assigned to make special
						investigation and report.
					The lethargy due to textbook limitations must be completely overcome in the vital
						spirit of civic life cultivated and practiced.
					The state constitution should be studied thoroughly in its application to forms and
						functions. Every assignment should include some specific part of the organic law for
						basic civic consideration.
					More important than all else, the students should have some direct part in promoting
						and helping to accomplish some needed local civic improvement—the repair of a
						bridge or sewer, beautifying a public site, the clearing of an alley, the restoration of
						a street light, or some like activity. Direct participation, through the official course
						of procedure, in such concrete civic work will be a genuine lesson in vocational
						civics.
				
				
				
					CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY
					Beginning of statehood
					THE first constitutional convention in Indiana met at Corydon, the
						territorial capital, on June 10, 1816. It continued in session, meeting from day to day,
						until the 29th of June, completing its work in nineteen days. The convention was made up
						of forty-three delegates representing the thirteen counties of the state. These
						delegates were typical frontiersmen, possessing little education but much common sense.
						They did not attempt in this short time to create a constitution de
							novo. (Reed, Chapter II.) It is apparent that they modeled their work very
						closely after the Kentucky constitution, which was adopted in 1792, and the Ohio
						constitution of 1803. The constitution went into effect automatically without being
						submitted to the people.
					Method of revision
					The constitution contained no provision for separate amendment, but required that a
						vote be taken every twelfth year on the question of calling a convention to revise,
						amend or change the constitution.
					This provision made imperative the taking of a vote on the question every twelve years,
						but did not prevent the submission of the question at any period of less than twelve
						years.
					Votes were taken under this provision in 1823, 1828, 1840, 1846 and 1849. The vote in
						1849 resulted in a majority favorable to holding a convention, thus authorizing the convention which wrote our present constitution.
					Some criticisms of the constitution of 1816
					Some of the principal grounds of public criticism of the old constitution were based
						upon legislative interference in local affairs, annual sessions of the legislature, the
						lack of provision for amendment, and the antiquated provisions of the civil and criminal
						code. The greatest single objection, perhaps, was the lack of local self-government,
						which resulted in making nearly all the work of the legislature purely local in
						character. According to this constitution legislative enactment was necessary in order
						to accomplish such trivial matters as vacating streets or alleys in towns and small
						villages. Divorces were even granted by special bills. The session of 1845-46 dissolved
						no less than forty matrimonial alliances.
					Convention of 1850-51
					The second constitutional convention met in the hall of representatives in the old
						state capitol in Indianapolis on October 7, 1850. It continued to meet from day to day
						until February 10, 1851, having been in session 127 days. The convention consisted of
						150 men who were highly representative of all walks of life, and of all phases of
						political and social experience. They entered into the work of revising the constitution
						with great seriousness and submitted their product to popular vote. (Reed, Chapter IX.)
						The new constitution was adopted in the regular election of August 4, 1851, and by its
						own provision went into operation on November 1, 1851.
					Amending the constitution
					This constitution, unlike the constitution of 1816, contains no provision for calling a
						convention. It provides a method of amendment embodying
						three main features: first, the requirement that the proposed amendment must pass two
						successive legislatures in exactly the same form by a majority of each house before it
						can come before the people; second, the requirement that on submission of the amendment
						to the electors of the state, a majority of said electors must ratify it before it can
						become a part of the constitution; and third, the provision that while any amendment or
						amendments shall be awaiting action of a succeeding general assembly or of the electors,
						no additional amendment or amendments shall be proposed. (Constitution, Art. XVI.)
						Experience has proved this to be a very difficult process. By recourse to special
						elections, the constitution has been twice amended—one section in 1873 and nine
						sections in 1881.
					Since 1881 no less than 184 separate and distinct attempts to amend the constitution,
						including 447 proposals, have been made without success. During this time only two
						proposed amendments have ever been submitted to the people. These were the so-called
						"Lawyers' Amendment," proposing to authorize the fixing of qualifications for lawyers,
						and the amendment proposing to increase the membership of the supreme court. The
						"Lawyers' Amendment" was submitted in the regular elections of 1900, 1906, and 1910, and
						received each time a large majority of votes cast thereon, but not a majority of the
						electors of the state. The supreme court amendment was submitted November 6, 1900;
						314,710 "yes" votes and 178,060 "no" votes were cast. It
						was lost for want of a "constitutional" majority.
					Demands for revision
					Demands for constitutional changes have been voiced by platform declarations of
						political parties, by resolutions of civic organizations, and by official
						recommendations.
					Governor Marshall said in 1912: The people of Indiana are bound
								down under a fundamental law which they have no means of amending by so much as a
								punctuation mark. . . . Now, a constitution is sacred to me. But the rights of the
								people are more sacred. A constitution has got to be workable, and when one fails to
								work—why, then it's time to get another.
					Governor Ralston in his inaugural address in 1913 and likewise in his farewell address
						in 1917 recommended the holding of a convention for the purpose of writing a new
						constitution, declaring that the present constitution had been outgrown through
						intellectual, social and material progress. He said: New
								questions have arisen that cannot be solved under the present instrument, and new
								conditions make it necessary for the people to assert rights they cannot exercise
								thereunder.
					Governor Goodrich, in his first message to the legislature of 1917, urged the calling
						of a constitutional convention, declaring that: Since 1851,
								state government has become so complex that many of the provisions of the
								constitution which were in point sixty years ago no longer cover our present
								conditions of society. . . . The public interest requires that there be no further
								delay in changing the constitution so that we may meet squarely the important
								problems which confront us at this time. I believe, as a matter of fact, that these
								changes can be accomplished more satisfactorily through a constitutional convention
								than through any other method.
					
					There has been much valuable civic and educational study and discussion upon proposed
						constitutional changes covering problems of city government, taxation, suffrage reform,
						short ballot, budget system, initiative and referendum, recall, labor reform and social
						justice, together with many fundamental proposals of judicial and educational reform.
						The liquor problem has also been intimately involved in all considerations of
						constitutional revision.
					Proposed constitution of 1911
					The failure of repeated attempts to amend and the demand for revision along many
						separate lines has resulted in much agitation for a new constitution. The legislature of
						1911 prepared a so-called new constitution popularly known as the "Marshall
						Constitution." It was a general copy of the present constitution, with some twenty-three
						specific changes. (Acts 1911, page 205.) The legislature proceeded on the theory that it
						was unnecessary to follow the formality of holding a constitutional convention or of
						undergoing the delay of amendment and "enacted" the constitution in exactly the same
						manner that statutory laws are enacted. The supreme court in the case of Ellingham vs. Dye (178 Indiana 336) annulled the proposed constitution, holding in
						effect that the legislature is without authority to frame a constitution in
							toto and that its power in the matter of proceeding to revise the constitution is
						contained in the amendment provision. The Supreme Court of the United States in the case
						of Marshall et al. vs. Dye (58 U. S. Sup. Ct. Reports, Law Edition
						206) sustained in effect the state supreme court, holding that the case involved no federal question and that therefore the federal
						court was without jurisdiction.
					Attempts to call convention
					Following the decision of the supreme court on the proposed new constitution, the
						legislature of 1913 proposed twenty-two separate amendments embodying substantially the
						changes included in the constitution "enacted" by the legislature of 1911. At the same
						time the legislature provided for a vote at the general election of 1914 upon the
						question of calling a constitutional convention in the year 1915. (Acts 1913, page 812.)
						The vote was negative. The legislature of 1915 killed the twenty-two proposals to
						amend.
					The legislature of 1917 passed an act calling a constitutional convention, providing
						for the election of delegates and the assembling of the convention. (Acts 1917, page 5.)
						By the terms of this act, 115 delegates should have been elected at a special election
						on the third Tuesday in September, 1917—100 from the representative districts of
						the state and 15 from the state at large. The delegates so elected were to assemble in
						convention at the capitol on January 2, 1918, for the purpose of revising the
						constitution of the state of Indiana and of submitting the new constitution proposed by
						them to the voters for ratification or rejection. This act was held unconstitutional by
						the supreme court of Indiana on July 13, 1917, in the case of Bennett vs. Jackson, Secretary of State, et al., 116 Northeastern Reporter 921. The
						decision in this case positively affirmed the right of the supreme court to determine
						the constitutionality of any act of the legislature, holding that the legislature's
						powers are not inherent but derived solely from the
						constitution, and that the legislature is without authority to call a convention in view
						of the negative expression of the people in the referendum on the question in 1914. The
						court said: We are of the opinion that the will of the people as
								expressed in the election of 1914 is as binding on the general assembly as a
								positive provision of the constitution could be, and hence the action of the
								legislature in calling a constitutional convention, as provided for in Chapter II,
								page 5, of the Acts of 1917, is null and void, being in conflict with Section I of
								the bill of rights, taking from the people the right to say when they desire a
								change in their fundamental law.
					It is therefore established now that the power to call a constitutional convention
						resides solely in the people through an affirmative vote on a referendum submitted to
						them by the legislature.
					
						QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
						What states have adopted new constitutions in recent years?
						Report fully upon the Massachusetts "War Time Convention."
						Is constitution-making a political function?
						What is the difference between statutory law and constitutional law?
						Compare relative advantages and disadvantages of revising constitutions by
							amendment and by constitutional convention.
						What proposed changes in our judicial system would come before a constitutional
							convention? Our legislative system? Our executive and administrative system? Our
							system of taxation? Our educational system? Provisions for suffrage and elections?
							Labor and social justice?
						Is the liquor problem a constitutional question in Indiana at this time?
						Distinguish as to the right of the legislature (1) to write a constitution, (2) to
							call a convention for the purpose of writing a
							constitution, (3) to propose amendments to a constitution, (4) to submit the question
							of calling a convention to popular vote.
						What authority is there for the submission to popular vote of the question of
							calling a convention?
						Read and report fully the decision and minority opinion in: Bennett vs. Jackson, Secretary of State, et al., 116 N. E. 921; Ellingham vs. Dye, 178 Indiana 336; Marshall, et al., vs. Dye, 58 U.
							S. 206.
						Are there any proposed amendments pending at this time? If so, what are
							they?
						Should delegates to a constitutional convention be elected by partisan
							ballot?
						Compare and contrast constitution of 1816 with our present constitution.
						Arrange discussion or debate on the desirability of holding a constitutional
							convention in Indiana at the present time.
					
				
				
				
					SUFFRAGE AND ELECTIONS
					Qualifications for voters
					SUFFRAGE in Indiana is qualified by sex, age, residence,
						registration and, in the case of unnaturalized aliens, declaration of citizenship
						intentions. (Const., Art. II, Sec. 2.) Only males over the age of twenty-one may vote.
						The residence requirement of all voters is six months in the state, sixty days in the
						township and thirty days in the ward or precinct immediately preceding the election.
						Voters of foreign birth must have resided in the United States one year and have taken
						out "first papers." All voters must be duly registered according to law. None who lack
						these qualifications may vote. The legislature can neither extend the suffrage to others
						nor deny it to any so qualified except those convicted of infamous crime. (Reed, Chapter
						IX.)
					Woman's suffrage
					The legislature of 1917 passed a partial or limited suffrage act which granted women
						the right to vote for presidential electors, members of congress, all non-constitutional
						state and local officers and in all non-constitutional elections. (Acts 1917, page 73.)
						This act was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Indiana, October 29,
						1917, in the case of Board of Election Commissioners of the City of Indianapolis et al.
							vs. Knight, 117 Northeastern Reporter 565.
					This decision completely interpreted the suffrage provisions of the constitution. The
						court held that: The right of suffrage is not inherent or
								natural, and is held only by those upon whom it is bestowed by express
								constitutional grant or authorized legislative provision.
					
					The court also said: The legislature has no general power to
								confer the elective franchise upon classes other than those to whom it is given by
								the constitution, since this description of those who are entitled to vote is
								regarded as excluding all others.
					It follows from this decision that no measure of suffrage can be extended to women in
						Indiana except through revision or amendment of the constitution or through provision of
						the federal constitution.
					Alien suffrage
					When the constitution of 1851 was written, it was deemed advisable to extend the
						suffrage to unnaturalized aliens, to the end, as reported by the convention, that
						home-building foreigners might be encouraged to come to Indiana and help settle our
						unpopulated farm lands. Under this provision aliens who come to Indiana take out their
						declaration papers after a year's residence, or rather permit their papers to be taken
						out for them. Then they vote, or, as is too often true, are voted, in all elections,
						regardless of bona fide intention to become citizens. It takes but one year to make the
						alien a voter in Indiana, whereas it takes five years to make him a naturalized citizen
						of the United States. The abuse of this liberal provision is illustrated by the
						following figures for declaration and naturalization: 
							
								
								Declared Intention
								Naturalized
							
							
								1908
								5,785
								151
							
							
								1910
								4,339
								209
							
							
								1912
								3,021
								459
							
							
								1914
								3,306
								843
							
							
								1916
								5,298
								678
							
							
								1917
								8,029
								830
							
						
					For the full period of ten years from 1908 to 1917, inclusive, the total number of
						declarations was 36,621 and the total number naturalized was 4,857. It is, indeed, anomalous that thousands of men who have been voting in Indiana
						for the past generation are being compelled to register as alien enemies.
					We have voters who are not citizens and citizens who are not voters.
					Registration
					All persons entitled to vote must register before they can exercise the right of
						franchise. The registration law applies alike to all electors in cities, towns and rural
						communities. It is very difficult to procure a complete registration and equally
						difficult to get out the full vote after registration. In 1912, 745,638 voters were
						registered and 654,474 votes were cast. In 1914, the registration was 725,423 and the
						total vote 646,059. In 1916, 811,405 voters registered and 718,848 voted. Taking 1914 as
						a typical election, there were 725,423 voters registered and 646,059 votes cast out of
						792,625 qualified voters, according to the enumeration of 1913. This means that 67,202
						qualified voters failed or refused to register and 69,474 registered voters failed to
						vote, making a total of 146,546 delinquent electors. It is to be regretted that in most
						instances the delinquent electors include those who are prevented from voting by a
						temporary absence from the precinct in which they reside. Again, it is regrettably true
						that the failure to vote is due to a lack of interest in politics. The alien and
						"floating" vote seldom fails to make itself a factor in the election.
					The legislature of 1917 passed an absent voters' law (Acts 1917, page 317) providing a
						method of voting by qualified voters who are unavoidably absent on election day.
					Elections
					All general elections in Indiana for the state, county, township, city and nation are
						held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
						November. City elections are held every four years in odd years: 1913, 1917, etc.
						Regular elections for the election of state and local officers, members of congress,
						etc., are held every two years in the even years.
					Primary elections for the nomination of candidates of all political parties which cast
						ten per cent or more of the total vote are held on the first Tuesday after the first
						Monday in May each year preceding every election. The primary law is general and
						compulsory, covering all elective officers other than presidential electors and officers
						voted for by all electors of the state. Thus it includes all elective offices of the
						county, township, city and town, members of congress and the state legislature. The
						primary election law also provides for the establishment of party machinery through the
						selection of the precinct committeemen for each precinct and party delegates to the
						state convention. The precinct committeemen elect the county chairman. The county
						chairmen of each congressional district elect the party district chairman and the
						district chairmen of the state make up the state committee.
					Voting by secret ballot under the Australian ballot system prevails and the use of
						voting machines is becoming quite common.
					Corruption in elections
					Corrupt practices in elections, especially in our large cities, have been brought
						vividly to light in recent years. Notable punishments have been inflicted in the federal
						court upon city and county officers in certain of our cities. The characteristic
						features of the corruption in these elections were the soulless domination of partisan
						machines, the blind obedience of party workers to sinister influences, the activity of the saloon and brewery and the purchasability of the
						floating vote, particularly unnaturalized aliens. The successful prosecutions in the
						federal court appear to be having a tremendously deterrent influence and have helped to
						bring about an awakening on the part of good citizens from which much better results may
						be expected. The passing of the liquor power from politics will tend to relieve
						political life of some of its worst evils.
					The long ballot
					What is known as the "long ballot" prevails to a very high degree in Indiana, both in
						state and local government, and this multiplicity of elective offices is coming to be
						generally recognized as the "jungle" of bad politics. (Reed, pages 106-107.)
					The voters of Center township, Marion county, Indiana, in the general election of 1914,
						voted upon 67 offices,1 and in
						1916 upon 39 offices in addition to presidential electors.
					1
						
							United States Senator
							Representative in Congress
							Secretary of State
							Auditor of State
							Treasurer of State
							Attorney General
							Clerk of the Supreme Court
							State Superintendent of Public Instruction
							State Geologist
							Judge of the Supreme Court, 5th District
							Two Judges of the Appellate Court, 1st District
							Three Judges of the Appellate Court, 2nd District
							County Offices— 
									Auditor
									Treasurer
									Clerk
									Sheriff
									Recorder
									Surveyor
								
							Coroner
							Prosecuting Attorney
							Judge of the Circuit Court
							Five Judges of the Superior Court—Rooms 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
							Judge of the Criminal Court
							Judge of the Probate Court
							Judge of the Juvenile Court
							County Assessor
							Three County Commissioners
							Seven Councilmen
							Trustee of Center Township
							Three Members of the Advisory Board of Center Township
							Four Justices of the Peace, Center Township
							Four Constables of Center Township
							Assessor of Center Township
							State Senator
							Ten Representatives to the General Assembly
						
					
					All told, we elect some fifty or more officers at every biennial election. Our sample
						ballot is usually over six feet long and contains over two hundred names.
					Under this system of voting for so many offices, both important and unimportant, even
						intelligent and wide-awake voters are compelled in every election, if they vote at all,
						to make a choice among candidates with whom they have no acquaintance and of whose
						qualifications they can not have adequate information. This necessarily brings about
						such political confusion as could hardly result otherwise than in irresponsible and
						uncertain voting—the ideal opportunity for political bosses and party
						machines.
					The application of the "short ballot" in Indiana to state elections would probably
						leave for popular election only the governor and the lieutenant governor and possibly
						the auditor. Other officers would be appointed upon merit. In the county, the short ballot would provide for the election of the board of county
						commissioners or county council with large appointive powers, operating under a merit
						system.
					There is already a tendency toward the short ballot in our city elections and it may be
						expected that this movement will become much stronger. The principle of the short ballot
						is that only a few offices should be filled by election at one time and that only those
						offices shall be elective which are important enough to attract (and deserve) public
						examination.
					Conclusion
					It is quite evident that the right to vote is not in conclusion itself a complete
						guarantee of the proper exercise of popular power. The ultimate meaning of this
						fundamental right must depend upon the laws governing its qualifications and the manner
						of its exercise. Certainly more discrimination can be exercised in granting this
						privilege, so that all desirable classes of citizens may be included and that at least
						some clearly undesirable classes may be excluded. Every safeguard must be exercised to
						prevent fraudulent voting and to guarantee an honest count.
					Every step toward greater simplification of the ballot will tend to make voting more
						effective and diminish corruption in the conduct of elections. Most important of all is
						the need of a general awakening on the part of well-meaning citizens to a vital
						appreciation of the public benefits depending upon the proper exercise of the franchise.
						This will come from better civic education and can be greatly encouraged by an improved
						elective system.
					
					
						QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
						Define citizen; alien; voter; suffrage; franchise; elector.
						What states of the Union have equal suffrage?
						What states have a tax or property qualification?
						Name the states that have an educational test.
						Who were the election officials in your precinct at the last election?
						Get a sample ballot of the last primary election in your county.
						Who were the delegates from your county in the last Republican state convention?
							In the Democratic state convention?
						Who is the Democratic county chairman for your county? Republican?
						Is registration of voters essential in all communities of the state?
						What are the chief causes for corruption in elections?
						Distinguish between citizenship and the right of suffrage.
						Should any who are not citizens vote?
						Topics for discussion or debate: 
								Woman's suffrage.
								Educational test for suffrage.
								Poll tax requirement for suffrage.
								Short ballot.
							
					
					
						SPECIAL EXERCISES
						Have the class visit a polling place on election day. Have students attend a
							political convention.
						Arrange for talks before the class by the county chairman of one or both political
							parties.
						Have a talk by a leading equal suffrage worker.
					
				
				
				
					EDUCATION
					
						What the people need and demand is that their children shall have a chance—as
							good a chance as any other children in the world—to make the most of themselves,
							to rise in any and every occupation, including those occupations which require the
							most thorough training. What the people want is open paths from every corner of the
							state through the schools to the highest and best things which men can achieve. To
							make such paths, to make them open to the poorest and lead to the highest, is the
							mission of democracy.
					
					Education as a function of government
					THIS statement by William L. Bryan, President of Indiana University,
						in his inaugural address in 1902, expresses the ideal of public education.
					There is no more important function of government in Indiana than to provide the means
						of carrying out this "mission of democracy." Since the establishment of the principle of
						tax-supported free schools in Indiana, in 1848, the public school system has constantly
						grown and developed, ranging now from kindergarten to university. It can not be doubted
						that faith in education is deeply rooted in the hearts of the people. This faith is
						finding constantly greater and clearer expression in our educational activities. (Reed,
						Chapter XXXI.)
					Magnitude of system
					What institution have we of greater magnitude? The public school enrollment in Indiana
						for the year 1916-17 was 567,962. This included 847 high schools, of which 573 were
						commissioned high schools, 113 certified high schools and 161 accredited and unclassified high schools. The teachers numbered 19,876. The
						value of public school plants exclusive of higher institutions of learning was estimated
						at $62,051,536. During the school year of 1916-17, 173 new schoolhouses were erected,
						valued at $3,346,461. Our annual school revenues amount to over $17,000,000. The common
						and congressional school fund totaled in 1917 over $12,000,000. (Const., Art. VIII, Sec.
						2.) These permanent funds are constantly augmented by state tax levies and special
						school revenues which the trustees have power to levy. Local school funds, in addition,
						are derived from licenses, fees and special taxes. A state deficiency fund is maintained
						for the poorer counties in order to keep up a sufficient length of term. The purpose of
						this fund is to offer reasonable educational opportunity to all portions of the state
						and to all the people.
					The average cost per high school pupil for the year 1916-17 was $58.44. The
						administration of educational finances is complex and results can not be fully
						estimated. This is our principal investment in democracy.
					State superintendent
					The state superintendent of public instruction is the official head of the public
						school system of the state. He is elected by popular vote and serves for a term of two
						years. The length of term and manner of election are provided by the constitution and
						can not be changed by legislation.
					An enumeration of the duties of the state superintendent would be a report upon the
						conduct of our whole scheme of public education. He has the general superintendence of
						all work relating to the schools of the state. The duties of the office increase with opportunity and necessity. For example, the war service
						program more than doubled the work of this office. This department is constantly growing
						in influence and importance. It has a regular working force of no less than eighteen
						members, including the following chief assistants: 
							Assistant superintendent
							Deputy state superintendent
							Director of vocational education
							State high school inspector
							Assistant in home economics
							Assistant in agriculture
							Chief manuscript clerk
							Clerk of the state board of education
							Clerk of the teachers' retirement fund
						 The superintendent is president of the state board of education.
					State board of education
					The state board of education consists of thirteen members, seven of whom are members
						ex-officio and six appointive. The ex-officio members are the state superintendent, the
						presidents of Purdue University and Indiana University and the State Normal School, and
						the city superintendents of Indianapolis, Fort Wayne and Evansville. There are six other
						members appointed by the governor for a term of four years. Three of these must be
						citizens who have been engaged in educational work in the state, at least one of whom
						must be a county superintendent of schools. The other three must be persons who are
						actively interested in and of known sympathy with vocational education, one of whom
						shall be a representative of employees and one of employers.
					The board has general control of the entire system of examining and licensing teachers,
						preparing questions and fixing standards, adopting
						textbooks and establishing courses of study. It controls our educational policies and
						initiates most of the school legislation. The influence of this body is constantly being
						developed to the use of every possible means of bettering the educational work of the
						state.
					County superintendent
					The county superintendent is elected by the township trustees of each county for a term
						of four years. He must have been actually engaged in school work for a period of not
						less than two years out of the ten next preceding his election and must hold at the time
						of his election a three years' license, a sixty months' license or a life or
						professional license. He has the general superintendence of the schools of his county,
						visiting schools, attending township institutes, conducting examinations for teachers'
						licenses and for common school diplomas, conducting county associations and institutes
						and determining controversies arising under the school law. It is his duty to carry out
						the orders and instructions of the state board of education and the state superintendent
						of public instruction and to labor in every practicable way to elevate the standards of
						teaching and improve the schools in his county. He has no direct control over city
						schools that have a duly appointed city superintendent.
					School trustees
					The township trustee is elected by the voters of the township for a term of four years
						and is not eligible for more than eight years in any period of twelve years. His powers
						and duties have been graphically summed up by the supreme court as follows: The township trustee is clothed with almost autocratic power in
								all school matters. The voters of the township have but
								little, if indeed any, voice or part in the control of educational affairs. So far
								as actual authority is concerned, the trustee is the corporation, although in
								contemplation of law it is otherwise. (Wallace vs. Johnson
								Township, 75 Ind. 368.)
					He has complete responsibility in the matter of selecting teachers, providing,
						maintaining and equipping school plants and, with the advisory board, determining the
						tax rate for educational purposes. The township trustees, together with the chairmen of
						the town and city school boards in the county, constitute the county board of education,
						which holds meetings every six months.
					In incorporated towns and cities of less than 50,000 inhabitants, the board of town
						trustees or city council selects the school trustees for the town or city for a term of
						three years. The board of school trustees consists of three members who have general
						control of the schools of the town or city similar to the control of the trustee in the
						township. For cities of 50,000, special laws have been passed fixing the number and
						establishing the manner of selection of trustees. In Indianapolis and Terre Haute the
						board consists of five members elected by the people.
					An encouraging movement is developing towards the selection of at least one woman on
						the board, and in several cities women are already serving in this important
						capacity.
					Teachers
					The all-important factor in the conduct of the Teachers public schools is the teacher.
						The qualifications, compensation and general conditions surrounding teachers have
						improved during recent years, although the improvement, especially in compensation, has
						been discouragingly slow. A continually rising standard of
						qualifications prevails. Beginning teachers must have a high school education or its
						equivalent and must have taken a course in professional training of at least twelve
						weeks and must hold not less than a twelve months' license. The requirements as to
						professional training and license continue to rise with experience. A minimum wage law
						is tending to raise the compensation and establish more uniformity. Both scholarship and
						successful experience are emphasized. Professional interest in attending county
						institutes and other educational gatherings is also encouraged under this law. The
						rapidly growing activity and influence of educators in public affairs offers a most
						hopeful civic outlook in Indiana.
					Teachers' pensions
					A marked step in the application of a high form of social justice is found in teachers'
						retirement and pension laws, now well established in Indiana. After some special laws
						had been passed applying to some of the larger cities, a state teachers' pension law was
						enacted in 1915 providing for a teachers' retirement fund and for the payment of
						annuities after stated periods of service. The fund consists of a permanent fund coming
						from gifts and other miscellaneous sources of income and a current fund made up of
						interest on investments, assessments on teachers' salaries and apportionment of proceeds
						derived from the state school tuition fund.
					For the purpose of administering the pension and retirement fund, the state is divided
						into the following units: first, cities of 5,000 population or more; second, each public
						state normal; third, other state educational institutions; fourth, each county. It has
						often been proposed to make the entire state a unit and
						this may be done in the near future. Any unit may come under the provisions of the law
						by petition of a majority of teachers and school officials. Teachers coming under the
						law are assessed according to their years of service. After thirty-five years of service
						a teacher is entitled to an annuity of from $600 to $700. When retired on account of
						disability, a teacher is entitled to receive an annuity ranging from $350 for
						twenty-five years of service to $575 for thirty-four years of service. The fund is
						controlled and managed by a board of trustees, consisting of the state superintendent,
						state auditor, attorney general and two other members appointed by the governor. The
						state treasurer is custodian of the fund.
					The more complete establishment of the pension law will add security and permanency to
						the profession.
					Consolidation of schools
					Indiana is in the front rank of the movement for the consolidation of rural schools and
						is known as the pioneer of consolidation in the Mississippi valley. More than 2,000
						one-room schools have been permanently closed in the state. There were in 1917, 706
						consolidated schools; 46,997 children were transported to these schools at a total
						township expense of over $900,000; 430 consolidated schools are of high school rank,
						employing four or more teachers. The consolidated movement is favored in Indiana by the
						township system of school organization, which vests large control and discretion in the
						township trustee. The compulsory education law, the compulsory closing of all schools
						with less than average daily attendance of twelve pupils and the compulsory
						transportation of pupils in consolidated schools have aided
						this movement greatly. Consolidation tends to offer the poorest and most remote
						districts the same facilities of modern equipment and instruction enjoyed by the most
						populous and wealthy centers.
					Higher institutions of learning
					Indiana University, located at Bloomington, now has a college of liberal arts, a school
						of education, schools of law and medicine and a graduate school. The medical school is
						located at Indianapolis. In addition to its courses for resident students, Indiana
						University, by means of its extension department, places before all the citizens of the
						state an opportunity to pursue advanced study.
					Purdue University, located at Lafayette, is a technical, scientific and agricultural
						institution of high standing. It ranks among the foremost schools of America which offer
						technical training. A United States Government experiment station is located at Purdue;
						with this the university collaborates. The university is sustained, in part, by federal
						support.
					The State Normal, located at Terre Haute, is primarily a teachers' training school
						offering a four years' course leading to the degree of bachelor of arts. This was the
						first of the many Indiana schools devoted primarily to the training of teachers. Like
						the two state universities, the State Normal ranks among the foremost educational
						institutions of its kind in this country.
					In response to the ever increasing demands made upon teachers by the state educational
						organization, and in order more fully to present the opportunities of advanced training
						in methods of teaching, there has recently been organized a branch of the Indiana State
						Normal at Muncie. This school will co-ordinate with the school at Terre Haute.
					
					These institutions are controlled by boards of trustees. The members are partly
						appointive by the governor and the state board of education and partly elective by
						alumni. These state institutions are maintained by a state educational institution fund
						raised by a special state tax levy. The general assembly also makes special
						appropriations for buildings and other extraordinary expenses.
					Denominational and private colleges and normal schools are accredited by the state
						board of education for the professional training of teachers.
					University extension
					A significant step in higher education is the rapid development and growth of
						university extension, the educational process of carrying the benefits of the university
						directly to the homes of the people. The function of extension work has come to be
						peculiarly that of public service. The character of the service depends upon the
						functions of the university and the demands of the people of the state.
					Purdue University directs its extension activities mainly to agricultural service by
						means of bulletins, demonstrations, short courses and institutes, thereby fulfilling the
						very important function of educating farmers and aiding them to develop agricultural
						resources of the state. The work is carried on partly by men sent out directly from the
						university and partly, in fact largely, through the county agricultural agents. Each
						agent serves as an organizer for his county. Bulletins are distributed and concrete
						investigations made in connection with conferences and institutes. Through the short
						courses the farmers of the community or district are enabled to receive advanced
						instruction on subjects relating directly to farm problems. These courses usually last from two days to a week. The extension department of
						Purdue has very properly influenced the war aid movement toward larger food production,
						keeping ever awake to the particular needs of the day and directing campaigns of
						education to meet them.
					Indiana University has a well developed extension division conducting outside extension
						teaching and public welfare service. The teaching consists of class instruction,
						lectures and correspondence study. The welfare service is conducted along the line of
						organizing and directing institutes, surveys and conferences; collecting and lending
						package libraries, exhibits and lantern slides; compiling and publishing information in
						circulars and bulletins and giving co-operative assistance to clubs, civic societies and
						all community agencies. Extension centers are maintained at Indianapolis and Fort Wayne,
						where regular class work and accredited instruction are offered similar to that offered
						in residence. Instructors are furnished to classes elsewhere on application.
					Butler College carries on academic extension work in the city of Indianapolis among
						schools and clubs.
					Extension work is one of the newer departments of university activity and is serving
						the purpose of carrying the message of higher education directly into community life.
						The opportunities in this field of service are unlimited and the next few years will
						doubtless show tremendous development.
					Vocational education
					The establishment of vocational education is our most advanced step toward making
						education entirely democratic. Beginning with the Vocational Education Act of the
						legislature of Indiana in 1913, and continuing through co-operation with the Smith-Hughes Act, passed by Congress in 1917, Indiana is
						making marked progress in the field of genuine vocational education. This form of
						education is directed purposefully and specifically toward equipping young people for
						the pursuit of some useful occupation. The home, the workshop, the farm and the
						commercial institution are no longer adequate to educate boys and girls up to standards
						required by modern conditions. This is now conceived to be the function of the schools,
						demanding special equipment and expert instruction. The school is following the youth
						into his work. The federal vocational act provides for allotment among the states an
						annual appropriation beginning at $500,000 in 1918 and increasing on a graduated
						schedule until in 1926 it shall have reached the sum of $3,000,000.
					Indiana has met all of the requirements for receiving the benefits of this act and has
						a state vocational department of three members, covering industry, agriculture and
						household arts. The work is classified as follows: 
							Day and vocational courses in agriculture;
							Day part-time and evening courses in trades and industries;
							Part-time general continuation classes in civic and vocational subjects;
							Training courses for teachers of agriculture, trades and industry, and home
								economics subjects.
						
					The state pays two-thirds of the sum expended for instruction in order to maintain
						approved vocational schools for agriculture, industry and domestic science. A special
						vocational levy is added to the state common school levy for the purpose of creating
						this fund.
					
					War work in the schools
					A notable example of modern co-operation of the schools for the general welfare in
						concrete ways is seen in the war service activities now recognized as an essential part
						of the work of the schools. Immediately following the declaration of war by the United
						States Indiana educators began the task of mobilizing all educational forces. Teachers,
						students, and all persons connected with the public school system quickly enlisted in
						every civilian movement to further the winning of the war.
					A special part of this effort has been devoted to the intensive training of men and
						women for specialized service so that the state should not suffer from a dearth of
						experts in any needed lines. The schools have not only kept open for the pursuit of
						their normal educational purposes but have added greatly to their efforts. The State
						Board of Education formulated plans in connection with the State Council of Defense
						whereby the entire school system could be made a great reserve power.
					Higher institutions of learning have modified their courses and requirements to meet
						the war-time needs. Courses have been intensified to prepare young men quickly for
						enlistment in special government service. The extension departments of Purdue and
						Indiana Universities have devoted their strength without reserve to war aid work.
						Special provision has been made by Purdue University to train auto mechanics sent by the
						Government from the various camps.
					Perhaps the greatest educational function and service conducted through the schools in
						this connection is that of helping awaken our entire citizenship to an appreciation of
						the needs of the time. The school system is the best medium
						through which information can be directed to the homes of the people. It offers "quick"
						wires of intelligence, reaching to every nook and corner of the commonwealth. In a
						democracy, people must have a clear understanding in order that they may act wisely. It
						is certainly a valuable by-product of the war that education has been vitalized into a
						more direct form of service to promote the general welfare.
					
						QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
						Who is the county superintendent of your county? The trustee of your township? The
							members of your town or city school board?
						When do the terms of these officers expire?
						Give the names of the members of the state board of education.
						Should the terms of these officers be extended?
						What is the school tax levy in your city?
						What considerations of public policy support vocational education?
						Is it the duty of the state to furnish at public expense technical and
							professional training for the purpose of developing specialists and skilled
							workers?
						What industrial institutions of your city offer opportunities for their employees
							for part time-vocational courses?
						Should textbooks be furnished free?
						What university extension courses are offered in your community?
						Who is your county agricultural agent?
					
					
						SPECIAL EXERCISES
						Have the class visit a teachers' association or institute and some higher
							institution of learning if one is near.
						Visit vocational class; extension class; agricultural institute or short
							course.
						Have talks before the class by a member of the state board; the county agent;
							county superintendent of schools; and a member of the school board.
					
				
				
				
					DEPARTMENTS AND ADMINISTRATION
					Distribution of powers
					THE constitution (Art. III) distributes the powers of government
						among the legislative, executive (including administrative) and judicial departments,
						providing explicitly that no person charged with the official duties of one of the
						departments shall exercise any of the functions of another, except as expressly provided
						in the constitution. The distinction is clear in principle, but there is much
						overlapping in practice and functioning. This is especially marked between the
						legislative and judicial in the exercise by the courts of the power to annul any
						legislative act on the ground of unconstitutionality, though no such authority is
						expressed in the constitution. Recent and striking instances may be noted in the
						decisions upon the constitutional convention act and the suffrage act, passed by the
						legislature of 1917. Both were declared unconstitutional by the supreme court, and in
						both cases by a divided opinion of the court.
					
						EXECUTIVE
						The office of governor is substantially the same in Indiana as in all the states.
							(Reed, Chapter X; Indiana Constitution, Art. V.)
						The lieutenant-governor is in effect the vice-governor. In case the office of the
							governor becomes vacant or the governor is unable to discharge the duties, the same
							shall devolve upon the lieutenant-governor. The
							lieutenant-governor is president of the senate and has a right when in committee of
							the whole to vote on all subjects and to give a casting vote in case of a tie. It is a
							disputed question as to whether or not he can vote on the passage of bills and joint
							resolutions in any case. The senate was equally divided politically in the session of
							1917, but no test case of this question was allowed to arise.
						Executive powers
						It can not be said literally that the governor is, indeed, a chief executive in any
							such sense as in the case of the President of the United States. The constitution
							provides that he shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed, but in this
							respect he is entirely dependent upon the measure of power extended to him by the
							legislature. He can not, in fact, directly execute the laws, since he has no immediate
							authority over sheriffs and local police officers and he has no direct power over
							prosecutors in the performance of their duties. In cases of extreme necessity, he can
							call in the militia to execute laws, suppress insurrection or repel invasions, but
							occasions seldom arise for the exercise of this extraordinary authority. The governor
							is deprived of the actual benefits of a cabinet, since the chief administrative
							officers about him hold their positions on the independent basis of popular election.
							The attorney general is chosen in the same manner as the governor and is the chief
							legal representative of the state. He may act independently of the chief executive in
							many important functions.
						Administrative relations
						Although the executive department includes the administrative in the general
							divisions of power, a separate article of the constitution is devoted to administrative officers. These officers are established in
							the constitution and made elective. The state administrative officers so named are
							secretary, auditor, and treasurer of state, all of whom hold office for two years and
							are not eligible to serve more than four years in any period of six years. (Reed,
							Chapter XIV.)
						The county officers similarly so established by the constitution are clerk of the
							circuit court, auditor, recorder, treasurer, sheriff, coroner and surveyor. The clerk,
							auditor and recorder have four-year terms and are not eligible for more than eight
							years in any period of twelve years. The others have two-year terms and are not
							eligible for more than four years in any period of six years. Other state, county,
							town, and township officers not specifically named in the constitution are subject to
							election or appointment to office in such manner as the legislature may determine.
							(Reed, Chapter XVIII.)
						It thus appears that in administrative functions the duties and powers are divided
							among independent officers with whom the governor must work more upon the basis of
							equality than authority. The county is really an administrative unit of the state, but
							the functions are exercised by officers elected independently of state officers and of
							each other. The same is true in the township, thus establishing a degree of
							decentralization such as is not conducive to the strongest executive or administrative
							efficiency.
						Lack of harmony
						It is entirely possible of occurrence, and in fact has frequently occurred in
							Indiana, that the governor finds himself surrounded by officers adverse to him politically or otherwise. This is especially possible
							in view of the somewhat uncertain political complexion of the state. A situation of
							this kind resulted from the election of 1908, causing Governor Marshall to exclaim
							that he was in "the governor's chair, surrounded by state officials politically
							opposed to him, like a rat in a trap." The fact that the political complexion of some
							of these offices, such as the secretary, auditor, treasurer and attorney general, may
							change during the governor's term, because of election every two years, further
							enhances the possibility of a lack of harmony and co-operation in the state house.
						The governor may demand publicity
						Perhaps the chief use of the governor's power over state administration resides in
							his authority to require information in writing from the officers of the
							administrative department upon any subjects relating to their respective offices. This
							is a part of his general power in transacting all necessary business with the officers
							of the government.
						Relation to legislature
						The governor, by official messages, gives information to the legislature from time to
							time, touching any condition of the state's affairs which he wishes to present to the
							law-making body. This is usually done by a formal and general message at the opening
							of the session, though numerous special messages may be given during the session. In
							these messages he recommends such action as to him seems expedient.
						Veto Power
						After a bill has passed the two houses it must be presented to the governor. With his
							approval and signature it becomes a law. If he vetoes the bill, it can only become a
							law by having again passed both houses by a majority vote of all members of each house. If the governor does not return the bill within
							three days, Sundays excepted, it shall become a law without his signature. The
							"pocket" veto can be applied to all bills presented to the governor within two days of
							final adjournment. This may be, and often is, very effective, since it is customary
							for the legislature to pass a great many measures at the very close of the session.
							The governor can only approve or veto a bill as a whole. He can not discriminate as to
							individual parts of measures and is, therefore, divested of any real discrimination in
							final control of finances through legislative appropriation of public funds. The
							governor necessarily hesitates to veto an entire appropriation bill at the close of
							the session and so possibly require an extra session because of a few objectionable
							features of the measure. This makes possible the adoption of many bad provisions in
							the form of "riders" to appropriation bills. In the session of 1917 approximately
							$15,000,000 of appropriations were made in the last three days of the session. In
							these appropriation bills salaries were increased, new offices were created and some
							offices were abolished. This would hardly occur if the governor possessed the power to
							approve parts of a measure and disapprove special items or provisions. The governor
							may by proclamation call a special session of the legislature at any time when, in his
							opinion, the public welfare requires it. This is an extraordinary power of great
							importance, but is seldom used. The governor's chief source of power over legislation
							is usually found in his strength as party leader.
						
						The budget system
						A plan popularly urged to give the governor actual responsibility and discrimination
							in financial affairs of the state is the establishment of the budget system. (Reed,
							page 486.) The present method of determining state needs through recommendation of a
							visiting committee of the legislature can hardly assure adequate and systematic
							investigation of all state needs. The recommendations may be adopted or reduced or
							greatly enlarged, or they may be changed altogether by the legislature. Special
							appropriations may be made entirely apart from the general plan. Under the
							circumstances the time and opportunity for careful consideration are limited, though
							it fortunately happens that there are usually "faithful guardians of the treasury" in
							every legislature. The budget plan proposes to substitute for general legislative
							responsibility a systematic control and a direct responsibility in the governor. It
							would authorize him to formulate, submit and defend before the legislature, if
							necessary, all financial measures. The complete budget of state needs would be
							submitted under executive direction. The budget might be reduced in one or more items,
							but could not be increased. The governor would be authorized to veto any one or more
							items of any appropriation bill.
						Without more centralization of responsibility it is very difficult indeed to have a
							systematic and economic control of state finances in view of the present enormous
							burden of state government. This situation of divided control led Governor Goodrich to
							state publicly at the close of the legislature of 1917, that "there is little the
							governor can do for economy," and that "he is as helpless
							as a child" in some very important matters of state finance.
						Pardoning power
						The governor is vested with large power to grant reprieves, commutations and pardons
							after conviction covering all offenses except treason and cases of impeachment. He can
							suspend execution for treason until the case is considered by the legislature. He has
							power to remit fines and forfeitures. This power, exercised in co-operation with the
							pardon board, constitutes the working basis of our reformative system in penal
							procedure. The tendency seems to be toward an ever broader exercise of executive
							clemency.
						Appointments
						Through the creation of large numbers of boards and commissions the appointive power
							of the governor is constantly increased. This power enables the governor to extend his
							control and influence in many special functions of administration, though it does not
							apply to much definite executive or administrative work. The principal powers thus
							exercised are of a supervisory nature, pertaining especially to state
							institutions.
						Military
						By virtue of the fact that he is commander-in-chief of the military and naval forces
							of the state, the governor is vested with authority of a military nature which in
							cases of emergency, and especially in times of war, offers a large measure of
							executive force and discretion. He appoints the adjutant, quartermaster and commissary
							generals, and is himself commander in charge of the state militia, consisting of all
							able-bodied white male persons between the ages of eighteen and forty-five, except
							such as may be specially exempted. Our war governors have
							been able to use the military discretion vested in them with great efficiency.
						The spokesman of the people
						It is probably true that the governor's chief source of power is not the authority
							legally reposed in him by law, but in his influence and force as a public and popular
							representative. As the spokesman of the people of his commonwealth he may gain
							prestige and command such a following as may overcome all technical obstacles in the
							conduct of public policies.
						Short ballot
						The application of the short ballot to state affairs is being thoughtfully considered
							as a means of vesting needed responsibility and discretion in the governor in his
							executive capacity. This would probably vest such appointive powers in him as have
							always been vested in the President of the United States, leaving only the governor,
							lieutenant-governor and possibly the auditor of state, who is the check upon the
							governor, to be elected by popular vote. (Reed, page 108.)
						The extension of such additional power carries with it the suggestion of more direct
							recourse in the hands of the people through the recall. The short ballot idea is
							condemned on the one hand as undemocratic because it deprives the people of the
							privilege of voting for many of their officers. It is advocated on the ground that it
							really promotes greater democracy as well as efficiency in that it would make voting
							more responsible and effective through the simplification of elections and the
							complete fixing of responsibility. President Wilson has declared it to be "the key to
							the whole problem of the restoration of popular government in this country."
						
						Local administration
						The conduct of business in counties and townships is almost entirely administrative
							in character and is carried out by these units as subdivisions of the state along the
							same general lines of state policy. It is simply a form of administrative
							self-government subject to general laws and policies. The only legislative powers
							vested in the county are reposed in the board of county commissioners. This board
							exercises some functions of all three departments of government. The same reasons for
							the application of the short ballot which might be urged in state government would
							apply also in county and township government.
					
					
						LEGISLATIVE
						Membership of houses
						The legislative authority of the state is vested in the general assembly, consisting
							of the senate and house of representatives. These bodies now include the maximum
							membership allowed by the constitution—fifty in the senate and one hundred in
							the house. Senators are elected for four years, the term of one-half the members
							expiring every two years. No person is eligible to either house who is not a citizen
							of the United States and who has not been for two years next preceding his election an
							inhabitant of the state, and for one year of his county or district. The minimum age
							for senators is twenty-five years, and for representatives twenty-one years. There is
							no limit to the number of terms for which a member may be elected. No member of either
							house shall, during the term for which he may have been elected, be eligible to any
							office created by the session in which he serves. It is quite common for members to
							serve many terms in succession. Members of the house are
							frequently elected later to serve in the senate. The membership of both houses usually
							represents all walks of life—lawyers and farmers predominating. (Reed, Chapter
							XI.)
						Length of session
						The legislature assembles in regular session on the first Thursday after the first
							Monday in January in every odd year. The fixed limit to the session is sixty-one days,
							including Sundays and holidays. It usually takes several days for the legislature to
							become thoroughly organized, and the inevitable result is that there is a tremendous
							rush in the closing days of every session. This limitation of sessions results in
							setting aside, in many important cases, the carefully planned rules of procedure which
							are intended to safeguard all steps in legislation. Instead of reading all bills by
							sections on three several days, the rules are often suspended by a two-thirds vote and
							numerous bills are passed with a rush during the last two or three days of the
							session. This tends to prevent the deliberation and thorough consideration
							contemplated in our system of representative government. (Reed, Chapter XII.)
						One of the suggested remedies for undue limitation of session is a divided session,
							having the first part devoted to the introduction of measures, after which a recess
							may be taken for the return of members to their constituents. The recess gives time
							for the study and discussion of these measures by the people as well as the
							representatives. After the recess, the legislature proceeds to final consideration and
							passage of needed measures.
						Another proposed plan is to remove all limitation of
							session and fix an annual salary for legislators rather than payment on a per diem
							basis.
						There is comparatively little open and thorough discussion of measures in either
							house, excepting in the case of special proposals of most intense importance. The
							effective work is practically all done by hard-working committees which investigate
							and revise bills and report them for passage or block them completely.
						Bicameral system
						The two-house system that prevails in state legislation generally has always been in
							vogue in this state. It is an interesting question as to the actual effect of this
							dual plan whereby each house can check and support the other. The complaint is
							frequently heard that this system, instead of making a double safeguard, is doubly
							confusing in that each house passes the responsibility on to the other for final
							determination, developing methods of political manipulation tending to defeat
							deliberation and care instead of promoting careful consideration. The double system
							multiplies labor and expense and makes the question of limitation of session doubly
							serious. Whether or not the substitution of a single house with a smaller number of
							members would result in more representative government is a subject for thoughtful
							consideration.
						Representative government
						An all-important question of representative government is as to whether or not,
							through the legislature, the real wants and needs of the people are felt and
							considered. It must be recognized that this depends very largely upon the question as
							to whether or not party political organizations can be relied upon as being
							representative of the people, for the legislature is largely controlled by political
								policies and platforms and is often subject to the
							direction of party leaders. In notable questions involving keen public sentiment, such
							as the liquor question, public influences do make themselves felt in legislative halls
							regardless of party organization. However, in the main course of legislation, the
							influences that are constantly felt are those of a specially organized nature that
							have means of reaching the legislature, whereas the general mass of the people do not.
							Anti-lobby regulations have been made to restrain the influence and possible evil of
							special interests as far as possible. The people have no direct method of reaching the
							legislature except by petitions which, having no compelling force behind them, are of
							questionable value unless backed by overwhelming sentiment. The individual member
							tries to reflect what he believes to be the prevailing sentiment of the people of his
							district, though it may happen, and frequently does happen, that his action is
							controlled by general state policy rather than local sentiment. (Reed, page 109.)
						Special legislation
						Perhaps the greatest single obstacle in the way of thorough representation of the
							people of the state is the growing tendency toward local and special legislation. The
							constitution provides (Art. IV, Sec. 22) careful and specific safeguards against this
							practice, embodying some seventeen enumerated cases of inhibitions of local or special
							laws. These were sufficient to avert the need of special legislation a half century
							ago and prove excellent safeguards in so far as they are applicable today. It is quite
							essential that the legislative body be permitted to deal only with matters of general
							state importance and to this end it is necessary that minor local interests be attended to in local communities. The provisions against
							special legislation may be greatly strengthened by the extension of a larger measure
							of local initiative and local self-government in counties and cities. This will make
							way for far larger opportunity in the legislature to be thoroughly representative of
							all the people of the state.
						Representation in Congress
						Indiana is represented in the Congress of the United States by thirteen members in
							the Lower House and two senators, all elected by direct popular vote. The members of
							the Lower House are elected for two-year terms and those of the Senate for six years.
							The representatives are chosen by districts made of contiguous counties so as to form
							thirteen separate congressional districts. Marion county constitutes a single
							district.
					
					
						JUDICIAL
						Organization of courts
						The judicial power in Indiana is vested by the constitution in a supreme court, in
							circuit courts and in such other courts as may be established by the legislature. The
							development of the system has provided an appellate court for the state, superior
							courts for counties containing large cities, special probate, criminal and juvenile
							courts, city courts, mayors' courts and justice of the peace courts. (Reed, Chapter
							XIII.)
						The supreme court can have no more than five judges. When the great increase of
							appellate business, due to increase in population and enterprise of the state,
							rendered this number insufficient to perform all the duties of the highest court of
							appeals, the legislature, acting under its general power to establish courts, created the appellate court of six members as an aid to
							the supreme court. Supreme judges serve for six years and appellate judges for four
							years. The judges of the supreme court are elected from districts. The state is
							divided into five sections for this purpose and one judge is elected from each
							district by all the electors of the state. The six members of the appellate court are
							elected similarly from two districts of the state, three from each district. Due to
							the practice of taking cases from the appellate court to the supreme court for review,
							it has resulted, in part at least, that the appellate court constitutes another link
							in the chain of procedure instead of being a positive addition to the supreme court.
							The cases passed upon by the appellate court are published in volumes separate from
							those passed upon by the supreme court. These reports are published by the supreme
							court reporter. Cases go both to the supreme and to the appellate court from the
							circuit courts, superior courts and other specially created courts. Cases involving
							the constitutionality of a law can be determined only by the supreme court. A majority
							of the members of the court form a quorum and a majority may render a decision. A
							great deal of the work of these courts of appeal consists in construing new statutes,
							determining their application and constitutionality.
						There are sixty-eight circuit courts in the state, one judge being elected from each
							circuit. In many cases the circuit is coterminous with the county. In some districts,
							several of the smaller and sparsely populated counties are combined to make one
							circuit. No county has more than one circuit judge. The judge is elected for a term of
							six years by the voters of the circuit. This court has
							general original jurisdiction in civil and criminal cases and has appellate
							jurisdiction from justice of the peace courts and city courts. The circuit court also
							has probate and juvenile jurisdiction, except in Marion county.
						The legislature has created superior courts in several counties containing large
							cities, where a single circuit court has been found insufficient. These now number
							seventeen. Five of these are in the city of Indianapolis. The judges are elected by
							the people of the county for a term of four years. The superior courts have
							jurisdiction almost identical with the circuit courts, being limited only in some
							special actions in which the circuit court has exclusive jurisdiction.
						Other special courts created to take care of increasing litigation are a criminal
							court, probate court and juvenile court—all for Marion county.
						We have twenty-four special city courts in cities of the first, second, third and
							fourth classes. The judges are elected by the people of the cities for a term of four
							years and have exclusive jurisdiction of all violations of city ordinances and general
							jurisdiction similar to justices of the peace. In cities of the fifth class the mayor
							acts as judge of the city court, having jurisdiction similar to that of judges in the
							cities of the other classes and of justices of the peace.
						The constitution authorizes a "Competent" number of justices of the peace. We have in
							Indiana 1,260 of these courts with a constable acting for each court. The justice
							court has limited civil and criminal jurisdiction in township and county. Appeals are
							taken directly from the justice court to the circuit or
							superior court. Jury trials are held in the justice courts, the jury consisting of six
							members. A questionable feature of our justice court practice is the retention of the
							old fee system—the compensation of officers depending upon conviction and
							collection of fees in criminal cases, the fees being assessed as part of the
							costs.
						A prosecuting attorney is elected for a term of two years by the voters of each
							judicial circuit. It is his duty to represent the state in the prosecution of all
							violations. He is compensated in part by fees.
						It is possible that a general reorganization of our system adapted to all the needs
							of the present day could result in reducing the number of courts and in bringing
							greater dispatch and economy in dispensing justice.
						Delay
						The Bill of Rights (Sec. 12) provides that "all courts shall be open; and every man,
							for injury done to him, in his person, property or reputation, shall have remedy by
							due course of law. Justice shall be administered freely and without purchase;
							completely and without denial; speedily and without delay." This expresses the ideal
							sentiment and practice which underlies our system of justice. The most general
							dissatisfaction with court procedure has been due to delay, resulting largely from
							technical forms of procedure and the chain of appeals. Cases frequently require many
							years for ultimate determination. It is true that delays may be in many cases an aid
							to the careful and thorough investigation and trial of a case and may result in more
							complete justice. On the other hand, it is also true that long-drawn-out delays
							operate in the long run against the poor, unprotected litigant, especially if the other side of the case is of considerable power. With
							all possible delay excluded, every precaution should, of course, be maintained to
							guarantee a fair and thorough hearing, touching all wrongs and grievances for which
							public tribunal is required. The courts are tribunals of last resort and should not be
							burdened with minor complaints, which common sense and good citizenship can reconcile
							without public appeal. The development of greater civic sense among the people will
							tend to lessen the duties of the courts.
						The jury
						Although the tendency in much of our litigation, especially in civil cases, seems
							toward trial directly by the judge without a jury, this time-honored institution, the
							jury, still prevails in the Indiana judicial system. Two jury commissioners for the
							county, appointed by the judge of the circuit court, serve for one year and select
							from the names of all the voters of the county double the number needed for all the
							juries, grand and petit, for the year. The names are kept in the jury box by the clerk
							of the circuit court and the key deposited with that one of the commissioners who is
							of opposite political faith from the clerk. Names are drawn for the petit jury. These
							constitute the panel from which is selected jurors to sit in the trial of cases.
							Separate names are drawn for the grand jury. Juries in the circuit and superior courts
							consist of twelve men; in the justice court, of six men.
						A peculiar provision of the Indiana constitution gives jurors the authority to
							determine both the law and the facts in the trial of criminal cases. The practice
							which generally prevails limits the function of the jury to the determination of the
							facts. The requirement that the verdict of the jury be
							unanimous results in many hung juries, new trials and compromise verdicts. This might
							be relieved by allowing three-fourths of the jurors to return a signed verdict in
							civil cases and in criminal cases less than felonies.
						It is to be regretted that many good citizens avoid jury service, leaving too many
							opportunities for professional jurors.
						Selection and term of judges
						It is of the utmost importance that judges in all courts be as free as possible from
							any form of bias or special influence. The question as to whether or not this can be
							obtained by popular election and short term is a very interesting one. It is urged
							that selection of judges by appointment would tend toward greater freedom from
							political influence such as may result in the canvass for votes in the primary and
							general elections. If the judge's term could be made to depend upon efficiency and
							good behavior, instead of being limited to a short fixed period with the possibility
							of re-election depending upon political chance, it would induce greater independence
							and possibly more satisfactory service. The constitution authorizes the legislature to
							provide for the election of all judges by an election to be held for them only, at
							which time no other officer shall be voted for. (Art. II, Sec. 14.) A separate
							election of this kind might have the tendency to lessen the influence of partisan
							politics. It has always been the practice in Indiana to select judges by the same
							political methods that prevail in the choice of public officers generally.
						Lawyer's qualifications
						Through the influence of bar associations and law schools an ever higher standard of
							professional  qualifications is being promoted. By
							provision of the constitution (Art. XII, Sec. 21), every person of good moral standing
							who is a voter is entitled to be admitted to the bar upon his own application. Being a
							voter and of good moral character are the maximum requirements. Many who are not
							voters have been admitted. The supreme court has held that women may be granted the
							right to practice before all courts.
						Impeachment
						Strong constitutional provisions and general laws for the impeachment of officers
							prevail in Indiana. However, the cases of impeachment and removal have been
							comparatively rare. A limitation upon the power of impeachment, intended to give
							greater independence and discretion to prosecutors and judges, provides, in effect,
							that these officers can only be impeached and removed after conviction of corruption
							or other high crime. (Art. VII, Sec. 12.) This article has had late construction in
							the supreme court (State vs. Patterson, 181 Indiana 660) holding
							that the judge and prosecuting attorney are constitutional officers and are neither
							state nor county officers subject to the general impeachment provisions of the
							constitution and laws based thereon, applicable to state and county officers. Adequate
							impeachment provisions and vigorous enforcement would do much to relieve all agitation
							for proposals of recalls applied to such officers.
						Federal jurisdiction
						The state of Indiana constitutes a federal court district, having one judge appointed
							by the President during life or good behavior. Sessions of the court are regularly
							held at Indianapolis and occasionally in Fort Wayne, Evansville, Hammond and New
							Albany. Appeals from the district judge are taken to the
							federal circuit court of appeals of the seventh circuit, which includes Indiana,
							Illinois and Wisconsin. The circuit court usually holds sessions in Chicago, but may
							designate other places in the circuit. Cases involving federal questions are tried in
							the federal courts.
					
					
						TAXATION
						The levy and collection of taxes is a highly important function in the administration
							of government. (Reed, Chapter XL.) Probably no subject of public policy in civic
							affairs has received more thought and discussion in Indiana in recent years than
							taxation. The general system in vogue has been maintained substantially the same since
							the adoption of the constitution in 1851, though phases of the law have received
							different application. The constitution requires a uniform and equal rate of
							assessment and taxation, thus establishing the general property tax. Under this
							provision all tax laws must apply alike to all classes of property regardless of
							nature or kind. This has been found extremely difficult to carry out in practice
							because of the vastly different nature of property. Real estate differs widely as an
							object of taxation from intangible personal property.
						The system is administered through township, county, city and state agencies. The
							township assessor has the extremely important duty of making assessment and fixing the
							valuation of personal property of private individuals each year. Real property is
							assessed every four years. The county board of review fixes the assessment upon the
							property of corporations excepting pipe lines, railways, express companies, telegraph and telephone systems. These are assessed by the state
							board of tax commissioners. Appeals from the valuations made by the township assessor
							may be taken to the county board and even to the state board. The tax levy is the sum
							total of levies made for the different units of government by the state legislature,
							county council, city council or town trustees, township advisory board and the school
							trustees. Taxes are paid in installments twice a year to the county treasurer, who
							makes distribution to the state, county, township and city.
						It will be noted that the administration of the tax system represents the peculiar
							relation of the state, county, township and city. The township assessor has really the
							most important duty of all in making the assessment. If this is inequitable, the
							further administration of the system can not possibly be equitable. The county
							assessor has uncertain supervisory powers over township assessments and can bring
							appeals before the county board of review. The county board of review, in addition to
							assessing the property of corporations, reviews grievances and makes equalization
							between the townships. The state tax commissioners, in addition to assessing public
							utilities, settle appeals from county boards and make equalization between
							counties.
						The application of the general property tax to modern forms of property seems to bear
							with undue hardship upon visible property in common forms which can be listed easily
							at true value, whereas vast amounts of wealth in invisible form—stocks, bonds,
							etc.—easily escape taxation. It is urged that this could be remedied, in part at
							least, by the application of a classification tax which
							would fix different rates for different kinds of property. A state income tax has been
							adopted in many states as a means of equalizing the burden of government support
							according to income. Neither of these have been tried thus far in Indiana because of
							constitutional objections.
						Indiana has an inheritance tax law, adopted in 1913, which contributes revenue to the
							state highway fund. The rate varies from one per cent to five per cent according to
							the degree of relationship and the amount of inheritance. It is a graduated
							tax—the rate rising with the amount of the heritage and the distance of
							relationship.
						The problem of taxation is recognized as including much more than the machinery and
							system of levy and collection. It involves the whole subject of cost of government,
							which has been increasing in every unit of government for the last twenty-five years.
							This increase has been due, of course, in some measure to the increase in population
							but mainly to the increasing number of functions of government and possibly to lax
							methods of financial administration. Whether or not this expense will increase or
							decrease will depend upon both of these elements—the functions assumed and the
							efficiency of financial administration. Whether the cost be great or small, it is
							essential that the burden borne by the taxpayer be equitably adjusted, considering
							such elements as ability to pay and the benefit to be derived.
						
						
							TOPICS AND QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION OR DEBATE
							Short ballot.
							Budget system.
							Recall of executive and administrative officers.
							Recall of judges.
							Should judges be appointed to serve during good behavior?
							What qualifications should be required for admission to the bar?
							Should unanimity of verdicts for jurors be abolished?
							Should courts have the power to annul legislative acts on grounds of
								unconstitutionality?
							Unicameral system of legislation.
							Initiative and referendum.
							Classification tax vs. general property tax.
							Is a state income tax desirable?
						
						
							SPECIAL EXERCISES
							Have talks before the class from one or more state officers; a member of the
								legislature; a judge.
							Arrange special visits of the class to the courts when they are in session; to
								the legislature if it is in session during the term and to county, executive and
								administrative departments of the county and state.
							Assign to each student some special exercise requiring a personal interview or
								correspondence with some state officer or board touching some state function.
						
					
				
				
				
					CITY GOVERNMENT
					Peculiar problem
					THE peculiar nature of the city as a separate unit in public policy
						has not been recognized to a very large degree in the government of Indiana. To those
						who live in cities, it is becoming increasingly clear that the city is a distinct factor
						in government rather than a subdivision of the state after the nature of the county and
						the township. We have more points of direct contact with affairs that are peculiar to
						the city than we have with all other units of government combined, not excepting the
						nation. A rightful regard for the city, state and nation involves a three-fold
						patriotism.
					The problem of city government is distinctly modern and is taking on new and peculiar
						aspects constantly. This problem today is not the problem that was involved in the
						government of compact communities fifty years ago, or even twenty-five years ago. The
						rapid increase of population makes necessary the development of new forms and functions
						of community activity. The growing complexity of social and economic relations in these
						compact communities continually produces new questions of public policy, requiring new
						methods of solution in a political sense. There is just as much basis for new and
						original development in the government of municipal corporations as there is for new and original methods and activities in the development of
						modern business through private corporations. (Reed, Chapter XXXIX.)
					City growth in Indiana
					Over one-half of the people of Indiana live in urban communities. In 1910, Indiana had
						88 cities of over 2,500 inhabitants, and 382 towns and villages of less than 2,500
						inhabitants. Our urban population included, in 1910, 53.5 per cent of the whole and the
						rural population 46.5 per cent. Ten years previous, 1900, the relation was almost
						exactly reversed, the rural communities including 55.2 per cent and the towns and cities
						44.8 per cent. This indicates the rapid tendency toward centralization of population in
						cities and suggests the growing complexity of the problem of local government. From 1900
						to 1910 our city population increased 30.5 per cent, while our rural population
						decreased 5.5 per cent. About one-tenth of the population of Indiana is in the city of
						Indianapolis.
					Lack of city system
					It is true of Indiana, as of much of the western world, that there can hardly be said
						to exist a really adequate system of city government. As the cities have grown and it
						has become necessary to meet vitally changed conditions, government has tried to keep
						pace largely by a series of makeshifts. Our state constitution takes practically no note
						of cities and makes no substantial provision for them. The word "city" appears only once
						in the constitution, and then not in any important connection. Article XIII, adopted in
						1881, makes reference to municipal corporations for the purpose of limiting the
						activities and powers of cities by imposing a two per cent debt limit. (Reed, Chapters
						XV, XVI.)
					
					Our cities are subject to state regulation and control by general laws. Through
						interpretation of a provision relating to private corporations (Art. XI, Sec. 13),
						cities in Indiana, constitutionally defined, are "corporations other than banking." This
						oversight in regard to cities was natural in the making of a constitution at a time when
						there was no real city problem in Indiana. Our largest city in 1850 had less than 8,000
						inhabitants and the coming of the modern municipal era had hardly cast its shadow.
					Classification of cities
					The boundary line between towns and cities is the population limit of 2,000. A village
						can become a town through petition of the people to the county commissioners asking for
						the establishment of a separate government prescribing the boundaries. If this is
						approved by the commissioners and ratified by the people residing within the proposed
						town limits, a town is formed, divided into wards, and officers are chosen. By a
						two-thirds vote of four-fifths of the electors, the town government can be
						dissolved.
					A town of 2,000 population or over may by petition and a majority vote of its
						inhabitants become a city. The city so formed then enters into its general class under
						our state laws governing cities.
					It can not properly be said that any Indiana city has a charter. The so-called charter
						of any Indiana city consists merely of an act or acts of the state legislature applying
						to that particular city or rather to the class to which it belongs. Our cities are
						divided into five classes on the basis of population and, to some extent, upon the
						assessed valuation of taxable property within the city
						limits. Cities of 100,000 or over belong in the first class. This includes only the city
						of Indianapolis. Cities having a population of not less than 35,000 or more than 100,000
						belong to the second class. The third class includes all having a population of from
						25,000 to 35,000. The fourth class includes all cities having a population of from
						10,000 to 20,000, provided they also have taxable property amounting to $5,000.000. This
						class also includes cities having a smaller population than 10,000 if they have taxable
						wealth assessed at $7,500,000 or over. For example, Whiting with a population of less
						than 7,000 was included in the fourth class because of its taxable property. The fifth
						class includes all other cities.
					System of government
					The general system of government in the cities, provided by the state law, is very
						similar in all classes. The plan is the "mayor and council plan," or the so-called
						"federal plan," which is entirely political in nature. Officers are elected by party
						ballot. The holding of city elections at a time when there is no national or state
						election has tended to center more exclusive interest upon city government, but it has
						had very little effect in changing the partisan political character of the elections.
						National and state politics still reign supreme. It naturally follows that the
						appointments of officers and boards are dominated almost entirely by political
						considerations and largely as a means of paying political debts. The mayor and council
						frequently cross each other in such ways as to interfere with progress and to make the
						fixing of absolute responsibility very uncertain. Conflicts between the departments often bring the administration of the government
						to a standstill.
					Again, the city is limited in fundamental respects by state legislation so as to make
						almost impossible adequate exercise of local self-government. At the same time a very
						high degree of decentralization exists, since the state can not exercise direct control
						in local affairs. There can be little doubt that the dissatisfaction which has existed
						so generally in our cities is traceable almost entirely to our confusing system of
						administering city affairs and to the dependent position in which the city officers are
						placed. This dissatisfaction is always expressed politically and it is the natural
						political history of our cities that almost every administration is succeeded by an
						administration of the opposing party—a continual round of "ins and outs" without
						much material change in results.
					For educational purposes the city is a separate unit, the school city being distinct
						from the civil city. If these functions are not properly discharged, the fault must lie
						either with the system in operation or with the men charged with the administration of
						these duties. The fault may reside in both. The system has much to do in determining the
						selection of men as well as the character and quality of the service they render.
					Public utilities
					A highly important part of the functioning of city government in the way of serving the
						people is conducted very largely and in many cities entirely through private
						corporations. This covers such important and universal service as the supplying of gas,
						water, electricity, street railways and telephones. Approximately one-half of the cities
							in Indiana own their own waterworks and about one-third
						own and operate their own electric light plants. None of the other utilities is owned by
						any Indiana city. The city of Indianapolis owns none of its public utilities. These are
						the money-making functions of the city and private enterprise is eager to control them.
						(Reed, Chapter XXXVI.)
					Through our state utility law, passed in 1913, the general control and regulation of
						rates and service of these public utilities is vested in the public service commission
						of the state, appointed by the governor. All franchises are in effect indeterminate
						permits. No city may grant a franchise without permission of the commission and the
						commission may take away franchises for cause. Rates and regulations of service are
						fixed entirely by the commission upon its own investigation, taking this important power
						entirely away from the control of the people themselves.
					Need of home rule
					It is becoming clearly evident that government of cities by general classes does not
						reach the best results in the different cities. Cities are no more alike than families
						or states or nations. The internal local problems of each city are, in many cases,
						entirely peculiar to that city and can not be solved by methods of general control. This
						suggests the need of home rule, which is coming to be the prevailing method of modern
						city government. Home rule would relieve the cities entirely of special interference in
						local matters by the legislature and would enable the people of each municipality to
						provide their own special form of local self-government by a self-made charter which
						they could adapt to suit their needs and could change as
						experience should recommend.
					Special legislation
					One of the main considerations in the making of the present constitution was the
						ridding of the state of the evil of local and special legislation which had grown up
						under the constitution of 1816. To some extent this evil has returned, although in a
						somewhat different form, namely, the attempt to legislate for our cities under general
						laws. In all legislative sessions much time is given to the passage of acts which,
						though general in form and terms, are special in their application inasmuch as such acts
						so fix the population limits of the cities to which they apply as to include a given
						city and no other. Thus, although the act must of necessity be so framed as to be
						general in its nature, nevertheless it actually becomes "special legislation."
					In order to obtain the passage of these bills it is quite often necessary that purely
						local questions be fought out in the legislature on a state political basis.
						Complications which concern only the government of cities, as for instance differences
						between city officers and city councils, the establishment of special boards or of
						special courts, must of necessity come before the legislature. These are matters which
						the cities themselves should have the power to attend to at home without asking any kind
						of state interference.
					Our legislature is composed of 150 men, representing 92 counties, 88 cities, 382 towns
						and villages and a strictly rural population of a million and a half. It will be seen
						that the legislature has a full program by attending to the affairs of the whole state
						of Indiana and can hardly afford to give its time to a
						consideration of the internal conflicts over local interests in particular communities.
						The legislature of 1915 passed 191 laws of which less than twenty-five can be considered
						state laws of general interest. The same was substantially true of the legislature of
						1917. Legislative control of cities has given large opportunity for the influence of
						special interests in cities. This will continue as long as cities are without
						independence in their purely local matters.
					
						QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
						To what class does your city belong?
						What was the issue in the last city election?
						What political changes in the administration have there been in the last sixteen
							years?
						What public utilities are owned by your city?
						Find some needed improvement in your community and determine who is responsible
							for making the improvement. Take steps to have it attended to and report
							results.
						Give the names of all city officers and members of boards.
						Attend the meeting of the council and report proceedings in full.
						How nearly has the civil city reached its two per cent debt limit? The school
							city?
						Do you know of any special laws that were passed for the particular benefit of
							your city?
					
					
						TOPICS FOR SET DEBATES OR DISCUSSION
						Home rule for Indiana cities.
						Municipal ownership of public utilities.
						Abolition of two per cent debt limit.
						Should city officers be elected by partisan ballot?
						Discuss commission form of city government; the city manager plan; the business
							system of city government.
					
					
						SPECIAL EXERCISES
						Arrange for the class to visit sessions of the city council and all offices in the
							city hall. Assign special reports upon the work of the
							different departments of the city. Attend hearing of the police court.
						Have the entire class try to work out and bring about some needed public
							improvement in the city.
						Arrange for talks before the class by the mayor, a member of the council, the
							judge of the police court and a member of one of the boards.
					
				
				
				
					GENERAL WELFARE
					Public policy and the individual
					INDIVIDUAL rights and interests in civic life are necessarily
						subject to what is known as the public welfare, which it is the primary purpose of all
						forms and functions of government to promote. Every civic activity could properly be
						listed under this head. There are certain activities of government which deal directly
						with the immediate conduct and environment of the individual, restraining his personal
						freedom, both for his own benefit and for the public welfare. These may be generally
						defined along the broad lines of public health, public morals and public safety, though
						no classification is all inclusive or exclusive. Other functions of a somewhat
						extra-governmental nature offer the individual common conveniences and advantages for
						the sake of the general welfare. In such advanced civic functions Indiana is taking a
						leading rank among the states of the Union.
					Public health
					The state board of health, consisting of five members appointed by the governor, is in
						general charge of activities pertaining to the public health. The principle underlying
						this activity is expressed in the adage of Benjamin Franklin, "Public health is public
						wealth." The board carries on a state-wide work in the promotion of health, the stamping
						out of disease and the reform of conditions tending to bring about disease. One member
						of the board must be a physician who acts as secretary and is in active charge of the work. The board collects vital statistics of
						every kind in reference to births, deaths, the causes of death and the prevalence and
						causes of disease. It advances means of combating disease and ill health, makes surveys
						of public and private property, issues orders to stop disease-breeding or
						disease-spreading habits and to prevent the polluting of lakes and rivers with sewage,
						restricts the holding of public gatherings where there is danger of epidemic, orders the
						discontinuance of the use of common drinking cups, establishes quarantines, maintains
						laboratories, enforces the food and drug act, and carries on campaigns of education
						along all lines tending to awaken the people to the need of better methods of preserving
						health. (Reed, Chapter XXXII.)
					The orders of the state board of health and the rules established by it have the
						binding, legal force of statutory laws. Legislative acts authorizing the adoption of
						these rules have been held constitutional and valid. Prosecuting attorneys are required
						to prosecute violators of the rules and orders. Local health officers act as deputies of
						the state food and drug commissioner, who is also chief chemist in charge of the
						bacteriological laboratory. The effective administration of health programs for the
						state is hindered in much the same manner that general state administration is hindered
						by decentralization of power. Our local health officers should perhaps be more directly
						connected with the state board. The continual development of this work will tend to
						bring about a greater unification of the entire system and will result in the
						establishment of offices filled by experts devoting their full time to these duties.
					
					Charities and corrections
					A comprehensive system of charities and corrections, including all agencies for
						ministering to the unfortunates who are subjects of public care, prevails in Indiana
						through state and local officers and boards. The work is conducted by individual outdoor
						relief in the homes of those in need and by the so-called indoor relief through public
						institutions. This system of public relief in Indiana dates from territorial days in the
						early forming of townships in 1790, and from this local organization there has developed
						in this state one of the most complete systems of charities and corrections existing
						anywhere in the United States. (Reed, Chapter XXX.)
					Outdoor relief is largely in the hands of the township trustee, under some supervision
						of the county commissioners. Indoor relief is administered through state institutions
						and supervised by the state board of charities. This system of state supervision has
						been so successful and has gained such recognition as to be known generally as the
						"Indiana Plan."
					The following charitable and penal state institutions are maintained in Indiana: 
							Central Hospital for Insane
								Indianapolis
							Northern Hospital for Insane
								Logansport
							Eastern Hospital for Insane
								Richmond
							Southern Hospital for Insane
								Evansville
							Southeastern Hospital for Insane
								North Madison
							Soldiers' Home
								Lafayette
							Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home
								Knightstown
							School for Feeble-Minded Youth
								Fort Wayne
							Village for Epileptics
								Newcastle
							State School for the Deaf
								Indianapolis
							Indiana School for the Blind
								Indianapolis
							
							Tuberculosis Hospital
								Rockville
							Robert W. Long Hospital
								Indianapolis
							Indiana State Prison
								Michigan City
							Indiana Reformatory
								Jeffersonville
							Indiana State Farm
								R. R. 7, Greencastle
							Indiana Woman's Prison
								Indianapolis
							Indiana Boys' School
								Plainfield
							Indiana Girls' School
								Clermont
						
					Each of these institutions is under the control of a separate board of trustees serving
						at a nominal salary and appointed by the governor. The board chooses the superintendent
						of the institution and contracts for all supplies. The state board of charities
						supervises and investigates all these institutions, making public report to the governor
						and offering recommendations to the legislature. Annual state conferences are held and
						the proceedings published in quarterly bulletins. Much of the value of this work is due
						to its educational nature.
					The county maintains poor farms for persons who are helpless on account of age,
						infirmity or poverty. Some counties have orphan homes and a few have hospitals. A county
						board of children's guardians appointed by the circuit judge looks after orphan
						children. County charities generally are in charge of the county commissioners.
					Reformative system
					The Bill of Rights (Sec. 18) provides that "the penal code shall be founded on the
						principle of reformation and not of vindictive justice." This indicates the spirit
						underlying the administration of our penal system through which the reformative idea has
						developed to a high degree. Men between the ages of sixteen and thirty who are convicted
						of crime are sent to the reformatory rather than to the penitentiary, and girls under
						seventeen are sent to the girls' school of correction. Boys
						under sixteen are sent to the training school at Plainfield. The principal purpose in
						all of these institutions is to give needed correction and opportunity for
						rehabilitation. All persons convicted of crime, excepting murder and treason, may
						receive an indeterminate sentence and after serving the minimum period, may, in the
						discretion of the prison commission, be paroled under good behavior. Girls under
						eighteen and boys under sixteen found guilty of crime may be committed to the custody of
						probation officers. (Reed, Chapter XXVIII.)
					This excellent system involved in the whole program of charities and corrections is a
						most commendable method of extending mercy and care in cases of error and wrong. It
						tends to soften the results of wrongs which may be due in large part to social
						conditions and environment rather than to inherent individual tendencies. The conditions
						out of which these cases arise are being dealt with constantly in constructive ways
						through education and through the enforcement of laws against institutional vices
						whereby, it may be hoped, the need of charities and corrections may grow less with
						increasing enlightenment. It is seldom necessary for institutions of correction to deal
						with those who can enjoy the advantages of our institutions of learning.
					Compulsory education
					The compulsory school law is an advanced step in harmony with the free public school
						system and with the public policy of benefiting the individual for the sake of the
						general welfare. This law requires that all children between the ages of seven and
						fourteen, unless physically or mentally disqualified, shall
						regularly attend school during each year for the full term of the common school in their
						respective localities. The provisions of the law apply also to children between the ages
						of fourteen and sixteen not engaged in some useful employment or service. A child that
						is totally or partially blind or deaf must attend the state school for the blind or deaf
						from the period of seven to eighteen years of age. The principle upon which compulsory
						education rests is that democratic institutions can not be successfully maintained
						unless all members of society have educational training comprehending at least the
						rudiments of learning.
					The compulsory education law is enforced through a state board of truancy consisting of
						the state superintendent of public instruction, a member of the state board of
						education, and the secretary of the state board of charities and corrections. Local
						attendance officers are appointed by the county board of education or city school
						commissioners. All officers and teachers are required to co-operate in the enforcement
						of this act. Penalties are provided for parents or guardians who contribute to the
						delinquency of the child in the matter of school attendance. The child who habitually
						absents himself from school may be dealt with as incorrigible under the jurisdiction of
						the juvenile court.
					Child labor
					The Indiana child labor law prohibits the employment of any child under the age of
						fourteen years in any gainful occupation other than farm work, domestic service and work
						in canning factories during the summer. It also prohibits the employment of any child
						under sixteen years of age over eight hours a day and requires the consent of the
						parents and a school certificate or permit showing that the
						child has completed the fifth grade in school work. By special written consent of
						parents, the child may be permitted to work the maximum of nine hours per day. Children
						under sixteen years of age are prohibited absolutely from working in any dangerous
						occupation. School officers and enforcement officers work in harmony in the enforcement
						of this act in conjunction with the administration of the compulsory education law.
					Anti-cigarette law
					A significant exercise of public restraint upon the individual, especially the young,
						is found in the effort to restrict the general use of cigarettes. Indiana has had
						different kinds of anti-cigarette laws in recent years, ranging from the absolute
						prohibition of the sale or use of cigarettes universally to the law passed in 1913
						prohibiting any minor from using, procuring or receiving in any manner or having in his
						possession any cigarettes, cigarette papers or substitutes therefor. Penalties are
						provided for violation and misrepresentation of age. This supplements the juvenile court
						law, which provides that any child under the age of sixteen years of age who is an
						habitual cigarette smoker may be made a ward of the court as a delinquent. These laws
						are based upon the fact that the habitual smoking of cigarettes among boys is
						exceedingly harmful, tending towards bad conduct and evil association.
					Liquor prohibition
					The police power of the state of Indiana received extensive application when the
						legislature of 1917 passed a law prohibiting the sale, manufacture, barter, gift, or
						exchange of liquor except for medicinal, mechanical and scientific purposes. (Acts 1917, page 15.) This act went into operation April 2, 1918.
						It defines intoxicating liquors as "beverages containing to exceed one-half of one per
						cent of alcohol." It prohibits the sale of patent medicines of high alcoholic contents
						that are capable of being used as a beverage. The law provides a scale of penalties for
						violations, ranging in severity according to the gravity of the infraction. The law does
						not attempt to prohibit the drinking of liquor in the home, nor does it prohibit the
						individual from making wine and cider for his own use. It prohibits the advertisement of
						liquor in printed journals of any kind which circulate in Indiana and renders it
						unlawful to solicit for the sale of liquor in the state either by agents or by
						catalogues through the mail. The basis of such prohibitive legislation is the exercise
						"of the police power of the state for the protection of the economic welfare, health,
						peace and morals of the people."
					Labor and social justice
					Largely through the intelligent and active public efforts of labor organizations some
						advanced steps have been taken in Indiana towards the promotion of a better state of
						social justice, applied to important phases of labor conditions. A notable step in this
						direction was the enactment of the workingmen's compensation act by the legislature of
						1915. (Acts 1915, page 392.) The act was amended in some particulars in 1917.
					The primary purpose of this act is to make the state a direct mediator between the
						employer and the employee in the case of injury suffered by the employee during service.
						It tends to dispense with long-drawn-out and expensive suits for damages in the courts.
						It provides compensation for injuries resulting in
						disability extending beyond seven days on the basis of fifty-five per cent of the weekly
						wage. This compensation is to continue for the full period of disability not exceeding
						300 weeks if the disability is only partial. In cases of total disability the period is
						extended to 500 weeks. If the injury results in death, burial expenses are provided and
						fifty-five per cent compensation given for a period not to exceed 300 weeks.
					All awards are made by the state industrial board. No award can exceed $5,000 in any
						case. Many important details of administration are left to the discretion of the
						industrial board, which consists of three members appointed by the governor. The board
						may summon witnesses and examine books and records. No compensation is allowed in any
						case of willful injury or any damage resulting from intoxication of the employee. The
						purpose of this act is highly preventive as well as compensatory and includes provision
						for accident insurance. This law is not compulsory and employers can reject the act or
						elect to come under its provisions. Fifteen hundred corporations did reject it as soon
						as it went into effect and, all told, the employees of some 2,000 corporations are not
						within its provisions. By such rejection these corporations deprive themselves of many
						defenses in personal injury suits.
					Workingmen's compensation is a modern step toward complete social justice and is a
						great relief to the courts in the settlement of industrial disputes. Decisions are made
						much more quickly and equitably, and with less expense and uncertainty.
					Labor organizations in Indiana are pursuing a broad educational policy touching all
						subjects affecting the condition of workers. A
						representative lobby is maintained at all sessions of the legislature. The unions
						participate prominently in civic movements. The educational results of this organized
						activity tend to bring about a better understanding between employers and employees
						conducive to the best public interest. (Reed, Chapter XXXVII.)
					Organized labor is represented on the state board of education and the council of
						defense. Through co-operation with the United States employment service, the state is
						thoroughly organized for a proper distribution of labor. District employment agencies
						have been established and local representatives appointed in every county. The state
						maintains free employment agencies in Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, South Bend, Evansville
						and Terre Haute. This is a recognition in Indiana that unemployment is a matter of
						social significance rather than of individual fault or misfortune.
					Indiana and the war
					The most valuable by-product in Indiana, resulting from the world war for democracy, is
						the cultivation of a genuine spirit of democracy at home. The civic lessons coming from
						patriotic responses of our public officials and people to the call of the nation are
						deep and lasting.
					Though the conduct of the war is directly in the hands of the federal government, our
						participation as a state very properly engenders new state pride and a new sense of
						state and local civic obligation. It is bringing a more intimate and vital relationship
						among officers and people and among all units of government in the promotion of the
						common welfare.
					The vigorous leadership of our governor and the ready
						co-operation of all public officials, aided by the prompt initiative of our citizens, is
						of exactly that kind and character needed to accomplish every important civic victory,
						and it can not be doubted that the lessons taught will remain with all our people. The
						leadership of the governor as chief executive has been voiced in proclamations,
						addresses and official acts of a public character, many of which are entirely outside of
						the lines of legal duty. Indeed, the manner in which the necessities of war have
						inculcated the broad spirit of achievement and accomplishment regardless of limitations
						and requirements touching official powers and duties, constitutes a valuable object
						lesson in extra-governmental functions.
					The principal war aid work is promoted through the council of defense, acting in a
						semi-official capacity. The Indiana council of defense was appointed by the governor
						following the organization of the national council of defense at the call of the
						President. Our state council is made up of public-spirited men and women representing
						the chief industries and the learned professions of the state and including
						representative leaders of organized activities of every civic nature in the state. Each
						county has a council of defense formed after the manner of the state council, the
						members being appointed by the judge of the circuit court. The headquarters of the state
						council are in the state house and it is now established as a vital agency of
						government.
					The new Americanism will result from the vital transformation of the thrilling impulses
						of a people aroused by war into permanent forms of civic
						endeavor.
					
						SPECIAL EXERCISES
						Discuss the enforcement of the prohibition law; the anti-cigarette law.
						Have talks before the class by a representative of the state board of health; a
							local health officer; a representative of the department of charities and correction;
							a representative of organized labor.
						Have the class attend, if possible, a local or state conference of charities and
							correction.
						Have the class visit a labor union meeting.
						Require each member of the class to report some needed action for preservation of
							the public health and take the necessary steps to have it attended to.
					
				
			
		
		
			
			
			
				BIBLIOGRAPHY
				
					CHARITIES AND CORRECTIONS. 
							The Annual Reports of the National Conference of Charities and
									Corrections.
							The Annual Reports of State Conference, Charities and
								Corrections.
							Quarterly Bulletins, Board of State Charities and
								Corrections.
							Laws Concerning Children, Compiled by Board of State Charities, March,
									1914.
							Annual Reports of State Benevolent Institutions.
							Annual Reports of State Correctional Institutions.
							Johnson, Alexander. A State Aged 100. Glimpses of Social Progress in
									Indiana During One Hundred Years. Reprinted from the Survey of April 22 and 29,
									1916.
							Butler, Amos W., Secretary Board of State Charities. Indiana—A
									Century of Progress. A study of the development of public charities and
									correction. 1790-1915.
						
					PUBLIC HEALTH. 
							Book of Instructions to Health Authorities by State Board of Health,
									1915.
							Reports of the State Board of Health.
						
					SCHOOLS. 
							Annual Report of State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
							Laws of Indiana Relating to Public School System, 1917.
							Reports of State Vocational Director.
							Publication of State Educational Institutions.
							University Extension. 
									Extension Bulletins, Extension Division, Indiana
										University.
									Agricultural Extension, Bulletins, Extension Division, Purdue
											University.
								
							Indiana War Service Textbook for High Schools, 1917.
							Indianapolis, Evansville and Richmond Surveys for Vocational
									Education.
						
					TAXATION. 
							Indiana University. Proceedings of a Conference on Taxation in Indiana.
									1914. University Study. Second Conference, 1914.
							Campbell, Robert. Report of the Commission on Taxation,
								1916.
						
					JUDICIAL SYSTEM. 
							Monks, Leander J., Esarey, Logan, and Shockley, Ernest V. Courts and
									Lawyers of Indiana. 3 vols. 1916. Federal Publishing Co.,
								Indianapolis.
						
					
					INDIANA EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM.
							
							Boone, Richard G. A History of Education in Indiana. New York. Appleton,
									1892.
							Rawles, William A. Centralizing Tendencies in the Administration of
									Indiana. Columbia Univ. Press, 1903.
							Annual Reports of the State Superintendent of Public. Instruction,
									especially the report of F. A. Cotton, prepared in 1904 for the Louisiana Purchase
									Exposition.
						
					CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY. 
							Esarey, Logan. A History of Indiana from Its Exploration to 1850.
									Indianapolis. W. K. Stewart Co., 1915.
							— 1850 to date.
							Thornton, W. W. Constitutional Convention of 1816. State Bar Association
									Reports, 1912.
							— The Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1850.
							Kettleborough, Charles. Constitution Making in Indiana. 1916. 2 vols.
									Indiana Historical Collections.
							Indiana University Conference. Shall a Constitutional Convention be Called
									in Indiana? 1914. University Study.
							— New Constitution for Indiana; an outline and some student
									speeches. 1914. University Study.
							New Constitution Textbook and The Citizen. Citizens League of Indiana.
									Fort Wayne.
						
					CITY GOVERNMENT. 
							Mason, Augustus Lynch. The government of Indianapolis. (Not
									available.)
							Publications of Citizens' League of Indiana. Fort Wayne.
						
					ELECTION LAWS OF INDIANA. Compiled by Board of Election Commissioners.
					NEW PARK LAW FOR CITIES OF SECOND CLASS.
							(With Digest.) (Pamphlet.)
					INDIANA ASSESSMENT LAWS. By State Board of Tax Commissioners, 1912. (Pamphlet.)
					REPORTS OF CITY CONTROLLER
								FOR INDIANA CITIES.
					REPORT OF THE STATE TAX COMMISSION, 1917.
					STATE AUDITOR'S REPORTS.
					BIENNIAL REPORTS OF THE STATE GAME AND FISH COMMISSION.
					ANNUAL REPORTS OF ALL
								STATE INSTITUTIONS.
					STATE BOARD OF FORESTRY, ANNUAL REPORT.
					ANNUAL REPORT OF THE STATE ENTOMOLOGIST.
					BULLETIN ON HEALTH.
					PUBLICATIONS OF BUREAU OF LEGISLATIVE INFORMATION.
					THE INDIANA YEAR BOOK OF 1917.
				
			
			
			
				ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
				
					STATE OFFICERS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
					
						OFFICER
						HOW CHOSEN
						TERM
						IMPORTANT POWERS AND DUTIES
					
					
						Governor
						Elected
						4
						Chief executive Commander-in-chief military forces Suggests
							legislation Veto power Appointive power
					
					
						Lieutenant-Governor
						Elected
						4
						President of state senate Casts deciding vote in case of tie Succeeds
							governor in case of removal or death
					
					
						Secretary of State
						Elected
						2
						Inspects and places state seal to all official state documents Member of
							number of important commissions
					
					
						Auditor of State
						Elected
						2
						Audits state accounts Apportions state funds Appoints bank
							examiners Controls insurance companies and other corporations
					
					
						Treasurer of State
						Elected
						2
						Custodian of state funds
					
					
						Adjutant-General
						Appointed by Governor
						4
						Active head of state military forces
					
					
						Superintendent Public Instruction
						Elected
						2
						Administrative head of common school system President of state board of
							education Appointive power
					
					
						Clerk of Supreme Court
						Elected
						4
						
					
					
						Prosecuting Attorney (One in each [68] judicial district)
						Elected
						2
						Represents state in criminal cases
					
					
						Judge of Supreme Court (5 judges)
						Elected
						6
						Judges of highest court of appeal
					
					
						State Senator (One from each [50] senatorial district of the state)
						Elected
						4
						Represents district in upper branch of general assembly
					
					
					
						State Representative
						Elected
						2
						Represents district in lower branch of general assembly
					
					
						Reporter of Supreme Court
						Elected
						4
						Publishes supreme and appellate court reports
					
					
						Judge of Appellate Court (6 judges)
						Elected
						4
						Judge of appeals from circuit and superior courts
					
					
						Attorney-general
						Elected
						2
						Counsel for state in cases to which it is a party Interprets laws for state
							officials Advises legislature on constitutionality of proposed legislation
					
					
						Chief of employment offices
						Elected
						4
						General supervisor over the five state employment offices Statistician
							ex-officio
					
					
						Law librarian Supreme Court
						Appointed by Court
						Pleasure of Court
						Custodian of law library
					
					
						State geologist
						Elected
						4
						Survey and conservation of mineral resources
					
					
						Natural gas inspector
						Appointed by State Geologist
						4
						
					
					
						Commissioner of fisheries and game
						Appointed by Governor
						4
						Enforcement of game laws Conservation of fish and game
					
					
						State supervisor of oil inspection
						Appointed by State Geologist
						4
						
					
					
						Inspector buildings and factories
						Appointed by Industrial Board
						Pleasure of board
						Inspection to promote safety and health Enforcement of building and health
							laws
					
					
						State fire marshal
						Appointed by Governor
						4
						Executive head of machinery for prevention of destruction by fires
					
					
						Inspector of boilers
						Appointed by Industrial Board
						Pleasure of board
						Inspection of boilers
					
					
						Inspector of mines
						Appointed by Industrial Board
						Pleasure of board
						Inspects mines
					
					
						Supt. Public Buildings and property
						Appointed by Board of Buildings and Property
						Pleasure of board
						Supervision and care of public buildings
					
					
					
						State chemist
						Ex-officio
						Term of position at Purdue
						
					
					
						State librarian
						Appointed by Library Board
						2
						Custodian of state library
					
					
						Clerk printing board, also election commissioners
						Appointed by board of printing
						4
						
					
					
						Secretary board state charities
						Appointed by board state charities
						Pleasure of board
						Being only salaried member of the board, he keeps all records, edits publications,
							etc.
					
					
						Secretary public library commission
						Appointed by public library commission
						Pleasure of commission
						
					
					
						State examiner
						Appointed by governor
						4
						
					
					
						State veterinarian
						Appointed by governor
						4
						
					
					
						Supt. soldiers' and sailors' monument
						Appointed by board of control
						1
						
					
					
						Inheritance tax investigator
						Appointed by governor
						Pleasure of governor
						Supervises administration of inheritance tax
					
					
						State entomologist
						Appointed by governor
						4
						
					
					
						State high school inspector
						Appointed by superintendent public instruction
						2
						Inspects high schools of state for purpose of keeping work standardized
					
					
						Director of vocational education
						Appointed by superintendent public instruction
						4
						Directs the vocational education of state
					
					
						Sec'y state board of health
						Appointed by state board of health
						4
						
					
					
						State highway engineer
						Appointed by state highway commission
						Pleasure of commission
						
					
					
					
						Agricultural agent
						Appointed by superintendent public instruction and Purdue University
						4
						
					
					
						Sec'y state board forestry
						Appointed by governor
						4
						
					
					
						Sec'y of industrial board
						Appointed by industrial board
						Pleasure of board
						
					
				
				PERMANENT STATE BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
				The following permanent State Boards and Commissions are appointed by the governor. (Some
					include members ex-officio.)
				
					
						BOARD
						NUMBER OF MEMBERS
					
					
						A.—For a Term of 4 Years:
						
					
					
						Public Service Commission
						5
					
					
						Industrial Board
						3
					
					
						Board of Forestry
						5
					
					
						Board of Election Commissioners
						3 (Governor an ex-officio member)
					
					
						Board of Health
						5
					
					
						Board of Pardons
						3
					
					
						Board of Education
						13 (7 ex-officio)
					
					
						Board of Certified Accountants
						3
					
					
						Board of Medical Registration and Examination
						6
					
					
						Board of Pharmacy
						5
					
					
						Board of Veterinary Examiners
						4
					
					
						Board of Embalmers
						5
					
					
						Voting Machine Commission
						3
					
					
						Board of Tax Commissioners
						5 (Secretary of State and Auditor of State ex-officio members)
					
					
						Public Library Commission
						3
					
					
						Indiana State Highway Commission
						4
					
					
						B.-For a Term of 3 Years:
						
					
					
						Board of State Charities
						8 (Governor and State Superintendent of Instruction ex-officio members)
					
					
						Board for the Registration and Examination of Nurses
						5
					
					
						Board of Examination in Optometry
						5
					
					
						Board of Control State Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument
						2
					
					
						Board of Trustees of the State Teachers Retirement Fund
						5 (Superintendent of Public Instruction, Attorney-General, Auditor of State
							ex-officio members)
					
					
						C.—For a Term of 2 Years:
						
					
					
						State Board Dental Examiners.  (Governor appoints 1; State Board Health 1;
							Dental Association 3)
						5
					
				
				
				The members of these boards serve on a nominal salary or without pay, except the members
					of the Public Service Commission, the Industrial Board, State Board of Tax Commissioners
					and State Highway Commission.
				The secretaries of the Board of Forestry, Board of Health, and Board of Pharmacy receive
					salaries.
				In addition to the foregoing permanent boards and commissions, there are boards of
					trustees for the five state educational institutions, the eleven state benevolent
					institutions and the six state correctional institutions. With the exception of the
					Indiana University trustees, three of whom are elected by the alumni and five elected by
					the state board of education, all these trustees are appointed by the governor. These
					trustees serve for four years, except those of Indiana University, who serve for three
					years, and of Purdue, who serve for six years.
				
					COUNTY OFFICERS
					
						OFFICER
						HOW CHOSEN
						TERM
						IMPORTANT POWERS AND DUTIES
					
					
						County commissioners  3 members
						Elected
						3
						Meet once each month Care of county buildings Care of roads and bridges
							outside towns and cities Builds county buildings Purchases all county
							supplies Regulates number of justices of peace Fixes time for considering
							franchises Fixes county tax levy Borrows money Allows all claims
							May change township boundaries Audits accounts of all county officers
							Appointive power
					
					
						County council  7 members
						Elected
						4
						Passes appropriation ordinances for drawing funds from treasury Authorizes
							borrowing of money for special needs Passes on county budget Meets each
							September
					
					
						County auditor
						Elected
						4
						Audits all orders for money drawn Acts as check on commissioners and
							council Distributes school money Invests school fund obtained from sale of
							school land Helps council fix tax rate and makes tax duplicates
					
					
						County recorder
						Elected
						4
						Cares for records, mortgages, deeds, etc.
					
					
						County assessor
						Elected
						4
						President county board of tax review Supervises work of township
							assessor Assesses property omitted
					
					
						Clerk of circuit court
						Elected
						4
						
					
					
					
						County superintendent of schools
						Chosen by township trustees
						4
						Heads public school system of county Visits schools, issues teachers'
							certificates, etc.
					
					
						County treasurer
						Elected
						2
						Custodian of county funds Responsible to state treasurer for state taxes
							Collects delinquent taxes
					
					
						County sheriff
						Elected
						2
						Executive officer of all courts in the county Responsible for county
							jail
					
					
						County coroner
						Elected
						2
						Investigates sudden deaths Can summon witnesses and order arrests
					
					
						County surveyor
						Elected
						2
						Civil engineer for county
					
					
						County attorney
						Appointed by county commissioners
						1
						
					
					
						County physician
						Appointed by county commissioners
						1
						
					
					
						County health officer
						Appointed by county commissioners
						1
						
					
					
						County inspector of weights and measures
						Appointed by county commissioners
						1
						
					
				
				
					TOWNSHIP OFFICERS
					
						OFFICER
						HOW CHOSEN
						TERM
						IMPORTANT POWERS AND DUTIES
					
					
						Township trustee
						Elected
						4
						Acts as treasurer for township Supervises roads and ditches and line
							fences Overseer of the poor Makes census of voters every six years for
							apportioning senators and representatives Control of schools; custodian of funds,
							care of buildings, hiring of teachers, etc. Takes school enumeration
					
					
						Township advisory board  3 members
						Elected
						4
						Acts as advisory board to trustee Makes appropriations Passes on budget
							of expenditures and tax levy made by trustee
					
					
						Township assessor
						Elected
						4
						Makes general assessment of personal property
					
					
						Justice of peace  (1 or more)
						Elected
						4
						Issues warrants for arrest and search Administers oaths Tries petty
							criminal cases Tries civil cases involving less than $200
					
					
						Constable
						Elected
						4
						Executive officer of justice court
					
				
				
				
					CITY OFFICIALS
					
						OFFICER
						HOW CHOSEN
						TERM
						IMPORTANT POWERS AND DUTIES
					
					
						Council Representative  from each ward
						Elected
						4
						Legislative body Passes city ordinances
					
					
						Mayor
						Elected
						4
						Chief executive of city Suggests ordinances Power of veto
							Appointive power
					
					
						City clerk
						Elected
						4
						Keeper of records
					
					
						City judge
						Elected
						4
						Judge of city court
					
					
						Board of school commissioners  (Elected by people in Indianapolis; elsewhere
							appointed by city council)
						
						4
						Charge of school finances Prepares budget and fixes tax levy Elects
							superintendent schools Elects business, manager in case such officer is
							needed
					
					
						City controller
						Appointed by mayor
						4
						Head of financial administration O. K.'s all warrants drawn on treasury
							Prepares budget Collects all fees and licenses
					
					
						City attorney
						Appointed by mayor
						4
						Prosecutes violation of city ordinances Attorney for city in suits to which
							it is a party Legal adviser for city officials Drafts ordinances when so
							requested
					
					
						City treasurer  (In cities of 1st, 2nd and 3rd class that are county seats,
							county treasurer acts as city treasurer)
						Elected
						4
						Custodian of funds
					
					
						Board of public works  3 members
						Appointed by mayor
						4
						Charge of buildings and property, streets, sewers, etc. Municipal-owned
							public utilities Draws up franchises and contracts subject to approval of
							council
					
					
						Board of public health  3 members
						Appointed by mayor
						4
						Looks after all local matters pertaining to public health
					
					
						Board of public safety  3 members
						Appointed by mayor
						4
						Has charge of police department, fire department, city market, inspector of
							weights and measures Enforcement of building regulations
					
					
						Board of public parks  (Cities 1st and 2nd class)
						Appointed by mayor
						4
						Control of public parks
					
				
				In cities of the fifth class the marshal, fire chief and street commissioner are
					appointed by the mayor.
				
				
					TOWN OFFICIALS
					
						OFFICER
						HOW CHOSEN
						TERM
						IMPORTANT POWERS AND DUTIES
					
					
						Board of trustees  One from each ward
						Elected
						4
						Legislative and executive body
					
					
						Clerk
						Elected
						4
						Acts as clerk for board of trustees Keeps all town records
					
					
						Treasurer
						Elected
						4
						Custodian of funds
					
					
						Marshal
						Elected
						4
						Peace officer May act as street commissioner
					
				
			
			
			
				CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE OF INDIANA 1851
				PREAMBLE
				To the end that justice be established, public order maintained, and liberty perpetuated:
					We, the people of the State of Indiana, grateful to Almighty God for the free exercise of
					the right to choose our own form of government, do ordain this Constitution:
				
					ARTICLE I
						BILL OF RIGHTS
					SECTION 1. We declare that all men are created equal; that they are
						endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life,
						liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that all power is inherent in the people; and
						that all free governments are, and of right ought to be, founded on their authority, and
						instituted for their peace, safety, and well-being. For the advancement of these ends,
						the people have at all times an indefeasible right to alter and reform their
						government.
					SEC. 2. All men shall be secured in their natural right to worship
						Almighty God according to the dictates of their own consciences.
					SEC. 3. No law shall, in any case whatever, control the free
						exercise and enjoyment of religious opinions, or interfere with the rights of
						conscience.
					SEC. 4. No preference shall be given, by law, to any creed,
						religious society or mode of worship; and no man shall be compelled to attend, erect or
						support any place of worship, or to maintain any ministry against his consent.
					SEC. 5. No religious test shall be required as a qualification for
						any office of trust or profit.
					
					SEC. 6. No money shall be drawn from the treasury for the benefit of
						any religious or theological institution.
					SEC. 7. No person shall be rendered incompetent as a witness, in
						consequence of his opinion on matters of religion.
					SEC. 8. The mode of administering an oath or affirmation shall be
						such as may be most consistent with, and binding upon, the conscience of the person to
						whom such oath or affirmation may be administered.
					SEC. 9. No law shall be passed restraining the free interchange of
						thought and opinion, or restricting the right to speak, write, or print, freely, on any
						subject whatever; but for the abuse of that right every person shall be responsible.
					SEC. 10. In all prosecutions for libel, the truth of the matters
						alleged to be libelous may be given in justification.
					SEC. 11. The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
						houses, papers and effects, against unreasonable search or seizure shall not be
						violated, and no warrant shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or
						affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the person or
						thing to be seized.
					SEC. 12. All courts shall be open; and every man, for injury done to
						him, in his person, property or reputation, shall have remedy by due course of law.
						Justice shall be administered freely and without purchase; completely, and without
						denial; speedily, and without delay.
					SEC. 13. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the
						right to a public trial, by an impartial jury in the county in which the offense shall
						have been committed; to be heard by himself and counsel; to demand the nature and cause
						of the accusation against him, and to have a copy thereof; to meet the witnesses face to
						face, and to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor.
					SEC. 14. No person shall be put in jeopardy twice for the same
						offense. No person, in any criminal prosecution, shall be compelled to testify against
						himself.
					SEC. 15. No person arrested, or confined in jail, shall be treated
						with unnecessary rigor.
					SEC. 16. Excessive bail shall not be required. Excessive fines shall
						not be imposed. Cruel and unusual punishment shall not be
						inflicted. All penalties shall be proportioned to the nature of the offense.
					SEC. 17. Offenses, other than murder or treason, shall be bailable
						by sufficient sureties. Murder or treason shall not be bailable when the proof is
						evident, or the presumption strong.
					SEC. 18. The penal code shall be founded on the principles of
						reformation, and not of vindictive justice.
					SEC. 19. In all criminal cases whatever, the jury shall have the
						right to determine the law and the facts.
					SEC. 20. In all civil cases the right of trial by jury shall remain
						inviolate.
					SEC. 21. No man's particular services shall be demanded without just
						compensation. No man's property shall be taken by law without just compensation; nor,
						except in case of the State, without such compensation first assessed and tendered.
					SEC. 22. The privilege of the debtor to enjoy the necessary comforts
						of life, shall be recognized by wholesome laws, exempting a reasonable amount of
						property from seizure or sale for the payment of any debt or liability hereafter
						contracted; and there shall be no imprisonment for debt, except in case of fraud.
					SEC. 23. The General Assembly shall not grant to any citizen, or
						class of citizens, privileges or immunities which, upon the same terms, shall not
						equally belong to all citizens.
					SEC. 24. No ex post facto law, or law impairing
						the obligation of contract, shall ever be passed.
					SEC. 25. No law shall be passed, the taking effect of which shall be
						made to depend upon any authority, except as provided in this Constitution.
					SEC. 26. The operation of the laws shall never be suspended except
						by the authority of the General Assembly.
					SEC. 27. The privileges of the writ of habeas
							corpus shall not be suspended, except in case of rebellion or invasion, and then
						only if the public safety demand it.
					SEC. 28. Treason against the State shall consist only in levying war
						against it, and giving aid and comfort to its enemies.
					
					SEC. 29. No person shall be convicted of treason, except on the
						testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or upon his confession in open
						court.
					SEC. 30. No conviction shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture
						of estate.
					SEC. 31. No law shall restrain any of the inhabitants of the State
						from assembling together, in a peaceable manner, to consult for their common good; nor
						from instructing their representatives; nor from applying to the General Assembly for
						redress of grievances.
					SEC. 32. The people shall have a right to bear arms for the defense
						of themselves and the State.
					SEC. 33. The military shall be kept in strict subordination to the
						civil power.
					SEC. 34. No soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any
						house without the consent of the owner; nor in time of war but in a manner to be
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 35. The General Assembly shall not grant any title of nobility,
						nor confer hereditary distinctions.
					SEC. 36. Emigration from the State shall not be prohibited.
					SEC. 37. There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude,
						within the State, otherwise than for the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall
						have been duly convicted. No indenture of any negro or mulatto, made or executed out of
						the bounds of the State, shall be valid within the State.
				
				
					ARTICLE II
						SUFFRAGE AND ELECTION
					SECTION 1. All elections shall be free and equal.
					SEC. 2. In all elections not otherwise provided for by this
						Constitution, every male citizen of the United States, of the age of twenty-one years
						and upwards, who shall have resided in the State during the six months, and in the
						township sixty days, and in the ward or precinct thirty days immediately preceding such
						election; and every male of foreign birth, of the age of twenty-one years and upwards,
						who shall have resided in the United States one year, and
						shall have resided in this State during the six months, and in the township sixty days,
						and in the ward or precinct thirty days, immediately preceding such election, and shall
						have declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, conformably to the
						laws of the United States on the subject of naturalization, shall be entitled to vote in
						the township or precinct where he may reside, if he shall have been duly registered
						according to law.
					SEC. 3. No soldier, seaman or marine, in the army or navy of the
						United States, or their allies, shall be deemed to have acquired a residence in this
						State in consequence of having been stationed within the same; nor shall any such
						soldier, seaman or marine, have the right to vote.
					SEC. 4. No person shall be deemed to have lost his residence in the
						State by reason of his absence either on business of the State or of the United
						States.
					SEC. 5. [Stricken out by constitutional amendment of March 24,
						1881.]
					SEC. 6. Every person shall be disqualified from holding office
						during the term for which he may have been elected, who shall have given or offered a
						bribe, threat, or reward to procure his election.
					SEC. 7. Every person who shall give or accept a challenge to fight a
						duel, or who shall knowingly carry to another person such challenge, or who shall agree
						to go out of the State to fight a duel, shall be ineligible to any office of trust or
						profit.
					SEC. 8. The General Assembly shall have power to deprive of the
						right of suffrage, and to render ineligible any person convicted of an infamous
						crime.
					SEC. 9. No person holding a lucrative office or appointment, under
						the United States, or under this State, shall be eligible to a seat in the General
						Assembly; nor shall any person hold more than one lucrative office at the same time,
						except as in this Constitution expressly permitted: Provided, That
						offices in the militia, to which there is attached no annual salary, and the office of
						Deputy Postmaster, where the compensation does not exceed ninety dollars per annum,
						shall not be deemed lucrative; And provided, also, That counties
						containing less than one thousand polls may confer the office of Clerk, Recorder and Auditor, or any two of said offices, upon the
						same person.
					SEC. 10. No person who may hereafter be a collector or holder of
						public moneys, shall be eligible to any office of trust or profit until he shall have
						accounted for and paid over, according to law, all sums for which he may be liable.
					SEC. 11. In all cases in which it is provided that an office shall
						not be filled by the same person more than a certain number of years continuously, an
						appointment pro tempore shall not be reckoned a part of that term.
					SEC. 12. In all cases, except treason, felony and breach of the
						peace, electors shall be free from arrest in going to elections, during their attendance
						there, and in returning from the same.
					SEC. 13. All elections by the people shall be by ballot; and all
						elections by the General Assembly, or by either branch thereof, shall be viva voce.
					SEC. 14. All general elections shall be held on the first Tuesday
						after the first Monday in November; but township elections may be held at such time as
						may be provided by law: Provided, That the General Assembly may
						provide by law for the election of all judges of courts of general or appellate
						jurisdiction, by an election to be held for such officers only, at which time no other
						officer shall be voted for; and shall also provide for the registration of all persons
						entitled to vote.
				
				
					ARTICLE III
						DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS
					SECTION 1. The powers of the Government are divided into three
						separate departments: the Legislative, the Executive (including the Administrative), and
						the Judicial; and no person charged with official duties under one of these departments
						shall exercise any of the functions of another except as in this Constitution expressly
						provided.
				
				
					ARTICLE IV
						LEGISLATIVE
					SECTION 1. The legislative authority of the State shall be vested in
						a General Assembly, which shall consist of a Senate and
						House of Representatives. The style of every law shall be, "Be it enacted by the General
						Assembly of the State of Indiana"; and no law shall be enacted except by bill.
					SEC. 2. The Senate shall not exceed fifty, nor the House of
						Representatives one hundred members; and they shall be chosen by the electors of the
						respective counties or districts into which the State may, from time to time, be
						divided.
					SEC. 3. Senators shall be elected for the term of four years, and
						Representatives for the term of two years, from the day next after their general
						election: Provided, however, That the Senators elect, at the second
						meeting of the General Assembly under this Constitution, shall be divided, by lot, into
						two equal classes, as nearly as may be; and the seats of Senators of the first class
						shall be vacated at the expiration of two years and those of the second class at the
						expiration of four years; so that one-half, as nearly as possible, shall be chosen
						biennially forever thereafter. And in case of increase in the number of Senators, they
						shall be so annexed by lot, to the one or the other of the two classes, as to keep them
						as nearly equal as practicable.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly shall, at its second session after the
						adoption of this Constitution, and every sixth year thereafter, cause an enumeration to
						be made of all the male inhabitants over the age of twenty-one years.
					SEC. 5. The number of Senators and Representatives shall, at the
						session next following each period of making such enumeration, be fixed by law, and
						apportioned among the several counties, according to the number of male inhabitants,
						above twenty-one years of age, in each: Provided, That the first and
						second elections of members of the General Assembly, under this Constitution, shall be
						according to the apportionment last made by the General Assembly before the adoption of
						this Constitution.
					SEC. 6. A Senatorial or Representative District, where more than one
						county shall constitute a district, shall be composed of contiguous counties; and no
						county, for Senatorial apportionment, shall ever be divided.
					SEC. 7. No person shall be a Senator or a Representative who, at the
						time of his election, is not a citizen of the United States; nor any one who has not
						been, for two years next preceding his election, an inhabitant of this State, and for
						one year next preceding his election, an inhabitant of the county or district whence he may be chosen. Senators shall be at least twenty-five,
						and Representatives at least twenty-one years of age.
					SEC. 8. Senators and Representatives, in all cases except treason,
						felony, and Breach of the peace, shall be privileged from arrest during the session of
						the General Assembly, and in going to and returning from the same; and shall not be
						subject to any civil process during the session of the General Assembly, nor during the
						fifteen days next before the commencement thereof. For any speech or debate in either
						House, a member shall not be questioned in any other place.
					SEC. 9. The sessions of the General Assembly shall be held
						biennially at the capital of the State, commencing on the Thursday next after the first
						Monday of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three, and on the
						same day of every second year thereafter, unless a different day or place shall have
						been appointed by law. But if, in the opinion of the Governor, the public welfare shall
						require it, he may, at any time, by proclamation, call a special session.
					SEC. 10. Each House, when assembled, shall choose its own officers
						(the President of the Senate excepted), judge the elections, qualifications and returns
						of its own members, determine its rules of proceeding and sit upon its own adjournment.
						But neither House shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three
						days, nor to any place other than that in which it may be sitting.
					SEC. 11. Two-thirds of each House shall constitute a quorum to do
						business; but a smaller number may meet, adjourn from day to day, and compel the
						attendance of absent members. A quorum being in attendance, if either House fail to
						effect an organization within the first five days thereafter, the members of the House
						so failing shall be entitled to no compensation from the end of the said five days,
						until an organization shall have been effected.
					SEC. 12. Each House shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and
						publish the same. The yeas and nays, on any question, shall, at the request of any two
						members, be entered, together with the names of the members demanding the same, on the
						journal: Provided, That on a motion to adjourn, it shall require
						one-tenth of the members present to order the yeas and nays.
					SEC. 13. The doors of each House, and of Committees of the Whole, shall be kept open, except in such cases as, in
						the opinion of either House, may require secrecy.
					SEC. 14. Either House may punish its members for disorderly
						behavior, and may, with the concurrence of two-thirds, expel a member; but not a second
						time for the same cause.
					SEC. 15. Either House, during its session, may punish, by
						imprisonment, any person not a member, who shall have been guilty of disrespect to the
						House, by disorderly or contemptuous behavior in its presence; but such imprisonment
						shall not, at any time, exceed twenty-four hours.
					SEC. 16. Each House shall have all powers necessary for a branch of
						the legislative department of a free and independent State.
					SEC. 17. Bills may originate in either House, but may be amended or
						rejected in the other, except that bills for raising revenues shall originate in the
						House of Representatives.
					SEC. 18. Every bill shall be read by sections, on three several days
						in each House; unless, in case of emergency, two-thirds of the House where such bill may
						be depending shall, by a vote of yeas and nays, deem it expedient to dispense with this
						rule; but the reading of a bill by sections, on its final passage, shall in no case be
						dispensed with; and the vote on the passage of every bill or joint resolution shall be
						taken by yeas and nays.
					SEC. 19. Every act shall embrace but one subject, and matters
						properly connected therewith; which subject shall be expressed in the title. But if any
						subject shall be embraced in an act, which shall not be expressed in the title, such act
						shall be void only as to so much thereof as shall not be expressed in the title.
					SEC. 20. Every act and joint resolution shall be plainly worded,
						avoiding, as far as practicable, the use of technical terms.
					SEC. 21. No act shall ever be revised or amended by mere reference
						to its title; but the act revised, or section amended, shall be set forth and published
						at full length.
					SEC. 22. The General Assembly shall not pass local or special laws
						in any of the following enumerated cases, that is to say: 
							Regulating the jurisdiction and duties of justices of the peace and of
								constables;
							For the punishment of crimes and misdemeanors;
							Regulating the practice in courts of justice;
							Providing for changing the venue in civil and criminal cases;
							Granting divorces;
							Changing the names of persons;
							For laying out, opening and working on, highways, and for the election or
								appointment of supervisors;
							Vacating roads, town plats, streets, alleys and public squares;
							Summoning and empaneling grand and petit juries, and providing for their
								compensation;
							Regulating county and township business;
							Regulating the election of county and township officers, and their
								compensation;
							For the assessment and collection of taxes for State, county, township or road
								purposes;
							Providing for supporting common schools, and for the preservation of school
								funds;
							In relation to fees or salaries; except that the laws may be so made as to grade
								the compensation of officers in proportion to the population and the necessary
								services required;
							In relation to interest on money;
							Providing for opening and conducting elections of State, county or township
								officers, and designating the places of voting;
							Providing for the sale of real estate belonging to minors, or other persons
								laboring under legal disabilities, by executors, administrators, guardians or
								trustees.
						
					SEC. 23. In all the cases enumerated in the preceding section, and
						in all other cases where a general law can be made applicable, all laws shall be general
						and of uniform operation throughout the State.
					SEC. 24. Provisions may be made by general law, for bringing suits
						against the State, as to all liabilities originating after the adoption of this
						Constitution; but no special act authorizing such suit to be brought, or making
						compensation to any person claiming damages against the State, shall ever be passed.
					SEC. 25. A majority of all the members elected to each House shall
						be necessary to pass every bill or joint resolution; and
						all bills and joint resolutions so passed shall be signed by the presiding officers of
						the respective Houses.
					SEC. 26. Any member of either House shall have the right to protest,
						and to have his protest, with his reasons for dissent, entered on the journal.
					SEC. 27. Every statute shall be a public law, unless otherwise
						declared in the statute itself.
					SEC. 28. No act shall take effect until the same shall have been
						published and circulated in the several counties of this State, by authority, except in
						case of emergency; which emergency shall be declared in the preamble or in the body of
						the law.
					SEC. 29. The members of the General Assembly shall receive for their
						services a compensation, to be fixed by law; but no increase of compensation shall take
						effect during the session at which such increase may be made. No session of the General
						Assembly, except the first under this Constitution, shall extend beyond the term of
						sixty-one days, nor any special session beyond the term of forty days.
					SEC. 30. No Senator or Representative shall, during the term for
						which he may have been elected, be eligible to any office, the election to which is
						vested in the General Assembly, nor shall he be appointed to any civil office of profit,
						which shall have been created, or the emoluments of which shall have been increased,
						during such term; but this latter provision shall not be construed to apply to any
						office elective by the people.
				
				
					ARTICLE V
						EXECUTIVE
					SECTION 1. The executive powers of the State shall be vested in a
						Governor. He shall hold his office during four years, and shall not be eligible more
						than four years in any period of eight years.
					SEC. 2. There shall be a Lieutenant-Governor, who shall hold his
						office during four years.
					SEC. 3. The Governor and Lieutenant-Governor shall be elected at the
						times and places of choosing members of the General Assembly.
					
					SEC. 4. In voting for Governor and Lieutenant-Governor the electors
						shall designate for whom they vote as Governor, and for whom as Lieutenant-Governor. The
						returns of every election for Governor and Lieutenant-Governor shall be sealed up and
						transmitted to the seat of government, directed to the Speaker of the House of
						Representatives, who shall open and publish them in the presence of both Houses of the
						General Assembly.
					SEC. 5. The persons, respectively, having the highest number of
						votes for Governor and Lieutenant-Governor, shall be elected; but in case two or more
						persons shall have an equal and the highest number of votes for either office, the
						General Assembly shall, by joint vote, forthwith proceed to elect one of the said
						persons Governor or Lieutenant-Governor, as the case may be.
					SEC. 6. Contested elections for Governor or Lieutenant-Governor
						shall be determined by the General Assembly, in such manner as may be prescribed by
						law.
					SEC. 7. No person shall be eligible to the office of Governor or
						Lieutenant-Governor who shall not have been five years a citizen of the United States,
						and also a resident of the State of Indiana during the five years next preceding his
						election; nor shall any person be eligible to either of the said offices who shall not
						have attained the age of thirty years.
					SEC. 8. No member of Congress, or person holding any office under
						the United States, or under this State, shall fill the office of Governor or
						Lieutenant-Governor.
					SEC. 9. The official term of the Governor or Lieutenant-Governor
						shall commence on the second Monday of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred
						and fifty-three; and on the same day every fourth year thereafter.
					SEC. 10. In case of the removal of the Governor from office, or of
						his death, resignation or inability to discharge the duties of the office, the same
						shall devolve on the Lieutenant-Governor; and the General Assembly shall, by law,
						provide for the case of removal from office, death, resignation, or inability both of
						the Governor and Lieutenant-Governor declaring what officer then shall act as Governor;
						and such officer shall act accordingly until the disability be removed or a Governor be
						elected.
					
					SEC. 11. Whenever the Lieutenant-Governor shall act as Governor, or
						shall be unable to attend as President of the Senate, the Senate shall elect one of its
						own members as President for the occasion.
					SEC. 12. The Governor shall be commander-in-chief of the military
						and naval forces, and may call out such forces to execute the laws, or to suppress
						insurrection, or to repel invasion.
					SEC. 13. He shall, from time to time, give to the General Assembly
						information touching the condition of the State, and recommend such measures as he shall
						judge to be expedient.
					SEC. 14. Every bill which shall have passed the General Assembly
						shall be presented to the Governor; if he approve, he shall sign it, but if not, he
						shall return it, with his objections, to the House in which it shall have originated,
						which House shall enter the objections at large upon its journals, and proceed to
						reconsider the bill. If, after such reconsideration, a majority of all the members
						elected to that House shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, with the
						Governor's objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered,
						and, if approved by a majority of all the members elected to that House, it shall be a
						law. If any bill shall not be returned by the Governor within three days, Sundays
						excepted, after it shall have been presented to him, it shall be a law without his
						signature, unless the general adjournment shall prevent its return, in which case it
						shall be a law, unless the Governor, within five days next after such adjournment, shall
						file such bill, with his objections thereto in the office of the Secretary of State, who
						shall lay the same before the General Assembly at its next session in like manner as if
						it had been returned by the Governor. But no bill shall be presented to the Governor
						within two days next previous to the final adjournment of the General Assembly.
					SEC. 15. The Governor shall transact all necessary business with the
						officers of government, and may require any information in writing from the officers of
						the administrative department, upon any subject relating to the duties of their
						respective offices.
					SEC. 16. He shall take care that the laws be faithfully
						executed.
					
					SEC. 17. He shall have the power to grant reprieves, commutations
						and pardons, after conviction, for all offenses except treason and cases of impeachment,
						subject to such regulations as may be provided by law. Upon conviction for treason, he
						shall have power to suspend the execution of the sentence until the case shall be
						reported to the General Assembly at its next meeting, when the General Assembly shall
						either grant a pardon, commute the sentence, direct the execution of the sentence, or
						grant a further reprieve. He shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, under such
						regulations as may be prescribed by law, and shall report to the General Assembly at its
						next meeting, each case of reprieve, commutation, or pardon granted, and also the names
						of all persons in whose favor remission of fines and forfeitures shall have been made,
						and the several amounts remitted: Provided, however, That the General
						Assembly may, by law, constitute a council, to be composed of officers of State, without
						whose advice and consent the Governor shall not have power to grant pardons, in any
						case, except such as may, by law, be left to his sole power.
					SEC. 18. When, during a recess of the General Assembly, a vacancy
						shall happen in any office, the appointment to which is vested in the General Assembly,
						or when, at any time, a vacancy shall have occurred in any other State office, or in the
						office of Judge of any court, the Governor shall fill such vacancy by appointment, which
						shall expire when a successor shall have been elected and qualified.
					SEC. 19. He shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies as
						may have occurred in the General Assembly.
					SEC. 20. Should the seat of government become dangerous from disease
						or a common enemy, he may convene the General Assembly at any other place.
					SEC. 21. The Lieutenant-Governor shall, by virtue of his office, be
						President of the Senate; have a right, when in Committee of the Whole, to join in
						debate, and to vote on all subjects, and, whenever the Senate shall be equally divided,
						he shall give the casting vote.
					SEC. 22. The Governor shall, at stated times, receive for his
						services a compensation which shall neither be increased nor diminished during the term
						for which he shall have been elected.
					
					SEC. 23. The Lieutenant-Governor, while he shall act as President of
						the Senate, shall receive for his services the same compensation as the Speaker of the
						House of Representatives; and any person acting as Governor shall receive the
						compensation attached to the office of Governor.
					SEC. 24. Neither the Governor nor Lieutenant-Governor shall be
						eligible to any other office during the term for which he shall have been elected.
				
				
					ARTICLE VI
						ADMINISTRATIVE
					SECTION 1. There shall be elected by the voters of the State, a
						Secretary, an Auditor, and a Treasurer of State, who shall severally hold their offices
						for two years. They shall perform such duties as may be enjoined by law; and no person
						shall be eligible to either of said offices more than four years in any period of six
						years.
					SEC. 2. There shall be elected in each county, by the voters
						thereof, at the time of holding general elections, a Clerk of the Circuit Court,
						Auditor, Recorder, Treasurer, Sheriff, Coroner and Surveyor. The Clerk, Auditor and
						Recorder shall continue in office four years; and no person shall be eligible to the
						office of Clerk, Recorder or Auditor more than eight years in any period of twelve
						years. The Treasurer, Sheriff, Coroner and Surveyor, shall continue in office two years;
						and no person shall be eligible to the office of Treasurer or Sheriff more than four
						years in any period of six years.
					SEC. 3. Such other county and township officers as may be necessary,
						shall be elected or appointed, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 4. No person shall be elected or appointed as a county officer,
						who shall not be an elector of the county; nor any one who shall not have been an
						inhabitant thereof during one year next preceding his appointment, if the county shall
						have been so long organized; but if the county shall not have been so long organized,
						then within the limits of the county or counties out of which the same shall have been
						taken.
					SEC. 5. The Governor, and the Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of
						State, shall severally, reside and keep the public records, books and papers, in any
						manner relating to the respective offices, at the seat of government.
					
					SEC. 6. All county, township, and town officers shall reside within
						their respective counties, townships, and towns, and shall keep their respective offices
						at such places therein, and perform such duties as may be directed by law.
					SEC. 7. All State officers shall, for crime, incapacity, or
						negligence, be liable to be removed from office, either by impeachment by the House of
						Representatives, to be tried by the Senate, or by a joint resolution of the General
						Assembly; two-thirds of the members elected to each branch voting, in either case,
						therefor.
					SEC. 8. All state, county, township, and town officers may be
						impeached, or removed from office, in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 9. Vacancies in county, township, and town offices shall be
						filled in such manner as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 10. The General Assembly may confer upon the Boards doing
						county business in the several counties, powers of a local administrative character.
				
				
					ARTICLE VII
						JUDICIAL
					SECTION 1. The Judicial power of the State shall be vested in a
						Supreme Court, in Circuit Courts, and in such other courts as the General Assembly may
						establish.
					SEC. 2. The Supreme Court shall consist of not less than three, nor
						more than five Judges; a majority of whom shall form a quorum. They shall hold their
						offices for six years, if they so long behave well.
					SEC. 3. The State shall be divided into as many districts as there
						are Judges of the Supreme Court, and such districts shall be formed of contiguous
						territory, as nearly equal in population as, without dividing a county, the same can be
						made. One of said Judges shall be elected from each district, and reside therein; but
						said Judge shall be elected by the electors of the State at large.
					SEC. 4. The Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction, co-extensive with
						the limits of the State, in appeals and writs of error, under such regulations and
						restrictions as may be prescribed by law. It shall also
						have such original jurisdiction as the General Assembly may confer.
					SEC. 5. The Supreme Court shall, upon the decision of every case,
						give a statement in writing of each question arising in the record of such case, and the
						decisions of the Court thereon.
					SEC. 6. The General Assembly shall provide by law, for the speedy
						publication of the decisions of the Supreme Court, made under this Constitution, but no
						judge shall be allowed to report such decision.
					SEC. 7. There shall be elected by the voters of the State, a Clerk
						of the Supreme Court, who shall hold his office four years, and whose duties shall be
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 8. The Circuit Courts shall each consist of one judge and shall
						have such civil and criminal jurisdiction as may be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 9. The State shall, from time to time, be divided into judicial
						circuits, and a judge for each circuit shall be elected by the voters thereof. He shall
						reside within the circuit, and shall hold his office for the term of six years, if he so
						long behave well.
					SEC. 10. The General Assembly may provide, by law, that the judge of
						one circuit may hold the courts of another circuit, in cases of necessity or
						convenience; and in case of temporary inability of any judge, from sickness or other
						cause, to hold the courts in his circuit, provision may be made, by law, for holding
						such courts.
					SEC. 11. There shall be elected, in each judicial circuit, by the
						voters thereof, a prosecuting attorney, who shall hold his office for two years.
					SEC. 12. Any judge or prosecuting attorney, who shall have been
						convicted of corruption or other high crime, may, on information in the name of the
						State, be removed from office by the Supreme Court, or in such other manner as may be
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 13. The judges of the Supreme Court and Circuit Courts shall,
						at stated times, receive a compensation, which shall not be diminished during their
						continuance in office.
					SEC. 14. A competent number of justices of the peace shall be
						elected by the voters in each township in the several counties. They shall continue in office four years, and their powers and duties shall
						be prescribed by law.
					SEC. 15. All judicial officers shall be conservators of the peace in
						their respective jurisdictions.
					SEC. 16. No person elected to any judicial office shall during the
						terms for which he shall have been elected, be eligible to any office of trust or profit
						under the State, other than a judicial office.
					SEC. 17. The General Assembly may modify or abolish the grand jury
						system.
					SEC. 18. All criminal prosecutions shall be carried on in the name,
						and by the authority of the State; and the style of all processes shall be, "The State
						of Indiana."
					SEC. 19. Tribunals of conciliation may be established, with such
						powers and duties as shall be prescribed by law; or the powers and duties of the same
						may be conferred upon other courts of justice; but such tribunals or other courts, when
						sitting as such, shall have no power to render judgment to be obligatory on the parties
						unless they voluntarily submit their matters of difference and agree to abide the
						judgment of such tribunal or court.
					SEC. 20. The General Assembly, at its first session after the
						adoption of this Constitution, shall provide for the appointment of three commissioners
						whose duty it shall be to revise, simplify and abridge the rules, practice, pleadings
						and forms of the courts of justice. And they shall provide for abolishing the distinct
						forms of action at law now in use; and that justice shall be administered in a uniform
						mode of pleading, without distinction between law and equity. And the General Assembly
						may, also, make it the duty of said commissioners to reduce into a systematic code the
						general statute law of the State; and said commissioners shall report the result of
						their labors to the General Assembly, with such recommendations and suggestions, as to
						the abridgment and amendment, as to said commissioners may seem necessary or proper.
						Provision shall be made by law for filling vacancies, regulating the tenure of office
						and the compensation of said commissioners.
					SEC. 21. Every person of good moral character, being a voter, shall
						be entitled to admission to practice law in all courts of justice.
				
				
				
					ARTICLE VIII
						EDUCATION
					SECTION 1. Knowledge and learning generally diffused throughout a
						community, being essential to the preservation of a free government, it shall be the
						duty of the General Assembly to encourage, by all suitable means, moral, intellectual,
						scientific and agricultural improvement, and to provide by law for a general and uniform
						system of common schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to
						all.
					SEC. 2. The common school fund shall consist of the congressional
						township fund, and the lands belonging thereto; 
							The surplus revenue fund;
							The saline fund, and the lands belonging thereto;
							The bank tax fund, and the fund arising from the one hundred and fourteenth
								section of the charter of the State Bank of Indiana;
							The fund to be derived from the sale of county seminaries, and the moneys and
								property heretofore held for such seminaries; from the fines assessed for breaches
								of the penal laws of the State; and from all forfeitures which may accrue;
							All lands and other estate which shall escheat to the State for want of heirs or
								kindred entitled to the inheritance;
							All lands that have been or may hereafter be granted to the State, where no
								special purpose is expressed in the grant and the proceeds of the sales thereof;
								including the proceeds of the sales of the Swamp Lands granted to the State of
								Indiana by the act of Congress, of the 28th of September, 1850, after deducting the
								expense of selecting and draining the same;
							Taxes on the property of corporations that may be assessed by the General
								Assembly for Common School purposes.
						
					SEC. 3. The principal of the Common School Fund shall remain a
						perpetual fund, which may be increased, but shall never be diminished; and the income
						thereof shall be inviolably appropriated to the support of Common Schools, and to no
						other purpose whatever.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly shall invest, in some safe and
						profitable manner, all such portions of the Common School Fund as have not heretofore
						been entrusted to the several counties; and shall make
						provisions, by law, for the distribution, among the several counties, of the interest
						thereof.
					SEC. 5. If any county shall fail to demand its proportion of such
						interest for Common School purposes, the same shall be reinvested for the benefit of
						such county.
					SEC. 6. The several counties shall be held liable for the
						preservation of so much of the said fund as may be entrusted to them, and for the
						payment of the annual interest thereon.
					SEC. 7. All trust funds held by the State shall remain inviolate,
						and be faithfully and exclusively applied to the purposes for which the trust was
						created.
					SEC. 8. The General Assembly shall provide for the election, by the
						voters of the State, of a State Superintendent of Public Instruction, who shall hold his
						office for two years, and whose duties and compensation shall be prescribed by law.
				
				
					ARTICLE IX
						STATE INSTITUTIONS
					SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide
						by law for the support of Institutions for the education of the Deaf and Dumb, and of
						the Blind; and, also, for the treatment of the Insane.
					SEC. 2. The General Assembly shall provide Houses of Refuge for the
						correction and reformation of juvenile offenders.
					SEC. 3. The County Boards shall have power to provide farms as an
						asylum for those persons who, by reason of age, infirmity, or other misfortune, have
						claims upon the sympathies and aid of society.
				
				
					ARTICLE X
						FINANCE
					SECTION 1. The General Assembly shall provide, by law, for a uniform
						and equal rate of assessment and taxation; and shall prescribe such regulations as shall
						secure a just valuation for taxation of all property, both real and personal, excepting
						such only for municipal, educational, literary, scientific, religious or charitable purposes, as may be specially exempted by law.
					SEC. 2. All the revenues derived from the sale of any of the public
						works belonging to the State, and from the net annual income thereof, and any surplus
						that may, at any time, remain in the Treasury derived from taxation for general State
						purposes, after the payment of the ordinary expenses of the government, and of the
						interest on bonds of the State, other than bank bonds, shall be annually applied, under
						the direction of the General Assembly, to the payment of the principal of the public
						debt.
					SEC. 3. No money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in pursuance
						of appropriations made by law.
					SEC. 4. An accurate statement of the receipts and expenditures of
						the public money shall be published with the laws of each regular session of the General
						Assembly.
					SEC. 5. No law shall authorize any debt to be contracted, on behalf
						of the State, except in the following cases: To meet casual deficits in the revenue; to
						pay the interest on the State debt; to repel invasion, suppress insurrection, or, if
						hostilities be threatened, provide for public defense.
					SEC. 6. No county shall subscribe for stock in any incorporated
						company, unless the same be paid for at the time of such subscription; nor shall any
						county loan its credit to any incorporated company, nor borrow money for the purpose of
						taking stock in any such company; nor shall the General Assembly ever, on behalf of the
						State, assume the debts of any county, city, town or township, nor of any corporation
						whatever.
					SEC. 7. No law or resolution shall ever be passed by the General
						Assembly of the State of Indiana that shall recognize any liability of this State to pay
						or redeem any certificate of stock issued in pursuance of an act entitled "An act to
						provide for the funded debt of the State of Indiana, and for the completion of the
						Wabash & Erie Canal to Evansville," passed January 19, 1846, and an act supplemental
						to said act passed January 29, 1847, which by the provisions of the said acts, or either
						of them, shall be payable exclusively from the proceeds of the canal lands, and the
						tolls and revenues of the canal in said acts mentioned; and no such certificates of
						stocks shall ever be paid by this State.
				
				
				
					ARTICLE XI
						CORPORATIONS
					SECTION 1. The General Assembly shall not have power to establish,
						or incorporate any bank or banking company, or moneyed institution, for the purpose of
						issuing bills of credit, or bills payable to order or bearer, except under the
						conditions prescribed in this Constitution.
					SEC. 2. No bank shall be established otherwise than under a general
						banking law, except as provided in the fourth section of this article.
					SEC. 3. If the General Assembly shall enact a general banking law,
						such law shall provide for the registry and countersigning by an officer of State, of
						all paper credit designed to be circulated as money; and ample collateral security,
						readily convertible into specie, for the redemption of the same in gold or silver, shall
						be required; which collateral security shall be under the control of the proper officer
						or officers of State.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly may also charter a bank with branches,
						without collateral security, as required in the preceding section.
					SEC. 5. If the General Assembly shall establish a bank with
						branches, the branches shall be mutually responsible for each other's liabilities, upon
						all paper credit issued as money.
					SEC. 6. The stockholders in every bank, or banking company, shall be
						individually responsible to an amount over and above their stock, equal to their
						respective shares of stock, for all debts or liabilities of said bank or banking
						company.
					SEC. 7. All bills or notes issued as money, shall be, at all times,
						redeemable in gold or silver; and no law shall be passed, sanctioning, directly or
						indirectly, the suspension, by any bank or banking company, of specie payments.
					SEC. 8. Holders of bank notes shall be entitled, in case of
						insolvency, to preference of payment over all other creditors.
					SEC. 9. No bank shall receive, directly or indirectly, a greater
						rate of interest than shall be allowed by law to individuals loaning money.
					
					SEC. 10. Every bank, or banking company, shall be required to cease
						all banking operations within twenty years from the time of its organization, and
						promptly thereafter to close its business.
					SEC. 11. The General Assembly is not prohibited from investing the
						trust funds in a bank with branches; but in case of such investment, the safety of the
						same shall be guaranteed by unquestionable security.
					SEC. 12. The State shall not be a stockholder in any bank, after the
						expiration of the present bank charter; nor shall the credit of the State ever be given,
						or loaned, in aid of any person, association, or corporation, nor shall the State
						hereafter become a stockholder in any corporation or association.
					SEC. 13. Corporations, other than banking, shall not be created by
						special acts but may be formed under general laws.
					SEC. 14. Dues from corporations, other than banking, shall be
						secured by such individual liability of the corporators, or other means, as may be
						prescribed by law.
				
				
					ARTICLE XII
						MILITIA
					SECTION 1. The militia shall consist of all able-bodied white male
						persons between the ages of eighteen and forty-five years, except such as may be
						exempted by the laws of the United States, or of this State; and shall be organized,
						officered, armed, equipped and trained in such manner as may be provided by law.
					SEC. 2. The Governor shall appoint the Adjutant, Quartermaster and
						Commissary Generals.
					SEC. 3. All militia officers shall be commissioned by the Governor,
						and shall hold their offices not longer than six years.
					SEC. 4. The General Assembly shall determine the method of dividing
						the militia into divisions, brigades, regiments, battalions and companies, and fix the
						rank of all staff officers.
					SEC. 5. The militia may be divided into classes of sedentary and
						active militia in such manner as shall be prescribed by law.
					
					SEC. 6. No person conscientiously opposed to bearing arms shall be
						compelled to do militia duty; but such person shall pay an equivalent for exemption; the
						amount to be prescribed by law.
				
				
					ARTICLE XIII
						POLITICAL AND MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS
					SECTION 1. No political or municipal corporation in this State shall
						ever become indebted, in any manner or for any purpose, to any amount, in the aggregate
						exceeding two per centum on the value of taxable property within such corporation, to be
						ascertained by the last assessment for State and county taxes, previous to the incurring
						of such indebtedness, and all bonds or obligations in excess of such amount, given by
						such corporations, shall be void: Provided, That in time of war,
						foreign invasion, or other great public calamity on petition of a majority of the
						property owners, in number and value, within the limits of such corporation, the public
						authorities, in their discretion, may incur obligations necessary for the public
						protection and defense, to such an amount as may be requested in such petition.
				
				
					ARTICLE XIV
						BOUNDARIES
					SECTION 1. In order that the boundaries of the State may be known
						and established, it is hereby ordained and declared, that the State of Indiana is
						bounded on the east by the meridian line which forms the western boundary of the State
						of Ohio; on the south by the Ohio River, from the mouth of the Great Miami River to the
						mouth of the Wabash River; on the west, by a line drawn along the middle of the Wabash
						River, from its mouth to a point where a due north line, drawn from the town of
						Vincennes, would last touch the northwestern shore of said Wabash River; and thence by a
						due north line, until the same shall intersect an east and west line, drawn through a
						point ten miles north of the southern extreme of Lake Michigan; on the north, by said
						east and west line, until the same shall intersect the first mentioned meridian line,
						which forms the western boundary of the State of Ohio.
					SEC. 2. The State of Indiana shall possess jurisdiction, and
						sovereignty co-extensive with the boundaries declared in the preceding section; and shall have concurrent jurisdiction, in civil and
						criminal cases, with the State of Kentucky on the Ohio River, and with the State of
						Illinois on the Wabash River, so far as said rivers form the common boundary between
						this State and said States respectively.
				
				
					ARTICLE XV
						MISCELLANEOUS
					SECTION 1. All officers whose appointment is not otherwise provided
						for in this Constitution, shall be chosen in such manner as now is, or hereafter may be,
						prescribed by law.
					SEC. 2. When the duration of any office is not provided for by this
						Constitution, it may be declared by law; and if not so declared, such office shall be
						held during the pleasure of the authority making the appointment. But the General
						Assembly shall not create any office, the tenure of which shall be longer than four
						years.
					SEC. 3. Whenever it is provided in this Constitution, or in any law
						which may be hereafter passed, that any officer, other than a member of the General
						Assembly, shall hold his office for any given term, the same shall be construed to mean
						that such officer shall hold his office for such term, and until his successor shall
						have been elected and qualified.
					SEC. 4. Every person elected or appointed to any office under this
						Constitution shall, before entering on the duties thereof, take an oath or affirmation
						to support the Constitution of this State and of the United States, and also an oath of
						office.
					SEC. 5. There shall be a seal of the State, kept by the Governor for
						official purposes, which shall be called the Seal of the State of Indiana.
					SEC. 6. All commissions shall issue in the name of the State, shall
						be signed by the Governor, sealed by the State Seal, and attested by the Secretary of
						State.
					SEC. 7. No county shall be reduced to an area less than four hundred
						square miles; nor shall any county under that area be further reduced.
					SEC. 8. No lottery shall be authorized, nor shall the sale of
						lottery tickets be allowed.
					
					SEC. 9. The following grounds owned by the State in Indianapolis,
						namely: the State House Square, the Governor's Circle, and so much of out-lot numbered
						one hundred and forty-seven as lies north of the arm of the Central Canal, shall not be
						sold or leased.
					SEC. 10. It shall be the duty of the General Assembly to provide for
						the permanent enclosure and preservation of the Tippecanoe Battle Ground.
				
				
					ARTICLE XVI
						AMENDMENTS
					SECTION 1. Any amendment or amendments to this Constitution may be
						proposed in either branch of the General Assembly; and if the same shall be agreed to by
						a majority of the members elected to each of the two houses, such proposed amendment or
						amendments shall, with the yeas and nays thereon, be entered on their journals and
						referred to the General Assembly to be chosen at the next general election; and, if in
						the General Assembly so next chosen, such proposed amendment or amendments shall be
						agreed to by a majority of all the members elected to each house, then it shall be the
						duty of the General Assembly to submit such amendment or amendments to the electors of
						the State, and if a majority of said electors shall ratify the same, such amendment or
						amendments shall become a part of this Constitution.
					SEC. 2. If two or more amendments shall be submitted at the same
						time, they shall be submitted in such manner that the electors shall vote for or against
						each of such amendments separately; and while such an amendment or amendments which
						shall have been agreed upon by one General Assembly shall be awaiting the action of the
						succeeding General Assembly, or of the electors, no additional amendment or amendments
						shall be proposed.
				
			
			
			
				NEW-WORLD SPANISH SERIES
				
					LESSON BOOKS
					POCO A POCO, by GUILLERMO HALL. An easy book, profusely illustrated, especially well adapted to junior high
						schools. $1.00.
					ALL SPANISH METHOD, by GUILLERMO HALL. Furnishes the best direct-method Spanish course published. Designed for
						high-school or college beginning classes. First Book $1.00, Second Book $1.20, or in one volume Complete
						$1.60.
				
				
					READERS
					FÁBULAS Y CUENTAS, by CLIFFORD G. ALLEN. A reader for beginning classes. In
						press.
					POR TIERRAS MEJICANAS, by MANUEL URIBE Y TRONCOSO. An easy reader for beginners in Spanish.
						Well illustrated. In press.
					PÁGINAS SUDAMERICANAS, by HELEN PHIPPS. Another easy-reading book, well illustrated, for students of high-school
						grade. In press.
					Libro Primario de Lectura: Aplicado a la Higiene (60 cents), Higiene Práctica (72 cents), and Higiene Personal (84
						cents)—three books on health for Latin American countries—furnish excellent
						simple, everyday, and practical Spanish for reading practice. Escribo y
							Leo (60 cents) is an exceptionally well illustrated primer for use by natives of
						the Spanish language.
				
				
					ANNOTATED TEXTS
					Martínez Sierra's TEATRO DE ENSUEÑO, edited by AURELIO M. ESPINOSA. Easy for the second half year.
						Introduction, notes, vocabulary. 52 cents.
					Other volumes soon to be published are Benavente's El Principe que Todo
							lo aprendió en los Libros, edited by Aurelio M. Espinosa; Benavente's Los Intereses Creados, edited by Francisco Piñol; and Tamayo y Baus' Más Vale Maña que Fuerza, edited by C. Everett Conant. All are provided
						with exercises in composition and full vocabularies.
				
				
					REFERENCE BOOKS
					SPANISH-ENGLISH AND ENGLISH-SPANISH DICTIONARY, by WESSELY and GIRONÉS. The latest revised edition of
						the best small dictionary now available. $1.20.
				
				WORLD BOOK COMPANY YONKERS-ON-HUDSON, NEW YORK 2126 PRAIRIE AVENUE, CHICAGO
			
			
			
				INTERESTING AS A NOVEL
				INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE
				By VIDA D. SCUDDER, A.M.
					Professor of English Literature at Wellesley College.
				Cloth. 542 pages. Price $1.50
				
				For the high school and the younger classes in college. It gives a clear and correct idea
					of each great period of English Literature and guides in the direct and copious reading of
					texts. Each part begins with a picture of the period treated; the significance of our
					origins and the imaginative achievement of the great medieval centuries are clearly shown
					and the student is enabled to trace the many strands, racial, physical, ethical, and
					spiritual, of which the glorious fabric of English Literature is woven.
				Special prominence is given to the greatest or most significant figures in our
					literature. In addition to the bibliographical references at the end of each chapter there
					are practical suggestions for discussions by the students and for talks by the teacher. A
					full outline of authors with their works and contemporary events in tables arranged for
					easy reference is also given.
				The book is thoroughly human, interesting, attractive, and inspiring, and has a literary
					charm not found in the ordinary text-book. There is not a dry page in it and there is no
					book that presents the story of English Literature in a manner more likely to awaken the
					desire for further acquaintance with the books that are so alluringly described.
			
			
				THE RIGHT WORD IN THE RIGHT PLACE
				HANDBOOK OF ENGLISH COMPOSITION
					A Compilation of Standard Rules and Usage
				By LUELLA CLAY CARSON President of Mills College, California, formerly Professor of Rhetoric
					and American Literature, University of Oregon
				Trains the student in accuracy and effectiveness in the essentials of English
					Composition, in the ready, rapid, and unconscious use of correct forms, and deals clearly
					and conclusively with doubtful questions and confusing points. For classes in English
					composition and rhetoric, it is invaluable, as it presents in compact form material which
					must be sought in many sources. It is authoritative and it is a book of ready
					reference.
				It contains instructions on Capitalization, Punctuation, Italics, Abbreviations,
					Syllabication, Compounds, Spelling, Construction and Criticism, Mechanical Aids and
					Processes, Letter-Writing, Copy for the Printer, Bibliography. Each chapter includes
					material valuable for general reference or for some special need as well as the regular
					text-book material intended for class use.
				The pages are interleaved with blank pages for notes. The mailing price of the book in
					cloth is 72 cents; leather, $1.00. Discounts on quantities for class use may be had on
					application to the publishers.
				WORLD BOOK COMPANY YONKERS-ON-HUDSON, NEW YORK 2126 Prairie
					Avenue, Chicago — Also Atlanta, Dallas, Manila
			
			
			
				English Classics — Star Series
				English Required for College Entrance Examinations
				Edited by College Professors fully acquainted both with the subject
					matter and with the requirements for college entrance, as well as with the weak spots
					continually discovered. Full explanatory notes, suggestions for study and interpretation,
					bibliography, typical examination questions, illustrations and maps are provided wherever
					necessary.
				These books are uniformly bound in cloth. Information as to prices of the
					different volumes gladly supplied upon request.
				
					ADDISON AND STEELE. The Sir Roger de Coverley
						Papers from The Spectator. (Laura Johnson Wylie.) xlvi+207 pages.
					BURKE. Speech on Conciliation with the Colonies. (Mary A.
						Jordan.) lxxxviii+152 pages.
					CARLYLE. Essay on Burns. (William T. Brewster.) xx+108
						pages.
					COLERIDGE. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. (Carleton Eldredge
						Noyes.) lxviii+75 pages.
					*COOPER. The Last of the Mohicans. (William Strunk.) xviii+446
						pages.
					ELIOT. Silas Marner. (Arthur Hobson Quinn.) xxiv+231
						pages.
					GOLDSMITH. The Vicar of Wakefield. (William Hand Browne.) xiv+226
						pages.
					MACAULAY. Essays on Milton and Addison. (Thomas Marc Parrott.)
						lx+208 pages.
					MILTON. L' Allegro, Il Penseroso, Comus, and Lycidas. (Edward
						Everett Hale.) l+140 pages.
					POPE. The Iliad of Homer. Books I, VI, XXII, XXIV. (William
						Cranston Lawton.) xxix+152 pages.
					*SCOTT. Ivanhoe. (Carroll Lewis Maxcy.) xl+547 pages.
					SHAKESPEARE. Julius Cæsar. (Albert Harris Tolman.) lxvi+ 158
						pages.
					SHAKESPEARE. Macbeth. (Wilbur Lucius Cross.) xxviii+144
						pages.
					SHAKESPEARE. The Merchant of Venice. (Helen Gray Cone.) xxii+137
						pages.
					TENNYSON. The Princess. (Mary Bowen.) xxii+138 pages.
				
				WORLD BOOK COMPANY YONKERS-ON-HUDSON, NEW YORK 2126 Prairie
					Avenue, Chicago — Also Atlanta, Dallas, Manila
			
			
			
				NEW-WORLD SCIENCE SERIES Edited by John W.
					Ritchie
				SCIENCE for BEGINNERS
				By DELOS FALL
				
					Teaches the scientific method by 
							Explaining the method and making the pupil conscious of it (Bagley and
								experimental work of Judd).
							Approaching the studies as projects to be solved (Dewey, McMurry, Woodhull, et
								al.).
							Carrying the study through to the principles of the subject (Dewey).
						
					Contains subject-matter that 
							Is related to the life of the child (not the life of certain specialized adult
								industrial workers).
							Is interesting, useful, and important in itself.
							Gives the fundamental conceptions of nature that are needed for satisfactory
								progress in any synthetic science, e.g., agriculture, physiology, botany, or
								physiography.
						
					It is interestingly written and attractively and amply illustrated with realistic
						pictures instead of diagrams. (The use of pictures instead of diagrams is in accordance
						with the present practice of the Engineering and Mining Journal, Electrical Railway
						Journal, Metallurgical and Chemical Engineering, Electrical World, Coal Age, and a
						number of other technical publications.)
				
				This book is intended for use in junior high schools and upper grammar
					grades. xi + 388 pages; price $1.28
				WORLD BOOK COMPANY YONKERS-ON-HUDSON, NEW YORK 2126 PRAIRIE AVENUE, CHICAGO
			
		
	
