
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Bicknell, Ernest Percy, 1862-1935.. Indianapolis illustrated. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC2084
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				
					Indianapolis Illustrated
				
				by Ernest Percy Bicknell
				Indianapolis: Baker-Randolph Litho. and
						Eng. Co., 1893.
			
			
			
			
			
				Frontispiece
				
						ALONG THE CANAL, AT FAIRVIEW
								PARK.
					
			
			
		
		
			
			
				Indianapolis Illustrated
				
					A MODEL CITY.
					
					TWO coordinate objects are to be sought in city life. The one is the
						multiform benefit which the strength of many interests, crowded into narrow territorial
						bounds, makes possible; the other, the avoidance of the multiform evil, which the
						aggregation of thousands of human beings upon small areas tends constantly to
						produce.
					That city which enjoys physical advantages favorable to the attainment of either of
						these objects is fortunate, and the same is true, in a greater degree, of a city whose
						civil conditions are such as to make toward happiness and contentment and provide
						against the evils of immorality and disease. But, if cities having either of the
						advantages of the character mentioned are to be called fortunate, how much more to be
						congratulated is that community in which are united the physical and civil conditions
						which are necessary to the attainment of both of the prime objects noted.
					In recording for the city of Indianapolis a claim to those qualities which justly
						entitle it to a place among the healthiest and best governed and most prosperous and
						contented communities of the United States, it is not believed there is any
						unwarrantable assumption of excellence. This claim, undisputed 
							THE OLD STATE HOUSE
								30 YEARS AGO
						
						 by those who best know, is based upon no jealous rivalry
						of other cities, nor has it any purpose to inflate values of realty; it is based simply
						and solely upon facts easily demonstrated and unanswerable.
					In its very inception Indianapolis was singularly fortunate. The young State of Indiana
						had just been organized, and was without a satisfactory seat of government. The
						legislature, which in earlier 
							VIEW FROM STOCK YARDS,
									LOOKING NORTH.
						 days had met at the old French trading post of Vincennes, assembled at Corydon
						for some years after the State was admitted into the Union. The necessity of a capital
						near the center of the State was clear, but no town then existed near the center. The
						result was a determination to create a capital. No old village, with tortuous, narrow
						streets, whose direction and width had been subject to the whims of individual settlers,
						was to handicap the town. Everything was to be new and according to the best and most
						approved designs. The legislative committee traveled far and inspected the sites
						advocated by partisans of several different localities. Finally a spot was selected on
						the east bank of White River where the ground was almost level, was drained, not only by
						the river, but by several clear, winding streams, and was covered by a massive growth of
						forest trees. Here the infant capital was located, and no pains were spared to make it
						convenient and beautiful. A square mile was included in the plat of the city prepared at
						that time, when hardly a human habitation broke the primeval wilderness.
					The streets were laid out wide and straight. In the exact center of the square mile was
						formed a circular park, surrounded by a street called Circle street. From this circle
						radiated four great avenues, to the northeast, southeast, 
						
							SOUTH MERIDIAN STREET FROM
									WASHINGTON.
						
						
						
							CHRIST CHURCH (EPISCOPAL).
						
						 southwest and northwest, respectively. Everything was done
						upon a generous scale, which showed far-seeing sagacity upon the part of the city's
						founders, and which has put an obligation 
							ON NORTH MERIDIAN STREET.
						 of gratitude upon all who have enjoyed the fruits of that sagacity in the
						three-quarters of a century which has since elapsed. It is remarkable that the plans for
						the city selected in that early day by men, of whom many were pioneers, possessing
						little experience or knowledge of cities, should have been of a character that could
						hardly be improved upon to-day by people who have spent their lives in cities. The
						explanation of this is to be found in the choice of Alexander Ralston to prepare plans
						for the new capital. Ralston was a civil engineer of note, who had assisted in 
							PORK AND FRUIT PACKING
									DISTRICT.
						
						
						
						 laying out Washington, and many of the ideas exemplified
						in the Nation's Capital were reproduced in the streets, whose courses were now blazed on
						the forest trees on the banks of White River. When the plans were completed, the same
						broad and liberal spirit which caused them to meet with instant favor led to a generous
						system of nomenclature for the streets. The principal north and south street, dividing
						the square mile into two equal parts, was named Meridian, its name thus explaining its
						direction to any stranger hearing it. The principal east and west street was called
						Washington, for the great man whose life and face were then familiar to thousands. The
						other streets of the city were named after the States of the Union, except the four
						which bounded the square mile of the city plat. These, whose names explain their
						position, were called North, East, South and West streets.
					The men who thus mapped out a city in the midst of a wilderness made one mistake. They
						seem not to have thought of its ever becoming large enough to spread beyond the limits
						of a mile square. Set as it was in the woods, near no great river or lake, with
						railroads not yet dreamed of, separated by scores of miles from any well-settled country
						community or improved agricultural region, the wonder is that the founders of
						Indianapolis thought it necessary to lay off so much ground into streets as they did,
						rather than that they did not dedicate sufficient area to the future city's occupation.
						In order that through all time it might be known that the city had been founded for a
						seat of government for the State of Indiana, it was named Indianapolis, that is, Indiana
						City.
					It was designed that in Circle Park, which was the exact center of the original square
						mile, should stand the executive mansion. This was in entire accord with 
							UNION STATION.
						
						 the remainder of the comprehensive plans of the men in
						control. Their idea, briefly expressed, was: In the center of the State the capital; in
						the center of the capital the Governor; thus not only making the Governor the center and
						head of the government of the commonwealth, but also the center of the State itself.
						To-day this particular part of the great design seems more fanciful and poetic than
						useful, and that this came to be the general impression before many years had elapsed
						was proven by the fact that Indiana's Governors abandoned the plain, square house which
						stood in the precise center of Circle Park and preferred to live in other parts of the
						city. They complained that the executive mansion was inconvenient and uncomfortable and
						not pleasantly situated as a place of residence. For a number of years the house was
						used for public offices, but gradually fell into disuse, and was finally torn down and
						the park converted to the public benefit. It has furnished a charming breathing space in
						the heart of the city ever since.
					Another feature of the plan of those 
							PUBLIC SCHOOL, NO. 2.
						
						 who prepared for the city's birth, was that the business
						center of the community should be at the crossing of Meridian and Washington streets.
						This has been fulfilled to the letter. To-day the roar of the traffic of the city is
						loudest at that crossing; the price of property is greatest at the four corners which
						the crossing forms, and declines in all directions from it; at that point the wholesale
						district touches hands with the retail 
							THE OLD GOV. WRIGHT MANSION
						 district, and the vast tide of business which ever connects the two, flows
						with a constant rumble about the adjacent streets. The principal blocks of the city
						cluster within a few squares of this crossing, and as commerce grows and overflows its
						quarters, the first necessity for enlargement and improvement is felt in the vicinity of
						this spot and spreads abroad like concentric waves upon a body of water. In order that
						there might be ample room for the commerce which it was hoped would be carried on,
						Washington street was made one hundred and twenty feet wide, and the great diagonal
						avenues, which from their direction and arrangement were destined to become the chief
						arteries of communication with the heart of the city, were made ninety feet wide.
					The foundations of Indiana's capital thus laid broad and deep, the super-structure
						began to rise. But this was, in the very nature of things, slow. There was no
						surrounding cultivated country to draw upon. Between Indianapolis and the sources of its
						supplies stretched a hundred miles of roads hardly better than foot-paths, and the only
						means of transportation was by horseback or wagon. The young city could not grow until
							
						
							GARFIELD PARK.
						
						 the country round about was developed. In 1820 the town
						was laid out, but it was not until 1824 that it had grown sufficiently to enable it to
						lodge and feed the members of the State government and the legislature. Accordingly, in
						1824, it became the capital, although its population was numbered by scores, a hundred
						being altogether too great a unit of 
							PRESIDENT HARRISON'S RESIDENCE.
						 enumeration. In 1840, the population had grown to but 2,692, and, in truth, it
						was not until the building of the railroad from the Ohio River at Madison to
						Indianapolis, several years later, that the city's promise of commercial importance
						began to be appreciated. The day the first railroad train rolled into Indianapolis was
						the actual commencement of the commercial and industrial growth of the greatest inland
						city on the continent. This is well shown by the population statistics. In the first
						twenty-five years of the city's history the population did not reach five thousand. Then
						the railroad building began, and the close of the second twenty-five years saw a city of
						forty-eight thousand souls. The close of the third quarter of a century, three years
						hence, will find Indianapolis containing a population of one hundred and fifty thousand.
						In this growth may be read the promise of the future: In the twenty-five years from 1845
						to 1870, an increase of forty-five thousand in population; in the same length of time,
						from 1870 to 1895, a growth of eighty-five  thousand. At
						this rate of increase, the growth during the twenty-five years from 1895 to 1920, will
						be one hundred and seventy-five thousand, making the city's population in the latter
						year three hundred and twenty thousand. But, history has shown that cities increase with
						a constantly accelerating rapidity, so that the larger they become the faster they grow.
						The rolling up of a great snowball by the boys at play is a familiar comparison, but it
						illustrates this well. In view of this established law of the growth of cities, a
						conservative estimate of the population of Indianapolis at the end of another quarter of
						a century is three hundred and fifty thousand persons.
					Now the achievement of this remarkable building up of population can not be traced to
						any single cause. The laying out of a handsome and convenient plan for the city alone
						could have only a minor influence in this result. The fact that Indianapolis is the
						capital of the State is also of secondary importance among the factors of its growth,
						though 
							INSTITUTE FOR THE BLIND.
						
						 an influence not to be underestimated. The truth is that
						Indianapolis has grown up with due attention to all the influences which cause cities to
						exist and which make them desirable places of habitation. She has sprung from no great
						mining "boom;" no special branch of manufacture; no particular kind of traffic; no
						single predominating influence, such as has caused a mushroom growth of cities strong in
						some few points of greatness, but lacking in all others. She is symmetrical in all her
						members. Her manufactures are extensive and varied; her commerce is comprehensive in
						variety and territory penetrated; her railroads reach great forests of hard and soft
						woods and limitless beds of stone, coal, kaolin and clay for architectural uses; she is
						in the center of as rich an agricultural region as the sun shines upon, an area covering
						an hundred thousand square miles; she is blest with the finest fuel that nature ever
						made; the enormous traffic between the manufacturing East and the agricultural West
						passes, in large part, through her portals, and the same is true of the great carrying
						trade between the North and South. The beauty of the city's symmetry is shown especially
						in this, that with all this material progress her intellectual and moral development has
						kept even step. In her schools, her literary men, her artists, her societies for mental
						culture, her churches, her charities, her appreciation of the better and higher things
						in life, she may be seen to advantage, no less than in her industrial and commercial
						achievements. She is, in fact, a model American city.
					
					
						BOARD OF TRADE BUILDING.
					
				
				
				
					THE CITY'S BUSINESS STATUS.
					
						SOUTH MERIDIAN
							ST.
					
					INDIANAPOLIS to-day stands upon the threshold of what is destined to
						be a great commercial expansion. As a city she has not been premature nor hasty in
						realizing upon her opportunities. She has, if you please, been slow to grasp the
						possibilities which have been within her reach. A result of this has been that she has
						grown solidly, like the oak, and not like the mushroom of a night. She has taken no step
						forward until sure of her footing. There was a period, a score of years ago, when
						Indianapolis enjoyed a "boom." She fancied that she was to become a mighty city almost
						at a bound. There followed three or four years which, retrospectively considered, seem
						now to have been characterized by a species of madness, whereof, when men were seized,
						they lost their sense of the real values and relations of things to one another.
						Fictitious values were compared to their own kind; and, losing their anchorage in the
						haven of unchanging fact, men drifted wildly upon an ocean of speculation. Remembered
						events of that period seem like grotesque phantasms, as thought of in the calm,
						matter-of-fact atmosphere of to-day. Naturally these 
						
							SOUTHEAST FROM THE COURT HOUSE.
						
						 conditions could not long continue, and the time soon came
						when the truth regained its own, and all the ventures of the speculators went upon the
						rocks, leaving disaster and financial panic in their wake.
					The lesson was a severe one; but Indianapolis had learned it, and has never forgotten
						it. The seductive allurements of speculation have never again had the power to lead her
						away from the safe shores. She has seen Western cities spring up like magic, and has
						heard their boasts with no feeling of envy. She knows that the laws of nature do not
						provide for giving aught of value for nothing, and that the giant young cities of the
						West will, in the end, pay well for their unsubstantial prosperity. Having thoroughly
						mastered these facts in the school of experience, Indianapolis has ever since been too
						conservative rather than otherwise. Her moneyed men have hesitated to embark in new
						enterprises, or to encourage any project which smacked of speculation or uncertainty.
						The city has grown enormously meantime, trebling in population since the collapse of the
						"boom." The result of these conditions is that here is a large, wealthy and flourishing
						city which has outgrown its commercial and industrial and financial institutions.
						Natural growth and upspringing enterprises have overtaken the conservatism which has
						held back the business of the city, and are crowding hard upon its heels. In simple
						truth, the day is now at hand when natural and inevitable 
						 growth demands enlarged facilities for the exercise of
						new, expanding energies. For years the city of Indianapolis has grown in spite of
						itself. From this time on the checks to its expansion will be cast aside, and every
						healthful tendency to improvement will receive the stimulus of public favor. In a word,
						the new policy of encouragement is succeeding the old policy of discouragement. But let
						it not be feared that the reaction from the years of repression may lead to the opposite
						extreme. The memory of the bubble and its collapse twenty years ago is indelibly
						impressed upon the history of the community, and its lesson is never forgotten for a
						day. Obstacles to progress are being hurled aside, it is true, but cautious hands are
						ever on the brakes.
					
						VIEW IN STEEL AND IRON DISTRICT.
					
					To quicken the city's awakening and stimulate her rapid but solid growth, several
						agencies have contributed in addition to the natural process of evolution described
						above. Chief of these is the comprehensive development of the mineral and agricultural
						resources in the territory around and adjacent to her. She is the geographical and
						railroad center of an agricultural region which, in fertility and in its state of
						cultivation, is unsurpassed on the globe. She is within a few miles of the center of
						population of the United States, and is surrounded by a class of farmers who have been
						successful in carving comfortable estates out of the crude materials which they found in
						the West half a century and less ago. The 
						
							LOOKING DOWN MASSACHUSETTS
									AVENUE.
						 territory in the center of which Indianapolis is situated, has become the seat
						of a prosperous and happy people. In every direction the agricultural districts 
							RESIDENCE, NORTH DELAWARE
									STREET.
						 and urban communities thrive in the midst of a great abundance. Both soil and
						rocks yield wealth, and full four million human beings live near enough to Indianapolis
						to make her their market and source of supplies.
					But these agricultural and some of the mineral resources on which Indianapolis now
						draws, and will draw very much more heavily in the brighter day dawning, may be said to
						be but food for industries. There must also be the 
						
							MASONIC TEMPLE.
						
						 agencies of mastication, digestion and assimilation. The
						mere presence or accessibility of food can not avail much to a man or a city unless
						there be the machinery of reduction and reformation. What, then, is to be said of the
						forces and agencies which Indianapolis commands for the economical and profitable
						"working up" of the raw material crowding her gates? The answer to this question brings
						into direct view, perhaps more than any other approach to the subject could, some of the
						most  unmistakable evidences that the city is entering upon an era of
						substantial and rapid commercial and industrial growth. In this the railways play an
						essential part. With the city as a point of divergence they radiate like some giant web,
						enclosing in its meshes bustling towns and smiling farm lands and districts rich in
						mineral deposits. Over these roads the vast produce of the farm lands and quarries and
						mines is poured into the city in an unceasing stream. Much of it is converted from the
						raw material into the manufactured product before leaving the city, thereby sustaining
						extensive industries. But along this line there is opportunity for almost limitless
						expansion without going beyond the dead line of profit and loss. Mills for the
						manufacture of flour and other grain products are operated here with much  success. The largest single winter wheat mill and the most
						extensive mill for manufacturing corn products in the United States, are in
						Indianapolis. But the field 
							RESIDENCE, NORTH MERIDIAN
									STREET.
						 is not full, nor half full. Every grain mill in the city is prospering, and
						were there as many more, or twice as many more, the conditions for all would be more
						favorable than for those now in operation. The same is true in the pork packing
						industry. The third greatest pork packing establishment in the world is in Indianapolis,
						and its large profits are proverbial. There are other extensive packing-houses, also,
						and they too prosper. But of the tens of thousands of hogs which pass through the Union
						Stock Yards daily in season, not the half nor the third is slaughtered in Indianapolis.
						And so the list might be lengthened almost indefinitely were it necessary to demonstrate
						the opportunities which lie open here for incoming enterprise.
					The agencies to be considered in a further discussion of this subject may conveniently
						be divided into the two classes of direct and indirect. Under the head of direct
						agencies are to be mentioned the abundance and cheapness of fuel, the shipping
						facilities, the prosperity and stability of the wage-earning classes and the moderate
						cost of living. 
						
							THE INDIANAPOLIS NEWS
								INDIANAPOLIS, THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 20, 1892.
						
						 In all these regards Indianapolis challenges comparison
						with any other city in the Union. She does this in no spirit of bluster or bravado. She
						cites her natural gas, her petroleum and her coal.
					The pipe-line companies which convey the gas from the field to the city are in the
						soundest financial condition, and stand ready to do their part in forwarding 
							AN EAST SIDE BREWERY.
						 public interests. The city has experienced some delay in realizing upon the
						splendid opportunities which the presence of natural gas created. A popular co-operative
						movement checked the in-rush of large foreign capital which was anticipated, and though
						an extensive investment of outside money was made, it was restricted by the co-operative
						experiment. Four years, however, have sufficed to carry the experiment to a successful
						issue, and while its effect has so far been to retard the industrial development which
						the city might have enjoyed under certain other conditions, it has, at least, been of
						substantial benefit to the small consumer of gas. To-day the disadvantages which
						accompanied the co-operative effort have vanished. Both the large companies engaged in
						supplying gas to the city are now conducted on well established business principles.
						Both are out of debt, have extended their sources of supply until they are equal to the
						demands made on them, and are in a  position to meet the
						increasing consumption which accompanies the city's growth. With all its other
						advantages the gas is cheap. Its price is regulated by a city ordinance which, while it
						allows the earning of heavy profits by the companies, yet keeps the cost to the consumer
						far below that of any other fuel. The utilization of crude oil for fuel was an
						experiment five years ago; to-day it is a well established and widely demonstrated fact.
						By special contrivances for properly introducing the oil into furnaces, the flame is
						rendered clean, inodorous and of intense heat. It is as easily controlled, too, as gas.
						Were natural gas unknown, crude oil would be regarded as almost a perfect fuel. Already
						oil has been introduced under the boilers of several large manufacturing concerns in
						Indianapolis with gratifying results. At present it is shipped to the city in tank cars,
						the run from the oil field requiring about six hours. The expansion of the demand for
						oil will result in the construction of an oil pipe line directly from the field to the
						city. As to the coal supply, it looms in the background, an unfailing reserve on which
						to draw in case of a failure or decline in the supply of the more volatile and desirable
						fuels which have at present usurped its place.
					Much of the sturdy prosperity of the city is due to her railroads, and with her growth
						in population and extension of business, their importance to her will increase. There is
						a degree of interdependence between railroads and the manufacturing and mercantile
						interests which, while always present, is greatly subject to varying conditions. In a
						city with but a single railroad, the merchant and manufacturer are compelled to submit
						often to inferior service and always to extortionate transportation rates, while in the
						city with numerous roads, the shippers are comparatively independent, being assured of
						prompt service and reasonable rates through the rivalry of the transportation companies
						in their struggle to secure business. An excellent illustration of this has recently
						been brought to the public attention. The proprietor of a grain reducing mill in which
						is invested hundreds of thousands of dollars, and which gives employment to hundreds of
						men, removed his vast establishment from one of the smaller cities of the State to
						Indianapolis chiefly to secure the advantages of its unsurpassed railroad service. The
						conclusion that in the city with numerous railroads, the general prosperity must be far
						greater than in the city with few or but one, common sense shows to be the correct one.
						These facts, in truth, are so commonly recognized that they have almost become
						axiomatic. They are called to mind here simply to connect them directly with that other
						fact that Indianapolis has transportation facilities which in point of competition, of
						equipment, of wide ramifications, of short lines to the greatest cities and through the
						greatest agricultural and mineral regions, are unequaled on the continent. This is a
						strong assertion, but it is made with an abiding faith that it is true in 
						
						
						
						
							NORTH MERIDIAN STREET,
									NEAR VERMONT.
						
						 every particular and can be demonstrated. It should not be
						forgotten, either, that the value of the railroads to the invested interests of the city
						is a double one. The merchant not only may secure the most advantageous rates upon the
						wares which he imports, but the railroads enlarge enormously the territory 
							BATES HOUSE.
						 in which he may sell his goods. The development of the industries in the
						stone, coal, gas and oil fields brings into compact centers large and prosperous bodies
						of workmen and their families. These communities, in direct communication with
						Indianapolis, present an attractive and open field for her merchants. Every step in the
						rapid expansion of the industries, based on the natural resources of the State, enlarges
						and improves the markets which naturally belong to the Indianapolis merchants. The vigor
						and swiftness with which the natural wealth of Indiana is being developed, is described
						at length on other pages.
					What is true of the merchants, in regard to the expanding markets for their goods all
						around the city, is equally true of the manufacturers. An immense demand for supplies of
						many kinds comes from the busy territory which surrounds the city and in large degree is
						dependent upon it. Stone channelers,  stationary, portable
						and traction engines, drills, derricks, rope, chains, powder, dynamite, miners' tools,
						lumber, iron and steel tubing, hoisting machinery for mines, oils of various kinds,
						carts, wagons, trucks, carriages, cars, gas pipes of all sizes and in limitless
						quantity, apparatus for drilling gas and oil wells, tanks, pumps, windmills, harvesting
						machinery, threshers, plows, wheat drills, cultivators, and a vast variety of other
						agricultural implements, chemicals, cured meats, flouring mills, 
							WINTER WHEAT MILLS.
						 saw-mills, feed-mills, machine-shop equipments, electric lights and motors,
						roofing materials, and an almost endless list of other manufactured articles are
						constant, never satisfied necessities. Indianapolis is in a position to answer these
						calls as no other can ever hope to be. She is the natural base of supplies for all the
						great and growing region around her, and is the natural market toward which its scores
						of busy communities turn with their wealth of raw material. To the manufacturer who
						would supply the ceaseless demands which come up from this industrial territory and to
						him who would purchase its mineral and agricultural products to convert them into
						finished wares, Indianapolis offers the best of all locations. The universal prosperity
						which has accompanied the manufactories now here is one very striking proof of the truth
						of this assertion. For several years the rule among Indianapolis manufacturers has been
						to enlarge their establishments every twelve or twenty-four months. The expansion of
						their business has brought a steadily recurring demand for more room and greater
						facilities. It is not believed that there is a city in the country which can show a
						higher average prosperity among its manufacturers in the last five years than can
						Indianapolis.
					The items of cost in living, and the prosperity of the wage-earning classes in
						Indianapolis, may be considered together. All things have combined to make the  necessary living expenses in the city moderate. The
						fertility and extent of the agricultural region immediately around the city has been an
						important element in this. The level, high ground upon which the city is located has
						also had an essential part in producing the prevailing conditions, because it allows so
						wide a choice in the location of residence additions. There is no single section of the
						city more suitable for residence than others. 
							VANCE BLOCK.
						 In every direction from the business heart of the community, therefore, the
						people live, not from necessity, but from preference. So wide a choice precludes the
						exorbitant rents which must always prevail where any particular portion of a city is
						preferable to all others from sanitary or other reasons, and, also, prevents real estate
						from reaching unreasonable prices. With a circle of fine, high, well-drained land always
							
						
							IN FRONT OF THE COURT HOUSE.
						
						 surrounding the city, and inviting to suburban
						improvement, prices can not be forced above fair values. The result is that rents and
						real values in Indianapolis are lower than in any other city of similar size in the
						country.
					A direct effect of these favorable conditions is seen in the lower wages paid working
						men in Indianapolis than in other large cities. Let it not be understood that this means
						an oppression of the employed classes; on the contrary, it is not believed that in any
						city in the country is labor better rewarded or more prosperous and contented. In cases
						wherein labor organizations fix the remuneration themselves which their members are
						paid, they allow lower wages in Indianapolis than in many large cities. The reason for
						this is that a dollar will go farther in payment of living expenses in this than in
						other cities. Following along the same line of inquiry, it is found that a surprisingly
						large per cent. of the wage earners of the city own their homes. So prominently has this
						come to be recognized that Indianapolis is frequently styled the "City of Homes."
						Through the beneficent influence of building associations, thousands of working men in
						Indianapolis possess comfortable homes and are numbered among the substantial,
						tax-paying, conservative class of the population. No one understands the value of this
						fact better than the employer of labor. He knows full well that the workman who owns
						real estate or has a little money in bank is not the labor agitator. He is the last man
						to strike, is always an advocate of peaceable and conservative measures, has fair ideas
						of the rights of capital, respects the laws and holds a power for good over the
						drifting, shiftless, and sometimes reckless element, which may exert an undue influence
						in any body of employes. So general has the custom become for the wage earner to live in
						his own house, that there has grown up what might be called the saving habit among the
						employed classes. No sooner does the young man secure work at the usual wages, than he
						enters a building association and begins to lay by a portion of his income every week in
						anticipation of the day when he will need a home. The extent to which this practice is
						carried is shown in the statement that there are nearly one hundred building
						associations in Indianapolis, and that the stock actually carried by shareholders
						amounts to the enormous sum of $20,000,000. This stock is carried by about 35,000
						different persons. Certainly no more convincing proof of the prosperity of the
						wage-earning classes could be asked than this.
					Another force in Indianapolis which is destined to augment in great degree the
						stability and efficiency of wage earners, and elevate the character of their services in
						intelligence and value, is the admirable manual training system carried on in connection
						with the public schools. The boy, while educating his mind, is educating his hands.
						Without extra cost, he enjoys the advantages of the  best
						of instruction in the mechanic arts and the use of standard tools and machinery. The
						purpose of the school is not simply to teach the boy a trade. He could get that as an
						apprentice. It is intended to teach him the underlying principles of things at the same
						time he is acquiring a knowledge of the tools with which he is to work. When a boy
						completes his course, he not only can produce creditable workmanship, but he can make
						his own drawings; can plan accurately what is the proper material to use, and how much
						of it; he will be able to compute the strain which will fall upon the various parts of a
						machine or structure of any kind which he may build; he will have a working knowledge of
						physics and chemistry and higher mathematics. An artisan who has had such a training as
						this school gives, as a foundation for his trade, is able to carry an important work
						from beginning to end, without the constant supervision and direction ordinarily
						essential among bodies of workmen. He is valuable above all other classes of labor to
						his employer. He rises above the plane of the menial and becomes a co-worker. The
						employer can afford to pay him well, because he is worth more, twice over, than the man
						who picked his trade up in an unsystematic, disconnected way, and knows only the
						drudgery of it, relying on the foreman to do the thinking for him.
					
						STARCH WORKS.
					
					There are thoughtful men who see in education the solution of the labor problem. Lift
						the wage earner out of his ignorance and prejudice and narrow manner of life, these men
						argue, and the difficulties which threaten to overturn the industrial system will
						vanish, while any changes dictated by experience in the relations between employer and
						employed will be achieved as smoothly as water adjusts itself to inequalities of
						surface. This attractive theory, it is believed, will in time be in some degree put into
						practice in Indianapolis, the chief agency in introducing the desirable conditions hoped
						for being the city's manual training system. It is not commonly understood how extensive
						are the resources of this department of the school system. Were such a school endowed by
						private means with a foundation of one million dollars, interest in 
							WASHINGTON STREET FROM MERIDIAN.
						
						 the institution and comment upon its promising future
						would be aroused all over the country. This precise endowment the school has in effect.
						The statute creating the technic school in Indianapolis authorizes the conversion of a
						revenue to its maintenance as great as would be produced from an endowment of one
						million dollars.
					The indirect agencies which may be counted upon to be of assistance in the era of
						business expansion which is dawning upon Indianapolis are numerous. Two which are worthy
						of especial mention are the banking facilities and a public spirit friendly to incoming
						investment and enterprise. The banks of the city are considered thoroughly safe. In all
						the panics and heavy failures in Eastern cities in years, when Western banks, through
						unfortunate connections, have fallen, when money was locked up and loans were called in,
						the Indianapolis banks have stood unshaken. Not a breath of suspicion has been whispered
						concerning the soundness of any of them. As an evidence of the new leaven which is now
						working in the city, the fact may be cited that the bank clearings are increasing at the
						rate of over fifty per cent. per annum, and the deposits almost as fast. The banks bear
						the reputation of being liberal, though entirely legitimate in their methods.
					The attitude of public sentiment inevitably has much to do with the popularity of a
						city as a location for the investment of capital from abroad. Capital is proverbially
						sluggish in its movements, and cautious in the extreme. It is not likely to go where it
						is not wanted, or where it may be burdened unjustly or fettered by petty legal
						enactments. Indianapolis was never disposed to repel foreign capital, or to burden it
						heavily in any way. But there was a period during the lethargy which succeeded the
						disastrous panic of the seventies, when no effort was made to induce capital to come to
						Indianapolis, and no welcoming hand or word was extended when it came. That period is
						gone by. The city is awake in every fiber. She not only welcomes capital to-day, but
						goes abroad inviting it to come. She can offer it advantages to be found nowhere else,
						and takes distinct pleasure in publishing the fact to the world, repeating it and
						ringing the changes upon it. The Board of Trade and the Commercial Club are organized
						expressions of this sentiment. The Commercial Club, with its one thousand members,
						sprang into existence with the public weal its sole object. The Board of Trade is the
						older and more conservative body. Each organization fills its place, and is essential.
						The two are not rivals; they are supplementary to each other. The younger body is
						impulsive, vigorous, full of spirit and ambition. The older is no less vigorous or
						ambitious, but it is not impulsive. It is staid, and moves more slowly. It might be said
						to represent the second thought of the community, while the Commercial Club expresses
						the impulses and aspirations. Both are financially of the highest 
							COLUMBIA CLUB
						
						
							MARION CLUB
						
						 standing, and are fine examples of the result of public
						spirit controlled by great administrative ability. Both spare neither pains nor expense
						to forward the city's interests, and both are themselves the best of advertisements of
						the city's spirit and commercial aggressiveness. Capital is invited to come, and is
						assured a royal welcome when it accepts the invitation. But, while the welcome is
						hearty, it can be only a manifestation of good will; it can not assure profits nor
						declare dividends. It is upon the solid, unchanging mercantile and industrial advantages
						which the city has to offer that incoming capital must ultimately depend. To these the
						city confidently refers all comers, complacent in the knowledge that they can not be
						excelled elsewhere.
					The spirit of progress has pervaded Indianapolis from circumference to center. It may
						be felt in the air. It is made manifest in the great movement toward better municipal
						government; in the inauguration of an extensive and costly system of street paving; in
						the preparation and adoption of a comprehensive scheme of sewerage; in the improvement
						in the character of the business buildings erected; in the expansion of the city's
						retail and wholesale districts; in the widespread quickening in the manufacturing
						interests; in the beginning of a series of massive viaducts to span the railways passing
						through the city; in the demand for improved street car facilities, including rapid
						transit; in the general introduction of electricity, not only for light, but power; in
						the unanimous demand for a better and more attractive and cleaner and handsomer city
						than Indianapolis has ever been before.
					
						WHITE RIVER
							FOOT OF W. WASHINGTON ST.
					
				
				
				
					INDIANAPOLIS AS A RAILROAD CENTER.
					
						MAIN ENTRANCE TO UNION STATION.
					
					MORE than to any other single influence, Indianapolis owes her
						prosperity to railroads. As has before been remarked, her history as a place of
						commercial and industrial importance began with the completion of her first railroad,
						the old Madison line, which connected the capital with the Ohio River, and thence by
						water with the outside world. This was slow and circuitous, to be sure, but it was so
						wonderful an improvement over all that had gone before that business sprang with a bound
						into an activity which the town had never more than dreamed of before. There are many
						persons living in Indianapolis to-day, and persons good for years of life yet, who were
						in the crowd which gathered to see the first train come in on the new road. What an
						incredible advance has been made in the less than half a century which has elapsed since
						that day! Instead of one road without connections, the city now has sixteen roads,
						radiating in every direction, and, with their connecting lines, giving Indianapolis
						direct communication with every corner of the continent.
					It were not easy to speak too highly of the importance of the city of Indianapolis as a
						railway center. Roads extend in every direction, and are numerous enough to insure
						competition in all. The sixteen lines entering the city are the Panhandle, to Pittsburg
						and the East; the Jeffersonville, Madison & Indianapolis; the Big Four (C., C., C.
						& St. L.), to Cincinnati; the Big Four, to Columbus; the Big Four, to Cleveland; the
						Cincinnati, Hamilton & Indianapolis; the Vandalia; the Louisville, New Albany &
						Chicago; the Indianapolis & Vincennes; the Cincinnati, Wabash & Michigan; the
						Pennsylvania, to Chicago; the Lake Erie  & Western; the
						Big Four, to Chicago; the Peoria & Eastern; the Indianapolis & St. Louis; the
						Indianapolis, Decatur & Western. These roads are so situated that in whatever
						direction passengers or freight may be transported, they receive the advantage of
						competition, and have a choice of routes. To the north, five roads are to be selected
						from; to the east, the shipper may choose among six roads; to the south, five roads are
						open and competing for business; to the west, choice may be made from nine routes. The
						advantage which this intense competition offers to shippers need only be mentioned to be
						appreciated by men of experience.
					
						A DISTRIBUTING WAREHOUSE.
					
					As a distributing point for manufacturers and others whose products or wares must go to
						all parts of the country no city in the United States offers equal opportunities. The
						location of the city midway between the East and West and the North and South gives it
						peculiar strength as a center of distribution. Goods loaded upon the cars in
						Indianapolis reach their destination, on an average, quicker than from any other city in
						the country, and, consequently, at smaller average transportation charges. While
						shipment from surrounding cities may reach certain sections of the country more quickly
						than from here, from no other point will the average time be so short. The importance of
						Indianapolis in this particular has not been fully appreciated; but within a year or
						two, extensive manufacturers in Chicago and other cities have established distributing
						stations here. The city is destined to grow to large importance in this as its
						facilities become better understood.
					Reverse now the view, and regard Indianapolis, not as a distributing center from which
						railroads lead to every point of the compass, but, instead,  consider it as a great central station into which lines of railroad from the remotest
						corners of the country directly extend. Here unfolds to the mind a vast new field of
						contemplation. Indianapolis, by the same agency which makes it a great base of
						distribution, becomes a focus for the wares and products of the entire country. The
						North and South, the East and West, meet quickest and most equitably here, with a fair
						division of the costs of transportation. The varied materials which are united in
						manufactured wares can be most cheaply and quickly assembled here. Capital is, first of
						all, conservative and slow to move, and the opportunities which the chief city in
						Indiana offers in recent years for its profitable and safe investment are only fairly
						begun to be realized. All the advantage which obtains from being in close and ready
						communication with other cities Indianapolis is fitted especially to give. She is
						encircled by a chain of cities, all within a few hours' travel of her. See the links in
						that chain: Chicago, St. Louis, Evansville, Louisville, Cincinnati, Columbus,
						Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Toledo, Detroit and Grand Rapids. All are connected with the
						central city by direct lines of railway, and in a great many instances the shortest
						route from one to another is through her borders.
					The importance of the lines of railway which meet in Indianapolis is a topic worthy of
						more than incidental mention. Upon the extent and connections of those roads depend the
						reliance which may be accorded to the assertions which have just been made concerning
						the superiority of Indianapolis as a center of distribution and a point easy of access
						from every quarter of the Republic. Look for a moment, therefore, at the list of
						railroads which enter this city. The Pennsylvania system, the greatest combination of
						railways in the world, has in Indianapolis its Western center of radiation. From here
						lines belonging to the system radiate in four directions. One branch extends to Chicago,
						another to Louisville, another to Vincennes, and the fourth, which is the main stem,
						eastward to the great cities of the Atlantic coast. These divisions intersect and
						connect with other great systems, such as the Louisville & Nashville, the Chicago
						& Northwestern, the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy, the Chicago, Milwaukee &
						St. Paul, the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, etc., so that it is difficult to
						discover any limits to the territory with which Indianapolis has prompt and constant
						communication.
					Then there is the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis system, commonly
						called the Big Four. Of its thousands of miles of road this city is the center, seven of
						its divisions converging here. The seven reach to Cincinnati, Columbus, Cleveland, Grand
						Rapids, Chicago, Peoria and St. Louis. The Lake Erie & Western system, while not so
						extensive as the Pennsylvania or the Big Four, yet reaches to Toledo, Detroit, Ft.
						Wayne, Chicago and Peoria, and pierces the richest portions of the great Indiana and
						Ohio gas and oil fields. The 
							WOOD-WORKING FACTORY ON THE BELT RAILROAD.
						
						 Cincinnati, Hamilton & Indianapolis is an important
						division of the Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton system, and is a competitor for
						business to Cincinnati, Toledo and Detroit. The Louisville, New Albany & Chicago
						system connects Indianapolis with the cities named in its title. The Vandalia is the
						chief trunk line between this city and St. Louis and the West, and is in such close
						combination with the Pennsylvania system that to all purposes it is a part of it. The
						Indianapolis, Decatur & Western road, while not an integral part of any great system
						of railways, is an important line, connecting the capital of Indiana with the finest
						agricultural lands in Illinois. A new line, which will connect the city directly with
						the rich mineral and timber land of Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama and other Southern
						States, is projected and in the hands of men who fully appreciate its importance.
					In another way the railroads have done much for Indianapolis. This is by 
							ST. JOHN'S CATHEDRAL (CATHOLIC).
						
						
						
							THE INDIANAPOLIS JOURNAL.
								INDIANAPOLIS, SATURDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 22, 1892.
						
						 the establishing here of shops, and the employment of an
						army of men in them and the yards and train service. The Pennsylvania, Big Four,
						Indianapolis, Decatur & Western, and Union Railway companies have extensive shops
						here, which give employment to many hundreds of men and cause a distribution of over
						$60,000 a month in wages. The salaries and wages paid to officers and clerks and train
						and yard men who have headquarters here amount to fully as much more. The money paid out
						for supplies is several hundred thousand dollars annually. Taken altogether, the railway
						establishment of Indianapolis, for its own maintenance, pays out in the city yearly no
						less than two million dollars in cash.
					
						COLFAX.
					
					The Belt and Union railways can not be left out of consideration in any impartial
						statement of the city's railroad interests. During the panic following the "flush" times
						of the early seventies the building of the Belt road was undertaken as much for the
						purpose of giving employment to idle workmen as for business investment, although the
						men in control of the enterprise saw in it future profit. But even the most sanguine
						friends of the Belt road had no idea of the sudden bound into prosperity which it was to
						make. At once, almost, it became a great factor in the city's business life. As it is
						to-day, the Belt is a double-track railroad thirteen miles long, intersecting every
						railroad, and giving to each easy access to the large manufactories which have grown up
						along its route. The Belt is indeed a boon to manufacturers. They are by it enabled to
						occupy the cheaper ground away from the center of the city, and to have the benefit of a
						situation not only upon a railroad, but practically upon all the railroads centering
						here. A system of switching and trackage charges has been adopted which brings a car
						from any road to any manufacturer's door at a  nominal
						cost. Every year sees new manufactories located upon the Belt, and by the close of the
						decade the road will present the appearance of a Titan's rosary strung with
						manufacturing institutions. In a word, the impetus which the building of the Belt road
						gave to manufacturing in Indianapolis has exerted a force beyond calculation.
					
						LINSEED OIL WORKS ON THE
								BELT RAILROAD.
					
					Another, less important, but noteworthy benefit derived from the construction of the
						Belt road was the relieving of the tracks inside the city of the obstruction which was
						certain to be very serious were all the freight moved over them. Now, only freight
						collected from the depots or destined for points within the city is allowed inside the
						circle of the Belt. All through freights are moved around the city upon the Belt, and
						from it switched upon the roads to which they are consigned. This leaves the down town
						streets which are crossed by railroads open for the use of the people most of the time,
						a condition best appreciated by those who have experienced the vexation of waiting while
						long freight trains crept like huge snails across busy thoroughfares. The lessening of
						the degree of danger to human life by the keeping of the trains outside the city is also
						an important consideration.
					The arrangement by which all passenger trains on all the sixteen roads entering
						Indianapolis are brought into one magnificent union station in the very heart of the
						city must not be overlooked in this record of advantages. The Union Railway Company is a
						corporation of which the stock is owned by the railroad companies occupying the Union
						Station and tracks. Thus the station is entirely in the control of the companies using
						it, and each occupant pays for the privilege according to the number of cars it runs
						over the Union tracks. There is no finer nor more convenient and beautiful railway
						station in America than the Union Station in Indianapolis. An average of about one
						hundred and twenty passenger trains enter and leave the station every day, and it has
						been estimated that twenty-five thousand passengers pass through the station daily. The
						Union 
							SOUTH MERIDIAN FROM WASHINGTON STREET.
						
						 tracks are spanned at the crossing of Virginia avenue by
						an imposing, massive viaduct, of solid masonry and enormous steel girders, and at the
						Illinois street crossing a tunnel for vehicles and pedestrians passes under the tracks.
						These are but the beginning of an extensive system of viaducts which in time will
						entirely remove from the public the danger and inconvenience of trains moving inside the
						city. Indianapolis has been well called the "Railroad City." She has done much for the
						railroads, and they have done much for her. At her bidding they carry the products of
						her industries to distant markets and bring in return the varied stores which administer
						to her wants and pleasures and augment her wealth. Through them her proud position of
						"gate-way" between the East and West becomes a living force exerted in her upbuilding
						and prosperity.
					
						LOOKING EAST TOWARD THE UNION STATION.
					
				
				
				
					GENERAL REMARKS ABOUT RESOURCES.
					A CITY can not feed upon itself and prosper. While its varied
						interests are in large degree interdependent, and no one of them can suffer seriously
						without direct or indirect injury to the others, the general condition of the entire
						community is ultimately dependent upon resources not arising from the inside workings of
						society, but originating outside of and distinct from them. Trace any element of
						material wealth back to its primal source, and you find it springing from the earth. But
						the earth does not yield its riches equally from every portion of its surface. It has
						its deserts, its regions of ice, its areas rich perhaps in some one product, but devoid
						of others. Again, a territory may exist in which the elements of wealth are crowded
						together in profusion. In the general distribution of the human race over the earth's
						surface all peoples can not share alike in what Nature has to give. The Eskimo in his
						hut of snow knows nothing of the luxuriance and ease which the native of the tropic
						enjoys; nor do the inhabitants of either extreme of climate know of the thrift and vigor
						of mind and body which has made the races peopling the temperate zones the most powerful
						and enlightened of human kind. In a smaller way, every community is in chief part
						dependent upon its circumadjacent natural resources for its material condition; and the
						degree of its prosperity or poverty is in accordance with the plenitude of Nature's
						surrounding provision of wealth-producing materials. A city whose wealth springs from
						some single possession may grow great and strong, but there is always ahead of it the
						possibility that its source of strength may fail and its prosperity vanish. Cities,
						populous and rich, have arisen in regions where mines have poured out precious minerals,
						or where oil wells have brought localities into sudden prominence. The mines have
						failed, the wells have emptied the reservoirs from which they fed, and the cities have
						sunk down in ruins and have been almost forgotten. It is the communities which draw from
						many and varied sources of wealth that have the certainty of growth and power through
						all time to come. The draught upon any single factor of prosperity is then not so
						relentless, and the failure of any one source of supply, should it occur, can not prove
						disastrous to the general weal.
					Upon the broad foundation of a multiplicity of natural resources, coupled with the
						industrial and commercial aggressiveness of a people trained in self-reliance and
						economy, Indianapolis has grown to greatness, and has established her faith in the
						future. Certainly few cities have grown up among more advantageous natural surroundings.
						Set in the midst of  a territory embracing many thousands
						of square miles of the finest agricultural land on the globe, it would not have been
						surprising had a flourishing city arisen with no other elements of support than those
						coming from the cultivation of the soil. But there were other agents of wealth all
						about, any one of which might have served as a foundation for a prosperous commercial
						and manufacturing center. In every direction Indianapolis may reach out and almost at
						her doors gather up the riches which have been lavished about her. Forests of hard wood;
						limitless beds of coal; hundreds of square miles of stone, unexcelled for architectural
						uses; inexhaustible supplies of stone, easily converted into the finest quality of lime
						or hydraulic cement; great beds of kaolin, as yet almost undeveloped, but destined to
						create wealth and extensive industries in a few years; clay in all directions, suitable
						for the manufacture of every kind of brick, from the fine-grained and delicately moulded
						terra cotta to fire-brick and paving-brick, hard and enduring as granite; white sand in
						vast deposits, almost pure silica, and unsurpassed for the manufacture of glass; natural
						gas, the most perfect fuel ever known; and oil fields extensive and rich; these
						resources, with the exception of timber and the common brick clay, lie comparatively
						undeveloped by man. The next decade will witness a growth in the industries connected
						with the stone and clay and sand deposits of Indiana that would have seemed incredible
						to the Indianian of ten years ago. Of the development and prosperity which have already
						come, Indianapolis has been the center, and in that infinitely greater expansion and
						wealth which are to come in the future she will continue the sharer and chief city.
						Every factor which builds up the State adds to the welfare of its principal city and
						commercial and industrial center. Just as in the past all roads were said to lead to
						Rome, so now it may be said that all roads in Indiana lead to Indianapolis.
					
						NEAR THE OLD COVERED BRIDGE.
					
				
				
				
					AGRICULTURAL AND HORTICULTURAL.
					INDIANAPOLIS is doubly fortunate in the provision which Nature has
						made for her. She not only has a rich soil suitable for profitable agriculture overlying
						the greater part of her area, but beneath the soil has nameless stores of coal, stone,
						gas, oil, kaolin, etc. Of the native wealth beneath the surface something is said
						elsewhere; of the agricultural opportunities and products of the State it is purposed to
						speak here. To say all that might be said on this subject would alone require much more
						space than can be given to it at this time. Only the merest outline of the facts can
						here receive mention.
					The early settlers in Indiana regarded the State as destined to be purely agricultural.
						They knew nothing of the mineral wealth beneath their farms, and did not even care
						enough about it to make investigation. In very truth, the stone and coal and fire-clays
						which now are of untold value could not have then been much utilized, even had the
						extent of their deposits been known. To make such things valuable there must be
						railroads and cities, populous communities and capital ready for investment. But every
						pioneer recognized in the level surface of the State, with its deep, black soil covering
						forest and prairie, and its numerous streams furnishing a never-failing water supply, a
						future agricultural empire. So it was that the sparse population of fifty years ago
						tilled the soil. The farmers of those early days were in no sense specialists. The men
						who gave their entire attention to raising cattle, or horses, or hogs had not yet come
						west. The pioneer did a little at all branches of agriculture. A few acres of wheat,
						somewhat more of corn, a potato patch, a cow or two, a team of scrawny horses of
						different sizes and modes of locomotion, and half-a-dozen thin, sharp-backed hogs,
						running wild through the fall and put into a pen and fattened a few weeks before being
						killed for the year's meat supply; that was about the year's result of the farming
						operations of the average contented, hard-working farmer of half a century or more ago
						in Indiana. Yet it was not a life to look back upon with pity. There were frequent
						social amusements in every community: the log-rolling, the house-raising, the quilting,
						the corn-husking, the apple-cutting, the camp-meeting, the singing-school and the
						spelling-bee. The people were hospitable, generous, honest, industrious; ate plain,
						substantial food, wore plain, healthful clothing, and, altogether, lived wholesome,
						useful lives. There were no means of transporting crops of grain or droves of live stock
						to distant markets. Accordingly, people produced only what was likely to be needed by
						themselves or their neighbors. A system of exchange and barter in 
							THE STATE HOUSE.
						
						 many communities almost took the place of money, which was
						very scarce. The wheat and corn were ground at neighborhood mills, primitive affairs,
						driven by water or horse-power. Frequently a man who went to mill would be required to
						hitch his own horse to the horse-power and drive him round and round while the miller
						attended to the grinding of the grain. An old anecdote, doubtless familiar to thousands,
						illustrates well the slow, unsatisfactory progress which the rude mills of those days
						made in disposing of their grists:
					
						APARTMENT HOUSES, NORTH ILLINOIS STREET.
					
					A boy went to mill with a sack of corn slung across his horse's back. The miller
						emptied the corn into the hopper, started his lazy old horse to moving and the rumble of
						the mill-stones began. The boy stood around until his patience was exhausted. Then he
						went over and looked at the tiny stream of meal, about as large as a knitting-needle,
						running down into the half-bushel measure.
					"I could eat the meal as fast as your old mill grinds it," the boy finally remarked, in
						a tone of profound disgust.
					"Oh, yes; I suppose you could, for awhile," the miller answered, confident in his
						superior wisdom. "You might for awhile; but how long could you keep it up?"
					"How long?" retorted the lad, in fine contempt. "Why, till I starved to death."
					The great advancement of Indiana as an agricultural State began at about the same time
						that railroads first appeared in the State. Railroads connected the farms of the West
						with the markets 
						
							GRAND HOTEL.
						
						
							GIRLS' CLASSICAL SCHOOL.
						
						 of the East, and what was of scarcely less importance,
						connected the manufactories of improved farming implements in the East with the market
						for their products in the West. Thus the railroads brought a double benefit to the young
						State, and she began to flourish exceedingly. Her farms began to be better kept and
						larger, and to wear an air of new thrift and prosperity. Farm houses of a better
						character appeared, with barns and out-buildings as well. The plows with wooden
						mold-boards gradually disappeared, those of steel and cast iron taking their places. More
						attention was paid to the breed of horses, cattle and swine, because, after the Eastern
						markets were brought into reach, it was found that stock of good breed and appearance
						commanded better prices and was always in demand. The same principle was found to apply
						to grain. Thus corn and wheat fields not only grew larger and more numerous, but the
						quality of the grain improved and the yield per acre increased. In the last twenty-five
						years Indiana has come forward to somewhere near the rank she is destined to hold among
						the States of the Union as a producer of grain. This is not true as regards live stock,
						as in that Indiana is now going ahead more rapidly than ever before, and it is almost
						certain that she will eventually equal or lead all other States in the raising of
						horses, and perhaps of fine-blooded cattle and hogs. In the production of wheat Indiana
						has led all other States, never falling below second or third place in the line. She
						nearly or quite equals in her wheat crops the great Northwestern States, whose chief and
						almost only product is wheat. And yet wheat is not Indiana's chief product. Corn is the
						chief. Over a hundred million bushels of corn are raised in this State every year.
						Indiana, in truth, with her corn crops, is among the leaders of the great corn-growing
						States, and with her wheat crops is at the head of the wheat-raising States.
					From the first early settlements in Indiana corn has been the staple of production. The
						rich river bottom lands, of which the State has a large area in the aggregate, are
						peculiarly suited to the raising of corn. Their soil is a deep black loam of almost
						inexhaustible fertility, and over a large per cent. of it the streams rise in times of
						high water and deposit new stores of richness sufficient to recompense for the loss by
						cultivation. The uplands, too, yield heavy crops of corn year after year, some farms
						being as generous in their returns as ever after half a century of cultivation. It is in
						the river and creek bottoms, however, that the greatest crops of corn are raised. It is
						nothing unusualin fact, it is commonfor corn grown in the bottoms to yield
						a hundred bushels to the acre, and instances may be gleaned in almost any lowland
						community of corn crops ranging as high as one hundred and twenty-five bushels to the
						acre. Of the huge corn crop harvested every year in Indiana a comparatively small
						proportion is shipped outside the State. The greater part is not even removed from 
						
							FACTORY ON THE BELT RAILROAD.
						 the farms where it grows. Experience has shown the farmer that his corn
						converted into meat is greatly increased in value. Accordingly, instead of selling it,
						he feeds it, and then sells his fat hogs and cattle. By good management he builds up his
						profits in this way, and at the same time is following the most convenient and logical
						course open to him, and the one which results in the least deterioration of the
						productiveness of his land. It is estimated that the average corn crop of Indiana is
						worth no less than $40,000,000, or about twenty dollars apiece for every man, woman and
						child in the State.
					Fifty years ago the wheat production in the West was so small as to be commercially
						unimportant. Methods of sowing, reaping and threshing were crude and inefficient, and
						markets were inaccessible. The demand was light, and prices not such as to encourage the
						cultivation of more wheat than was necessary for home consumption. It is not without
						interest to note here that, contrary to ordinary principles of trade, the production of
						wheat and its price have increased at the same time. When the wheat crop of Indiana
						amounted annually to but a few thousand bushels, its price at best was from twenty-five
						to fifty cents a bushel. When, years later, the annual wheat crop of the State had grown
						into millions of bushels, the price mounted to a dollar a bushel, or more. Excepting the
						war period, when unnatural conditions inflated prices, it may be said, in a general way,
						that the prices of wheat have ranged greatest when the crops have been largest, until
						the year 1891. In that year the wheat crop of the State reached the enormous and
						unprecedented volume of 60,000,000 bushels, and the price ruled higher than for years,
						probably higher than ever before, except during 
							The Sun.
								INDIANAPOLIS IND., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1892.
						
						
							ON BROADWAY.
						
						 the years influenced by the Civil War. With the growing
						demand for wheat throughout the world, the means of producing it have marvelously
						improved. The old laborious methods of preparing the ground, of sowing broadcast by
						hand, of reaping with a small hook, or even with a cradle, and of threshing with a
						flail, or by the treading of horses, have passed away and exist only in memory. Now the
						work is done from first to last by ingenious machinery, guided by skill and intelligence
						rather than by brawn. The result has been a decline in the cost of production and at the
						same time an immense increase in the yield. Even as late as twenty-five years ago, a
						yield of fifteen bushels of wheat to the acre was considered very good indeed, and was
						above the average, while twenty bushels to the acre were almost unheard of. 
							IN FAIRVIEW PARK.
						 Now, yields of forty or even fifty bushels per acre are recorded almost every
						year, while the average crop for the entire State of Indiana in 1891 was probably not
						far below twenty bushels per acre. In 1891, the Indiana wheat crop was worth, at the
						prevailing prices, full $50,000,000. The wheat crop then was worth enough to have gone
						into the markets and returned twenty-five dollars for every human being in the State.
						Besides the two great staples of corn and wheat, Indiana annually produces millions of
						bushels of oats, barley, rye and potatoes. Hay, too, is produced by millions of tons,
						but is chiefly consumed inside State lines, going to 
							BIRD'S-EYE VIEW, NORTHEAST.
						
						 fatten the domestic animals, which, in turn, are a source
						of enormous wealth.
					In the raising of fruit, Indiana recognizes no superior. Her orchards produce more
						apples than do those of New York, and more peaches than those of Delaware. It is only
						within recent years that the adaptability of the soil and climate of this State to the
						raising of fine fruit has been recognized, and this branch of industry is in its
						infancy, compared to what the future is destined to show. The industry of peach culture
						is hardly ten years old, and its growth has been probably fifty per cent. each year. The
						broken hills and valleys of the southern part of the State, which formerly were regarded
						as the least valuable of its agricultural land, are now known to be suited to peach
						culture and the growing of small fruits as, perhaps, no other region of the United
						States is. It is believed that in time the southern counties of Indiana will be commonly
						conceded to be the greatest peach-growing area on the globe.
					
						RESIDENCE, NORTH DELAWARE
								STREET.
					
					Apples do well all over the State, but are surest and most prolific in the southern
						half. Within a decade has grown up a large shipping trade in apples in the southern
						counties. In almost every small town, commission men establish agencies during the fall
						and daily buy and ship car loads of apples, which are hailed into the stations by the
						surrounding farmers. For years before this  shipping
						business began, thousands of bushels of apples rotted on the ground in the orchards
						simply because there was no market for them. Apples were almost worthless during the
						season of their abundance, and in any community train loads of them might have been
						purchased for ten cents a bushel. Now, however, all this is changed; the apple crop to
						many a farmer is almost or quite as important as his wheat or corn crop; he harvests it
						with as much care, and his per cent. of profit is often very much greater. A generation
						ago people set out orchards for the comfort and convenience of having plenty of fruit
						for home use; to-day they set them out with the same purpose and certainty of profit
						that attends the cultivation of any other of their crops. Indiana apples and peaches now
						compete successfully in the Eastern markets with the fruit from the older and more
						famous orchards of the States long known for their fruit-growing productiveness.
					
						ENTRANCE TO CROWN HILL CEMETERY.
					
					Pass from the direct to the indirect agricultural products of Indiana and the results
						of inquiry are scarcely less gratifying; by the indirect products, live stock being
						meant, in distinction from such direct agricultural products as grain and fruit. The day
						of "scrub" stock has practically gone by; no reputable breeder or dealer in live stock
						will tolerate any but well-bred and improved horses, cattle or hogs about him
						to-day.
					There are two methods of measuring the advance which has been made in the live stock
						industry: one is by comparing the number of specialists now devoting themselves
						exclusively to the breeding of fine grade animals with the number  similarly engaged at any given time in the past; the other by comparing the
						general average excellence of live stock all over the State at present with what it was
						at any previous time. The latter test is by far the more valuable, as indicating the
						common advancement of the farming population, although the two are largely
						interdependent. Where specialists are numerous, the general average quality of stock is
						reasonably certain in time to be improved; and, on the other hand, if popular sentiment
						grows to favor better grades of domestic animals, specialists in breeding are pretty
						sure to spring up to supply the demand. But measure Indiana by either method and the
						result will be creditable. All over the State are men who are extensively engaged in
						raising fine horses, or cattle, or hogs. A growing public sentiment, in the first place,
						led to this business being taken up, and the business once established, stimulated and
						yet further educated the sentiment. Thus by action and reaction has come about a marked
						improvement in the grade of domestic animals in Indiana within a dozen years.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					The classes of horses have grown apart, and now a horse is bred especially for heavy
						work or for light driving or for speed, and the people have come to appreciate the fact
						that they profit by having horses suited for the purposes to which they are put. Every
						farmer has become to some extent a breeder of 
							DICKSON & TABLOTT THEATRES
						
						 horses, and the stimulus which urges him constantly on to
						further improvement is the very substantial and appreciable fact that the better his
						horses are the higher are the prices which they will command in market. An inferior
						animal costs about as much to raise as one of a fine strain of blood, full of spirit,
						and of handsome form, but the latter will command a vastly higher price. With this
						knowledge ever in the mind of the Indiana farmer, it is not to be wondered at that the
						grade of horses produced improves with every year. The same is even more true of cattle
						and hogs, because the average farmer deals much more extensively in cattle and hogs than
						in horses.
					
						A VIEW OF THE INSANE HOSPITAL.
					
					One of the direct results of the interest which has grown up in the breeding of blooded
						horses is the attention which of late has been given to the raising and training of race
						horses. About many cities in the State cluster racing interests of no mean order, and
						Indianapolis is clearly destined to become one of the great centers for the breeding and
						racing of fine horses. In the last year an advance in this direction has been made which
						is of the utmost importance. Horsemen are bringing their stables here, and before the
						close of the year it is likely no fewer than two hundred and fifty horses of fine blood,
						bred for speed, will be located in the barns at the State Fair ground, and be in
						training upon the track there. The industry of raising live stock, and the great
						industries based upon that, to-day represent investments in Indiana of hundreds of
						millions of dollars; investments on which the annual returns are tens of millions, and
						which, in one way and another, give support and employment to thousands of persons.
					
					
						NORTH PENNSYLVANIA STREET,
								ABOVE SEVENTH.
					
					
						NEW CENTRAL CHRISTIAN CHURCH.
					
				
				
				
					NATURAL GAS.
					FEW economical problems are so important as those connected with the
						fuel supply. Fuel, like food and drink, is essential, not only to comfort and health,
						but to the very existence of human life. For Indianapolis these problems have been
						reduced to their simplest form by the beneficent provision of Nature itself. No fuel
						which the world has ever known has pressed so closely upon the very verge of perfection
						as has natural gas, and in its possession of this treasure the chief city of Indiana is
						blessed as few other large cities on the globe have been blessed. From its vast
						subterranean storehouse the fluid rushes, eager to do the service that man desires. It
						requires no assistance, no forcing; simply must be loosed from its prison-house and
						guided to the place where it is needed. The only artificial aid necessary to the use of
						gas is in the way of restraining and directing it. When this first expense is disposed
						of the only work that remains to be done is to regulate the flow of gas from the wells
						and keep in repair the pipes which conduct it.
					The quality of cheapness is only one of the many excellencies of natural gas. It
						requires no storehouse, no constant forethought in providing a new supply to take the
						place of that in use. No hauling or lifting or carrying or piling away in the cellar. It
						produces no ashes, no black smoke, if properly used, no refuse matter of any kind to be
						unsightly and cause dirt and trouble in the handling. It gives a steady, intense heat,
						requiring no attention night or day the winter through, except to turn it up or down to
						suit the weather, as simply and easily as an ordinary illuminating gas jet is regulated.
						There is no troublesome building of fires, no popping of live coals out into the room to
						be a source of danger and apprehension. The gas is simply lighted with a match or bit of
						paper, and then burns without further attention, and without danger. All this applies
						with full force to the consumption of gas in furnaces and under boilers. Experience has
						shown that had gas no advantage over coal in the matter of cost and convenience it would
						yet be far preferable to coal, because of its clean, steady, intense and easily
						manipulated heat. When all the other advantages enumerated are added to this there
						hardly remains ground of comparison between gas and coal.
					The first natural gas well in the United States from which flowed sufficient gas to be
						utilized as fuel was in the town of Fredonia, in Western New York, in 1821. The gas was
						first discovered issuing from a spring, and was collected and used in several adjacent
							
							SOUTH MERIDIAN FROM MARYLAND STREET.
						
						 houses with reasonably satisfactory results. Soon after a
						small well was sunk, and from it a small flow of gas was obtained. That was the
						beginning, but it was so small that it was not regarded as important, and such use as
						had been made of the gas was allowed to fall into neglect. Years after its use was
						revived, and, as the wells were only two or three hundred feet deep, and one well
						supplied hardly more gas than one household would consume, there came a time when almost
						every house of the better class in Fredonia had its own gas well in the back yard.
					
						THE CONVENTION HALL.
					
					All this is of importance only as showing how long ago natural gas first came into use,
						and something of its history. The period which may be termed the natural gas era did not
						begin until a few years ago. The first gas well of the great modern wells was drilled in
						Pennsylvania, in the outskirts of the village of Murrysville, some twenty miles
						northeast of Pittsburg, and was an accident and a surprise. It was a giant, and an
						unwelcome one, and disgusted the drillers exceedingly. They were prospecting for oil. It
						was in the fall of 1878, and the oil fever in Pennsylvania was at its height. Every
						farmer thought he might have a vast fortune below, and was impatient to learn the truth.
						So it was that drillers for oil covered the hills and valleys in every direction with
						their unsightly derricks and punctured the 
						
							SOLDIERS' MONUMENT.
						
						 earth in thousands of places. When this particular well at
						Murrysville reached what since has been known as gas rock there burst forth such a roar
						as terrified everybody in the village. The outrushing gas drove the drillers away, and,
						after vainly trying to control it by various means, they gave it up, and concluded that
						the money sunk in that well was a total loss. Numerous schemes for harnessing the
						monster, which became famous as "Old Haymaker," were tried and failed. People were
						afraid of it, and it roared away, releasing many millions of feet of gas every day. For
						four or five years this went on, the well burning most of the time, and lighting up the
						landscape for a long distance. Its roaring could be heard distinctly for six miles, and
						people traveled from afar to see it. The inhabitants of Murrysville were driven almost
						wild by the noise, which made conversation nearly impossible and ruined sleep. Scarcely
						did the village know what darkness was during all those years.
					
						FLATS ON INDIANA AVENUE.
					
					Before this famous old well was conquered and put to work supplying the city of
						Pittsburg with fuel, the value of natural gas had become well understood, and people in
						localities remote from the Murrysville field began to drill 
							FURNITURE AND VARNISH FACTORIES
									ON THE L. E. & W. R. R.
						
						 experimental wells, hoping to discover that they too had
						been provided for by Nature. It was not a great while before several other gas fields
						had been discovered in Pennsylvania, and about 1884 or 1885 drillers at Findlay, Ohio,
						were rewarded with success also.
					The first natural gas well in Indiana was drilled in 1886, at the village of Eaton,
						Delaware county, twelve miles north of Muncie. Several years before, Mr. W. W.
						Worthington, manager of the Ft. Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati railroad, had drilled a
						well about three hundred feet deep at Eaton. It was of no account, and was abandoned.
						After gas had been discovered in Ohio, Mr. R. C. Bell and Mr. Worthington, both of Ft.
						Wayne, visited Findlay, Ohio, and saw the great well there. They came away enthusiastic,
						and, after some discussion, decided to resume operations on the old Eaton well. They did
						it partly to get the benefit of the work already fairly started and partly because they
						fancied the rocks about Findlay and Eaton were similar. This fancy, while probably of no
						real significance, nevertheless led to the discovery of gas in Indiana in paying
						quantities. The drill reached Trenton rock, and the gas rushed out with a roar which set
						the good people of Eaton wild with excitement. The well seemed a monster then, but after
						others which really were large were drilled, the original well was found to be small.
						Its flow was about one million cubic feet a day. After this the development of Indiana's
						gas field was rapid, and soon became enormous. Every city, every town, every village,
						every farming community within a hundred miles of Eaton organized companies and began to
						drill wells. Thousands of towering derricks marked the sites where drilling was in
						progress, and one might ride through the country for hours upon a railway train with
						scarce a moment in which one or more of the gaunt, skeleton-like structures were not to
						be seen from the car windows. Hundreds of thousands of dollars were thrown away before
						the extent of the gas field was learned, and hundreds of wells were drilled that
						produced gas of which not a tithe could be consumed by legitimate means, the remainder
						of the flow being allowed to run to waste. It was estimated that for two or three years
						after gas was discovered and developed one hundred million cubic feet of it was utterly
						wasted every day.
					When the experimental well drilling had definitely determined its bounds, the area of
						the Indiana gas field was found to be very much larger than that of any other known. In
						Pennsylvania are many small fields without apparent connection with each other, but
						which in the aggregate form a large area. In Ohio is but one field, with some five
						hundred or six hundred square miles of area. In Indiana is but one field, also, but its
						size, including all the territory in which a well will produce any gas, is between five
						thousand and six thousand square miles. Of this great expanse probably three thousand
						square miles are underlaid by gas in quantity sufficient to produce wells of the first
						class.
					
					
						THE DENISON.
					
					Upon this tremendous store of natural gas Indianapolis draws for her fuel supply. A
						system of pipe lines and wells of a magnitude undreamed of by most of those who use the
						gas, conducts it from the field to the stoves and grates and furnaces of the consumers.
						Probably fifty thousand natural gas fires burn all winter long in the city. The quantity
						of gas necessary to supply them is not less than seventy-five million cubic feet a day
						during the six cold months. While it is impossible to judge from this computation the
						actual extent of the pipe line system, one may at least form some idea of its magnitude,
						which can only be fully appreciated by a trip over the lines through the gas territory.
						Extending northward from the city are four trunk lines of gas mains. Almost parallel
						they run for nearly twenty miles, then diverge and enter an indescribably complicated
						network of lateral and minor mains. Over a territory twenty-five miles long and from
						three to ten miles wide are scattered the wells which send gas humming along the lines
						to Indianapolis. Two main trunk lines, which receive the gas from the small lines
						directly connected with the wells, extend through this field its entire length. From the
						northern limits of the city to the most  distant wells
						which contribute to her fuel supply is a distance of forty-five miles. Full two hundred
						gas wells unite in this great work of furnishing a city its heat. The wells are not very
						close together, and are in ravines and on hills; in the woods and in the open fields;
						near traveled roads or far from any highways. Like some huge circulatory system, the
						subterranean pipes connect all the sources of supply and, collecting the gas from all,
						pour it into the city. The pressure of the gas as it rushes from the wells ranges from
						two hundred to three hundred and twenty-five pounds to the square inch, but the friction
						of the pipes reduces this to a pressure less than one hundred pounds to the square inch
						by the time the city is reached. At the city limits the gas flows through regulating
						stations, which reduce its pressure much lower still.
					
						RESIDENCE, NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					In this system of pipe lines, containing many hundred miles of connected pipes, full
						three million dollars has been invested. But, while this is true, the cost of fuel in
						the city of Indianapolis has fallen to less than half what it was before the discovery
						of gas. As shown elsewhere, the city lies within easy reach of exhaustless beds of coal,
						and has never known what high-priced fuel is, and yet, compared with what she now pays
						for gas, the old coal prices appear exorbitant. When for less than thirty dollars a
						large house may be 
							FIRST EVANGELICAL ASSOCIATION CHURCH.
						
						 thoroughly heated for twelve months, and a poor man, with
						his one or two rooms or his cottage, may have an abundance of heat for from ten to
						twenty dollars a year, with fuel for cooking included, there certainly seems little
						remaining to desire in that direction. Then to this cheapness add the additional
						qualities of cleanliness, convenience, steadiness and reliability, and you have the most
						perfect fuel ever known. Its cheapness would make it popular though it were as dirty and
						troublesome as coal, and its cleanliness and convenience would popularize it though it
						were as expensive as coal.
					
						PUBLIC SCHOOL NO. 32.
					
					While it is a diversion from the strict line of the purpose to set forth the advantages
						of Indianapolis as a favored commercial, industrial and social center, pardon is craved
						here for a momentary consideration of the spectacular phase of the natural gas presence.
						Few sights are grander than that of a burning gas well at night. The flame rushes from
						the mouth of the pipe with a deafening roar which, for many rods around, prevents a
						spectator from hearing his own voice, and leaps toward the sky, which hangs, black as
						ink, apparently close above. As the flame rises it expands, until, in case the well is a
						very powerful one, it is sometimes a hundred feet high and forty or fifty feet in
						diameter. Then this vast mass, whipped and torn by the air currents which swirl and eddy
						around it, flares and veers, now seeming to squat in fright, now to leap upward with the
						fierceness of some huge beast of prey, again to sweep with an angry  roar to one side and stoop almost to the earth. Now and then some great
						fragment of flame is torn from the main body, and, flapping and hissing like a banner
						from the infernal regions, rides wildly upon the breeze an instant and vanishes. The eye
						tires and the strain upon the ear becomes painful. The spectator finds himself
						involuntarily wondering if the roar and flame will never cease. There is a feeling that
						the mighty performance is carried on with such a reckless disregard of material and
						under such a terrific tension that it can not long continuethat Nature herself
						must rest and recuperate soon. But no! On and on it goes, like the falls of Niagara, and
						finally, wearied and almost stunned, the spectator who has witnessed the scene for the
						first time turns away. Half a mile and he looks back. Through the trees, perhaps, he
						sees the great torch bounding and stooping, as though vainly trying to free itself from
						the bond that holds it to the earth. Its wild motion throws weird, shifting shadows over
						the country round; its roar, muffled by the distance, comes across the fields sullen and
						changeful. A mile away: Over the trees a fitful, throbbing light comes and goes, flares
						and fades. On the dark sky above, an angry, livid blur of red, brightening and failing
						and wavering in sympathy with the raging prisoner below. Up through the dense night air,
						heavy with moisture, still comes the sullen roar, faint and softened, like the humming
						of a hive of bees in the summer evening.
					
						VIEW AT THE COUNTRY CLUB.
					
					
						FURNITURE FACTORIES ALONG
								THE J. M. & I. R. R.
					
				
				
				
					INDIANA COAL-MEASURES.
					THAT mineral product which in the past has contributed most to the
						wealth of Indiana is coal. And yet the coal beds of the State are hardly disturbed, so
						great is their extent compared to the number and magnitude of the mines. Hardly enough
						mining has been done, in truth, to determine the area of the coal-field or the number of
						workable beds which are to be found one below another. All the coal underlying Indiana
						is bituminous, but it varies from the firm, fine-grained cannel, capable of taking a
						high polish, to the hard, brittle block coal, which will not cake in burning.
					The area of the coal-measures of the State is estimated to be seven thousand square
						miles, and in many parts of the field twelve veins may be pierced by a perpendicular
						shaft a few hundred feet deep. These seams of coal are at depths ranging from the
						surface to three hundred feet below, their average depth being about eighty feet. The
						fine seams, which are commonly worked, vary from two or three to eleven feet in
						thickness, and average about four feet, an average which proves the coal to be, as a
						rule, conveniently and cheaply mined. The abundance of coal in Indiana is a matter of
						surprised comment to persons visiting the fields. It is no unusual thing to notice a
						black horizontal stripe several feet wide marking the face of the bluff along some
						stream. Occasionally two, or even three, such stripes lie parallel to each other, with
						layers of clay or shale between. These are the outcroppings of coal seams. Frequently,
						as the weather or high water causes the face of such a bluff to crumble away, great
						fragments will break from the exposed edges of the coal, and, rolling to the foot,
						accumulate in heaps, ready mined for the neighboring farmers to haul home for fuel. In
						regions where the coal beds lie near the surface such outcroppings are exceedingly
						common along the banks of streams which have cut deep courses, and the farmers often
						have their private mines or drifts, where they burrow away at getting out their fuel
						supply in the intervals of farm work. While much coal is mined by drifts, which are
						tunnels entering hill-sides at an incline, more and of a better quality lies deeper, and
						must be brought to the surface by hoisting up perpendicular shafts. There are whole
						townships, almost whole counties, underlaid by these rich coal beds, and not yet
						developed by the investment of a dollar, beyond what the farmers have put into their
						small mines for furnishing their home fuel. In the years to come all this will be
						changed. Millions of dollars will go into machinery and mines, and tens of millions will
						come out in profits.
					
					
						ILLINOIS STREET FROM MARKET
								STREET.
					
					
					The block coal district has been more extensively developed than any other. The
						superlative quality of its product and the fact that it was pierced by a railroad years
						before any other coal-field in the State was opened to the markets, account for its fame
						and the extent of its output. So far as has been shown, block coal underlies an area of
						about six hundred or seven hundred square miles, in the western part of the State. It is
						remarkably free from sulphur, phosphorous or other foreign substances. This quality, in
						connection with its richness in carbon, makes it especially valuable in the manufacture
						of steel and for refining and rolling-mill uses. It has no superior for the more common
						demands of domestic consumption. It burns freely, with a bright flame, and leaves a very
						slight residuum of white ash.
					
						STEAM PUMP WORKS.
					
					The tremendous amount of force stored up in coal has been carefully calculated by Prof.
						Rogers, thus: "The dynamic value of one pound of good steam coal is equivalent to the
						work of one man for one day, and three tons are equal to twenty years' hard work of
						three hundred days to the year. The usual estimate of a four-foot seam is that it will
						yield one ton of good coal for every square yard, or about five thousand tons to the
						acre. Each square mile will then contain three million two hundred thousand tons, which,
						in the total capacity for the production of power, are equal to the labor of over one
						million able-bodied men for twenty years." This computation by Prof. Rogers applies to a
						single four-foot seam of coal underlying a single square mile. Now, take up the
						calculation where Prof. Rogers left off and apply it to Indiana's seven thousand square
						miles of coal-fields, underlaid by four or five seams of coal, each four feet thick. The
						result gives a showing of stored up power 
						
							DESK FACTORY ON L. E. & W. R. R.
						
						
							MALLEABLE IRON WORKS AT
									HAUGHVILLE.
						
						 utterly beyond the grasp of human comprehension. It is
						estimated that at present, capital amounting to about three and a half million dollars
						is invested in coal mining in Indiana, and that the annual production of coal is fully
						two and a half million tons, worth over three million dollars. The number of men
						employed in and about the mines is about seven thousand. 
							HOME OF EX-GOVERNOR A. G.
									PORTER.
						 For fifteen years prior to the discovery of natural gas in Indiana the coal
						industry grew at the rate of twenty-three per cent a year. The advent of gas checked the
						rapidity of this expansion, and the rate of increase during the last five years has been
						slower. Now, coming back directly to the purpose of this brief resume of the coal wealth
						of the State, it should be recalled that Indianapolis lies but fifty miles from this
						inexhaustible fuel supply, and that numerous railroads which traverse the coal territory
						can transport unlimited quantities to the city on a few hours' notice, and at prices
						which, compared with the cost of coal in many cities of the country, less fortunate in
						situation, seem almost ridiculously low.
					
					
						PUMPING STATION.
					
					
						THE WATER WORKS.
					
				
				
				
					CONCERNING STONE.
					NEXT to the coal industry, in the extent of development of natural
						resources, in the State, is the stone business. The quarrying and manufacture of stone
						and stone products, such as lime and hydraulic cement, are carried on in many places and
						upon a comprehensive scale, and yet, when one considers the vastness of the stone
						deposits of the State, the industries based upon them seem puny and insignificant by
						comparison. The truth is, the stone industry of Indiana, though extensive considered
						alone, is in its infancy compared to what it is destined to be in a few years. This is
						not idle boasting. The man who investigates the stone fields of the State, and examines
						the quality as well as the extent of the deposits, will discover that it is no easy
						matter to overrate the value of Indiana's stone. This is true, not only of the
						limestone, which has already become famous all over the continent, but of the sandstone
						as well, whose excellence is only beginning to be understood. Three qualities are
						necessary to the best possible building stone. They are durability, workability and
						beauty. It is important, also, that it should be cheap. All these qualities, it may be
						said in the beginning, the building stones of Indiana possess in eminent degree.
					A large area in the western part of the State, extending north and south for near two
						hundred miles, is rich in sandstone perfectly adapted to building purposes. This stone
						is fine-grained and massive, homogeneous, non-cleaving and exceedingly strong in all
						directions. Maurice Thompson, the well known author and geologist, has made a careful
						study of the building stone deposits of Indiana, and is enthusiastic concerning their
						value and extent. Speaking of the sandstone, Mr. Thompson says: "It comes very soft from
						the quarry, which makes it remarkably easy to cut; afterward it dries quickly, takes on
						a lively glow and holds its color perfectly. In the western part of the State are
						inexhaustible beds of this beautiful stone. Blocks of the better class of this are so
						soft on coming from the quarry that they may be hewn into any shape with a common ax,
						and will harden in a few days to such a degree that, upon being struck with a hammer,
						they will give forth a clear, metallic sound and emit sparks like flint. Although the
						quarrying of sandstone has not yet come to be of that importance in Indiana which the
						value of the deposits demands, still it has been increasing yearly, and must soon take
						its place among our greatest industries. We shall not always go to far northern and
						eastern regions to import a material which lies at our feet 
						
							Y. M. C. A. BUILDING.
						
						 ready for use. The best modern architects have long made
						use of sandstone similar to ours in the most costly and extensive structures of European
						cities." 
					
						DEAF AND DUMB INSTITUTE.
					
					The Indiana sandstones are just now beginning to be appreciated for what they are
						worth. Quarries here and there are opening up and increasing their output as the demand
						for the stone increases. Before long the demand will seek the supply, and then the
						quarries will multiply a hundredfold. It is confidently believed that in quality, in
						variety and richness of color, and in ease and cheapness of production, these sandstones
						need not fear the competition of the world. The colors which are common and available
						for the quarryman are brown, buff, gray, pink, straw color, yellow, white, red and
						black. In fact, all these colors have been found in large deposits within the limits of
						a single 
						
							RESIDENCE ON NORTH DELAWARE STREET.
						
						
							RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN STREET.
						 county. In chimneys and foundations, and here and
						there a farm house, the sandstones of Western Indiana have been in use half a century,
						and it is an interesting and significant fact that they are as firm and smooth and free
						from crumbling or apparent weather wear as they were when they were laid in place fresh
						from the quarry. These tests have conclusively proven the durability of the stone. Its
						strength and workability and beauty and abundance are susceptible of proof any day that
						one cares to go about an investigation in the region where it lies. Capital from other
						States is already going into the new sandstone quarries, and no one who is familiar with
						the facts can doubt that in a few years they will become the basis of an immense
						industry.
					
						MADISON AVENUE FURNITURE
								FACTORY.
					
					To Indiana's limestone it is, however, that the builders of the country have already
						learned to turn when the finest building material to be had is wanted. The quarrying of
						limestone in this State is not an old industry, but the product of the quarries was of
						so plainly superior a character from the very first that it sprang with a bound into
						public favor. The small beginning of the stone business a few years ago has rapidly
						swelled to large proportions, and yet the immense deposits of fine stone seem hardly
						disturbed by the scattered assaults made upon them by the quarrymen. For over a hundred
						miles the beds of limestone suitable for building purposes extend from Greencastle on
						the northwest to Salem on the southeast; and averaging several miles wide. This stone
						has become famous as "the Indiana Oolitic." Ideally perfect limestone would be composed
						of pure carbonate of lime, but this perfection is never found. In some 
							VENEER WORKS, NEAR MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE DEPOT.
						
						 Indiana oolitic limestones the proportion of foreign
						substances is only three per cent., which is about as nearly pure as any stone known.
						"Next to marble in beauty and susceptibility to perfect finish as regards application to
						architecture, is the close-grained oolitic stone. Although coming comparatively soft
						from the quarry, oolitic stone has a peculiar toughness and density, and withal a
						dryness, which render it a puzzle to every examiner. It is flexible, elastic, resonant,
						uniform in its grain, equally strong in every direction and perfectly homogeneous. These
						qualities give it the best possible power of resistance to strains or crushing force. A
						bar of this stone may be bent very perceptibly, and when the force is removed it will
						spring back to its normal state with the promptness and energy of steel. Its tone, when
						struck, is a clear, musical, bell-like note. When first quarried it is almost as easily
						cut as sandstone, yielding readily to tools of all kinds. It is then soft, and yet tough
						enough to hold well the finest figures of carving. It comes from the quarry cut by steam
						channelers into blocks or quadrangular columns six by ten feet by one hundred feet long,
						if desired. Its color at first is a pale brownish shade, which gradually lightens on
						exposure to the air to a soft cream or grayish white."
					
						ENGLISH LUTHERAN CHURCH.
					
					
					
						WASHINGTON STREET OFFICE
								BLOCK.
					
					
						RESIDENCE, NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					
					
					
						BOAT HOUSE AT FAIRVIEW PARK.
					
					
					
						HENDRICKS
					
					Within the last five years the practical interests in the oolitic deposits have more
						than doubled. During that time the stone trade has grown with a constantly increasing
						momentum, and day by day the quarried stone is reaching new fields of demand. The
						prosperity of the stone interests has naturally stimulated activity in other lines of
						business. Prices of real estate have gone up to figures undreamed of a few years ago by
						the farmers who tilled the soil above the stone. Towns have grown rapidly, yet
						substantially, for the growth has not been the result of fictitious "booming" of values.
						In many instances the opening of new quarries has caused farmland prices to fairly leap
						upward. An instance is recalled of a man who purchased twenty-eight acres of rough land,
						overgrown with bushes and scrubby timber, for three hundred and fifty dollars. The
						purchaser had no sooner gained possession of the tract than he caused the earth to be
						removed from the stone in several patches, so that the quality of the deposit might be
						ascertained. In less than a year this man had ceded ten acres of the tract to a stone
						company on condition that he should receive six thousand dollars of paid up stock and
						that the company should construct a railroad switch from the main line into the tract.
						Twelve acres he sold outright to another company for forty-two hundred dollars in cash,
						and the remaining six acres he still holds, intending to retain it until the quarries
						started near it become extensive, when it can doubtless be sold for a thousand dollars
						an acre or more. All this from an original investment of not over three hundred and
						fifty dollars, and all within the last twelve months. While such marked profits as this
							
							NORTHWEST FROM THE COURT HOUSE.
						
						 recorded are of course exceptional, they differ in degree
						only from many other fortunate real estate transactions, and the force of all in this
						connection is to emphasize the enormous strides which the stone industry in Indiana is
						making. And this marvelous advance is not destined to be temporary. It is based upon the
						firmest foundations. The use of stone can never cease. Substitutes may be found for
						coal, for iron, for brick, for wood, but as the United States becomes older and richer,
						and people find time to think more about durability and solidity and beauty, there will
						be a constantly increasing demand for building stone. One important advantage which
						Indiana stone has over the stones of many other places is that it lies almost on the
						surface of the ground. The five or ten feet of earth which covers the stone can be
						quickly and cheaply removed by horsepower plows and scrapers, and the stone, of which as
						large an area may be cleared off at the first as desired, lies so level and convenient
						to quarry and hoist upon the cars that the process is comparatively inexpensive.
					
						INDIANA TRIBUNE BUILDING.
					
					As has before been said, the stone business in Indiana, though large, is in its
						infancy. As compared with the probabilities of the future, it is scarcely a beginning.
						And yet within the last ten years it has made notable progress. The finest and costliest
						steam machinery is employed in all the largest quarries. Steam channelers cut the blocks
						of stone from their solid bed, ranging from twenty to sixty feet thick, where they were
						deposited atom by atom countless ages ago. Steam hoists the stone from the excavation
						and loads it on the cars; and in the shops connected with the quarries, steam saws the
						rough stones into slabs and blocks and prisms, or turns them into cylindrical columns or
						ornamented cornices or balustrades, as may be desired. There are now about two hundred
						companies, or individuals, which  own stone quarries in the
						State. This is an average of more than two to each county. The amount of capital
						invested in quarries in 1890 was $4,294,943. The number of men employed in the quarries
						in that year was 4,334, and the wages paid them $2,171,375.10. The approximate total
						output of stone was 20,649,276 cubic feet, worth $3,312,446.70. Quoting once more from
						Mr. Thompson: "It would be interesting, if it were possible," says he, "to give a
						statement showing the scope of the commerce in stone from Indiana; but we can only state
						that our best building stone now goes into almost every State east of the Rocky
						Mountains, and that costly and enduring monuments attest its superiority at the very
						gates of all the other most celebrated quarry fields. 
							BUSINESS BLOCKS ON VIRGINIA AVENUE.
						It is carried triumphantly beyond the marble regions of Tennessee and the
						granite of Georgia; over the limestone ledges of Alabama and into the central cities of
						Texas. Missouri calls for it; Chicago must have it, and does have it every day in the
						year; Cincinnati, New Orleans, Philadelphia, New York, Atlanta and hundreds of other
						cities and towns are using it freely in preference to any 
						other stone. Its use is its advertisement; for wherever it is seen in a building its
						superiority is not to be overlooked or discredited." Indiana has shown her high
						appreciation of her stone by the generous use which she has made of it. Her Capitol,
						costing two million dollars, and which is one of the most beautiful public buildings in
						America, is constructed entirely of oolitic stone. Her Soldiers' Monument, costing three
						hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and the grandest memorial on the continent, is of
						her own oolitic stone. Court-houses all over the State are of Indiana stone. The Marion
						County Court-house, which cost one and a half million dollars, is of the oolitic stone;
						so are the handsome new buildings of the Indianapolis Public Library and Commercial
						Club. 
							GOVERNOR'S ROOM IN THE STATE HOUSE.
						But the reputation of the oolitic stone is even greater abroad than at home.
						State-houses, hotels, court-houses, residences, chambers of commerce, business blocks in
						hundreds of cities speak its fame. The time has come when those who contemplate the
						erection of a great building pause first to consider the merits of Indiana's stone, that
						they may secure something which will endure through ages, and which to succeeding
						generations will stand an honor to the memory of its builders.
					
					
						RESIDENCE ON CENTRAL AVENUE.
					
					But even yet the tale of the Hoosier stone fields is not all told. The great lime and
						cement industries of the State have not yet been touched upon. In their way these
						products of the stone are of the same high quality as the stone itself. Fully two
						million bushels of lime are manufactured in Indiana every year, worth three and a half
						million dollars; and probably twice as much hydraulic cement as lime. The hydraulic
						cement is almost as widely and favorably known as the stone itself. It is at present
						manufactured chiefly in the southeastern part of the State, but as the industry grows it
						may extend over a much greater area. Lime may be produced at almost any point in an area
						of probably a thousand square miles, and the stone is so easily reducible that the
						process is cheap and rapid. In the cement and lime industries many hundred thousand
						dollars are invested and an army of men given means of support.
				
				
				
					TIMBER SUPPLY.
					FIRST of the State's natural resources to be recognized and put into
						use was its forests. Thousands of square miles were covered by a massive growth of oak,
						walnut, ash, beech, poplar, cherry, hickory, gum, sycamore, maple and other valuable
						species. They constituted a source of wealth quick to catch the eye, and simply and
						cheaply converted into cash. It must be admitted that the State's earlier settlers
						failed entirely to appreciate the future value of the timber which encumbered the lands
						desired for cultivation, and that, in consequence, they destroyed giant growths, which,
						had they been spared twenty-five years, would have been worth several times over the
						value of the ground denuded of them.
					But vast areas of magnificent timber yet remained intact when enterprising men came to
						realize the wealth contained in them. Then the era of saw-mills began. In a thousand
						communities the singing whirr of the circular saw was heard, and in all the towns and
						cities planing-mills sprang into existence. Lumber was shipped east in train
						loadsthe manufacture of finished products, except in house building, not being
						introduced until a later day. Gradually the idea took form that the money made by
						Eastern manufacturers from Indiana woods might as well be made at home, and from that
						time all the processes of converting our timber into the finished product have been
						accomplished within a few miles of where it grows. Wagons, carriages, furniture of
						infinite variety, and interior house finishings are now made at home, and the country
						has not seen their superiors in excellence or beauty.
					In the early days, every section of the State contributed to the timber supply, though
						the central and southern 
							VIEW FROM ROTUNDA OF STATE
									HOUSE.
						
						
						 portions yielded the richest variety of valuable woods.
						To-day, the areas overgrown with the most valuable species of trees for manufacturing
						purposes includes substantially the southern one-third of the State. Although the supply
						is not what it was before Indiana became a great agricultural commonwealth, it is yet
						capable of supplying the heavy demands made upon it for many years to come.
					The growing value of Indiana hard woods for the higher classes of work, has, to a large
						extent, removed them from the field of common use. For instance, since oak has become
						one of the most popular woods for furniture and for the interior decoration of costly
						houses, it has grown too valuable to be used for the building of barns and fences. At
						the same time, our railroads give direct communication with the great pine forests of
						the Carolinas in the South, and Michigan and Wisconsin in the North, affording an
						abundance of cheap timber. This, considered in connection with the increasing value of
						hard woods at home, accounts for the fact that, while train loads of manufactured and
						unmanufactured products of Indiana forests are annually shipped away, the land owners
						who profit by the sales import the cheaper timber for their own building.
					
						THE COUNTRY CLUB HOUSE.
					
					To the abundance and excellence of the hard woods native to Indiana, can be directly
						traced the greatness of the wood manufacturing industries of the State. These industries
						have prospered and multiplied, until Indianapolis has become the seat of the most
						extensive manufactories of certain kinds of furniture in the world, and other cities of
						the State have built up immense industries and large populations upon the same
						foundation. In its rough-sawed form, Indiana hard wood now is in constant demand all
						over the United States, and in the form of furniture of all kinds it goes to every
						civilized country on the globe.
					
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH DELAWARE
								STREET.
					
					
						APARTMENT HOUSES ON NORTH
								DELAWARE STREET.
					
				
				
				
					FUEL FROM THE OIL FIELD.
					TWO years have not elapsed at this writing, since the first oil well
						was drilled in the region now famous as the Indiana oil field. The discovery of oil,
						however, is like the finding of precious metals, in the rush of capital and energy which
						it evokes. Work which, under ordinary circumstances, would be the slow outgrowth of a
						lifetime, is achieved in a few months by the terrific energy which inspires men who are
						excited by the prospect of sudden riches. The discovery of an oil well in the edge of
						the gas field, told an alluring tale of immediate opulence to the "old timers" who
						remembered the exciting days when oil was discovered in Pennsylvania, in the same region
						of the State which a few years later became famous for its natural gas. The rush of the
						experienced oil men to the new Indiana field, brought in its wake a host of speculators,
						laborers, capitalists and contractors, and for several months the scene presented a
						spectacle of the greatest activity.
					
						LORRAINE BLOCK.
					
					Reservoirs for storing the oil were an immediate necessity, as were connecting pipe
						lines, pumps, derricks, drilling machinery, etc. As was to have been expected, the
						Standard Oil Company was early on the ground leasing territory. An army of men soon had
						changed the face of nature greatly. Towering derricks were to be seen everywhere, and
						relays of workmen  pushed the slow drills downward day and
						night. The Standard and other companies constructed extensive groups of huge iron tanks,
						in which to accumulate the oil, and a strong, disagreeable odor permeated the air over
						scores of square miles. The results of the hasty operations were gratifying. Hundreds of
						wells were pouring out oil in a few months. Analysis of the product proved it to be of
						excellent quality, rich in the elements necessary to a good illuminant, and in many
						instances containing the heavier ingredients such as are valuable in lubricating oils.
						The field is still rapidly growing in importance. The constant drilling of wells is
						every week enlarging the developed area, and as yet, the limits of the oil producing
						territory are unknown. Until they are definitely discovered by experimental drilling, no
						one will be able to estimate the value of the Indiana oil field. Enough is already
						assured, however, to cause it to be classed among the great oil fields of the
						country.
					There is no need to dwell upon the value of crude oil as a fuel here. The invention of
						devices for introducing the oil into furnaces has made it one of the simplest, cheapest,
						and most reliable of all fuels, and has vastly enlarged the demand for it. Pipe lines
						have been constructed hundreds of miles for the purpose of conveying crude oil to cities
						to be used as fuel. Entirely across the northern portion of Indiana extends a line of
						pipe carrying oil from the Ohio field to Chicago, and hundreds of Chicago manufacturers
						are profiting by the enterprise. This line of pipe was laid before the Indiana oil field
						was discovered. As yet no pipe line taps the new field. Large quantities of oil are
						shipped away in tank cars and used for fuel in many cities. Much is refined and becomes 
							ELEVATOR "D."
						
						 illuminating or lubricating oil. Indianapolis is the one
						large city near the field, and is the logical terminus of a pipe line such as will
						relieve the field of the vast output of oil which the enormous development of the
						territory is causing. Shipment in cars is slow, clumsy and comparatively expensive, and
						can only serve while a field is new and but partially developed. As things now are,
						Indianapolis has made only a beginning in the utilization of fuel oil. A few of her
						manufacturers have fitted their furnaces for burning oil, and their experience,
						extending over periods ranging from a few months to a year or more, has been highly
						encouraging. Every month more manufacturers are taking up the use of the oil, however,
						and were it as convenient and cheap as it would be with a pipe line laid, there would
						without doubt follow a heavy demand. 
							SPENCER HOUSE.
						 On the present advantage of crude oil to the city, therefore, not a great deal
						can be said; of its future utilization much of import to the city will depend. The field
						is not fully developed, and its possibilities can not now be foretold, further than to
						say they are enormous. The uncertainty is not whether the benefits to be derived from
						the field will be important; but how important? There is every reason to predict in
						unqualified utterances that the near  future will behold
						Indianapolis supplementing her natural gas with a practically limitless supply of fuel
						oil. The Standard Company, in constructing a pipe line to the city, will be only
						pursuing the same policy that it has adopted elsewhere. It has vast interests in the
						field, and the sooner it can realize on them, the greater its profits will be. The
						immense output of oil in the field must be consumed. It can not accumulate indefinitely.
						Then, too, there are heavy moneyed interests at the city end of the line which are
						clamoring for what the oil field alone can give. Already capitalists in Indianapolis
						have seriously discussed a project for piping oil to the city. The time is coming, and
						is not distant, when a steady current of oil will pour into the city, adding an
						important element to the industrial growth which the community is entering upon.
					
						RESIDENCE ON PARK AVENUE.
					
					The adage "to him who hath shall be given," has been curiously illustrated in the
						history of Indianapolis and her fuel supply. Situated on the rim of one of the richest
						coal fields in the world, the city seemed especially fortunate in her fuel provision,
						and was the envy of other cities to whom coal had to be transported long distances at
						heavy expense. Then the discovery of natural gas occurred, and cheap as her coal was,
						and abundant and excellent as it was, Indianapolis practically discarded it for gas.
						Finally, an oil field was found, furnishing a third fuel supply upon which the city
						could draw without limit and at nominal cost. Thus, while most of the cities of the
						country would deem themselves wonderfully fortunate had they near at hand either coal,
						gas or oil, Indianapolis already having one, was given, in addition to this, the other
						two.
				
				
				
					KAOLIN, CLAY AND GLASS-SAND.
					CLAY is so common, that at first thought the idea of its having an
						economic value, aside from its agricultural utility, seems rather absurd. But a little
						consideration of the extensive industries for the manufacture of brick, tile and terra
						cotta will convince the most skeptical that clay, as a mineral product, is of the very
						greatest importance. Indiana is so universally supplied with excellent brick clay that
						her inhabitants hardly realize that there are large sections of country where no clay
						can be had for brick-making, except by expensive importation from more fortunate
						regions. But while the common clay is perhaps more valuable than any other, because of
						its wide distribution and the simplicity and cheapness of converting it into brick and
						tile, it is through her rarer and finer grades that Indiana is to become famous as a
						clay producing State.
					A decade ago it was hardly known that the State possessed any clays except the common
						ones mentioned. But ten years bring many changes in this era of progress. The incredible
						theories of enthusiasts one year, become the familiar facts of the next. It is now known
						that Indiana contains beds of clay which provide material for the finest quality of
						terra cottaso fine indeed, that the terra cotta manufactured from it is being
						substituted for marble and the best of other building stones in many parts of the
						country. It is known also, and demonstrated by extensive manufactories which have grown
						up like magic within two years, that clays perfectly adapted to the making of fire and
						paving brick are to be found in various parts of the State in inexhaustible quantity.
						The paving brick industry is one which is only a few years old, but, in future, is
						destined to become vast and remunerative. Experience has proved brick to be one of the
						best and cheapest street pavements known, and the knowledge has led many cities to turn
						to it as a happy solution to the vexatious paving problem.
					But it is upon Indiana's kaolin deposits, however, that the world at large will in time
						look with the most generous recognition. Kaolin is a clay rare and valuable, and always
						in demand. From kaolin the most delicate and costly pottery is made. The translucent
						egg-shell chinaprecious almost as jewelsis molded and burned from kaolin.
						From kaolin, too, are made the handsome tiles which ornament the hearths and mantels of
						the rich. A deposit of kaolin, once its quality is known to be superior, and its
						quantity and accessibility satisfactory, is worth as much as a gold mine. Kaolin, or
						china clay, as it is commonly called, is the purest form of clay. When 
							MANUFACTORY OF ENGINES.
						
						 most valuable, it is composed of almost equal parts of
						silica and alumina with about thirteen per cent. of water. The ware called china is so
						called because it was first made in China. The process of its manufacture was a secret
						with the Chinese for many hundreds of years, and great quantities of the ware made in
						China were imported into Europe. This ware was manufactured chiefly from a peculiar
						white clay found in the mountain of Kaoling, and the name of the mountain, corrupted
						into kaolin, later came to be applied to the clay. About the beginning of the eighteenth
						century kaolin was imported into Europe, and not a great many years afterward beds of it
						were discovered in England, Germany and France, and still later in a few places in
						America. The famous porcelains of Germany and France are manufactured at the places
						where the kaolin beds are situated, and the finest porcelains made in America come from
						the kaolin deposits or from manufactories to which kaolin is transported.
					
						MILL MACHINERY WORKS ON BIG FOUR RAILROAD (FRONT VIEW).
					
					This brief mention of the history of kaolin and its connection with the most perfect
						products of the potter's art, will suffice to give at least a hint of the importance
						which should be attached to the fact that Indiana has extensive beds of kaolin. Maurice
						Thompson, while State Geologist of Indiana, gave considerable attention to the kaolin
						deposits, and in his official reports he speaks repeatedly of their valued certainty of
						future renown. In the Fifteenth Annual State Geological Report, Mr. Thompson devotes
						considerable space to the subject  of kaolin. He says in
						this report that kaolin underlies large areas and ranges through the colors of white,
						red, gray, whitish, greenish, bluish and buff. The white variety is the only one of
						value for fine white pottery or porcelain, but the colored varieties are excellent for
						use in encaustic tiles, terra cotta, etc.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					In one place Mr. Thompson speaks thus of the Indiana kaolin beds: "Here lies a
						practically exhaustless quantity of the most beautiful, pure and desirable clay ever
						offered to the manufacturer of fine earthenwares, to say nothing of its value in various
						other branches of manufacture. Next to our coals, our natural gas and our building
						stones, these magnificent beds of kaolin, when fully appreciated, will, in future years,
						be the greatest source of our mineral wealth." Again: "The uses to which kaolin can be
						put are various. The making of chinaware and pottery of all grades is the chief, but
						brick and tiles of the most beautiful kinds, as well as fire-brick and all manner of
						terra cotta work are made from it. It is also largely used in the manufacture of paper
						and alum, and in a number of other processes known to manufacturers. * * * In Harrison
						county, pockets of white kaolin were found in the glass sand deposits. * * * There is,
						also, in Harrison county an immense deposit of  tinted
						kaolin admirably adapted to the purposes of the potter and terra cotta worker. Owen
						county, too, has practically inexhaustible beds of the very best kaolin. The attention
						of manufacturers is especially directed to these deposits, and it is almost certain that
						other beds will be discovered. But the kaolin of Lawrence county, taken alone, is
						sufficient to build up and maintain for many years a manufacturing center as great as
						any of the pottery and porcelain establishments of England, France or Germany. It will
						pay the State of Indiana a good and lasting income to advertise her internal resources
						to the world. Her mineral wealth is to-day greater than that of many States whose gold
						and silver mines are the wonder of the world."
					
						FURNITURE FACTORY ON THE BIG
								FOUR RAILROAD.
					
					Yet another of the State's natural resources, which, while not of the importance of
						some already mentioned, is, nevertheless, worthy of more than incidental mention, is
						glass-sand. This possesses the more interest and value because of the fact that Indiana
						has become the greatest glass manufacturing State in the Union. In various parts of the
						State deposits of pure white silicious sand are found. It lies in extensive beds, easy
						to excavate. For many years the great plate-glass works at New Albany have drawn upon
						sand deposits in the southern part of the State, and since natural gas has brought many
						glass factories into the northeastern counties, beds of excellent sand have been
						discovered in that quarter. The beds of glass-sand already developed keep in the State
						every year many thousand dollars which otherwise would have to be expended for sand
						obtained from some distant point.
					
					
						MANUFACTORY OF MILL MACHINERY.
					
				
				
				
					MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES.
					AS A seat of manufacturing industries, Indianapolis is noted no less
						for the number of her establishments and the variety and value of their products, than
						for her well-earned reputation of leading the world in certain classes of manufactured
						goods. A curious proof that the city is devoid of that spirit of bluster which is noted
						in communities where the "boom" fever prevails, is to be found in the fact that the
						prestige which Indianapolis has attained as a manufacturing point is not generally
						realized among her own citizens. Persons in Australia, Mexico, South America, Africa,
						Europe and the islands of the sea know what the mass of the inhabitants of Indianapolis
						do not know, namely, that this city exceeds any other on the globe in the quantity and
						quality of the heavy milling machinery, the desks, the chairs, the lounges, the
						wooden-ware, the encaustic tiles, the terra cotta, the road carts, the vehicle wheels,
						the malleable iron and the corn food products which it annually manufactures.
					In addition to these chief industries are hundreds of others of large extent. Full
						eleven hundred separate manufacturing establishments are located in Indianapolis, the
						number of employes in different lines of production ranging from scores to thousands,
						and the total number of persons employed in manufacturing in the city reaching probably
						twenty-five thousand or more. The value of the combined production of all the
						manufactories in the city is estimated at between sixty and seventy million dollars a
						year. Some of the principal industries, aside from those above mentioned, together with
						the value of their annual products in round numbers, are the following: 
							Stoves,
								$100,000
							Soap,
								100,000
							Railroad Frogs and Switches,
								200,000
							Fertilizers,
								250,000
							Belting,
								275,000
							Electric Machinery,
								300,000
							Canned Goods,
								300,000
							Chemicals,
								350,000
							Medicine,
								500,000
							Pumps,
								500,000
							Starch,
								500,000
							Woolen Goods,
								700,000
							Wheels,
								750,000
							Fruit Packing,
								800,000
							Overalls,
								800,000
							Saws,
								1,000,000
							Natural Gas Supplies,
								1,000,000
							Stone,
								1,000,000
							Carriages and Wagons,
								1,900,000
							Agricultural Implements,
								1,900,000
							Staves and Headings,
								2,000,000
							Architectural Iron,
								2,000,000
							Cars,
								2,500,000
							Beer,
								3,000,000
							Railroad Supplies and Repairs,
								3,000,000
							Engines, Boilers and Foundries,
								3,000,000
							Builders' Materials,
								3,100,000
							Pork Packing,
								10,000,000
						
					Especially in the production of wares which require skill and inventive genius in their
						manufacture is Indianapolis famous. In some instances these qualities 
						
							TILE WORKS.
						
						
							MANUFACTORY OF CHEMICALS.
						
						 are shown in the wares themselves, and in others in the
						machinery necessary to produce them. Particularly through its milling machinery and its
						furniture of various kinds has the city become known in the distant regions of the
						earth. Wherever wheat is grown in large quantity, Indianapolis mills are known to be the
						best for grinding it; wherever people are enlightened sufficiently to take pleasure in
						the comfort and quality of their furniture, Indianapolis furniture is to be found. Every
						railroad on the continent has transported manufactured wares from Indianapolis, and
						every line of ocean steamers touching the shores of the United States has borne to
						foreign lands the products of her industries. 
							IRON WORKS AT HAUGHVILLE.
						Various manufactories in the city have built up a large and steady trade in
						other countries. Shipments of flouring-mills, saw-mills, furniture, engines,
						agricultural implements, wagons, carts, chemicals, canned goods, pork, wooden-ware,
						woolen goods and other products of our factories, to Canada, Mexico, the South American
						States, Australia, Europe, the Sandwich Islands, South Africa and Asia as well, are of
						so frequent occurrence as to have become common and are no longer thought worthy of
						special note. As a seat of furniture manufacture, Indianapolis has 
						
							Plants of the INDIANAPOLIS Brewing Company
						
						 a brief but brilliant history. Not a great many years ago
						it began, and the first men to venture into it achieved a remarkable success. This
						naturally led others into the business, and they too were successful. Since then, a
						tremendous growth in the industry has followed, until now there are about forty
						furniture manufacturing establishments in the city, employing in all some thirty-five
						hundred men, and producing goods worth seven million dollars a year. The business has
						grown up principally in the production of lounges, desks and chairs. The most extensive
						manufactory of chairs and the largest desk manufactory in the world are in Indianapolis.
						In the production of parlor furniture, bed-room suites, tables, etc., the city has made
						no such progress. Within the last year or two, some attention has been turned toward
						those branches of the business with gratifying results, and it is certain that a few
						years more will see them ranking well up with the kindred industries of chair, desk and
						lounge making.
					
					In many particulars, the same advantages which have contributed to the success of
						furniture manufacture, are those necessary to the profitable production of the thousand
						and one different important and unimportant articles which fall under the general
						classification of wooden-ware. In this line of fabrication, too, Indianapolis is a world
						leader, and sends her 
							BICYCLE WORKS AND PLANING
									MILLS.
						
						
							PORK PACKING ESTABLISHMENTS.
						
						 goods to every land inhabited by civilized men.
					The manufacture of flour mills has not been taken up by many different persons, but has
						been centered in a few very large establishments. This is to be accounted for chiefly on
						the ground that valuable patents upon milling machinery are always the property of the
						fortunate few, and that a good deal of capital must be invested in the plant before any
						returns begin to come in. Then, too, a long experience in the trade, and exceptional
						administrative ability are more essential in this line of business, perhaps, than in
						many others. The largest manufactory of flour mills in the world is in Indianapolis. In
						this line of business in the city there is now invested about one and a half million
						dollars, and the value of the annual output is some five million dollars.
					
						VIADUCT AND FREIGHT DEPOTS.
					
					The growth in wagon, carriage and cart manufacturing is one of the most remarkable of
						the city's newer industries. Ten years ago this line of manufacture was not even of
						secondary importance in the city. Seven or eight years ago the entrance of new men into
						the business started a rapid advance movement which has not yet ceased nor paused, and
						the result is that in some branches of the 
							SAW WORKS ON SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET.
						
						 vehicle trade, Indianapolis is supreme. This is
						especially true of the manufacture of the light, convenient road carts which have become
						popular in many countries. A single establishment in this city has a capacity to build,
						complete, every twenty-four hours, one thousand of these carts. The manufacture of
						wheels for wagons, buggies, etc., in late years has become an immense business, distinct
						in itself. The central and largest establishment of a corporation which controls the
						wheel market in the United States, and owns plants in many cities and States, is in
						Indianapolis, and the number of wheels produced in the course of a year is almost
						incomprehensible. The nearness of forests of hickory and oak has made this great
						industry highly profitable.
					
						CENTRAL AVENUE M. E. CHURCH.
					
					One of the newest of the city's extensive industries is the manufacture of various food
						products from corn. Plain corn-meal is now only one of many wholesome articles of food
						made from corn. Some of them are the basis for the most delicate and delicious of
						dishes. This has become possible in recent years 
							VEHICLE MANUFACTORY ON SOUTH ILLINOIS STREET.
						
						 through ingenious inventions and much study of the
						constituent elements of corn, and it has led to the building up of vast manufacturing
						establishments of a kind unheard of a few years ago. The largest of all of the mills of
						this character is in Indianapolis. It was brought here by outside capital because of the
						limitless corn supply all around, and the unequaled facilities for transporting both
						corn and product in any direction promptly and cheaply. Directly akin to this industry
						is that of starch manufacture. The large starch works of the city have not only been
						always immensely profitable, but their business has outgrown their facilities, and
						extensions doubling the capacity of the works are even now matters of current
						discussion.
					It is estimated that the total annual product of the manufactories in Indianapolis
						which work entirely in iron, is worth over $10,000,000. The city is proud of her trade
						with foreign countries. Her saws, driven by her engines, are clearing away the forests
						of Central and South America. Her stoves give comfort to other nations, and her electric
						machinery furnishes power in many lands. Her steam pumps are working in mines and shops
						in home and foreign States. All over the United States her machinery is familiar.
						Buildings contain her architectural iron-work. Her railroad frogs and switches go down
						wherever American railroads are constructed. More than a passing mention is due the
						reputation of Indianapolis as a seat of engine manufacture. All over the country,
						engines built by certain of the large establishments in this city are standards of
						excellence. The same is true of the saws manufactured in the city. The demand for them
						is so great as to be almost beyond the ability of the makers to satisfy it.
					Turn to the subject of encaustic tiles, and Indianapolis will be again found to possess
						predominant excellence among all rivals. The floors in public buildings in every State
						in the Union are of Indianapolis tile. It is superseding marble because of its superior
						beauty and durability. In the decoration of both the interior and exterior of
						residences, artistic tile is assuming the place once held in the public favor by marbles
						and carving. In all these uses, the tile from Indianapolis has received the honor of
						highest preferment. It excels in the quality of the material of which it is composed and
						in artistic execution and coloring. The best proof of the truth of all this is to be
						found in the fact of the great extent and prosperity of the city's tile business. In the
						introduction of natural gas, the tile industry has been peculiarly benefited. Experience
						has shown that the fierce, steady heat of the gas flame produces in the kiln a quality
						of tile impossible to make with coal as fuel. The manufacture of terra cotta being in
						some degree related to that of tile, may be noted in connection with it. The terra cotta
						made in Indianapolis is famous throughout the country. It is susceptible to the highest
						expression of the sculptor's art, is durable and solid 
							CABINET WORKS ON BIG FOUR RAILWAY.
						
						
						
							AUTUMN SCENE ON NORTH MERIDIAN STREET.
						
						 as granite, and is every year assuming a more prominent
						place in the favor of architects and builders.
					And so the list might be extended almost indefinitely. The industries named are of the
						most important in the city, but there are others fully as important and extensive. The
						manufacture of bicycles has become an enormous industry. The breweries stand for an
						investment of millions, and their revenues are correspondingly great. The manufacture of
						lumber, brick, stone, hardware, etc., all grouped under the general head of "builders'
						materials," is of the utmost importance. The annual production of natural gas supplies
						is extensive. The pork packed annually in Indianapolis is by firms which have invested
						millions. It is impossible here to even mention by name all the hundreds of
						manufacturing enterprises which deserve favorable notice for their extent and
						success.
					The statement that these manufactories are thriving, does not sufficiently emphasize
						the degree of their prosperity. They are, in hundreds of instances, experiencing a rapid
						and substantial growth. New buildings are going up, new machinery coming in, more men
						are being employed, new departments of work added. This is the story to be heard on all
						sides, and it tells of the city's dawning commercial expansion as nothing else can. It
						is the inevitable result of such conditions as have come to prevail in Indianapolis.
						With all the circumstances favorable upon which a a business depends, the end is success
						sure and soon.
					It were impossible to note all the conditions which affect the success of a
						manufacturing business; those important in one class of production being often
						unimportant in another. But there are certain general factors, whose presence, 
							MANUFACTORY OF CORN PRODUCTS.
						
						 in some degree, is essential to success, and the greater
						the degree, the greater the ensuing success. One of these factors is transportation
						facilities; another is cheap fuel; another easy access to raw material; another suitable
						location, and another a quiet, contented force of workmen at reasonable wages. All of
						these Indianapolis has to offer in their most efficient form. Her railroads provide
						direct and prompt communication with neighboring cities, with the finest agricultural
						region in the world, and with areas of vast mineral wealth. They thus bring in materials
						for manufacture and carry to market the finished products. With it all, there is enough
						of competition to make certain first-class service and low rates. Of the cheap fuel, not
						a great deal need be said here. Crude oil is cheaper than coal, while the cost of
						natural gas is less than half that of the black mineral. But while this is true both in
						regard to gas and oil, it is no less true that coal of the finest quality for
						manufacturing purposes is cheaper in Indianapolis than in almost any other city in the
						country. Thus is the fuel question settled satisfactorily for all time to come.
					
						WOODRUFF PLACE.
					
					In the matter of suitable sites for manufactories, Indianapolis simply can not be
						equalled. The city is surrounded by a belt railroad, which connects with every one of
						the sixteen railroads entering the city. The cars of all the  roads, by a permanent arrangement, are transferred about the Belt at a
						nominal cost. This gives to a factory situated on the Belt all the advantages of being
						upon sixteen railroads diverging in every direction, and all competing for its business.
						The Belt is far enough beyond the city limits to allow land along its route to be
						purchased cheaply. The decrease of the danger of fire, and consequently of insurance
						rates, are also points to be considered. Finally, the class of working men in
						Indianapolis is above the average of cities. A surprisingly large per cent. of the wage
						earners have real estate and live in their own houses. These men are conservative and
						reasonable, and act as a check upon the element which has nothing to lose by agitating
						labor questions. The power of the industrious, property-owning men to prevent trouble
						among employes is illustrated in the city frequently, and is a matter of common
						appreciation. The cost of living is exceedingly low, and although the wages paid average
						small, the workmen are enabled to save and invest in homes.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					The simple truth is that Indianapolis is equipped as few cities are to assure success
						to manufacturers who settle within her gates. The conditions essential to the profitable
						operation of mills are here to be found in their best form. The rich surrounding
						territory of a hundred thousand square miles is at once an exhaustless source of raw
						material and a never satisfied market for finished wares. The means of transportation to
						and from it are well-nigh perfect. Embracing and supporting all the other conditions is
						the public spirit,  friendly to incoming capital, and pre-
						pared to go to any reasonable length to encourage and protect it. 
							EMPIRE THEATER.
						Here, then, is the picture, and it is an attractive one: A city stirred by the
						roar of a thousand mills, prosperous and growing, extends her broad arms to welcome
						more, with the assurance upon her lips that all which come to work with industry and
						care in her fields of commerce shall be alike prosperous and busy, and in the end shall
						grow strong and great.
				
				
				
					THE WHOLESALE TRADE.
					IN ORDER that it may become the center of an important wholesale or
						jobbing trade, a city must possess two prime advantages: It must have first-class
						railway facilities, and must be surrounded by a populous and thrifty region of country. 
							RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN STREET.
						Both of these advantages it is the fortune of Indianapolis to enjoy to an
						unusual extent. No city in the United States excels her in these particulars. With her
						sixteen railroads threading the country in every direction, and intersecting scores of
						other roads, Indianapolis is brought into direct and prompt communication with fully a
						thousand cities and towns, for which she is the natural base of supplies. The thickly
						settled and prosperous agricultural communities which form a zone a hundred miles wide
						all round, send up a never satisfied demand for the necessaries and comforts of life.
						Millions of people are to be fed and clothed and housed, and the logical center from
						which their wants should be supplied is Indianapolis. The conditions for fulfilling this
						mission are entirely favorable. The cost of transportation is low, and 
							IN THE HEART OF THE WHOLESALE REGION.
						
						 the service is prompt; the distances are short; the
						people are friendly to the city and ready to draw upon it for what they need. The stone,
						coal, oil and gas fields surrounding, are filling up with thriving towns and cities,
						which must rely on some large point of distribution for their supplies. Every law of
						trade and every geographical consideration fix upon Indianapolis as the place.
					As would be expected after this survey of the existing conditions, the wholesale and
						jobbing business in Indianapolis is in a flourishing state. A trip through the wholesale
						district, along South Meridian, South Pennsylvania, South Delaware, Maryland, Georgia,
						or McCrea streets, will impress this deeply on the visitor's memory. The rumble of
						heavily laden drays, the sidewalks blockaded by mountains of boxes and crates and bales,
						the hurry and confusion of porter's rolling the goods about, the short, sharp commands
						of men directing the work, all together, impart a sense of an important business
						movement. That this impression is not a mistaken one, is proven by the fact that the
						sales of the wholesale merchants of Indianapolis aggregate in round numbers $40,000,000
						a year. There are in the city over three hundred wholesale and jobbing houses, and in
						their employ are about one thousand traveling salesmen. Several of the largest houses in
						the West are located here, and annually many hundred thousand dollars worth of goods of
						various kinds are imported directly from European and other foreign countries.
					The expansion of the wholesale trade has been marked by no sudden bursts of
						development. It has been steady, and while not exceptionally rapid, has been
						substantial, conservative, and thoroughly safe. For several years, the rate of expansion
						has been somewhat quickened above what it had previously been, the business responding
						to the impetus which came of the great inrush of capital and population in the gas and
						oil fields. This growth in the volume of business is manifested both by an increase in
						the number of wholesale houses and a building up of the firms already established.
						Wholesale houses in Indianapolis do not fail. Such an event has not occurred in many
						years. On the other hand, firms which entered the trade a few years ago have grown
						strong, and every year sees several beginners venture into the field. The removal of
						wholesale firms from other cities to this, for the sake of the magnificent railroad
						facilities, is not an uncommon occurrence. Every passing twelve-month witnesses a
						widening of the fame of Indianapolis as a prosperous and desirable wholesale center.
						Besides its superiority as a center for distribution, it has noteworthy advantages
						because of its direct communication with the many cities from which the wares to be sold
						at wholesale must be obtained.
					The merchants of the city have for years cultivated trade in the South. By ascertaining
						the especial needs of that section of the country, and making an honest effort to
						satisfy them, they have won great prestige in many Southern  States, and are enabled to easily outstrip all competitors. In a large number of
						communities south of the Ohio River, a commercial traveler needs no better
						recommendation than a statement that he represents some Indianapolis business house. 
							BRUNSWICK HOTEL.
						 The development of the inexhaustible mineral resources of Tennessee, Alabama,
						Georgia, Missouri and other States, have enlarged the field of demand for wares from the
						North, and the extent of the business is rapidly growing. It is a noteworthy fact that
						Indianapolis merchants have carried their trade into the very gates of surrounding
						cities, and have established strong business connections beyond them. They have gone
						beyond Louisville and Cincinnati, and built up a strong trade in the South which the
						latter cities can not weaken. They have gone into Michigan, and found permanent patrons
						within a few miles of Detroit. They have beaten Chicago in Michigan, also in many
						places. They have invaded Ohio and Illinois, and a large per cent. of their entire
						business is done in those two States. They have even pushed beyond  St. Louis and Kansas City, and annually send large quantities of goods west
						of the Missouri River.
					While a great number of lines of trade are represented in the wholesale district of
						Indianapolis, the city is especially strong in its wholesale dry goods, millinery,
						drugs, hardware, queens-ware, grocery, confectionery and poultry departments. The volume
						of business done in these lines is enormous. As a poultry shipping point, the city has
						no equal on the continent. Her queens-ware men are among the largest importers in the
						West. The dry goods trade is supplied by several houses of long established reputation
						and recognized financial stability, and the same is true of the trade in drugs. In
						groceries, notwithstanding the intense competition, there are many wholesale firms, and,
						without exception, they are prosperous. A review of the entire list of houses doing a
						wholesale business would be simply a series of repetitions of the story of growing trade
						and encouraging prosperity. The summing up of all is, that whatever is to be purchased
						for the retail trade may be obtained in Indianapolis cheaply and promptly, and with the
						smallest amount of risk in the transportation. In all the conditions which affect the
						wholesale trade, Indianapolis is peculiarly fortunate. She has much to offer to those
						who engage in wholesale enterprise within her gates, and to all, her bounty is impartial
						and generous. The uniform prosperity accompanying the beginning and extension of those
						houses now established in Indianapolis is an index of the fulfillment of the promises
						extended to all who may come.
					
						COTTON FACTORY ON THE WEST
								SIDE.
					
					
					
						SOUTH DELAWARE STREET PRODUCE DISTRICT.
					
				
				
				
					THE RETAIL TRADE.
					
						WASHINGTON ST.
							LOOKING EAST
					
					THE stimulus of the progressive spirit which has come into the life
						of Indianapolis, has been nowhere more clearly manifested than in the various branches
						of retail trade. The development of the interests which have to do with the transfer of
						commodities from the wholesaler to the consumer, has been especially noteworthy within a
						period of five years. In that time it is probable that the investment of capital in the
						various lines of retail trade in the city has increased one hundred per cent.
					Because of the intimate relationship which must always exist between the retail
						business and the public in any community, there is no better method of ascertaining the
						general condition of the people than by a careful inquiry into the state of the retail
						trade. If sales are confined strictly to essentials, no further proof is required to
						demonstrate that "times are hard" with the people. On the other hand, the same rule is
						safely applicable. If there is a demand for articles which are classed among the
						comforts or luxuries of existence, the community as a whole is prosperous, thrifty and
						content. At the same time that the character of the sales indicates the material
						condition of the community, it unfailingly discloses the state of the trade from the
						merchant's stand-point. A prosperous people inevitably means prosperous merchants. They
						can not be separated.
					Any inquiry into the general business conditions existing in Indianapolis is incomplete
						without a reference to the importance and extent of the city's retail interests. They
						compose one of the chief elements of the busy commercial 
							IN THE CENTER OF THE RETAIL TRADE.
						
						 life of the community. Their growth has been slow or
						rapid, accordingly as the city has prospered, but there has always been a growth. Old
						houses have extended their trade and increased their stocks, while scores of new firms
						have been established. Failures have been few, and have invariably involved only small
						amounts of capital.
					The period of time mentioned has witnessed the advent of what are known as department
						stores, with all the combinations of diverse kinds of business, under one management,
						which that term implies. Several of these emporiums of trade are now carrying on immense
						and highly successful mercantile operations. Large buildings have been erected for them,
						and each requires an army of employes. Annual sales have leaped from thousands to
						millions of dollars. The universal prosperity of the people makes generous buyers, and
						into small as well as large homes have gone unwonted luxuries.
					The retail business puts money into active circulation in innumerable small channels,
						without sending it out of the region in which the business is carried on. It does this
						because it requires the assistance of many customers and many employes to be successful.
						In the nature of its transactions, it must be in close touch with the tastes, habits and
						monetary conditions of the community, and is an unfailing measure of them. With the new
						and broader life which has come to Indianapolis, the recent great expansion of the
						city's retail interests has been intimately connected. While the latter has been
						primarily dependent upon the former, it has also been an influence of no mean power in
						determining the direction and limits of that new life. It has not only kept pace with
						the widening demands of the public, but has led, by bringing the choicest wares from all
						quarters of the globe and placing them within reach of the people. This spirit of
						progress is an educating force, exerted alike upon the merchant and the public, and the
						results which flow from it are of lasting value.
					These facts are general, but there are others connected with the retail trade in
						Indianapolis which are of especial value in this community. Of them, the most important
						is the successful effort which the larger retail houses have made to draw patronage from
						the country and country towns surrounding the city. By persistent determination and
						skillful management, carried on during several years, Indianapolis retail merchants have
						established an out-of-town patronage of the most gratifying proportions. This has been
						accomplished largely through the medium of cheap railroad rates, secured by the
						merchants for special occasions, and advertised widely in the regions of country through
						which the roads extend on which the reduced rates are given. These excursions bring a
						great many thousand persons to the city every season. At first, the excursionists came
						almost solely for pleasure, but it was not long before they began to comprehend the
						unusual opportunities for 
						
							CIRCLE PARK HOTEL.
						
						
							SHERMAN HOUSE.
						
						 making needed purchases which the trip to the city
						afforded. They saw that they were enabled to exercise a better choice, having a much
						greater variety of goods from which to select, and they soon learned that the difference
						in cost between the prices which they had to pay at home and in Indianapolis, made it
						actually cheaper for them to come to the city and buy. The double inducement of more
						satisfactory goods and lower prices was a potent influence, and now thousands of persons
						who live anywhere within a hundred miles of Indianapolis make all their more important
						purchases in this city.
					What helps one merchant in this way, helps all, and helps the entire city as well.
						Those who take advantage of the cheap railroad rates secured by one business house, buy
						of many, and in the period of a year, the stimulus and benefit which result from the
						country trade built up in this way, are of the utmost importance.
					From whatever stand-point a view of the retail interests of Indianapolis may be taken,
						they will be found worthy of the pride with which the city regards them. In extent,
						variety, area of trade and monetary importance, they rank high, and the same is no less
						true of the integrity, progressiveness and skill with which their direction is
						administered. The retail business was among the earliest to feel the quickening of the
						city's new life, to comprehend its significance, and to so adjust itself as to cordially
						accept and profit by the broader and more complex conditions which had come to
						prevail.
					
						TENNIS GROUNDS IN ARMSTRONG
								PARK.
					
					
					
				
				
				
					BANKS AND BANKING.
					A FAITHFUL historian, writing of banks and banking in Indianapolis,
						can not relate a story of uninterrupted prosperity. To write of success is always
						pleasanter than to tell of failure and disaster, but truth can not be changed to accord
						with desire. It must therefore be recorded that Indianapolis banks have in time past
						gone down in ruin and wretchedness. The failure of no other kind of institution carries
						loss and anxiety into so many homes and business houses. The bank is the financial
						center and conservator of the community. Upon its solidity depends the equilibrium of
						the multifarious interests about and connected with it. The downfall of a bank shatters
						the foundations of the material structure of society.
					
						IN WOODRUFF PLACE.
					
					The bank troubles in Indianapolis began with the collapse of the "boom." There had been
						several preceding years of boundless speculation, in which an 
							PENNSYLVANIA STREET FROM WASHINGTON.
						
						 enormous aggregate debt had been contracted by the
						people. Real estate was mortgaged upon the basis of the speculative prices. When the
						reaction came, and prices dropped back to actual values, thousands of pieces of property
						were found to be mortgaged for far more than they could be sold for. The banks, yielding
						to the spirit of the time, had been carried away by the mad infatuation of speculation.
						They had made the common mistake of taking the inflated values for the real, and when
						the era of liquidation came, they were unable to carry the burdens which were forced
						upon them. They could not recover money from the paralyzed public, and nothing remained
						for them to do but close their doors. The failure of the first bank which succumbed,
						weakened the others, and hastened the downfall of the next. Then, extending over a
						period of several years, followed a series of bank disasters. One great financial
						institution after another fell, and plunged the people into deeper ruin. The memorable
						panic, which swept over the whole country at this time, magnified the troubles, and
						precluded all possibility of aid coming from the outside. The stricken city had to fight
						its battle alone.
					
						SEVENTH DAY ADVENTIST CHURCH.
					
					But the worst was reached at last and there came a change for the better. Confidence
						began to return to the business community. There was the consolation that all
						make-believe and all  fictitious values had vanished.
						People knew again where they stood; their feet were upon solid ground, and, what was
						most important, they had learned a lesson which would never have to be taught a second
						time. In the reviving confidence of the period, the banks which had weathered the storm
						shared generously. They, with others subsequently founded, entered a compact for mutual
						assistance in time of emergency, and formed a clearing house association which ever
						since has been of great convenience and benefit. From the turn in the tide of affairs,
						after the end of the reign of disaster until to-day, the history of banking in
						Indianapolis has been a matter of pride to her people. All her financial institutions
						are now regarded as practically impregnable. Every precaution of safety has been
						adopted. The lesson of the stormy years left an indelible impression, the manifestation
						of which is seen in a steadfast avoidance of all doubtful methods, a close adherence to
						the lines of action recognized as safest, and a generally conservative and dignified
						policy of administration.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH DELAWARE
								STREET.
					
					Five National, one State, and two private banks are now of the financial institutions
						of the city. The total paid-up capital stock of the eight banks is $2,800,000, of which,
						$1,400,000 is the aggregate of the National banks, and $1,400,000 of the State and
						private banks. The clearings, now over $200,000,000 a year, are increasing at a rate
						which of itself is a reliable index of an expansion vast and permanent in the city's
						business. An intelligent idea of the standing of the Indianapolis banks may be gained
						from the following certified statements of their condition at the close of business,
						September 30, 1892: 
						
							INDIANA NATIONAL BANK.
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts
								
								$1,901,639.74
							
							
								Overdrafts, secured and unsecured
								
								340.67
							
							
								U. S. Bonds to secure circulation, 4s
								
								50,000.00
							
							
								U. S. Bonds to secure deposits, 4s
								
								150,000.00
							
							
								Due from appproved reserve agents
								$790,239.39
								
							
							
								Due from other National Banks
								114,670.43
								
							
							
								Due from State Banks and bankers
								61,067.98
								
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								1,208.56
								
							
							
								Exchanges for city banks
								33,432.70
								
							
							
								Bills of other banks
								145,735.00
								
							
							
								Fractional paper currency, nickels and cents
								1,066.08
								
							
							
								Gold reserve
								715,000.00
								
							
							
								Silver
								20,200.00
								
							
							
								Legal tender notes
								90,000.00
								1,972,620.14
							
							
								Redemption fund with U. S. Treasurer (5 per cent. of circulation)
								
								2,250.00
							
							
								Total
								
								$4,076,850.55
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								
								$300,000.00
							
							
								Surplus fund
								
								500,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								
								60,281.63
							
							
								National Bank notes outstanding
								
								45,000.00
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								$1,624,041.39
								
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								495,195.21
								
							
							
								Certified checks
								2,073.00
								
							
							
								United States deposits
								47,978.91
								
							
							
								Deposits of U. S. disbursing officers
								71,555.13
								
							
							
								Due to other National Banks
								526,181.48
								
							
							
								Due to State Banks and bankers
								404,543.80
								3,171,568.92
							
							
								Total
								
								$4,076,850.55
							
						
						
						
							INDIANAPOLIS NATIONAL BANK.
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts
								
								$1,396,329.33
							
							
								Overdrafts, secured and unsecured
								
								757.04
							
							
								U. S. Bonds to secure circulation
								
								50,000.00
							
							
								Banking-house, furniture and fixtures
								
								10,000.00
							
							
								Other real estate and mortgages owned
								
								34,850.00
							
							
								U. S. Bonds to secure deposits
								$325,000.00
								
							
							
								Due from approved reserve agents
								394,120.52
								
							
							
								Due from other National Banks
								18,743.44
								
							
							
								Due from State Banks and bankers
								14,409.01
								
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								16,266.36
								
							
							
								Exchanges for clearing-house
								92,043.27
								
							
							
								Bills of other banks
								73,314.00
								
							
							
								Fractional paper currency, nickels and cents
								855.74
								
							
							
								Specie
								121,324.30
								
							
							
								Legal-tender notes
								130,000.00
								1,186,076.64
							
							
								Redemption fund with U. S. Treasurer (5 per cent. of circulation)
								
								2,250.00
							
							
								Total
								
								$2,680,263.01
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								
								$300,000.00
							
							
								Surplus fund
								
								60,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								
								66,996.69
							
							
								National Bank notes outstanding
								
								45,000.00
							
							
								Dividends unpaid
								
								294.00
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								$915,933.47
								
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								347,898.02
								
							
							
								Certified checks
								6,377.15
								
							
							
								United States deposits
								83,409.79
								
							
							
								Deposits of U. S. disbursing officers
								216,632.94
								
							
							
								Due to other National Banks
								350,087.23
								
							
							
								Due to State Banks and bankers
								287,633.72
								2,207,972.32
							
							
								Total
								
								$2,680,263.01
							
						
						
							GARFIELD PARK.
						
						
						
							MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK.
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts (demand loans $340,000)
								
								$837,758.70
							
							
								Overdrafts, secured and unsecured
								
								480.48
							
							
								U. S. Bonds to secure circulation
								
								50,000.00
							
							
								Premiums on U. S. Bonds
								
								3,000.00
							
							
								City of Indianapolis, Marion county, and other bonds
								
								302,530.90
							
							
								Premiums on Indianapolis, Marion county, and other bonds
								
								6,099.56
							
							
								Due from approved reserve agents
								$314,970.39
								
							
							
								Due from other National Banks
								34,243.01
								
							
							
								Due from State Banks and bankers
								15,724.67
								
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								2,438.39
								
							
							
								Exchanges for clearing-house
								9,189.44
								
							
							
								Bills of other banks
								62,596.00
								
							
							
								Fractional paper currency, nickels and cents
								200.24
								
							
							
								Specie
								103,260.00
								
							
							
								Legal tender notes
								260,000.00
								802,622.14
							
							
								Furniture, fixtures and vault
								
								20,425.95
							
							
								Redemption fund with U. S. Treasurer (5 per cent. of circulation
								
								2,250.00
							
							
								Due from U. S. Treasurer, other than 5 per cent. redemption fund
								
								1,423.50
							
							
								Total
								
								$2,026,591.32
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								
								$300,000.00
							
							
								Surplus fund
								
								45,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								
								12,021.35
							
							
								National Bank notes outstanding
								
								40,700.00
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								$1,256,743.95
								
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								227,704.23
								
							
							
								Certified checks
								55.40
								
							
							
								Cashier's checks outstanding
								60,558.90
								
							
							
								Due to other National Banks
								79,028.44
								
							
							
								Due to State Banks and bankers
								4,779.05
								1,628,869.97
							
							
								Total
								
								$2,026,591.32
							
						
						
						
							CAPITAL NATIONAL BANK.
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts
								
								$1,180,870.98
							
							
								Overdrafts, secured and unsecured
								
								226.29
							
							
								U. S. Bonds to secure circulation
								
								50,000.00
							
							
								Stocks and bonds
								
								29,625.00
							
							
								Premium on U. S. Bonds
								
								8,000.00
							
							
								Banking-house furniture and fixtures
								
								5,377.05
							
							
								Current expenses and taxes paid
								
								6,235.95
							
							
								Due from approved reserve agents
								$357,961.18
								
							
							
								Due from other National Banks
								26,809.62
								
							
							
								Due from State Banks and bankers
								33,647.23
								
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								2,176.78
								
							
							
								Exchange for clearing-house
								14,030.04
								
							
							
								Bills of other banks
								63,905.00
								
							
							
								Fractional paper currency, nickels and cents
								124.59
								
							
							
								Specie
								9,394.00
								
							
							
								Legal-tender notes
								50,000.00
								558,048.44
							
							
								Redemption fund with U. S. Treasurer (5 per cent. of circulation)
								
								2,250.00
							
							
								Total
								
								$1,840,633.71
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								
								$300,000.00
							
							
								Surplus fund
								
								20,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								
								26,801.01
							
							
								National Bank notes outstanding
								
								45,000.00
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								$466,960.47
								
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								218,213.91
								
							
							
								Certified checks
								269.80
								
							
							
								Due to other National Banks
								378,893.08
								
							
							
								Due to State banks and bankers
								384,495.44
								1,448,832.70
							
							
								Total
								
								$1,840,633.71
							
						
						
							VIEWS AT THE ARSENAL.
						
						
						
							MERIDIAN NATIONAL BANK.
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts
								
								$1,125,325.02
							
							
								Overdrafts, secured and unsecured
								
								3,003.01
							
							
								U. S. Bonds to secure circulation
								
								100,000.00
							
							
								U. S. Bonds on hand
								
								1,000.00
							
							
								Stocks, securities, etc.
								
								87,718.13
							
							
								Banking-house, furniture and fixtures
								
								1,000.00
							
							
								Due from approved reserve agents
								$150,120.23
								
							
							
								Due from other National Banks
								26,546.65
								
							
							
								Due from State Banks and bankers
								19,384.78
								
							
							
								Current expenses and taxes paid
								
								5,483.62
							
							
								Exchanges for clearing-house
								30,675.99
								
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								4,526.73
								
							
							
								Bills of other banks
								133,800.00
								
							
							
								Fractional paper currency, nickels and cents
								245.00
								
							
							
								Specie
								142,000.00
								
							
							
								Legal tender notes
								100,000.00
								607,299.38
							
							
								Redemption fund with U. S. Treasurer (5 per cent. of circulation)
								
								4,500.00
							
							
								Total
								
								$1,935,329.16
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								
								$200,000.00
							
							
								Surplus fund
								
								100,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								
								75,301.03
							
							
								National Bank notes outstanding
								
								90,000.00
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								$901,407.07
								
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								137,697.44
								
							
							
								Certified checks
								13,000.00
								
							
							
								Cashier's checks outstanding
								31,812.63
								
							
							
								Due to other National Banks
								154,860.69
								
							
							
								Due to State Banks and bankers
								231,250.30
								1,470,028.13
							
							
								Total
								
								$1,935,329.16
							
						
						
						
							FLETCHER'S BANK.
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts
								
								$2,416,594.80
							
							
								Overdrafts, secured and unsecured
								
								867.55
							
							
								Real estate
								
								6,300.00
							
							
								U. S. Bonds on hand
								$1,001,650.00
								
							
							
								Other stocks, bonds and mortgages
								1,250.00
								
							
							
								Due from National Banks
								180,861.95
								
							
							
								Due from State Banks and bankers
								118,384.60
								
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								3,598.98
								
							
							
								Exchanges for clearing-house
								29,684.50
								
							
							
								Bills of other banks
								186,054.00
								
							
							
								Specie
								104,822.40
								
							
							
								Legal-tender notes
								460,000.00
								2,086,306.43
							
							
								Total
								
								$4,510,068.78
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								
								$1,000,000.00
							
							
								Surplus
								
								100,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								
								78,422.63
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								$2,139,521.13
								
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								845,100.33
								
							
							
								Certified checks
								17,621.34
								
							
							
								Cashier's checks outstanding
								4,691.53
								
							
							
								Due to National Banks
								57,345.53
								
							
							
								Due to State Banks and bankers
								267,366.24
								3,331,646.15
							
							
								Total
								
								$4,510,068.78
							
						
						
							LOOKING UP COLLEGE AVENUE.
						
						
						
							BANK OF COMMERCE.
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts
								
								$370,950.37
							
							
								Other real estate
								
								42,402.00
							
							
								Furniture and fixtures
								
								2,269.00
							
							
								Current expenses and taxes paid
								
								4,117.01
							
							
								RESERVE.
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								$14,734.81
								
							
							
								Due from reserve and other banks
								81,603.66
								
							
							
								Exchanges for clearing-house
								4,391.46
								
							
							
								Paper currency
								89,443.00
								
							
							
								Silver
								8,206.01
								
							
							
								Gold
								2,055.00
								200,433.94
							
							
								Total
								
								$620,172.32
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								
								$200,000.00
							
							
								Surplus fund
								
								50,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								
								16,156.97
							
							
								Due to other banks
								$41,946.94
								
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								221,353.96
								
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								34,972.10
								
							
							
								Certified checks
								48,342.44
								
							
							
								Cashier's checks outstanding
								7,399.91
								354,015.35
							
							
								Total
								
								$620,172.32
							
						
						
						
							STATE BANK OF INDIANA.
							
								The promoters of this bank, believing that the recent great expansion of the
									city's wealth and business would justify more extensive banking facilities, have,
									within a few days, opened it for custom. It is organized under the laws of
									Indiana, with a paid up capital of $200,000. Although a late candidate for public
									favor, its connections are such that it is already recognized as one of the
									integral parts of the community's financial life.
							
						
					
					A summary based upon the preceding statements, shows that the resources and liabilities
						of all the banks in the city, set out in itemized form, are as follows: 
							
								RESOURCES.
							
							
								Loans and discounts
								$9,229,468.94
							
							
								Overdrafts
								5,675.04
							
							
								U. S. Bonds
								1,777,650.00
							
							
								Stocks, securities, etc.
								427,223.68
							
							
								Furniture and fixtures
								39,072.00
							
							
								Real estate and mortgages
								83,552.00
							
							
								Expenses and taxes paid
								15,836.58
							
							
								Due from reserve agents
								2,089,015.37
							
							
								Due from other National Banks
								401,875.10
							
							
								Due from State Banks and bankers
								262,618.27
							
							
								Checks and other cash items
								44,950.61
							
							
								Exchanges for clearing-house
								213,447.40
							
							
								Bills of other banks
								665,404.00
							
							
								Fractional currency and coin
								2,491.65
							
							
								Specie
								2,605,704.71
							
							
								Legal tender notes
							
							
								Paper currency
							
							
								Premiums on U. S. Bonds
								11,000.00
							
							
								Redemption fund with U. S. Treas.
								13,500.00
							
							
								Due from U. S. Treasurer
								1,423.50
							
							
								Total
								$17,889,908.85
							
							
								LIABILITIES.
							
							
								Capital stock paid in
								$2,800,000.00
							
							
								Surplus fund
								875,000.00
							
							
								Undivided profits
								336,275.31
							
							
								National Bank notes outstanding
								265,700.00
							
							
								Individual deposits subject to check
								7,525,961.44
							
							
								Demand certificates of deposit
								2,306,781.24
							
							
								Certified checks
								87,739.13
							
							
								Cashier's checks outstanding
								104,462.97
							
							
								Due to other banks and bankers
								3,168,411.99
							
							
								U. S. deposits
								131,388.70
							
							
								Deposits of U. S. disbursing officers
								288,188.07
							
							
								Total
								$17,889,908.85
							
						
					
					From the above statistics may be gained, not only a knowledge of the strength of the
						Indianapolis banks, but an idea of the precautions which have been taken to make and
						keep them sound. In addition to the sworn statements of their officers as to their
						solidity, it should be said that sterling business methods are adhered to with
						unwavering tenacity. If any criticism of methods were made, it would be that they are
						too conservative, rather than otherwise. In the panics and threatened panics of the last
						few years, however, these methods have kept Indianapolis banks firm as bed-rock, while
						financial institutions in other cities have tottered, and in many instances have fallen.
						It is always best to keep well away from the danger line. Indianapolis bankers have
						learned this, and are willing to leave doubtful experimental methods to others.
					
						ROOSEVELT BLOCK.
					
				
				
				
					THE UNION STOCK YARDS.
					ABOUT twenty years ago a company was organized to build and operate a
						Belt Railroad and Stock Yards in Indianapolis. Work was pushed, and a few months later
						both enterprises were doing the service for which they were constructed. In a few years
						the control of the Belt Road passed into other hands through a lease to the Union
						Railway. The original company still manages the Stock Yards. No more successful business
						concern exists in Indianapolis to-day than the Stock Yards have proven from their very
						beginning. They were put into operation just at a time when Indiana was beginning to
						assume prominence as a live stock raising State, and instantly satisfied a demand, then
						growing strong, for stock yard facilities more conveniently and cheaply accessible than
						those at Chicago or Cincinnati.
					The Indianapolis Stock Yards were located on the Belt Road, a position which gave them
						the advantage of direct connection with every railroad entering the city. At once the
						growing live stock trade of the State was diverted from outside cities to this, greatly
						to the benefit of the stock breeders and dealers throughout the State, and the Stock
						Yards Company as well. As the business grew the facilities at the yards were extended
						and improved. Sheds and pens of the best character were erected. A handsome and
						commodious hotel was built, with ample offices for the commission men doing business at
						the yards. Efficient telegraphic facilities were provided. In brief, all the equipment
						which should characterize the center of the live stock trade of a great stock producing
						region was put into the establishment. Thus encouraged, the volume of business has grown
						to enormous proportions. The annual receipts of stock for several years past have
						averaged about 2,000,000 hogs; 100,000 head of cattle; 100,000 head of sheep, and
						several thousand horses. In order to accommodate this vast movement, the yards have been
						extended to include over one hundred acres of land. The permanent stock sheds containing
						the sorting pens, scales, etc., cover twelve acres. The business transactions at the
						yards amount to over $25,000,000 every year.
					The establishment of the Stock Yards in Indianapolis has had a marked influence upon
						the industry of live stock raising in Indiana and sections of adjoining States. The
						agricultural zone, a hundred miles wide, which surrounds and is directly tributary to
						Indianapolis, is by nature especially adapted to the growing of fine stock. The climate
						is suitable, and the grasses and cereals most cheaply and bountifully produced are those
						on which stock thrives best. All that was necessary to develop this region into one of
						the greatest stock producing 
							WOMAN'S BUILDING.
						
							GRAND STAND.
						
						
							GENERAL VIEW FAIR GROUND.
						
						 districts in the world, was a convenient, steady
						market. The location of the Stock Yards in Indianapolis provided that market, and ever
						since their establishment, the importance of the stock-raising industry in Indiana has
						steadily and rapidly increased. Not only has there been a great growth in the number of
						animals annually raised and put upon the market, but there has been a noteworty
						improvement in the character of the stock. The old-time carlessness and indifference
						concerning the quality of the animals raised for market has been succeeded by the most
						careful attention to strains of blood, protection for stock in winter, proper food and
						kindred matters. The result has been such as to encourage stock raisers to yet greater
						care. They have learned that an animal of improved blood, carefully reared, will bring
						twice as much money in market as one of scrub stock which has grown up without
						attention. The recognition of this has been, in large degree, brought about by the
						presence of a home market, to which the stock raisers have easy and frequent access. 
							THE STOCK YARDS.
						 Its proximity gives them a definiteness of knowledge edge of what the market
						demands, shorn of the confusing complications of long distance transportation, and
						misunderstood methods of distant commission men. Farmers who, a number of years ago,
						sold their cattle or hogs in the fall to local shippers, knew that their profits were
						small, but little understood why. They credited the fact vaguely to cost of
						transportation, commissions to agents, etc. In that they were in part right. But now,
						having a market near home, their knowledge is greater. They are enabled to study the
						public demand and meet it; they can promptly take advantage of the most favorable points
						in fluctuating prices; they may definitely locate the causes of loss or diminution of
						profit, and thereafter avoid them. In these, and many other ways, the presence of the
						Stock Yards in Indianapolis has contributed to the prosperity and  development of the live stock interests in Indiana. In addition is to be
						noted the benefit which has accrued to the city from the vast commerce attracted by the
						establishment of a home market in its borders. 
							JEWISH SYNAGOGUE.
						An immense sum of money is annually put into circulation through the
						transactions of the Stock Yards, and a large number of men given steady employment. In
						many directions the influence of the institution is perceptible in the spreading of the
						city's name as a live stock center and in the building up of its commerce and
						wealth.
				
				
				
					THE STREET RAILWAY SYSTEM.
					IN her street railways, Indianapolis has points of superiority over
						any other American city. Her entire system belongs to a single company, and there are
						none of those conflicts or inconveniences which are invariable accompaniments of two or
						more systems of roads under different managements in the same city. Indianapolis,
						although presumably laid out with no thought of street-car conveniences, is yet
						peculiarly well adapted to an efficient and concerted operation of street railway lines.
						The business part of the city is in the center, and the four great diagonal avenues
						extending from the center toward the semi-cardinal points of the compass, constitute
						"short cuts" from the residence districts all round to the business portion, and vice versa.
					This plan of the city makes possible and simple the best system of transfers perhaps in
						existence anywhere. Every car on every trip runs from one side of the city through the
						center and to, or toward, the opposite side, and all cars pass a certain point on all
						trips, a transfer car or station being maintained at this common point of convergence. A
						map of the street-car lines of the city would show a series of roads radiating from the
						transfer car on Washington street in every direction, very much as the steam railway
						lines radiate from Indianapolis. A passenger may take a street-car in any part of the
						city, ride to the transfer car, and there take any other car he may desire to any other
						part of the city, all with but a single payment of fare and a single change of cars. The
						arrangement by which every car in operation passes the stationary transfer car on every
						trip which it makes, renders the transfer system an immense saving and convenience to
						the public.
					For long, the street-car facilities were not in keeping with the size and progress of
						the city, but in the last two or three years they have been extended and improved, and
						are now rapidly becoming first-class in every regard. The first street railroad in
						Indianapolis was built in 1864 on Illinois street. It was short and uneven, and its
						cars, drawn by diminutive mules, ran at rare and irregular intervals. During the "boom"
						times in the early seventies, several other short lines were built, and growth went on
						slowly for years. In 1888, a number of outside capitalists combined and purchased the
						system for $1,085,000, and then an era of improvement began such as had never before
						been experienced in the city. New lines were built, old lines rebuilt and extended, new
						cars of the best pattern purchased, open summer cars put into service in large numbers,
						and finally, a beautiful park  opened six miles north of
						the city and a superb electric line constructed to it by way of Crown Hill Cemetery. As
						the city had before had no popular amusement ground in the suburbs, Fairview Park, as
						the new place was called, came into immediate and lasting favor. There had before been
						no rapid or satisfactory means of reaching Crown Hill, and the construction of the
						electric line had the effect of bringing the lovely place of the dead to the very gates
						of the city. An English expert electrician who traveled all over the United States to
						study the different electric street railway systems, carried back to Great Britain, and
						caused to be published, the report that the electric line in Indianapolis was the best
						that he saw in this country.
					
						STATION AT FAIRVIEW PARK.
					
					Since then, other roads have been converted into electric lines, and rapid transit is
						becoming a familiar fact. In a few years all the street railroads in the city will be
						operated by electricity. The system has grown until now three hundred cars are required
						to equip the eighty-five miles of tracks, and eight hundred men and a thousand horses
						and mules are necessary to operate them. Ten huge barns are filled by the live stock and
						rolling stock. Whenever new tracks are laid down or old ones replaced, a steel rail
						weighing seventy pounds to the yard is laid. The total distance traveled by all the cars
						amounts to nearly eight thousand miles every day, and in a year the total distance is
						almost three million miles. The  company pays out about
						half a million dollars in wages every year, and a large sum for supplies besides. The
						plant is one of the largest street railway systems found in the great cities of
						America.
					
						ENTRANCE TO ARMSTRONG PARK.
					
					One direct benefit of this admirable system is that enjoyed by wage earners and people
						receiving small salaries. They are enabled to live in the suburbs, where living expenses
						are comparatively small and homes can be purchased or rented at reasonable cost, and
						where there is plenty of room and fresh air, and yet go to and from work in any quarter
						of the city cheaply and promptly. This opportunity is taken advantage of to a large
						degree, and in its way the street railway system is an agency for keeping the poor from
						crowding together in down-town blocks, in garrets and cellars, where disease and vice
						lie in wait in their most dreaded forms.
					
					
						COMMERCIAL CLUB BUILDING.
					
				
				
				
					THE SPIRIT OF IMPROVEMENT.
					PUBLIC spirit is like the wind: When it enters a city it breathes
						upon the whole body of the population. Its stimulus is not restricted to here and there
						a favored individual. For public spirit to become an active, moving force in a
						community, it must, in the nature of existing conditions, become manifest in the common
						mind. The causes which lead to a growth or decline of this spirit are not well
						understood. It is gradually and imperceptibly infused into a community, or as
						mysteriously fades away, in either case being unheralded. Of one city we say its people
						are public spirited; of another, that the people lack public spirit. But we can not
						satisfactorily explain the reason for the condition which prevails in either place. Or
						we may note that in the same city an absence of public spirit at one time may be
						succeeded by a striking manifestation of it at another. In a general and qualified way
						it may be said that a community which is prosperous and growing, is more likely than
						others to be characterized by this spirit, though it is possible to invert the statement
						and say that the community in which public spirit prevails is likely to be growing and
						prosperous.
					There is this to be said, however, without qualification or reserve: That people which
						is most liberal of purse, most tolerant of custom or belief, most careful of individual
						welfare, is also most thoroughly inspired with the spirit which strives for the
						promotion of the public weal.
					Indianapolis has not a record in this regard which is as good as could be desired. In
						past years she has seen younger and less advantageously located cities outstrip her. Her
						people have always had a reputation for steady prosperity and contentment, but they
						have, perhaps, been too conservative. They have failed to appreciate the fact that there
						may be a liberality, an apparent freedom of expenditure, which, in the end, brings
						richer returns than any within the reach of strict conservatism. At first thought this
						may seem to have been a disadvantage, but further consideration will reverse the
						conclusion.
					In all the years of her steady, unostentatious growth, Indianapolis has been laying
						broad and deep the foundations of future greatness. She has accomplished this by a
						thrift and economy which have accumulated vast property and business interests free of
						debt. Her real estate values are actual, not fictitious. A larger per cent. of her
						citizens are property owners than is the case in any other city in the country. Here,
						then, is the foundation: A community independent, well-to-do, composed of industrious
						members living  in their own homes; vast manufacturing
						establishments which have grown step by step from small beginnings, each step taken in
						response to imperative demands for increased facilities; an almost absolute freedom from
						foreign debt on the part of individuals and businesses; a system of railroads making the
						best center of distribution in the United States; a surrounding territory rich in
						agricultural advantages, and teeming with mineral wealth.
					
						CROWNING FIGURE SOLDIERS'
								MONUMENT.
					
					Upon this foundation, slow of growth and solid as the everlasting hills, Indianapolis
						has now fairly begun to raise her superstructure of grace and beauty. Public spirit
						breathed its inspiration into the souls of the people, and already the effect is to be
						seen in many forms. The common desire to advance the city's interest has put a new
						spirit into the Board of Trade, and has brought into being the Commercial Club, which
						has the public welfare as the sole justification for its existence. The same impulse
						toward improvement has been manifested in a demand for better streets; for more
						efficient and adequate street car service; for a better class of residences and business
						blocks; and for better government. This demand has been accompanied by a willingness to
						assume the expense and inconvenience incident to such improvements. The results are to
						be seen in numerous instances. An era of street paving began three years ago, and is yet
						in the ascendant. Miles of asphalt and brick have been laid, and each season witnesses a
						growing sentiment in favor of more. A large part of the street railway system has been
						converted from mule to electric power, and further changes will be made until, in a few
						years, the entire system will be electric, with rapid transit everywhere. Business
						blocks and residences, erected within two or three years, are in evidence to prove the
						more generous ideas which at present prevail. Stone is taking the place of brick; office
						buildings of great extent, and equipped with all the agencies of convenience and
						comfort, are taking the places of the ancient, inconvenient buildings which preceded
						them. A new system of municipal government, containing all the best features of the best
						city governments in the country, with others in  addition,
						has been secured from the State Legislature and put into successful operation.
					From the future, Indianapolis expects much. Her people, prosperous and happy, building
						up wealth year by year, and imbued with the spirit which takes a patriotic pride in
						beautifying the city and increasing its comforts and conveniences as a place of
						residence or business, are of a temper to persist in these laudable purposes until they
						are attained. It is not intended that any city on the continent shall be more attractive
						or progressive as a place either for residence or for commercial activity. All the
						factors for a symmetrical, rounded community of enlightenment and enterprise are present
						and are being daily woven into a fabric, strong, uniform and beautiful.
					
						CHAIR FACTORY ON BIG FOUR RAILROAD.
					
					
					
						LOOKING SOUTHWEST FROM THE COURT HOUSE.
					
				
				
				
					OUR MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT.
					MANY of the gravest problems in political economy which have arisen
						in recent years have been those connected with the government of cities. The most
						earnest students of the age have applied themselves to the working out of a solution of
						these problems. Wherever a large population is crowded into a small territory, there is
						an inevitable tendency to vice and crime and corruption in public office. The law
						experiences the greatest difficulty in ferreting out and punishing offenders. The same
						conditions which breed the evils that prey upon society protect those evils from the arm
						of the law. The massing of population not only multiplies the benefits to be obtained,
						but magnifies the ills. Every large city in the world has experienced the truth of this,
						and, in every city where enlightenment prevails, a constant study is carried on for the
						purpose of ascertaining how best to secure to the inhabitants the maximum of good and a
						minimum of bad.
					This effort has led to a trial of many different forms of municipal government. In the
						United States these experiments have ranged from utter failure to gratifying success.
						Something over two years ago, when it became conclusively evident that Indianapolis had
						outgrown her existing form of government, and the citizens, without regard to politics,
						entered upon a movement to secure from the legislature a new charter, it was unanimously
						determined to embody in that instrument the best features of the best systems of
						municipal government known. With that end in view, a committee of eminent attorneys and
						business men, evenly divided politically, was appointed to prepare a charter which
						should lack no detail of excellence. The committee spent months in studying the systems
						of government of other cities. It was found that Philadelphia and Brooklyn were among
						the best governed cities in the United States, and from them were borrowed many valuable
						features. To these were added such improvements as experience and observation
						recommended to the committee. When every point of practicable value had been
						incorporated in the instrument, it was presented to the legislature with a petition that
						it be enacted into a legal charter, which should become the basis for the future
						government of the city. The request was granted, and, in the spring of 1891, the old
						form of administration of public affairs was exchanged for the new charter. With the
						change the city made a long stride forward. The narrow restrictions under which it had
						groaned were cast off, and a new life, marked by progress and improvement, began.
					The charter, under which the city is now governed, centers the chief power and the
						greater part of the responsibility 
							HOTEL ENGLISH.
						
						
							OCCIDENTAL HOTEL.
						
						 in the Mayor. In this way the people are enabled to
						locate the blame for bad management of affairs, or the credit for good, where it
						belongs. One of the weaknesses of the old form of city government was the difficulty of
						locating the responsibility for any mismanagement or corruption in the conduct of public
						affairs. The Indianapolis charter lodges almost the entire administration of the
						municipal government in the hands of boards appointed by the Mayor. Over these boards
						the Mayor exerts the utmost authority. He may remove at will, without the formality of
						announcing the cause for his action.
					The administration of affairs is divided into four departments, viz.: The Department of
						Finance, the Department of Public Works, the Department of Public Safety, and the
						Department of Public Health and Charities. The Department of Finance is in charge of a
						Comptroller, and each of the other departments is presided over by a board of three
						members. The Comptroller and boards, as stated above, hold office at the pleasure of the
						Mayor. In this way the Mayor, through his personal representatives, carries on nearly
						all the functions of the local government, and is held directly accountable for their
						conduct. The Common Council still exists, but its jurisdiction is restricted, and the
						Mayor has the power of veto over its acts.
					The charter also invests the authorities with more power than they ever had before.
						They may compel the people to make public improvements where needed, over the protest
						and opposition of private or selfish interests. Sanitary and moral 
							"GERMAN TELEGRAPH" BUILDING.
						
						 restrictions may be made as comprehensive and binding as
						necessary to preserve the public health, and to guard and maintain the moral welfare of
						the people. The evil of the struggle for the spoils of office and the crimes against the
						suffrage, which in all large cities grow out of it, where not specifically guarded
						against, have been, in great degree, prevented by charter provisions which require the
						police force and the members of the fire department to be chosen in equal number from at
						least two political parties. Another of the valuable provisions of the charter gives the
						city government entire control over all places of amusement or entertainment within five
						miles of the corporation limits. Through this power, the suburban resorts, which are
						certain to be maintained about the outskirts of a city near enough to be within easy
						reach of the inhabitants, and yet outside the pale of the city's authority, may be
						effectually regulated.
					
						RESIDENCE ON EAST WASHINGTON
								STREET.
					
					The benefits of the charter are already evident. The administration of public affairs
						has been placed upon a systematic and business-like basis; street improvements of the
						finest and most durable character have been fairly begun, and will not be stopped until
						Indianapolis is as handsomely paved a city as there is in the country; a magnificent
						sewer system, the result of extensive investigation and expert planing, has been agreed
						upon, work upon its construction having been already begun; and many other plans to
						enhance the welfare and beauty of the city have been put on foot, and will be carried
						into full effect as rapidly as possible. Under the beneficent operation of the new
						charter, sustained by a liberal and friendly public spirit, there is no doubt whatever
						that Indianapolis is entering upon an era of development which will win for her the
						reputation of being one of the most perfectly governed cities in the United States.
				
				
				
					SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS.
					A CITY may be wealthy because of the great riches concentrated in the
						hands of a few individual citizens, or through the sum of the common prosperity and
						thrift of the mass of the population. For the welfare of the community and the wholesome
						equilibrium of public affairs, the second class of city wealth is unquestionably the
						more desirable. Indianapolis is rich in this way. She has no citizens who, in other
						great cities, would be accounted very wealthy. Her people are almost completely devoid
						of any display of riches. The splendor of liveried servants, and glittering carriages,
						and all the gorgeousness and pomp which are the outward manifestation of wealth in other
						cities are wanting in Indianapolis. There are beautiful streets, lined with handsome
						homes, and the owners are worth their hundreds of thousands, but they do not indulge in
						vulgar display. On the other hand the wage earners, the men and women who carry dinner
						baskets, the classes which, in other cities, live in the tenements of their rich
						neighbors, in Indianapolis go to their own homes when their hours of employment are
						ended. The result of these enlightened and humane conditions is that there is in this
						city no sharply drawn line between the rich and the poor, as there is in other
						communities. All industrious, respectable people are more nearly on the same plane of
						society than elsewhere. The money test is not rigidly nor generally applied.
						Intelligence and respectability are standards of eligibility to good society which
						outweigh all others. The rich and the middle classes live in the same sections of the
						city, and are neighbors on neighborly terms.
					
						BUILT ON THE ASSOCIATION PLAN.
					
					This feature of general home owning is one that forcibly and favorably impresses the
						stranger in the city. There are large sections where the streets are thickly lined on
						both sides with homes. Every place has a green, well kept lawn with plenty of yard for a
						breathing space. 
							SOUTH MERIDIAN STREET FROM
									MARYLAND.
						
						 Not one of the houses in the section, perhaps, will be
						distinctively a fine mansion, and not one will be cheap looking or dilapidated. All will
						speak of plenty and comfort and contentment. These are the homes in which the people
						live, who, in other cities, are cooped in flats, apartment houses and rented tenements.
						The houses in which they live in Indianapolis are their own, and the good old word
						"home" applies to them in its best sense. On the poorest streets will be found hundreds
						of neat cottages, the property of the strong limbed men who go out from them daily to
						toil in the mills and shops and on the railroads. Every cottage bears those marks of
						proprietorship, which, to the careful observer, tell of the owner's pride, and of the
						fact that his home is his stronghold. Go to any part of the city, away from the business
						districts, and the same conditions will be found to exist. The homes, be they small or
						large, bear outward indications of the fact that they are occupied by their owners.
						There is a neatness, a state of repair about the fence and gate, a freshness of the
						paint, an indescribable something about the place in entirety, which leave no doubt in
						the observer's mind as to the proprietorship. 
					
						BUILT ON THE ASSOCIATION PLAN.
					
					Naturally there are exceptions to this rule, according to which householders are house
						owners. Scattered among the neat homes are to be found tenements of many grades of
						inferiority. In some portions of the city this is not true; in others it is. There must
						always be beginners and unfortunates who can not buy homes, and extravagant and
						shiftless folk who will not. But in Indianapolis these, by their contrast, emphasize the
						happier condition without being numerous enough to obscure it. The per cent. of the
						population which owns its homes is large and strong enough to dominate and give to the
						whole fabric of society in the community an air of solidity and stability as gratifying
						as it is rare. This predominance of thrift sets the rule for the oncoming generation and
						makes the young man and young woman feel that the proper thing, the expected thing, for
						them to do is to save money and become property owners themselves. The right way becomes
						the customary way, and the common impulse of public opinion and expectation is toward
						the betterment of society. The influence of all this upon the youth who are coming into
						their elders' places is incalculable. It  starts them
						right and gives a bent to their inclinations and habits of life which is permanent.
					
						WINDSOR HOTEL.
					
					The single agency which has done more than all other influences in making possible this
						general thrift, and in bringing it about, is the saving and loan association. It were
						hard to overestimate the benefit which associations of this kind have brought to
						Indianapolis. They have taken the poor man's petty savings, accumulated them little by
						little and returned them with generous accretions of interest. But their chief service
						has been in enabling wage earners to build homes and pay for them in such small payments
						as could be spared from their wages after the living expenses were deducted, money which
						would have had to go for rent under other circumstances. It has been said that money
						paid for rent is money thrown away, and in the view that there is no permanent return
						for money paid as rent, the saying is true. This is well illustrated in the operation of
						the savings and loan associations. The man who has paid a given amount for rent each
						month enters an association, builds a house, and instead of paying rent pays about the
						same amount monthly into the association. At the end of a few years he finds himself the
						owner in fee simple of a neat home, without a dollar of indebtedness upon it, and
						without having made any perceptible sacrifices to secure it, and thereafter the money
						which he saves can be devoted to the 
						
							NORTH ILLINOIS STREET,
									FROM SEVENTH STREET.
						
						 accumulation of other property from which to derive an
						additional income. The number of wage earners who have passed through this identical
						experience in Indianapolis is most surprising to persons who have not become accustomed
						to it. The savings and loan, or building association idea primarily came to the United
						States from Germany, and secured its first permanent foothold on this side of the
						Atlantic in Philadelphia. There it was expanded and modified so as to be more in
						accordance with American progress, and its benefits soon made it remarkably popular.
						From Philadelphia a few Indianapolis gentlemen brought the idea West, and introduced it
						in this city about a quarter of a century ago, organizing a small association among
						themselves. That was the acorn from which the mighty oak of to-day has grown.
					In Indianapolis the principles underlying the operation of the associations have
						received the profoundest investigation. They have been studied in all their readings
						just as insurance has. The result is a wonderful broadening of the benefits to be
						derived from membership in the associations. Profits are larger than of old; there are
						more elastic methods of securing to each member what he especially desires; safeguards
						against speculation by officers have been adopted, and finally the cost of loans is very
						much lower than in the old-time associations.
					There is not a savings bank in Indianapolis for the simple reason that there is no
						demand for one. The savings and loan associations fill the place occupied by savings
						banks in other cities, and do much more besides. To depositors they pay higher profits
						than banks do, and they act as investment associations, and can afford to make more
						liberal loans on property than banks can. This liberality in loans is not an indication
						of laxity in methods. It is based on sound business principles. The very month the loan
						is made, the borrower begins to repay it. Before the property has time to deteriorate,
						enough of the loan has been repaid to prevent the possibility of loss, and while the
						borrower is paying interest on the whole sum borrowed, he has paid off a part of it,
						which being promptly loaned to another borrower, is again earning interest. Thus it is
						that while no single borrower is required to pay an exorbitant rate of interest on his
						loan, the fact that the money is turned over so often makes the total earnings of the
						associations very high. Each member of the association shares in the earnings according
						to the amount of stock which he holds. The result of this rather complex yet sound
						system is that an association member may borrow money amounting to three-fourths of the
						value of the property mortgaged to secure it, pay off the total debt and interest in
						small, easy payments, and in the end, after deducting his share of the association
						earnings from the cost of his loan, find that he has only paid interest at the rate of
						about six per cent.
					
					
						GERMAN PARK ASSOCIATION CLUB HOUSE.
					
					
						GERMAN PARK ASSOCIATION PAVILION.
					
					
					In the light of these facts, it is no wonder the building association business has
						grown to vast proportions in Indianapolis. The wonder is that it has not become
						proportionally great in all the cities of the country. It offers opportunities to the
						lender no less attractive than to the borrower. The wage earner who has paid for his
						home in the building association rarely gives up his membership. He has too clearly
						learned its advantages. His common course is to promptly take out more shares of stock
						and continue his weekly or monthly payments, not with a view to borrow, but as an
						investment. In nearly every association there is a demand for more money than can be
						supplied, and shareholders who pay in but do not borrow are a necessary factor.
					
						VIRGINIA AVENUE FOUNTAIN.
					
					Some general comprehension of the enormous extent to which the savings and loan
						association idea has taken hold upon Indianapolis may be imparted by a resort to
						statistics. There are now in the city something over seventy-five different
						associations. Their capitalization ranges from $50,000 to $2,000,000 each, averaging
						about $500,000, and the shares of stock range in paid-up value from one hundred to five
						hundred dollars, averaging about two hundred dollars each. The total capitalization of
						all the associations in the city is above $37,000,000. The total number of shares of
						stock actually carried at this writing is over 100,000. At the average value of two
						hundred dollars a share, this fixes the total value of building association stock now
						being carried in the city at over $20,000,000. The weekly payments, which are
						proportionately the same in all the associations, are at the rate of fifty cents on each
						share of two hundred dollars. Carry the calculation a step farther, therefore, and it is
						seen that $50,000 is paid into the Indianapolis building associations every week, over
						$200,000 every month and $2,600,000 every year. Of this vast sum, fully $2,000,000 goes
						into dwelling houses for the wage earners and the small-salaried classes. Is it any
						wonder, then, that Indianapolis is called the "City of Homes?" And is it to be wondered
						at that the working classes of the city are unsurpassed in contentment and stability and
						prosperity by those of any community on the globe?
					A word of praise is due to the management of the associations. In all the years since
						the first was established in  the city not one has failed
						or brought loss upon its members. The machinery of operation is eminently simple and
						inexpensive. The Secretary, in each case, is the chief and only salaried officer. He
						commonly receives in payment for his services from three to ten dollars a week,
						according to the amount of business to be done. The Directors meet in the evenings, once
						or twice a week, and the whole administration is carried on by odd moments of attention.
						No person devotes his whole time to an association, as a rule, though, in the largest
						societies, there are a few exceptions to this. Experience and study have shown, not only
						how building associations may be operated for the greatest benefit of the members in the
						matter of liberal terms and large profits, but also that they may be carried on with
						very slight expense. The good which the associations have done in Indianapolis is
						incalculable. It consists not alone in the great material prosperity which they have
						brought, but it extends far into the moral constitution of society. It is seen in habits
						of industry, in ideas of saving, in the decrease in vice and dissipation which are
						accompaniments of extravagance and improvidence, in a higher moral tone and in a general
						uplifting of the community in all that makes toward a better and happier existence.
					
						SURGICAL INSTITUTE ON OHIO
								STREET.
					
				
				
				
					PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
					BE they large or small, few cities in the United States possess more
						or finer public buildings than those in Indianapolis. As the capital of the State the
						city has become the location of several large public institutions housed in buildings of
						vast extent and great beauty. Early in the history of the State, while land in the
						suburbs of the infant capital was cheap, the authorities selected sites for the
						institutions, roomy and shaded by forest trees. The cost of the ground was small, but
						the growth of the city has been such that now the State's property is immensely
						valuable, and situated as it is, when the city has grown out to and around it, it adds
						to the beauty of the capital greatly with its shade and stretches of green sward, its
						flowers and fountains.
					Most beautiful of all the public buildings in the city and one of the finest in the
						United States is the Capitol. It stands in the center of a tract of about ten acres in
						the heart of the city. Its noble dome, rising two hundred and thirty-five feet into the
						air, with swelling curves and beauty of outline, is not surpassed in the country. The
						great mass standing against the sky is so free from any suggestion of weight that it
						almost seems afloat. The Capitol is of stone, massive and solid. The exterior walls are
						of the famous oolitic stone from the Indiana field, and bear the warm gray tint and the
						appearance of solidity which characterize that stone.
					Inside, the Capitol is noticeably free from the gilt and gaudy fret-work of plaster and
						other cheap materials which so aften lend an air of ostentatious vulgarity to the finish
						of public buildings. Everything which the eye rests upon is genuine. It is exactly what
						it seems to be. The style of finish is massive and rather plain, but rich because of the
						materials employed. The roof and galleries are supported by rows and groups of immense
						marble pillars, and looking from the main floor of the great corridor up to the
						sky-light, rows of similar pillars, one above another, are seen about the successive
						balconies. The stairways are marble, of various colors, and are triumphs of artistic
						design. Exactly beneath the dome is the rotunda. Here the four vast piers which uphold
						the dome serve to enclose partly a circular space about seventy-five feet in diameter.
						The piers are of oolitic stone, unadorned. About the rotunda on suitable pedestals stand
						Italian marble statues representing Art, Literature, History, Oratory, Commerce,
						Agriculture, Justice and Law. A hundred feet above the floor a dome of stained glass
						roofs the rotunda and floods it with rich, subdued light. The building is heated in
						winter  and cooled in summer by a system of steam fans in
						the basement. The fans incidentally ventilate the structure thoroughly. In winter the
						air is blown across huge coils of heated steam pipes and in that way warmed before
						reaching the upper floors.
					
						MAIN ENTRANCE TO STATE HOUSE.
					
					Extravagance and corruption in the erection of public buildings are so nearly universal
						that they have become proverbial. The building of the Indiana Capitol furnishes a
						notable exception to the rule. It is a monument to the honesty and economy of its
						builders. The State Legislature appropriated $2,000,000 for the purpose of building a
						Capitol. To the surprise and gratification of the public, nearly twenty thousand dollars
						of the fund remained and was turned back into the State treasury when the Capitol was
						completed. Such a thing was rarely if ever heard of before in the history of this
						country. The result of the honesty and wise judgment of the commission which had control
						of the building operations, and of the contractors who did the work, is that Indiana
						to-day has a Capitol of noble and dignified proportions. It is proven by the testimony
						of travelers and architects that this building is finer and handsomer than capitols in
						other States which cost a great deal more.
					
						CORRIDOR IN THE STATE HOUSE.
					
					
					The largest single institution which Indiana possesses is the Central Hospital for the
						Insane, located in the western suburbs of Indianapolis. Its site is a rolling tract of
						native woodland, spacious and beautiful. The natural attractions of the place are
						heightened by the art of the architect and landscape gardener. This institution is a
						complete community in itself. It has the population of a small city, and is as
						independent as a city in the matter of its food, heat, light, society, entertainment and
						religious services. The hospital usually contains about sixteen hundred patients with
						near four hundred attendants and other employes. A large electric lighting station is on
						the grounds, and the two main buildings are heated from a huge central battery of
						boilers. The hospital is an instructive and interesting place to the visitor. All the
						most approved methods of treating the insane are in use. As far as possible the public
						is kept informed of the workings of the institution, and everything is carried on
						according to the most humane and enlightened ideas.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					One of the cardinal doctrines of the management of the hospital is that dementia may be
						relieved, often permanently, by keeping the thoughts of the patients employed in a
						manner to divert them from their mania. In the practice of this remedy the hospital is
						made a cheerful, lively place, and much time and ingenuity are given to preparing and
						carrying out plans for the 
							POST-OFFICE.
						
						 amusement and diversion of the patients. The unfortunates
						are also provided with the means of employing their hands when they so desire, and
						annually they produce large quantities of lace, crochet work, etc. Some write, some
						draw, and each individual is allowed the especial diversion which he enjoys. Because of
						the methods which prevail in this institution it is not the solemn, tomb-like place
						which many hospitals for the insane are.
					The buildings and grounds of the Central Hospital are well worth a visit, aside from
						the interest which attaches to a place where broken and ruined minds are assembled and
						cared for. There are two enormous buildings, one for men, the other for women. They are
						brick, and for purposes of light and ventilation each are arranged in the form of
						connected wings with many angles, and above are finished with numerous tall brick
						towers. The hospital, with its grounds, is worth $1,800,000. From a distance the
						clustered towers rising above the trees present a striking apappearance. On a green hill
						at one side of the grounds is a small well-kept cemetery, where lie the remains of many
						patients who are still, as in life, the wards of the State.
					On the eastern edge of the city, in a beautiful grove of tall forest trees, is the
						State School for the Deaf. It consists of two large buildings; one of gray stone, four
						stories high, with an imposing entrance, flanked by stately fluted pillars of a style
						once popular and now, unfortunately, rare; the other, a modern brick building of the
						same height. There are, besides, shops, a bakery, and other separate buildings. The
						grounds consist of many acres, part of which is used for agricultural purposes. The
						campus about the buildings is laid out in lawns and shaded walks, while the gray and red
						walls of the school appear cool and inviting through the vistas of trees. The property
						is estimated to be worth over half a million of dollars.
					The most successful methods of instruction are employed in this institution. Besides
						the sign language, pupils are taught to read the lips of persons speaking, and to use
						their voices in speech. A boy or girl, at home referred to as "deaf and dumb," may often
						be taught to understand the movements of the lips of one speaking, and to reply in a
						well modulated voice, so as to carry on a conversation in a manner hardly different,
						apparently, from the dialogue of two persons possessing all the ordinary faculties. At
						the last commencement exercises of the school, several pupils delivered graduating
						speeches or read papers from the stage in a manner so rational and easy that the hearer
						for the moment almost forgot the character of the institution. Considerable original
						investigation has been made by the authorities of the school in the line of assisting
						hearing where the power to hear some sounds is still weakly present. Studies of the
						conditions which produce deafness and the hereditary phases of the affliction have also
							 been carried on in the school with gratifying
						success. The State Institution for the Blind is also located in Indianapolis. It is in
						the north central part of the city, in the midst of the most attractive residence
						district. Its fine old trees and grounds, with winding walks and handsome flower beds,
						add much to the beauty of the neighborhood. The main building of the school, like that
						of the institution for the deaf, is of a stately style of architecture which wears the
						dignity of other days, and is in striking contrast to the modern and ephemeral, though
						more ostentatious, buildings around it. In the eastern part of the city, and not far
						from the school for the deaf, is the Girls' Reformatory and Women's Prison. This
						institution has brought to Indiana a reputation for advanced ideas in the humane
						treatment of female offenders. 
							GRAIN ELEVATORS.
						 Hardly another State in the Union has made so liberal and wise a provision for
						them. The reformatory and prison, though under the same roof and management, are
						entirely distinct from each other. There is no association or contact between the young
						girls in the reformatory and the hardened criminals in the prison. The institution was
						established solely for women and girls, and is under the control of a board of woman
						managers. The superintendent is a woman, and all the officers and attendants are women.
						No female criminals are sent to the penitentiaries. In their prison, milder discipline
						prevails; the work provided is of a kind suited to them; and there is not the gloom and
						cheerlessness which often characterizes prisons. Students of penology and  philanthropists have come hundreds of miles to visit this
						Indianapolis institution, which is everywhere regarded as a model of its kind.
					The building in which the reformatory and prison are quartered is of brick with stone
						finishings, and is constructed according to a rather handsome design. It stands on a
						tract of high ground, but has not the surroundings of large forest trees which add so
						much to the attractiveness of other State institutions in the city. The property of the
						reformatory and prison is worth about $200,000.
					
						FRIENDS' CHURCH.
					
					One of the most imposing structures in the city is the Marion County Court House. After
						the State House, the Court House is the most striking architectural feature of the
						capital. It is of Indiana oolitic stone, and has the massive, strong appearance which
						that stone so well imparts. The building is of dignified design, and though of great
						size, is saved from the monotony which large structures often present to the eye, by
						well-executed variations in outline, and the employment of projecting buttresses,
						polished granite columns and the like. The interior of the Court House does not quite
						fulfill the expectations which the exterior arouses, though it is costly and well
						arranged. Its stairways, especially, are noteworthy features of the  interior. The building cost, when erected a dozen years or more ago, about
						one and a half million of dollars. The ground upon which it stands, if put on the market
						to-day, would probably sell for not less than one million dollars. No single object
						attracts more interest in Indianapolis than the monument erected by the State in honor
						of the soldiers who went out from Indiana to fight for their country. No other State in
						the Union has honored its loyal sons with so noble a memorial as this. It stands in the
						center of Circle Park, the park which, in the original design of the founders of the
						capital, occupied the exact center of the city. Of solid, gray stone, the monument
						rises, beautiful in its proportions, to a height of two hundred and eighty feet. On the
						top of the slender shaft stands a colossal bronze figure holding aloft the torch of
						progress in one hand and with the other grasping a sword with its point turned to the
						earth in token of ended strife. The statue represents Indiana triumphant in battle,
						returning to the pursuits of peace. Work upon the monument is still in progress. When it
						is complete, magnificent groups of bronze statuary, representing War and Peace, will
						adorn the east and west faces of the pedestal. Bronze astragals encircle the shaft of
						the monument. One represents the army, another the navy, a third contains the dates of
						the Mexican and Civil wars. It is intended to make this the grandest soldiers' monument
						on the globe.
					
						MORTON
					
					The movement in favor of the  building of a monument to
						the citizen soldiery of the State originated about twenty years ago. An effort was made
						soon after to collect sufficient funds by popular subscription, but it was not persisted
						in, and was given up when about $21,O00 was in hand. After that, the project lay dormant
						several years. When it was next revived it met with more pronounced favor, and its
						advocates determined to ask the legislature to appropriate money to assist in carrying
						it through. In the beginning, the most enthusiastic friends of the movement had not
						dreamed of such a monument as was finally decided upon, but as sentiment increased in
						favor of their plan their hopes and ambitions grew. When the legislature convened in
						1887 a bill was introduced appropriating $200,000 for the erection of a soldiers'
						monument in Circle Park, and became a law with little opposition. Soon after, active
						operations began, the work being placed in control of a commission provided for in the
						legislative act which appropriated the money.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH DELAWARE
								STREET.
					
					From that time the construction of the great memorial has gone steadily on. Progress
						has been slow because only by deliberation, and the careful consideration of every
						detail, can a truly noble and dignified work of art be achieved. The best living artists
						have contributed to the success of the undertaking. Designs and models have come from
							
						
							ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL.
						
						
							FEMALE REFORMATORY.
						
						 famous sculptors and architects in Germany, France,
						England, and different parts of the United States. The very best that art can offer has
						been secured for this great work. The expense of this has been beyond all previous
						calculations. The appropriation of $200,000 was found not nearly sufficient, though the
						$21,000 of the original fund was added to it, and the expenses of the commission came
						from the State treasury. Again the legislature was appealed to, and in the winter of
						1890-91 an additional appropriation of $100,000 was made. It is yet uncertain whether
						even this sum will suffice to finish the monument. If it does, the total cost will be
						about $350,000. It is the purpose of those most closely associated with the construction
						of the memorial to have it conform to the highest canons of art, and to make it an
						unanswerable refutation of the idea that the West does not know and appreciate the best
						in artistic expression.
					Tomlinson Hall is a public building of which any city might well be proud. When Stephen
						D. Tomlinson died, ten years ago or more, he left an estate of $50,000 in trust to the
						city, for the erection of a great assembly hall to belong to the municipality. To this
						sum the city added about as much more, and built Tomlinson Hall. The building is of
						immense proportions, and of a style of architecture which preserves it against the
						barn-like appearance which is often noticed as almost characteristic of buildings
						erected solely to accommodate large crowds. The lower floor of the structure is a vast
						market space, open on two sides in summer and closed in winter, and divided into
						innumerable stalls. The main entrance to the building leads into a large corridor or
						vestibule, from which two wide stairways ascend to the vestibule of the assembly room on
						the second floor.
					The hall, where many great crowds have gathered, is perfect for the purpose for which
						it was erected. There is nothing cheap or temporary about it. The walls are handsomely
						frescoed. The hard-wood floor is smooth and almost polished. The ceiling, fifty feet
						above, is of yellow pine finished in natural colors, its vast expanse broken by massive
						cross-beams intersecting each other at right angles. Around three sides of the hall runs
						a wide balcony. Across the end farthest from the stage is a second balcony or gallery,
						above the first. In this hall have been held national political conventions, state
						conventions, great mass meetings, the famous May Music Festivals, and many other kinds
						of assemblies. The stage alone has a seating capacity of five hundred. The hall entire
						has been known to accommodate assemblies of five thousand persons. As a meeting place
						accessible to the public, belonging to the public in fact, this great gathering place
						has been of incalculable value to the community.
					The Public Library building is purely Grecian in its architecture, classic lines being
						strictly adhered to 
							COURT HOUSE.
						
						 throughout. It occupies an excellent location, being near
						the heart of the city, and at the same time far enough away from the noise and confusion
						of traffic to allow the place quiet surroundings. The building is not only handsome; it
						is convenient as well. The books are easy of access and in good light, and are so
						compactly stored as to require a minimum of space, and of distance to be gone over by
						attendants in waiting upon patrons. The system of cataloguing in use is one approved and
						practiced in the greatest libraries in the country. At the present rate of increase, the
						institution will contain 100,000 volumes in a few years more. The library building, with
						the ground on which it stands, is worth about $200,000.
					The building of the Young Men's Christian Association is another of the handsome
						structures of the city. It is of rough stone laid in massive blocks. The front of the
						first floor is devoted to business rooms, with the exception of a broad entrance,
						spanned by a low massive arch of stone, which leads to the stairway. The rear of the
						first floor is occupied by the gymnasium. The second floor of the building is occupied
						by the offices, reading rooms, amusement rooms, parlors, and chief audience room of the
						association. The third floor contains a number of class rooms, used by the free night
						classes carried on for the members during the winter. In conjunction with the gymnasium
						are spacious bath rooms. The association has thus provided an attractive gathering place
						for young men who are down town during the day or evening; a place where they may read,
						or talk, or play games, or study, or develop their muscles. The building is situated in
						the business center of the city, where its conveniences are most readily accessible. The
						membership of the association is about twelve hundred, and its property, which is clear
						of debt, is worth $10O,000 or more.
					The Propylum is an institution peculiar to Indianapolis. The building which bears the
						name is the property of an association of women. The idea of erecting a handsome
						structure to be used for important social events; art exhibitions; as a meeting place
						for literary, social and scientific clubs, and any other functions not inconsistent with
						these, originated with certain prominent women of the city, and was no sooner conceived
						than a definite plan was formed and efforts were made to put it into effect. A stock
						company was organized and subscriptions invited. Only women were allowed to take stock.
						The capital needed was $20,000, and in a short time every dollar was subscribed. A large
						lot was purchased in a choice location, and the Propylum built. The structure is of
						rough stone, three stories high, and of handsome design. The interior is finished in
						quartered oak. About the entire place is an air of elegance and refinement. The business
						judgment of the originators of the Propylum enterprise has been confirmed by the
						history of the institution since it 
						
							MILITARY PARK LOOKING TOWARD THE STATE HOUSE.
						
						
							MILITARY PARK ALONG THE
									CANAL.
						
						 was opened to the public. The place has been in permanent
						and constant demand for the purposes for which it was intended. It has paid a good per
						cent. upon the investment, and the capital stock has been increased. As the property
						stands to-day, it is probably worth $30,000.
					Of brick and stone and four stories in height, the Chamber of Commerce is a structure
						of attractive and substantial appearance. It is the headquarters of the Board of Trade,
						and the place is, besides, the center of the grain business of the city. Grain dealers
						have offices in the building, as have the elevator companies, and brokers are there in
						number. The place is one of the busiest in the city, and the transactions carried on
						beneath its roof amount to millions of dollars every year. The Chamber of Commerce is
						worth about $75,000.
					
						RESIDENCE ON PARK AVENUE.
					
					Of her Union Railway Station, Indianapolis is especially proud. The Union Railway
						Company, several years ago, determined to build a union station which should be a credit
						to the "Railroad City." Because all the sixteen railroads entering the city, centered in
						one station, this was the more desirable. Many months were spent in acquiring the
						necessary ground and franchises from the city and in preparing plans for the station.
						Every thing was done in the 
							LADDER WORKS ON BIG FOUR RAILROAD.
						
						
							BAKERY ON SOUTH PENNSYLVANIA STREET.
						
						 best way, and only the best materials were employed. When
						the work was completed, and the great building and train sheds were finished, those who
						had seen the progress from beginning to end knew that an immense enterprise had been
						carried to an honest and high class consummation. An institution had been added to the
						city which would be creditable to it no matter how much the community may increase in
						population and wealth in years to come.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					The main building of the station is of granite and pressed brick. The main entrance is
						beneath a massive arch, and the building is as strong and durable as a Norman castle. On
						one corner rises a square, stately tower of dignity in keeping with the remainder of the
						building. The interior of the station is as striking and handsome as the exterior. The
						main waiting room is a vast hall of unusual beauty. Its ceiling is an arch spanning the
						entire width of the room, which is fifty feet, and from the floor to the center of the
						arch is sixty-five feet. An ornamental gallery extends entirely around the room at a
						height of about twenty-five feet. The room is lighted by a huge stained glass sky light
						in the ceiling, and by an immense circular window of stained glass at each end.
						Connected with the main waiting room is a smoking room; a second large waiting room
						where there is somewhat more of privacy than in the main room; a handsome waiting  room devoted exclusively to ladies' use; a dining room; a
						barber shop; a check room; a news stand; a telegraph office; a ticket office, and
						several toilet and retiring rooms. An elevator and stairways lead to the three upper
						floors of the building, where are situated a large number of railway offices. The
						trains, on reaching the station, stand under a vast roof supported on iron pillars. The
						shed is over seven hundred feet long and over three hundred feet wide. 
							FIRE ENGINE HOUSES.
						 Light enters at the open sides and through the large sky-lights. The roof of
						the shed connects with one side of the main building of the station, so that in passing
						from the trains to the waiting rooms there is no  exposure
						to the weather. George B. Roberts, President of the Pennsylvania system of railroads, is
						authority for the statement that the Indianapolis Union Station is the finest and most
						complete railway depot in the United States. The station cost, in round numbers,
						$1,000,000.
					
						RHODIUS BLOCK.
					
					The new club house of the Commercial Club is one of the most imposing buildings in the
						city. It is of Indiana stone, laid rough in the first two stories and dressed above. Its
						total height is eight stories. The first six stories are used for business rooms and
						offices. The seventh floor is occupied by the club, and the eighth by a large,
						first-class cafe. The club quarters are equipped with all that is necessary to comfort
						and attractiveness. There is a private cafe, assembly room, billiard room, parlors, the
						offices of the president and secretary, etc. The building is equipped with two rapid
						elevators; spacious stairways; a fire-proof vault on every floor; is heated by steam and
						lighted by electricity. It is, in fact, as handsome and complete an office and club
						building as is to be found anywhere. The property is worth about $200,000.
					The home of the Columbia Club should be mentioned before leaving the subject of club
						houses. This club limits its membership to Republicans. It was formed four years ago,
						and soon grew strong enough to purchase a handsome property on Circle street, in the
						shadow of the Soldiers' Monument. Since then it has made extensive changes and
						enlargements in the building, and has furnished it in the most luxurious style. The club
						house and grounds are worth about $50,000.
					Indianapolis has two large hospitals, both of which are creditable to her charity and
						humanity. Both are free, and their doors are always open to the sick or injured of every
						station in life. These institutions are the City Hospital and St. Vincent's. The former
						is maintained by the city. It is a vast, roomy building, occupying shaded grounds where
						convalescent patients may sit on rustic benches under the trees, or walk on the soft
						grass. A superintendent, with a corps of assistant physicians, is in charge of the
						place. An ambulance  is always ready to instantly respond
						to calls for help from any section of the city. Trained nurses, in their quiet costumes,
						flit about the wards caring for the sufferers, and spotless cleanliness is everywhere.
						The hospital has a capacity to care for over one hundred patients at the same time.
					
						SOLDIERS' GRAVES IN CROWN
								HILL CEMETERY.
					
					St. Vincent's Hospital is one of the noble charities for which the Roman Catholic
						church has become celebrated all over the world. It is in the care of one of the orders
						of sisters of that church. But while it is an institution of the Catholic church, it is
						not sectarian in its charities. Any unfortunate, hurt by accident, or who falls sick
						upon the street, or who can not have proper care and medical attention at home, is
						received at St. Vincent's without question as to his religious belief. Some of the best
						physicians and surgeons in the city compose its staff, and the sisters, with their
						gentle, quiet ways and trained hands, make ideal nurses. The hospital is a beautiful
						building of brick, finished inside in simple elegance. The floors of hard wood are kept
						polished like mirrors, and no furniture is used in which dust or disease germs could
						find lodgment. A large number of patients share in St. Vincent's hospitality and
						generosity.
					There are numerous other public institutions in the city, and all in comfortable and
						often handsome homes.  There is the Indianapolis Orphan
						Asylum; the German Orphans' Home; the Colored Orphan Asylum; the Home for Aged Colored
						Women; the Home for Friendless Women; the Katharine Home for Aged Women; the Home of the
						Good Shepherd, for friendless girls; the Home for the Aged, in connection with St.
						Joseph's Catholic Church, etc. The Indianapolis Orphan Asylum, the German Orphans' Home
						and the Home of the Good Shepherd, in particular, are fine buildings of pleasing
						architecture. The first named is especially beautiful, and, with its large, park-like
						grounds, it forms an exceedingly attractive spot in the northeastern part of the
						city.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH TENNESSEE
								STREET.
					
					Indianapolis is not behind her sister cities either, in the matter of statuary. In
						Circle Park, at the base of the Soldiers' Monument, is a fine bronze statue of Oliver P.
						Morton, Indiana's statesman and famous War Governor. It was erected from a fund raised
						by subscription among the friends and admirers of the great man. To Morton, more than to
						any other man, Indiana owes her brilliant record in the Civil War.
					Another of Indiana's sons who has been honored by a statue in the capital is Thomas A.
						Hendricks. His long and honorable career in the national legislature, and his death
						while Vice-President of the United States, form an integral 
							KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS' CASTLE.
						
						 part of the history of the United States. The Hendricks
						Monument stands in the State House grounds, and is a bronze effigy of heroic size, upon
						a pedestal of granite.
					Schuyler Colfax, too, another of Indiana's statesmen, has been honored by a bronze
						statue. It stands in University Park, one of the most attractive spots in the city.
					
						IN UNIVERSITY PARK.
					
					The truth is that Indianapolis, in point of the number and beauty of its public
						buildings and memorials, is in advance of almost any city of its size in the country. In
						every direction from the heart of the city are objects of interest. The wide, straight
						streets, bordered with trees and lawns, give the residence districts a park-like
						appearance. This is heightened by an absence of fences and the large sized yards which
						prevail. Passing along the streets, made thus attractive and lined with comfortable
						homes, one comes upon beautiful churches; school houses of modern style; public
						institutions, embowered in trees. One thing of interest crowds upon another, and the
						stranger in the city who sees it as he should, will depart well repaid for the time
						which he has spent.
					
					
						The Indianapolis Sentinel. 
							TUESDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 25, 1892.
					
				
				
				
					LIBRARIES AND LITERARY CLUBS.
					THE value to an enlightened community, of libraries and a literary
						atmosphere may not be reckoned in dollars and cents. It is manifested in ways
						unmistakable but not to be measured by material standards. The cultivation of a love for
						reading; of an acquaintance, through their writings, with the great minds of the world;
						of an understanding of the motives and deeds of great men; of a knowledge of the mighty
						processes by which a marvelous civilization has been wrought, while the centuries have
						come and gone like the hours of an April day, brightened and darkened by sun and cloud;
						these things must broaden and elevate the thought and interest of society, and be seen
						and felt in the character of its inclinations, its purposes, its standards of
						excellence, its amusements, in all the breadth and depth of its inward self and outward
						expression.
					The inculcation of that love for reading and study, which will lead to results so
						desirable, can not be brought about in a short time. Years of generous opportunity and
						constant encouragement are necessary. Children growing up must inherit and absorb right
						inclinations and habits from parents who, in turn, had grown up amid influences of the
						proper kind. The surroundings and tendencies of the community, when the child is outside
						his home, must also be favorable. Progress must be slow, constant and unflagging. But
						whatever the difficulties and obstacles, and whatever the cost, the ends are worth a
						thousand times the effort required to attain them.
					
					This process of cultivation has been slowly going on in Indianapolis for many years.
						Long ago its benefits began to be seen. To-day they are incalculable 
							NORTH DELAWARE STREET NEAR SECOND STREET.
						
						 but the many agencies at work, with constantly
						accumulating momentum, are steadily adding to their value. The expression of the
						progress made, in turn becomes the strongest influence toward further progress. The form
						which this expression has taken in Indianapolis has been especially that of libraries
						and literary clubs. It is doubtful whether any city of its class in the Union equals
						this in the number and size of its libraries and in the number and average standard of
						its literary clubs.
					The principal library in the city is the Public Library. In 1872 an association of
						gentlemen presented a well selected library of ten thousand volumes to the city, upon
						the city's agreement to maintain and add to it, and to make it absolutely free to all
						the citizens of Indianapolis. The institution was put into the control of the Board of
						School Commissioners, and a small tax was levied for its maintenance and to purchase new
						books. Ever since that time, the Public Library has been a powerful agency for good. It
						has grown until there are now over fifty thousand volumes upon its shelves, and annual
						additions amount to about five thousand volumes. Many rare and costly editions of famous
						books have been secured, and many valuable manuscripts. The purchase of books has been
						always in pursuance of some definite plan, and the result is that there are exceedingly
						full collections of works upon all the great divisions of literature. The wants of all
						classes of readers have been consulted, and no matter what his line of reading or study
						may be, the patron of the library may find books to his taste. In fiction, it should be
						said, care is observed in selecting only standard works, and an effort is made to
						provide books which will at once attract and improve young readers. Connected with the
						Public Library is a reading room, open every day and evening, where may be found all the
						leading journals, magazines and reviews, with many of the more important daily papers,
						and where any book in the library may be used. Much the greater number of books read,
						however, is borrowed and carried to the homes of the readers. Any book may be borrowed
						and retained two weeks, and at the end of that time renewed and kept two weeks more, if
						desired. In the beautiful and spacious new building which has been erected for the
						library, and with the increased revenues which have lately come to it, it is destined to
						become, much more than ever before a powerful influence for good in the community.
					The Indiana State Library is next to the Public Library in importance. It was created
						by act of the General Assembly in 1825, and, until recently, has grown slowly since that
						time. To-day it contains near twenty-five thousand volumes. It is especially rich in
						historical works, and contains some exceedingly rare books and maps. Its collection of
						historical works is one of the most complete and valuable in the West. Within a few
						years a greater allowance for the support and upbuilding 
						of the library has been made by the legislature, and at present it is improving and
						growing rapidly. Books from this library are not permitted to be taken away, but may be
						freely used in the spacious reading room connected with the institution in the State
						House.
					
						FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH.
					
					The Indiana Law Library is one of the most complete law libraries in the country. It
						bears this reputation away from home, and it is a common occurrence for judges and
						attorneys in neighboring States to write to the librarian of the Indiana library for
						information which they can not find in their own State libraries. It now contains over
						fifteen thousand volumes. A set of all the laws of all the States in the Union is one of
						its cherished collections. This library is provided with all the funds necessary to keep
						it fully abreast of the legal progress of the age, and to add to it from time to time
						such rare and valuable works as may be secured. This library, too, is in the State
						House. The Marion County Law Library, of eight thousand volumes, is in the Court House,
						where it is accessible to the bar of the city. This is an excellent working library,
						and, in ordinary  practice, is all that is ever needed. In
						addition to those libraries are the Marion County Library of general literature,
						containing about four thousand volumes, and the Center Township Library, with twelve
						hundred volumes. Butler University has an excellent library of several thousand volumes.
						There are, also, several other valuable libraries, public or semi-public in character,
						in the city.
					In its literary clubs, Indianapolis is as rich as in its libraries. There are too many
						of these societies to enumerate all in these pages, but all are worthy of praise,
						because they have the intellectual improvement of their members for their prime object.
						As a rule the clubs meet weekly or fortnightly, and, at each meeting, discuss carefully
						prepared papers upon topics of which an intelligent comprehension can not be obtained
						without diligent study. The leaders of advanced thought in the community are members of
						literary clubs, and in this number are several men and women whose fame in literature or
						public life is as wide as the continent.
					Still the growth in culture and appreciation of literature goes on. The libraries and
						clubs which spring from these sources themselves become the most effective agencies in
						giving new and stronger impetus to the movement. The past and present have brought
						gratifying results. The future is bright with the promise of a yet greater
						influence.
					
						PUBLIC LIBRARY.
					
					
					
						PLYMOUTH CHURCH (CONGREGATIONAL).
					
				
				
				
					CHURCHES AND SCHOOLS.
					AS a community Indianapolis is symmetrical and well rounded. She has
						not given her attention to any especial factors of development to the exclusion of
						others. While busy with her manufactures and her commerce and all that pertains to her
						material welfare, she has not failed to make ample provision for her mental and
						spiritual needs. Of her churches and her schools she is as proud as of her railroads and
						her natural gas. She is careful that every citizen shall have free opportunity to secure
						an education and to acquire and foster the invaluable virtues which are the cardinal
						elements of Christianity.
					In all, Indianapolis has about one hundred and twenty-five organized churches and over
						one hundred houses of worship. Many of these buildings are types of the most elegant
						styles of church architecture, and millions of dollars have been expended in the
						erection of church property. The denominations which are strongest are the Methodist
						Episcopal, Presbyterian, Baptist, Roman Catholic, Protestant Episcopal and Christian,
						and there are numerous others which have one or more congregations each in the city.
						Some of the most eloquent and eminent divines which the country has produced have passed
						a part of their lives in Indianapolis. One instance is the years of Henry Ward Beecher's
						pastorate here, and another the seven years during which Myron W. Reed was numbered
						among this city's ministers.
					One of the more notable facts concerning the Indianapolis churches, is the spirit of
						Christian fellowship and goodwill which animates them. Sectional lines are never drawn
						tightly enough to prevent all denominations from joining heartily in any good work which
						needs their combined effort. Catholic and Protestant and Jew unite on equal terms and
						work for the general benefit of the public. One result of their joint labors is seen in
						the remarkable efficency and scope of the Charity Organization Society, which, under its
						broad mantle, gathers the various charitable societies and institutions of the city into
						one composite whole, and so distributes the work to be done that each organization
						supplements and rounds out to completeness the others. In the provision which she has
						made for the education of her children, Indianapolis takes especial pride. The esteem in
						which her public school system is held away from home is 
							SECOND PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
						
						
							HIGH SCHOOL NO. 2.
						
						
							HIGH SCHOOL NO. 1.
						
						 indicated by the frequent calls which other cities make
						upon this for teachers in their schools. It has become so common as to hardly cause
						remark for the school authorities of other cities to write to the superintendent of the
						Indianapolis schools to send them teachers. These requests come from all over the
						country, and to-day there is scarcely a large city, from San Francisco to New York, in
						whose schools Indianapolis teachers have not been an influence for good. This reputation
						of our schools and teachers arises from the attention given to thorough methods of
						teaching and to school management. Every teacher has constantly the hope of promotion,
						urging to the highest excellence of work. The whole system of salaries and grades is so
						arranged that faithful, efficient service will be rewarded.
					There are forty school buildings in the city public school system, over three hundred
						and fifty teachers, and the number of pupils enrolled on the first day of March, 1892,
						was fifteen thousand, four hundred and sixty-three. The growth of the city is so rapid
						that every year the number of teachers is increased and new school houses are
						necessary.
					What may be called the skeleton, or perhaps basis is the better term, of the school
						system, is a course of study extending over a series of twelve years, or twenty-four
						half years. The year of the course in which a pupil is, is designated by a number, and
						the half year by a letter. The first half of a year is indicated by "B" and the second
						half by "A." The years of the course begin at "1," and run up to "12." For instance,
						when a child first enters school it begins as a "1B" pupil. After half a year, if it
						makes reasonable progress, it is promoted a step, and becomes a "1A" pupil. The next
						step is to the "2B" grade, which is the first half of the second year. Then following
						along in regular succession come the grades "2A," "3B," "3A," "4B," "4A," "5B," "5A,"
						etc., until the last year of the high school course is recorded as "12A." Except for
						clerical purposes, the four years of the high school course are seldom referred to in
						this way, but are commonly spoken of as the first, second, third and fourth years of
						high school.
					In the high school buildings are departments which are called annexes. These are in the
						nature of overflow schools, where pupils of the higher grades are sent from such ward
						schools as are overcrowded. The annexes are really distinct schools, and are under the
						charge of principals independent of the high school principals. Manual training, which
						has become one of the important factors in the schools within a few years, is taught in
						a department of its own, but in close relation with the high schools. What might perhaps
						be properly called manual training is taught to the pupils from their first year up. It
						consists of various exercises for the purpose of training the little "wobbly" hands to
						do their bidding with steadiness and accuracy. These exercises are also contrived to
						teach colors, and  ideas of proportion and symmetry. The
						policy of the school authorities has long been to choose their teachers, in large part,
						from persons who are graduates of the home schools. This policy led to the establishment
						of a normal school, for the training of graduates of the schools to re-enter them as
						teachers. Thus it is that a very large per cent. of the teachers in the Indianapolis
						ward schools received their education in the same schools in which they are now
						employed. The theory of the normal school management is to admit to its classes annually
						from among the graduates of the high school of the preceding year as many of those best
						suited by education and nature for teachers as are likely to be needed to fill vacancies
						in the teachers' force on the following year. As the normal school is intended only to
						train teachers for the home schools, the number of pupils in its classes at any given
						time is not large. A new class is admitted each half year, and the course consists of
						one year of study of the theory and practice of teaching and kindred subjects, followed 
							TABERNACLE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
						
						 by half a year of actual practice in teaching in the
						schools. Admission to the normal school is a guarantee of a position as teacher later,
						if the pupil completes the course. The result of this arrangement is that there is
						always a small attendance upon the normal school, ranging perhaps from twenty to thirty,
						and always a large number of applicants for admission.
					The teachers in the high schools are not selected from the graduates of the normal
						school, but are usually brought from other cities, or chosen from the alumni of colleges
						and universities. This does not mean that the graduates of the normal school are
						discriminated against in the choice of teachers for the high schools, but that the
						teachers for those schools are usually persons who have had the benefit of a more
						advanced education than the city schools can give.
					There is one prime object to be sought for in the conduct of the city school system.
						That is that happy medium which allows enough of freedom and latitude to meet the
						individual requirements of the pupils, and yet preserves enough of clock-work system and
						rigidity to insure thoroughness and discipline.
					
						RESIDENCE ON NORTH MERIDIAN
								STREET.
					
					The efficiency and number of schools 
							ST. MARY'S CHURCH AND ACADEMY (CATHOLIC).
						
						 which Indianapolis possesses, in addition to those
						belonging to the public school system, is also a matter of pride. These are of several
						classes. The most important is Butler University, which is the chief seat of learning
						controlled by the Christian denomination west of the Alleghany Mountains. The university
						has a large and growing endownent, and is well equipped with handsome, commodious
						buildings. It is situated in a beautiful campus in the suburban village of Irvington. A
						strong faculty is employed, and the institution draws students from many States. The
						number of students in attendance last year was about three hundred.
					
						INDIANPOLIS INSTITUTE FOR YOUNG LADIES.
					
					The Indianapolis School of Music is one of the later educational institutions to be
						established in the city, and one of the most successful. Eminent instructors have been
						brought from across the Atlantic, and the school carries its pupils to the highest
						degree of skill and knowledge of which they are capable. Almost akin to the School of
						Music in its puposes is the Indianapolis School of Art. Here painting, sketching,
						pen-drawing, modeling, etc., are taught by artists who have won fame in their own
						especial lines of work. The school is controlled and maintained by an association of
						liberal citizens who desire to foster a love and appreciation of the best in art in
						their  community. Then there are medical colleges, five of
						them, and all well patronized from home and abroad. The Indiana Medical College, which
						is more widely known, perhaps, than any of the others, has a liberal endowment and a
						large faculty. It has grown rapidly in the last few years, and its students, in the
						winter of 1891-92, numbered about one hundred and fifty. The course of study is as long
						and as thorough as that in any of the famous medical colleges in the East, and its
						graduates have become eminent in the profession as teachers and practitioners.
					The girls schools connected with the Catholic churches are popular and attended by many
						pupils from distant parts of the country. St. John's and St. Mary's Academies are
						especially well known and esteemed. In connection with Grace Cathedral, the official
						residence of the Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church for the Diocese of Indiana,
						is an academy bearing the name of St. Mary's Hall. It is a high class school for girls.
						The institution, known as the Girls' Classical School, is also a school of wide
						reputation and liberal patronage. In addition to the schools mentioned are many others
						of merit. There are schools of elocution, of stenography, business colleges and the like
						in great number.
					Indianapolis is so well equipped with schools that her children need not go beyond her
						gates to secure a thorough education. Whether that education be classical or
						professional, musical, artistic or industrial, matters not; it may be carried on at home
						to a degree of excellence surpassed at few places.
				
				THE END
			
		
	
