
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Swain, Joseph, 1857-1927.. Higher education and the state. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC2097
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
				Higher Education and the State
				by Joseph Swain
			
		
		

			

			
				HIGHER EDUCATION AND THE STATE.
				
				
					
					I.—STATE AID TO HIGHER EDUCATION INEUROPE AND
						AMERICA.
					HIGHER EDUCATION has been promoted by the state from the early times
						until the present. The first university of the world was the Museum of Alexandria,
						supported from the public treasury under the Ptolemies.
					The Museum of Alexandria had a great library, zoological gardens, a learned faculty and
						other equipments, all provided by the State. It performed an incalculable service to
						humanity by advancing science and preserving and handing down to succeeding generations
						the knowledge and culture of the past, and the fact that the university once existed is
						even to-day the chief glory of Alexandria.
					State support of higher education became the policy of the Roman Empire. It was
						recognized that if the state would have leaders it must have trained men. "Throughout
						the length and breadth of the vast Roman Empire, whether at Rome, Lyons, or Athens in
						the west, or at Constantinople, Antioch or Alexandria in the east, higher education
						became the policy of the state; to cherish and strengthen it was felt to be among the foremost duties of the emperors; to neglect
						it was to cripple the empire; for the power of Rome was founded largely on her superior
						civilization, won by the superior knowledge of her governors."*
					
					In the middle ages there was, perhaps, no greater man than Charlemagne. His proudest
						title to distinction was his patronage of all the forms of higher education. His quick
						eye discovered that nothing would raise his Franks among surrounding people, nothing
						give them such lasting prominence and power, as superior culture. To-day, as of old,
						Charlemagne is honored as highly because he was the friend of Alcuin as because he was
						the first of mediæval paladins. This work, begun by Charlemagne, is continued in France
						to-day. France maintains fifteen state universities at an annual expense to the
						government of about 15,000,000 francs. In addition to these universities, eleven other
						institutions receive in all about 2,000,000 francs.
					By the promulgation of the law of 1835 the government of Belgium has actively developed
						and strengthened its institutions of higher learning. The government appropriated in
						1891 to the state universities of Ghent and Liege the sum of $453,154. Each of these
						institutions has the four faculties of arts, science, law, and medicine.
					
						EDUCATION IN SWEDEN.
						
						Education in Sweden is chiefly an affair of the state. The universities of Upsala and
							Lund are both state institutions. Dr. Lagerstedt, in speaking of Swedish education,
							says:
						
							"The universities of Europe generally are expected to fill
								certain requirements demanded by the state. The state requires from its officials
								and private citizens proposing to enter certain important vocations—that of
								medicine, for instance—that they give evidences of possessing *J. Edward Simmons.
								 the knowledge and skill necessary to their special
								calling. Now, in some cases, the university teaching and the ordinary examinations
								have been considered as serving this additional public end. In other cases the
								universities have had to undertake the organization of courses of instruction
								required by the state for the purpose just mentioned, and the testing of proficiency
								therein by special examinations—civic or state examinations, as they may be
								called. This part of university work naturally has a less scientific character, it
								is more elementary, and the object of the examination is to ascertain that the
								students have attained certain fixed standards of knowledge rather than to ascertain
								the results of deep scientific study. The practical importance of this part of the
								universities' work may sometimes offer temptations subordinate to their strictly
								scientific work and make the higher examinations, the university examinations
								proper, by technicalities or regulation, too much like the civic or state
								examinations. The present regulations and arrangements of the Swedish universities
								seems to avoid this danger."
						
					
					
						EDUCATION IN GERMANY.
						
						The regular state appropriations to the German universities in 1891 and 1892 were
							$3,606,306. This amount is not exceptional. Liberality is a well established policy,
							and the appropriations have increased from year to year with the demands.
						No better illustration of the advantages of higher education to the state need be
							given than the wonderful advances the German empire has made in the present century,
							and these advances are conceded to be due to the establishment and support by the
							state of her public education. This was shown in a marked way in the Franco-German War
							of 1870. To those systems of general training, of which higher education by the state
							is a part, is due the success of Germany in this war.
						"The achievements of this war are not to be considered," says Charles Kendall Adams,
							"the mere result of a levy en
							
							 masse under the command of a great military genius; they are rather
							an application to military affairs of the whole intelligence of a nation of
							extraordinary mental and moral culture. They are the result of no qualities that can
							be drilled into any army in a month or a year; but of those which are interwoven with
							the very tissues of the nations thinking and feeling. They come not from the genius of
							a few alone, but rather from the genius of the few united with the superior training
							and culture of the many. They are the fruit of an application to military affairs of
							the actual character of the nation."
						"But what," he continues, "is this Prussian culture of which I speak? In general it
							may be answered that it consists of those attainments which are acquired by the
							universal adoption of the truth, that whether you want a man for war or for peace, for
							a profession or for a trade, there is no way in which you can make so much of him as
							by training him, and training him not in parts, but as a whole; and furthermore, that
							in all the contests of life, other things being equal, the trained men are sure to
							attain the highest success. On this theory, not as a simple sentiment, but as a solid
							foundation on which to rear the whole fabric of society, the lawmakers of Germany went
							to work."
						Germany's rapid advance to commercial rivalry with England is due in large part to
							the absorption of university men into the trades.
						Oxford and Cambridge have received large contributions from royal favors. The
							University of Edinburgh has received large support from the British government.
							Private wealth did early what the state might have done later. The existence of
							colonial state universities is ample evidence that English spirit favors higher
							education by the state.
					
					
					
						IN THE AMERICAN COLONIES.
						
						To the early American colonists learning was a trust which had been carried across
							the sea to be fostered and handed down to posterity, and it was sacred alike to the
							church and to the society of a new community. The first schools in this country were
							copies of the English schools. The grammar schools of the old country furnished models
							for the grammar schools in the colonies. Rugby, Eton and Westminster were patterns for
							the academies; and the English classical schools, which were shaped by medieval
							influences, were closely followed by Harvard, William and Mary, Yale, Columbia and
							Dartmouth. But the financial and intellectual forces of the old country were lacking
							in the new, and the American schools could not rival their foreign prototypes. In this
							condition of affairs the colonial government came to the support of the schools and
							furnished an income by means of taxation.
						Throughout the colonial period Harvard University was largely dependent on the
							colonial court of Massachusetts. It has been recently pointed out that the colonial
							legislature, before the end of the 18th century, made more than one hundred different
							appropriations for the colleges, on an average, as many as one every two years.
						"When the revolution came on and the state was called upon to adopt a new
							constitution, it was but the natural continuation of the same beneficent policy that
							led the constitution to command all future legislatures, in the most elaborate and
							specific terms, to care for all the interests of education, and especially the
							University at Cambridge. It is an extraordinary fact that the whole of Chapter V of
							the Constitution of 1780 is entitled: "The University at Cambridge and Encouragement
							of Literature." No one can read that remarkable chapter without being impressed with
							the idea that the people of Massachusetts considered
							Harvard College at that moment as an institution that in all future time must have the
							most tender and the most thoughtful care of all the people of the state. In the same
							generation, and in the same spirit, Nathan Dane secured for the endowment and support
							of secondary schools a very generous appropriation of lands in that part of
							Massachusetts which now constitutes the state of Maine. The state gave in all $595,797
							to Harvard College, which sum then represented ten times as much to Harvard College as
							a similar gift today."
						Like Harvard in Massachusetts, Yale College in Connecticut received constant support
							from the legislature of the colony in which it is situated. The appropriations took
							the forms of land grants, taxes, bills of credit, and the like. At the end of the last
							century the first president, Dwight, declared that the state of Connecticut had been
							the chief benefactor of Yale College.
						Columbia University, in New York, grew out of King's College, founded in 1754 under
							the royal government. Both King's College and Columbia College received state
							appropriations.
					
					
						CHURCH AND STATE.
						
						In the early colonial education the church and state were closely allied. The
							dominant spirit was benevolence. The whole emphasis was upon moral elevation and the
							support of religion. Yet the colonial government held it a sacred duty to support
							schools, and even to create them if necessary. This policy was more marked toward
							higher institutions of learning than toward more elementary institutions. After the declaration of independence, there was a movement
							in favor of universities, "created, controlled and supported" by the state. There was
							a demand for a political education—" an education of the individual as a
							sovereign citizen." In the Constitution of 1776, Pennsylvania provided for one or more
							universities, and in the same year North Carolina made a like provision. Many other
							states followed with similar constitutional provisions or special legislation.
						Nearly every state constitution has a section relating to the encouragement of higher
							education. Several constitutions have provisions recognizing certain schools as state
							universities, while twenty-four states have established state universities by state
							laws.
						College property, in some cases the property of professors, was very early exempted
							from taxation. The state not only recognizes the necessity of higher education for the
							elevation of its subjects, but by exemption from taxation it encourages private and
							denominational schools as well as state schools. There is now, of course, a wider
							differentiation of state and non-state schools, a wider separation of church and state
							in matters of education.
						That the state should provide higher education was a doctrine held by Washington,
							Jefferson, Madison, Franklin, Monroe, and later Edward Everett and all American
							statesmen of this first order and such weighty authority has done much to promote
							public higher education. The belief of Jefferson that the university is as much a
							public trust as the primary schools, is one that is receiving practical acceptance in
							the development of state institutions in the west and northwest.
					
					
					
						THE ORDINANCE OF 1787.
						
						From an educational point of view the ordinance of 1787 was one of the most important
							documents that was ever penned. This Ordinance declares that "religion, morality and
							knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools as
							the means of education shall forever be encouraged." Following the spirit of this
							declaration the government by contract with the Ohio Company reserved two townships of
							land for the support of Ohio University at Athens. Later Ohio received another
							township, which was used to endow Miami University. Although no general law was passed
							on this subject the precedent of the Ordinance of 1787 became a national policy. After
							the year 1800 each state admitted into the Union, except three, obtained two or more
							townships of land for the establishment of a university.
						It is sometimes said that the educational provision of the great Ordinance refers to
							the common schools only. This idea is without foundation. Both the prevailing
							sentiment of the time in favor of the promotion by public aid to secondary and higher
							institutions, and the subsequent action of the members who adopted the Ordinance
							justify this statement. The clause in the northwestern ordinance was substantially
							copied from the Constitution of Massachusetts, adopted in 1780, in which Chapter V is
							entitled the "University at Cambridge and Encouragement of Literature, etc." This new
							mandate must be interpreted by the evident meaning of the old one from which it was
							copied. A few days after the adoption of the Ordinance of 1787 Congress itself placed
							its own interpretation upon it, by making an appropriation for higher education in the
							territory of Ohio.
						
						 Washington regretted the habit in his time of American youths going to Europe to
							receive their college training. It was that American boys might be educated at home-
							that he gave money to found a national university and hoped Congress would establish
							it and adequately support it.
					
					
						JEFFERSON AND STATE AID TO EDUCATION.
						
						Jefferson saw very clearly the necessity for public higher education in the United
							States. He had observed that never in the history of the world had higher education
							been successful, except when it had been established, and, at least during its
							childhood and youth, been encouraged and supported by all the forces in the state. He
							saw that colleges and universities had been everywhere established and mainly
							supported by the church during that long period when the church and the state came to
							be separated; higher education, unless already adequately endowed by the church, had
							dwindled wherever it had not been taken up by the state. It was for these reasons that
							Jefferson not only founded the University of Virginia, and provided for its support,
							at public expense, but regarded the service he had thus rendered as one of such
							importance and significance that he directed the fact of his being the founder of the
							University of Virginia to be placed on his tombstone, where it may be seen at
							Monticello. Jefferson was prouder of the fact that he was "Father of the University of
							Virginia' than that he was President of the United States.
						Before 1821 it was estimated that more than 6,000,000 acres of land had been
							appropriated by Congress to the purposes of higher education. These gifts have been increased by the Morrill Act of 1862, by the Hatch
							Act in 1889, and by the Supplemental Morrill Act in 1890. Thus no state has been
							admitted to the Union since the adoption of the Constitution that has not received
							from the general government aid forming the basis of the establishment and support of
							higher education in substantial accordance with the policy which existed throughout
							the colonial period.
					
					
						STATE EDUCATION IN THE WEST AND NORTHWEST.
						
						Following the colonial policy and the principles of the Ordinance of 1787, the
							western and northwestern states have developed their state universities very rapidly
							and continuously. The fact that the idea of state support has steadily grown is
							sufficiently shown by the illustrations given above. There is another fact worthy of
							consideration, namely, the rapid growth in attendance. I quote the following:
						"During the ten years from 1885 to 1895 in the eight New England colleges: Amherst,
							Bowdoin, Brown, Dartmouth, Harvard, Williams, Wesleyan, Yale, the increase in the
							number of students was 20 per cent. In the eight representative colleges of the north
							central states: Beloit, Carlton, Cornell, Hillsdale, Iowa College, Lawrence, Ripon,
							St. John's, the increase during the same period was 14¼ per cent.; in the eight
							representative state universities of California, Illinois, Kansas, Michigan,
							Minnesota, Nebraska and Wisconsin, the total number of students in 1885 was 4,250; in
							1895, the number was 13,500, an increase in ten years of 320 per cent. Thus it appears
							that the rate of growth in the state universities has been sixteen times as great as
							the rate of growth in the New England colleges and universities, and twenty-two times
							as great as the rate in the colleges in the north central states."
						The increase in Indiana University during this period was 394 per cent.
					
					
					
						MICHIGAN'S EXAMPLE TO THE SURROUNDING STATES.
						
						The state of Michigan has been a leader and an example to all surrounding states. The
							management has been excellent and the legislature has been liberal. In thirty years
							from 1867 to 1897 the state appropriations to the university have amounted to
							$3,018,004. This sum does not include the large sums given to the agricultural and
							normal schools. The total income of the university 1896-'97 was $421,635.
						California has given in the aggregate $1,901,702 to her state university. The total
							income for 1896-'97 was $338,851. In addition to the direct appropriations, the state
							of California, in the early days, gave certain swamp lands for the creation of a
							"Permanent Endowment Fund." These lands sold for $811,500; the income in twenty-three
							years amounts to $1,150,000; state appropriation, $1,901,500. Total, $3,863,202.
						Thus nearly $4,000,000 have been contributed by California for the foundation and
							income of her state university.
						In 1896-'97 the total income of the University of Wisconsin was $398,207; of the
							University of Illinois, $399,429; of the University of Ohio, $349,370; of the
							University of Minnesota, $284,091; of the University of Missouri, $183,777; of the
							University of Iowa, $148,377; University of Nebraska, $202,072. There are not fewer
							than forty-five colleges and universities supported by the state.
						It thus appears that the policy of state support of higher education has been the
							accepted policy for centuries in Europe; that it had an independent growth in America;
							was established as a colonial policy, adopted by congress, and has become the national
							policy in the United States.
					
				
				
				
					II. GENERAL REASONS FOR STATE SUPPORT OF
						HIGHEREDUCATION.
					
					While the above historical facts in regard to the widespread support of higher
						education by the state give the best possible reason for its existence—the
						justification of the wisdom of experience—it does not need to rest on these
						alone.
					The history of the state university is indelibly written in the history of the state.
						"That unworthy theory of the state," says President Angell, "which makes it a mere
						policeman to protect life and property, has rarely appealed to men as strongly as the
						Aristotelian conception, which commends the state to seek every high and noble end that
						it can secure better than the private citizen." This obligation of the state rests upon
						the acknowledged necessity in a republic for diffusion of intelligence and nurture of
						character. These are essential not only to the prosperity but even to the very existence
						of a free state.
					An education which is to train men for the duty of citizenship in a free state must
						train men beyond the limits of elementary knowledge. They must have that large knowledge
						which prepares them to understand and discharge their duties to each other, to society,
						to the state. It is the function of the state to provide educational opportunities
						limited only by the ability of its citizens to embrace those opportunities. Any argument
						which justifies the state in supporting or aiding high schools is a justification of
						supporting or aiding the university.
					
					
						ARGUMENTS AGAINST THE STATE UNIVERSITY.
						
						Some oppose the state university on the ground that all can not use it. This is as
							valid against high schools or elementary schools as against universities. On the same
							ground one might reply that bachelors or childless men can object to being taxed for
							the common schools. If the university existed merely for those who are students within
							its walls there might indeed be objection to giving it state support, but as a matter
							of fact the state gets the benefit of the finished product. Has the skilled physician
							most benefited himself or the community? Has the teacher most benefited himself or his
							pupils? Graduates of universities could not, if they would, appropriate to themselves
							the fruits of their university training. "The university thus pours its blessings
							through all channels of life in the state."
						"Of all state treasures," says Andrew D. White, "the genius and talent of citizens is
							the most precious. It is the duty of society to itself, a duty which it can not throw
							off, to see that the stock of talent and genius in each generation may have a chance
							for development, that it may be added to the world's stock and aid in the world's
							work."
						The university is sometimes opposed on the ground that it is unjust to tax men of
							modest means to support a university, as none but the wealthy can go to college. The
							statistics of the state university do not support such a view, as more than half of
							the students in our state institutions are sons and daughters of farmers and
							mechanics. The number of poor boys who earn their money and send themselves to college
							is increasing from year to year.
						The state university furnishes a common meeting ground where the young men and young
							women of the state are free from any influences except those which are accepted  by the state itself. It becomes a forum where the rising
							young men and women of the whole state may know one another and value one another
							rightly.
						"The common school is the hope of our country. In like manner,
								the high school and college are the hope of the common school, and the university
								the hope of the college. Each part of the system depends on the next higher for its
								standards and for its inspiration. From those educated in the higher schools the
								teachers in the lower must come. Lop off the upper branches of the tree and the sap
								ceases to rise in its trunk. Cut off the higher schools from the educational system
								and its growth and progress stop. Weakness at the head means paralysis of the
									members."*
						The state university should bring to the state the best thought of the world. This
							best thought should go to the high school through the college graduates who teach in
							the high school, and thus be disseminated throughout the state. Thus has come to the
							state the thought and inspiration of Agassiz in the study of animal life, of Asa Gray
							in the study of plants, of Sylvester and Chrystal in the study of mathematics, of
							Tait, Thomson, and Helmholtz in the study of physics, of Zeller in the history of
							philosophy, of Pickering in the study of astronomy, of Hall in pedagogy and
							experimental psychology, of White in history, of Goodwin and Gildersleeve in Greek,
							Fresenius in chemistry, in English, Child, Hart, and Cook.
					
					
						WHY THE STATE UNIVERSITY IS NECESSARY.
						
						It is sometimes said that a state university is not necessary, that students can go
							to institutions outside the state. There are serious objections to this idea. A
							majority of the students in our state universities can not afford to pay the necessary
							expense incurred by attending institutions in other* David Starr Jordan.
							 states. This was recognized in the Constitutional
							Convention of 1851. Delegate Read said:
						"The rich can send their sons to distant institutions. Not so
								with the poor and those of modest means. They must have institutions near at hand or
								be excluded from its advantages."
						The lack of a state university would be a great loss to the state in every way. Many
							of the young men who go to institutions outside the state lose their state
							affiliations and become citizens of other states. I have heard President Angell, of
							Michigan University, say, with force and truth, that one of the great benefits of the
							university to the state of Michigan was the fact that able young men who came to
							Michigan University to study not infrequently take up their residence in the state and
							become useful and influential citizens.
						Can we not depend on wealthy men to furnish higher education? This would be
							un-American. Wealthy men might grade our roads, build our court-houses, conduct our
							courts-do anything for the public good-if the state should neglect these matters, or
							turn them over to private hands. But this would not release the people from their duty
							in this matter. The people have safety only in independence. "There is," says
							President White, "no system more unrepublican than that by which a nation or a state,
							in consideration of a few hundreds or thousands of dollars, delivers over its system
							of advanced instruction to be controlled and limited by whims of living donors or dead
							testators. In more than one nation, dead hands stretching out from graves closed
							generations gone, have lain with a deadly chill upon institutions for advanced
							instruction during centuries. More than one institution in our own country has felt
							its grip and chill. If we ought to govern ourselves in anything it ought to be in
							this." 
						
						The people must provide for the things they need or these things will never be
							properly and adequately furnished. Private provision for education can not guarantee,
							and can not be expected to guarantee, absolute freedom from bias in religion, politics
							and morals. The state can secure unsectarian instruction, unpartisan institutions only
							by providing these itself. This fact does not in the least disparage the existence of
							private and denominational colleges, but indicates that these alone are not
							sufficient.
					
					
					
						THIS IS AN AGE OF SPECIALIZATION.
						
						The universities should send out into every township of the state—to her
							schools, to her professions, to her farms and her shops strong young men and women who
							are trained in "plain living and high thinking" and who, by this training, are armed
							against the shams of the world in education, in religion and in politics. This is an
							age of specialization, and the complex question of capital and labor, the best methods
							of municipal government, the best methods of taxation, the vexed questions of finance,
							of dealing with criminals, of treating insane people, the best sanitary methods, the
							best means of dispensing charity—these are only a few of the many scientific
							questions which must be settled, if at all, by the searching methods of the scientific
							and trained specialists. The scholarship and training of the schools should form a
							background for the wisdom gained from a knowledge of affairs.
						The great problems of our day, scientific, historical, political and industrial, can
							best be settled by those who have special training for their special work. We are
							living in an age when there is a demand for re-examination of all things. We are not satisfied simply because a belief or custom had
							the sanction of our fathers. We are not willing to say that anything is true or that
							any method is the best method until all the facts available are examined by those who
							know how to estimate the value of data. The modern university is an institution where
							all subjects are considered of equal value and the great ambition of the teacher of
							each subject is first to gain a complete mastery of his subject and then to assist his
							students to such mastery; and in the second place, to contribute something to the sum
							total of human knowledge in his own line of work. The university does not do its duty
							to the state if it does not in some degree, at least, widen the field of human
							knowledge. It is chiefly through the discoveries and contributions of original workers
							that those facts and principles are discovered through which the state seeks a more
							advanced stage of civilization and culture.
						It would be easy enough to make a catalogue of the things the university should do
							for the state, and show by an appeal to history that even from a pecuniary point of
							view higher institutions of learning have been worth much more than they have cost;
							but the best thing that they have done is in the direction of intellectual freedom.
							Every dollar expended properly in a university is so much toward freeing the human
							mind from the bondage of prejudice, ignorance and superstition. To free the American
							slave from the shackles of human slavery was a holy office, but to provide the young
							men and women of our country with the means and opportunities of freeing themselves
							from all the shackles that bind them to the lower allurements of life, is not only a
							holy office, but the most sacred obligation of the state.
					
				
				
				
					
					III. STATE AID IN INDIANA.*
					
					In 1895-6 the total expenditure for higher education in colleges of liberal arts,
						including private, denominational and state institutions, in Illinois was $1,595,180; in
						Ohio, $1,059,363; in Michigan, $562,246, and in Indiana, $436,060. Thus in the three
						states bordering on Indiana on the east, north and west, the amount of money devoted to
						higher education is much greater than in Indiana. Not only is this true in absolute
						amount, but relatively the money expended per capita is about twice as great in Illinois
						as in Indiana, and decidedly greater in both Michigan and Ohio than in Indiana. By the
						census of 1890 the number of people in Illinois was 3,826,351; in Ohio, 3,672,316; in
						Michigan, 2,093,889, and in Indiana, 2,192,404. Thus in Illinois there is expended $0.42
						per capita each year for higher education; in Ohio, $0.28; in Michigan, $0.27, and in
						Indiana, $0.20. It seems, then, that if the people of Illinois, Ohio and Michigan need
						to provide higher education for themselves it is much more urgent in Indiana.
						Nevertheless, Michigan provides three times as much for her state university as Indiana,
						and Illinois and Ohio each twice as much as Indiana.
					
						THERE IS ROOM AND WORK FOR ALL.
						
						If Indiana should allow her three state institutions of higher learning to go down,
							what would she do with the 3,000 students being educated therein? The other colleges
							in Indiana certainly have all the students they can properly provide for with the
							money at their disposal. There is not *The statistics in Part III are taken from the New York World Almanac,
								1898.
							 a college in Indiana, private, denominational or state,
							that has more income than it should have to provide in the best way for the students
							now on its roll. The additional tuition fees that new students might pay, should these
							students go to other colleges in the state, would not be sufficient to pay for
							adequate instruction. Higher education never has and never will be self-sustaining; no
							increase in instructing facilities comparable to the demands could be made by tuition
							fees alone. Besides, as Hon. S. E. Nicholson said in supporting an appropriation to
							the state institutions, there are many students in the state who, in the interest of
							the state, should be educated who would not obtain an education unless the state
							provided for it.
						It was said by Read, in the constitutional convention of 1851:
						"But, sir, the idea prevails to some extent that the college
								ought to be under the control and patronage of particular churches. No man ever
								heard me utter a syllable against the noble and persevering efforts of some of our
								religious denominations in building up institutions of education. I honor them for
								their efforts. This is a broad land. There is room and work for all. Besides, the
								state university—not claimed as its own by any denomination—is needed to
								fill precisely the ground which it occupies. But for it, there is a class of young
								men who would go out of the state, or not enter any institution."
					
				
				

				

					IV.—LEGISLATION FOR STATE AID TO INDIANA UNIVERSITY.*
					
					On March 26, 1804, congress passed an act making provisions for the "disposal of the
						public lands in the Indiana Territory, and for other purposes." In this act it was
						provided "that a township in each of these land districts should be located by the
						secretary of the treasury for the use of a seminary of learning.
					On the 10th of October, 1806, Albert Gallatin, secretary of the treasury, located
						Township No. 2 south, range 11 east, now in Gibson county, Indiana, for the use of a
						seminary of learning, as required by said act.
					By the act to provide for the admission of Indiana as a state of the union, on April
						19th, 1816, congress provided "that one entire township, which shall be designated by
						the President of the United States, in addition to the one heretofore reserved for that
						purpose, shall be reserved for a seminary of learning." On July 10th, 1816, President
						Madison designated Perry township, Monroe county. Thus one township in Gibson county and
						one in Monroe county were set aside for a "seminary of learning."
					In the Constitution of Indiana adopted at Corydon, in 1816, it was declared to "be the
						duty of the general assembly, as soon as circumstances will permit, to provide by law
						for a general system of education, ascending in regular gradation from township schools
						to a state university, wherein tuition shall be gratis and equally open to all." The
						modification of this provision of the constitution of 1851 will be discussed later.

					*The facts in Part IV concerning
						legislation are, in the main, taken from Dr. Wylie's History of Indiana
						University.

					
					21 On January 20, 1820, an act was passed by the Legislature in session in Corydon
						establishing a state seminary at Bloomington.
					An act was passed on January 22, 1822, providing for the sale of the seminary township
						in Gibson county, and requiring the money to be paid into the state treasury, "that it
						may be made a productive fund for the benefit of the state seminary."
					By an act approved January 25, 1827, James Smith, of Gibson county, and James Borland,
						of Monroe county, were appointed commissioners, with power to sell the reserved seminary
						lands in these townships; but three sections, one on the east, one on the south, one on
						the west most contiguous to the section on which the seminary buildings were situated,
						were reserved from the sale.
					Under this act about 17,000 acres of land in Gibson county were sold and the proceeds
						paid into the state treasury, to be accredited into the state seminary, college and
						university funds.
					
						THE "INDIANA COLLEGE" ESTABLISHED.
						
						By an act approved January 24, 1828, a college was established at Bloomington under
							the name and style of "The Indiana College" for the education of youth in the American
							learned and foreign language, the useful arts, sciences and literature. All the
							property of the state seminary, and all the funds from the two townships of land were
							turned over to the trustees of the Indiana College.
						On February 15, 1838, "an act to establish a university in the state of Indiana" was
							approved. By this act it was provided that "all moneys which have hitherto or which
							may hereafter arise from the sales of the seminary township of land in the counties of Monroe and Gibson shall be and forever remain a
							permanent fund for Indiana University." All other property belonging to the Indiana
							College was also turned over to the university.
					
					
						THE CONSTITUTION OF 1851 AND THE
							UNIVERSITY.
						
						There was a new constitution adopted in 1851, in which the statement concerning
							higher education was omitted. There were some men in the convention who were opposed
							to the state university, but they were largely outnumbered by the friends, and by a
							vote of 73 to 48 it was decided that the university funds should not be diverted
							either to the common schools or to other incorporated colleges in the state. In this
							discussion of the trust funds which related solely to the university and university
							fund, Mr. Dobson, of Owen and Greene, said:
						
							"If gentlemen will read the obligation we have put ourselves
								under to the general government, they will see there is no necessity for saying a
								word about the university in the constitution, the act of Congress approved April
								19, 1816, having been accepted and agreed to by the convention, June 29, 1816, was
								binding on both parties from that date, and we could not, if we would, discharge
								ourselves from the obligation that that acceptance laid upon us."
						The constitution of 1851, art. 8, sec. 1, declares:
						"Knowledge and learning generally diffused throughout a
								community, being essential to the preservation of a free government, it shall be the
								duty of the general assembly to encourage by all suitable means, moral,
								intellectual, scientific, and agricultural improvement, and to provide by law for a
								general and uniform system of common schools, wherein tuition shall be without
								charge, and equally open to all."
						Thus the constitution of 1851 makes it the duty of the general assembly not only to
							provide for a system of common schools, but to "encourage by all suitable means,
								moral, intellectual, scientific, and agricultural
							improvement." No man has ever questioned, so far as I know, that the providing of
							higher institutions of learning is a "suitable means" of encouraging "moral,
							intellectual, scientific, and agricultural improvement."
						An act approved June 17, 1852, the year following the adoption of our present
							constitution, provided that "the in stitution established by an act to establish a
							college in the state of Indiana, approved January 28, 1828, is hereby recognized as
							the university of the state."
					
					
						"THE CROWNING GLORY OF OUR COMMON SCHOOL SYSTEM."
						
						In the year 1867 it was recognized by the legislature that the interests on the funds
							derived from the congressional grants were not sufficient for the growing needs of the
							institution, and the legislature, on March 8 of this year, passed an act appropriating
							$8,000 annually. The preamble of the act recognized the university as the head of the
							common school system. It is as follows:
						"Whereas, The endowment fund of the university, located at
								Bloomington, Monroe county, is no longer sufficient to meet the growing wants of
								education, and make said university efficient and useful; and, whereas, it should be
								the pride of every citizen of Indiana to place the state university in the highest
								condition of usefulness and make it the crowning glory of our present great common
								school system, where education shall be free; therefore, etc."
						By an act of February 19, 1873, after asserting that the amount appropriated by the
							act of 1867, together with the interest on the endowment fund had "become wholly
							inadequate to meet the growing wants of public education, and is not sufficient to
							enable said university rightly to provide for the
							education of all who are seeking instruction within her walls, and to accomplish her
							true mission as the head of our present great system of common schools, where
							education shall be free to all," an additional appropriation was made.
						In 1883 the legislature provided a tax of 1-20 of a mill on every dollar of taxable
							property in Indiana, to run for thirteen years, to promote a permanent endowment fund
							for the university. This fund, together with the interest of the township land fund,
							yields about $33,000 annually. With an appreciation of the growth of the university
							and greater understanding of its needs, together with a better realization on the part
							of the people that the university is the head of the public school system—a fact
							that had been repeatedly recognized by the legislature—the legislature increased
							the annual appropriation from time to time until, in lieu of the annual appropriation
							for maintenance, the legislature of 1895 passed a tax of 1-15 of a mill on every
							dollar of taxable property in the state. This yields about $80,000 annually. This is
							what the people of the state are now contributing for the support of the university,
							less than four cents per capita. In other words, the average voter pays less than
							fifteen cents annually for the support of the university. The man of small means pays
							much less and the poor man almost nothing.
						These repeated acts of legislation for the university proved that one legislature
							after another in Indiana has accepted, without question, the principle of state
							support of higher education. It further shows that interest in the university has
							steadily increased with the growth of wealth and intelligence in the state. It is
							certainly to be expected that this interest will continue to grow with the years.
						The people of Indiana are getting an immense return for the relatively small amount
							of money they are expending on their state university. "I
							am glad to say now, as I have always said," says Dr. Coulter," that Indiana University
							does more with less money than any institution I know of."
					
					
						ITS INCREASING SERVICE TO THE STATE.
						
						Each year the institution becomes of greater service to the commonwealth. The time
							will certainly come when the state will support the institution in a way commensurate
							with its importance to the state and more nearly as liberally as state universities in
							other states are supported.
						The people of Indiana are to be congratulated that they can provide present
							facilities at so small a cost for their sons and daughters to prepare themselves to
							become leaders in their communities and make life better and happier around them. What
							citizen of Indiana begrudges his share?
						Who can estimate the far-reaching influence for good to Indiana of the advanced study
							of 1,000 students each year from every county and every calling of the
							commonwealth— students who are preparing themselves to be leaders in the
							struggles for the higher citizenship and higher life in the first half of the
							twentieth century.
						While it must be admitted that higher education has had its opponents, like every
							other movement for the elevation of mankind, it has now become an integral part of the
							common school system, for which the rising generation should bless the memory of our
							fathers.
					
				
			
		
	
