
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Chester, Harry S.. "When the light goes out" and other poems. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2013).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAC2086
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			

			
				FRONTISPIECE
				
					
						HARRY S. CHESTER.
					
				
			

			
			

			
				
					"WHEN THE LIGHT GOES OUT"
						AND OTHER POEMS.
					
				
				
					.. BY ..
					
						HARRY S. CHESTER.
					
				
				
					ELKHART, IND.
					TRUTH PUBLISHING HOUSE,
					1900
				
			

			

			
				VERSO
				COPYRIGHT 1900,
				BY
				HARRY S. CHESTER.
			

			

			
				DEDICATION
				To my friend, Hon. C. G. CONN, this little book is respectfully
					dedicated.
			

			

			

			
				Epigraph
				
					If this little book impart
					Joy unto a single heart
					Better far for me than gold
					Recompense a thousand fold.
				
			

			

			

			
				CONTENTS.

				PAGE.
				
					When the Light Goes Out 1
					The Old Year 4
					Unidentified 6
					The Old Home 9
					Out At Dunlaps Station 11
					Recessional 13
					A Strain of Music 15
					True Love That Never Dies 18
					The River Styx 19
					Gentleman Jim 22
					Christiana Lake 23
					Organ Grinder's Song 26
					Nellie Dale 27
					The Blue and The Gray 30
					The Old St. Jo 31
					O Happy Youth 33
					Easter 34
					Life Is But A Round of Pleasure 35
					At Blenheim Castle 36

					

					A Dream of Life 37
					After Winter Comes The Spring 41
					It Might Be Worse 42
					Since Nellie Went Away 45
					You Can't Please Every One 48
					A French Idyl 49
					Smoky Run 50
					The Wakarusa Band 52
					Toast To The Ladies 54
					"Whirrul" It 57
					Our Boys In Blue 58
					Lullaby 59
					Santiago 60
					The Privates And The Crew 61
					Frog Quartette 63
					The Clock 65
					The Typical Tramp 67
					As We Are 70
					Dewey's Comin' Home 73
					It's Better To Believe 75
					B. P. O. E. 78
					My Little Baby Boy 80
					Our Own Jack Tar 81
					Old Glory 82
					The Old Cane Pole 83
					Tale Of The Tyro 84
					Lefebre 87
					Washington 89
				
			
		

		

			

			
				When the Light Goes Out
				
					WHEN THE LIGHT GOES OUT.

					
						THO' yer lamp o' life is burnin' with a clear
							an' steady light,
						An' it never seems ter flicker, but it's allers shinin' bright;
						Tho' it sheds its rays unbroken for a thousan' happy days--
						Father Time is ever turnin' down the wick thet feeds the blaze.
						So it clearly is yer duty ef you've got a thing ter do,
						Ter put yer shoulder to the wheel an' try to push her through;
						Ef yer upon a wayward track yer better turn about--
						You've lost other chance ter do it when the
						Light
						Goes
						Out.
					
					
						Speak kindly to the woman who is workin' for yer praise,
						The same way ez you used ter in those happy courtin' days;
						She likes appreciation jest the same ez me an' you,
						An' it's only right an' proper thet yer give her what is due.

						

						Don't wait until her lamp o' life is burnin' dim an' low,
						Afore you tell her what you orter told her long ago--
						Now's the time ter cheer her up an' put her blues to rout--
						You've lost other chance to do it when the
						Light
						Goes
						Out.
					
					
						Don't keep a puttin' matters off an' settin dates ahead--
						Tomorrow's sun 'll find a hundred thousand of us dead;
						Don't think because yer feelin' well you won't be sick no more--
						Sometimes the reddest pippin hez a worm-hole to the core.
						Don't let a killin' habit grow upon you soft an' still
						Because you think thet you ken throw it from you et your will--
						Now's the time ter quit it when yer feelin'> brave an' stout--
						You've lost the chance ter do it when the
						Light
						Goes
						Out.
					
					
						I'd ruther die with nuthin' then ter hev the people say

						

						Thet I hed got my money in a robbin', graspin' way;
						No words above my restin' place from any tongue or pen
						Would hev a deeper meanin' then "He helped his fellow men."
						So ef you hev a fortune an' you want to help the poor
						Don't keep a stavin' off until you get a little more;
						Ef yer upon a miser's track you better turn about--
						Yer record keeps on burnin' when the
						Light
						Goes
						Out.
					
				

				

				
					THE OLD YEAR,

					
						GOOD-BY, Old Year, 'tis not without a sigh
						I realize this hour is thy last,
						For in thy wake a thousand memories lie
						Like changeless specters of the buried past.
					
					
						I had a friend, Old Year, a generous boy--
						Good resolutions marked his start with thee;
						But sorrow drowned his fondest hopes of joy,
						And happiness gave way to misery.
					
					
						Aye, for a while no storm-cloud marred the sky;
						Proudly he rode life's great uncertain ship,
						Until the rock temptation dimmed his eye
						And resolutions froze upon his lip.
					
					
						He knows the mighty secret (if to know
						Befalls the lot of every human soul)
						Of death's true meaning-- of the awful flow
						Of human hearts to life's old-fashioned goal.
					
					
						I had a dearer friend, Old Year, and she
						With all a woman's grander virtues shone,
						Most nobly pure in her simplicity--
						But she is dead, and I am all alone.
					
					
						With poignant grief and sorrow thou art through,
						Departed one! Sleep in thy hallowed place;
						For like the shamrock drinks the morning dew
						One heart absorbs the image of thy face.
					

					

					
						Though time may change the noblest form to clay,
						And rack the living with a ceaseless strife,
						Naught can diminish memory's soothing ray,
						That sheds its beauty down the path of life.
					
					
						Old dying year, I would not have thee stay;
						Fly on, and meet the countless thousands who
						Within thy varied chapter passed away--
						Good-by, Old Year-- I enter on the new.
					
				

				

				
					UNIDENTIFIED.

					
						THER' comes the undertaker's team a-trottin'
							down the street
						With somethin' in the wagon thet is covered with a sheet;
						'T won't be long afore the crowd begins to gather 'round
						To see the undertaker fit thet somethin' for the ground.
						Some poor mortal's seen the last o' misery an' woe;
						Some poor brother knows the secret everyone must know;
						Somehow 't blurs a feller's eyes to think of how he died--
						Drownded up the river, an' he's unidentified.
					
					
						His clothin' an' his general style don't bear refinement's stamp--
						The chances are thet he was some despondent, starvin' tramp
						Who thought thet he hed taken mor'n his share o' sorrow's cup
						An' jumped into the river jest to wind the business up.
						The world ain't goin' to weepin'-- jest a few'll gather 'round
						An' help to lift the plain pine box an' drop it in the ground;
						The ordinary mortal ain't a-goin' to turn aside
						An' lose much time attendin' to the unidentified.
					

					

					
						Ther' may be achin' hearts in some far distant land thet burn
						With longin' for the son o' their's thet never will return;
						Ther' may be little children waitin' some ers at the door
						For footsteps that'll fall upon the threshold nevermore;
						Ther' may be one thet's prayin' for the clouds to roll apart
						An' let a ray o' sunshine creep into her bleedin' heart--
						She'll never see the sunshine, for her hope an' joy an' pride
						Hez drownded up the river, an' he's unidentified.
					
					
						We don't know who the stranger wuz or what he might ha' been--
						He might ha' been a hero once among his fellow men;
						He might ha' had a happy home till fortune turned away
						An' misery an' trouble drove him where he is today.
						He might ha' been industrious-- he might ha' been-- oh, well,
						He might ha' been most anything-- ther an't no way to tell--
						Ther' an't no use conjecturin'-- we only know he died
						Jest like a thousand others who are unidentified.
					

					

					
						It's hard enough to see a brother laid away to rest
						When lovin' hands 'll fold his frozen hands across his breast;
						But when yer see a feller die with not a friend in sight,
						It allers seems thet somehow things an't runnin' on jest right;
						An' when they put him in the ground an' mark his grave " Unknown,"
						It makes me think thet mebbe he won't stay there all alone,
						For God an't goin' to pass him by an' miss him jest becuz
						He drownded up the river an' we don't know who he wuz.
					
				

				

				
					THE OLD HOME

					
						I SAW the dear old place, Eugene,
						The home we used to know
						When life was new and cares were few
						So many years ago;
						The old familiar house, ah me--
						The same old tree near by
						In whose cool shade we romped and played
						My brother-- you and I.
					
					
						The little laughing, babbling brook,
						Where dwelt the speckled trout,
						Is running still adown the hill
						And winding in and out
						Across the verdant pasture field,
						And through the shady glen--
						With music sweet it seemed to greet
						The boy returned again.
					
					
						The fruit trees growing near the well
						With pears and apples hung,
						Gave me a treat, oh, full as sweet
						As when we both were young;
						The time worn weather beaten post
						Where you once carved your name,
						Like some old guard before the yard
						Is standing just the same.
					
					
						The grape vine arbor lane, Eugene,
						Where you and I once played
						With joy serene-- is just as green
						And deep in leafy shade.

						

						The honeysuckle bushes too
						Wear just as bright a dress
						As ever shown from any throne
						Or robed a fair princess.
					
					
						The happy birds were singing, oh
						Just as they used to sing
						When all the earth was full of mirth,
						And all the year was spring;
						When sweet content and happiness
						Claimed childhood as their own,
						And grief and care and deep despair
						Were then to us unknown.
					
					
						I drank from out the bubbling spring.
						Down by the willow tree,
						Where oft we quaffed the cooling draught
						In childish ecstasy;
						But when I knelt to drink, I saw
						A face, how changed!-- in truth--
						A gray haired man revealed the span
						Between old age and youth.
					
					
						Ah me, how full our cup would be
						If in our life's decline,
						One hour of youth and joy and truth
						And hope were yours and mine.
						'Twould be the dearest happiness
						That our old age could know
						To feel to-night the keen delight
						Of fifty years ago.
					
				

				

				
					OUT AT DUNLAPS STATION.

					
						MAKES a fellow kind 'er blue walkin through ther place--
						Never see a happy smile on a single face;
						All the joy an' pleasure of other days is dead;
						All the hope an' pluk an' grit an' energy is fled;
						Dreams of better days ahead, free from pain an' care,
						Long ago have vanished like bubbles in the air.
						Those poor souls an't livin'-- jest exist from day to day--
						Out at Dunlaps Station, where the paupers stay.
					
					
						"They're to blame for bein' there?" Mebbe not, my friend;
						Troubles sometime chase a man way up to the end.
						Fortune an't distributed in an equal way,
						Some are sick an' poor in youth an' poorer when they're gray;
						Others allers have their health an' never strike a bog
						An' Fortune comes to them as slick as fallin' off a log.
						Who's to blame for all the woes it's pretty hard to say,
						Out at Dunlaps Station, where the paupers stay.
					

					

					
						No man knows just allus how misfortunes come about;
						Lots of men have lost their grip in helpin' others out.
						Others pray for God's own poor, all penitent an' meek,
						An' squeeze a piece of money till you hear the eagle shriek.
						'Taint no wonder they get rich an' keep away from debt,
						Grabbin' everything in sight an' keepin' all they get.
						Rather than be built like that, I'd jest start out today
						An' go to Dunlaps Station, where the paupers stay.
					
					
						The world is fightin' shy of 'em an' leavin' 'em alone;
						Ther's no one takes much notice of a pauper's sob an' moan;
						They've lost their independence an' they have no guidin' star,
						An' who's a-goin' to study what a pauper's feelin's are?
						But there's a recompense for them that's equal to the best--
						The world can't put a price upon a sweet eternal rest,
						An' sleep 'll come to them some time an' clear the clouds away--
						Out at Dunlaps Station, where the paupers stay.
					
				

				

				
					RECESSIONAL.
					[After Kipling.]

					
						GOD of our Fathers, whose decree
						Sweeps emperors from high estate.
						Whose wisdom pilots destiny,
						Whose awful might determines fate--
						Lord God of Hosts, desert us not--
						We have forgot-- we have forgot.
					
					
						Oppressed Armenia prays relief--
						Sore stricken Greece appeals in vain,
						While India's millions nurse their grief
						With pangs of sharp starvation's pain.
						Lord God of Hosts, desert us not--
						We have forgot-- we have forgot.
					
					
						How often, oh, how often, Lord,
						When Britons bravely, blindly fought
						The rifle and the keen edged sword
						Usurped the charity He taught--
						Lord God of Hosts, desert us not--
						We have forgot-- we have forgot.
					
					
						God of our Fathers, in our hearts
						Instill that christian love of old--
						Let all the joy that love imparts
						Drive out the lust for power and gold--
						Lord God of Hosts, desert us not--
						We have forgot-- we have forgot.
					

					

					
						Where mighty navies ride the seas--
						Where serried columns guard the shore--
						We pray Thee, Lord, on bended knees
						Let peace control forevermore.
						Teach all the world to sheathe the sword--
						Thy mercy on Thy people, Lord.
					
				

				

				
					A STRAIN OF MUSIC.

					
						I WUZ settin' by my winder all alone one Sunday night,
						When the bells had quit their ringin' an' the moon wuz shinin' bright,
						An' I felt a little lonesome till other' sudden come along
						The sweetest strain o' music from an old familiar song.
					
					
						They wa'n't no ordinary notes-- they seemed ter throb and swell
						With a different kind o' feelin' then a pen could ever tell;
						They seemed ter lift me up an' take me back through many years
						Of pleasure an' of happiness, of misery an' tears.
					
					
						I saw the dear old places thet my childhood used ter know,
						Where the sweet arbutus an' the tender water-cresses grow,
						Where the crystal water bubbles out o' springs so bright and clear
						Thet a drink of it 'ud brace yer quicker 'n any wine or beer.
					
					
						I saw the happy faces that I cherished in my youth,
						When life wuz full o' happiness, an' love, an' hope, an' truth,

						

						An' they seemed ter smile upon me ez they >used ter long ago
						When the future seemed so distant an' the present seemed so slow.
					
					
						We sang again in chorus the old song we used ter sing,
						An' we pushed an' pulled each other in the twisted grape-vine swing,
						An' we went into the orchard where the great big pippins hung,
						An' we dropped 'em ez we used ter do when they an' I wuz young.
					
					
						They seemed ter cheer me up again an' start me on the way
						Thet I've traveled since I left 'em down until the present day;
						An' then we separated an' each took a different lane,
						But I somehow kinder thought thet mine 'ud strike the richest vein.
					
					
						An' ez I traveled on I saw the chances thet I lost,
						An' a thousand different slips for which the future paid the cost,
						An' I thought ef I could see the future ez I see the past
						Thet I'd make a different showin' an' a record thet 'ud last.
					

					

					
						Now all those friends I cherished so are scattered far an' wide--
						Jest a few, I hear, are livin', but the better part hez died.
						Yet I allers see other' faces in a happy, joyous throng
						When I hear a strain o' music from thet old familiar song.
					
				

				

				
					TRUE LOVE THAT NEVER DIES.

					
						OH, give to me the honest heart
						Where truest love abides,
						And all the joy it can impart
						Whatever fate betides.
						No other blessing so divine
						Within our being lies--
						Oh, let this happiness be mine--
						True love that never dies,
					
					
						Oh, tell me not of priceless gems
						That brilliant lustre shed;
						Oh, tell me not of diadems
						That grace a royal head;
						No jewel ever held control
						Or gladdened beaming eyes
						Like that enchantment of the soul--
						True love that never dies.
					
				

				

				
					THE RIVER STYX.

					
						"WE'RE all born free an' equal," is a pretty little speech,
						An' quite a warmin' sentiment for socialists to preach;
						But be it false or be it true-- however it may be--
						It don't take long afore we lose that born equality.
						For some 'r rich an' some 'r poor; some coarse an' some 'r fine.
						An' custom forces us, you know, to draw the social line;
						But there's a time when poverty an' wealth'll hev' to mix--
						There ain't no graded ferryboats upon the River Styx.
					
					
						The Czar of all the Russias with an iron rod controls
						The earthly destiny of full a hundred million souls;
						For many thousan' miles aroun' his power is complete,
						An' rich an' poor, at his command, must worship at his feet.

						

						An' when his majesty desires to see a foreign land,
						A special train, or man o'war, is ever at his hand;
						But all his wealth an' influence an' diplomatic tricks
						Won't put a special ferryboat upon the River Styx.
					
					
						Most any one that's ever been away upon a trip
						Will know how quick a porter moves if he can get a "tip,"
						He'll scrape aroun' an' bow, an' smile, an' somehow when he's done
						Your sleepin' berth is some'at better than the av'rage run.
						But there's this consolation to the countless millions who
						Can never feel, but only see the wonders wealth'll do--
						Ther' ain't no weak officials that a piece of gold'll fix
						A-workin on the ferryboat that runs across the Styx.
					
					
						Most every one has got a greed for money more or less--
						A dollar's allus had its weight-- an' allus will, I guess;

						

						It's pretty late to try to change the character of men--
						So let things be unequal here, as they hev allus been,
						For there's a power that is bound to level everything
						An' place a ragged pauper on an equal with a king;
						An' there's a time when poverty and wealth'll hev to mix,
						An' that's upon the ferryboat that runs across the Styx.
					
				

				

				
					GENTLEMAN JIM.
					
						GENTLEMAN JIM was an athlete bold,
						An athlete bold was he;
						He called for his pen and a bottle of ink,
						And shouted loud in glee.
						Then he dashed him off to Gentleman Bob
						A bristling, pierce defi;
						Then settled himself in his easy chair,
						And he winked his other eye.
					
					
						"I can lick the world," said Gentleman Jim,
						In his Lindley Murray way;
						"I can punch the head off Gentleman Bob,
						"Or I'll eat a bale of hay,"
						Then he murmured low, did Gentleman Jim,
						"I'm an eminent pugilist,
						"For my paper and pen and my gory ink
						"Are mightier than my fist."
					
				

				

				
					CHRISTIANA LAKE,

					
						LET others sing of famous lakes and pretty babblin' brooks--
						Of stylish seaside summer homes an' artificial nooks--
						These allus have their charm for some, but I ain't much on style--
						I like to take it in the rough and see ole nature smile,
						Where waters are as clear as ever bubbled out o' spring,
						An' scenery would almost make a tongue-tied linnet sing;
						Oh, when vacation comes again, I'll pack my kit an' take
						My summer recreation out at Christiana Lake.
					
					
						The black bass an' the blue gills an' the straw bass-- say, yer eyes
						Would bulge right out to see the way they jump up after flies;
						An' if you understand the art that Isaak Walton taught
						You needn't be ashamed to show the people what you caught;
						For if you ain't born tired an' you want to catch some fish,
						Jest take yer boat an' pole an' bait an' gratify yer wish--
						Oh, when the buds are bursting an' the spring begins to break,
						I'll slide right up an' have a fish at Christiana Lake.
					

					

					
						You talk about your sunsets-- say, they have 'em pretty fair
						In other places, but I think they never quite compare
						With those at Christiana Lake-- the bright illumined skies--
						They somehow make a feller think of heavn'ly paradise.
						There's jest a flood of red an' blue an' gold an' silver light,
						That seems to try an' check the march of swift advancin' night--
						Old nature's richly colored paint could never, never make
						A grander sunset than you see at Christiana Lake.
					
					
						The chirpin' of the robins an' the bluebirds in the trees,
						Mingles with the restful music of the murmurin', hummin' bees;
						An' the swishin' waters singin' 'round the rushes near the shore
						Make you think yer cup o' happiness is full an' flowin' o'er;
						For the hustlin', bustlin' city seems a thousan' miles away,
						An' you have the change yer lookin' for as long as you can stay.
						Oh, better'n all the medicine that I could ever take
						Is a week or two a-fishin' out at Christiana Lake.
					

					

					
						"Where waters are as clear as ever bubbled out o' spring."
					

					

					

					
						Oh, the pleasure without measure that is waitin' for me when
						The whippoorwills an' bobolinks an' thrushes come again,
						An' the air is full of joy an' song, an' everything is green,
						An' nature's brightest handiwork on every side is seen;
						Then I'll jest live in the sunshine an' drink in the country air,
						An' I'll lay aside all worry an' forget each carkin' care,
						An' I'll gather up my tackle an' I'll make a bee-line break
						For the bass that's waitin' for me out at Christiana Lake.
					
				

				

				
					ORGAN GRINDER'S SONG.

					
						I GRINDA, grinda, all de day,
						Do my vera besta;
						I don't get vera mucha pay,
						Monka he no resta;
						And lika lotta people, I
						Travel with my monka,
						And up and down the street we try
						Gather in a plunka.
					

					[To Monkey]
					
						I give you maccaronna, when
						Make a little mona;
						I'll get banan and peanuts, then
						Have a lotta funna;
						And when we getta mona heap
						Have de besta tima
						We'll eat and drink and play and sleep
						In Italia's clima.
					
					
						Organ grinda got to worka
						Maka people giva
						Got to worka lika Turka
						If he wanta liva;
						Play de operatic tuna
						Maka a greata hitta;
						Driva people almost luna
						Pay to make me quitta.
					
				

				

				
					NELLIE DALE.

					
						SO you never hee'rd of Nellie Dale? B'gosh that's mighty
							strange--
						She used to teach the districk school down here at Devil's Range;
						She just can't walk around at all-- not even with a crutch--
						She hain't got any feet you see. What-- born that way? Not much!
					
					
						You'd like to hear her story, hey? Well this is how it goes:
						'Twas along some time in March, I think, when everything was froze,
						When a bitin' blizzard come along an' drifted the snow about,
						An' caught poor Nellie an' all the kids afore the school let out.
					
					
						Well, the school house wasn't blizzard-- proof, ef it was put up to stay,
						An' the nearest place was a farm house, a half a mile away.
						But Nellie was grit-- yer bet she was-- an' she didn't set down an' cry,
						For she knew she had to reach that house, or she and the kids 'ud die.
						So she bundled 'em all up good an warm, in the quickest kind o' style,
						An' made 'em all take hold o' hands, an' line up single file;

						

						Then she started down the prairie road, an' she had 'em all in tow,
						Bracin' 'em up with words o' cheer an' steerin' 'em through the snow.
					
					
						But it wasn't the easiest sort o' work; the kids 'ud stick in a drift,
						An' Nellie 'ud have to hustle back 'an kinder give 'em a lift;
						An' the wind was awful bitin' cold, an' at times it seemed almost
						As tho' poor Nellie and all the rest 'ud have to give up the ghost.
					
					
						But she was just the grittiest girl I ever run acrosst.
						An' she plowed along till she reached the house, an' nary a kid was lost.
						Not a single one was even nipped, tho' how they escaped God knows,
						But Nellie, poor girl, she caught it hard; both of her legs were froze.
					
					
						Well, it run along a couple of days afore a doctor come,
						An' he saw in a minute there wan't much hope, an' things looked mighty glum;
						But he took the only chance there was, and that want very bright--
						He ampitated both her feet-- an' Nellie come out all right.
					

					

					
						We done the best we could for her, an' we done it quick, you bet--
						We got her a pair of wooden feet, but she hasn't tried 'em yet.
						But if ever for such an act of grit a just reward is given,
						Yer bet yer life there's a better pair awaitin' her in heaven.
					
				

				

				
					THE BLUE AND THE GRAY.

					
						THE north wind wafts a greeting
						"God's will on earth was done,"
						And the echo sings on the south wind's wings
						"The Blue and the Gray are one."
					
					
						One flag my southern brother--
						One flag for you and me--
						Beyond compare-- and everywhere
						The emblem of the free.
					
					
						The dear old flag we honor
						That our forefathers knew--
						The star of light-- the friend of right-- 
						The red, the white, the blue.
					
					
						So let the old, old story
						Lie buried in the past,
						For the ties that bind a nations kind
						Are strong and true and fast.
					
					
						Then bring the brightest garlands
						And deck the graves of all--
						For the Blue and the Gray are one for aye,
						What ever may befall.
					
				

				

				
					THE OLD ST. JO.

					
						OH, the old St. Jo--
						Oh, the dancing, glancing waters-- how they ripple as they flow,
						Softly singing liquid symphonies far sweeter to my ear
						Than the melody of Mozart or the songs of Meyerbeer.
						How the summer sunlight shimmers on its bright reflecting breast,
						As it rolls along forever in a spirit of unrest.
					
					
						Oh, the old St. Jo--
						Oh, the wealth of blooming bushes and of willows bending low,
						And the pretty, perfect paradise, the island set in green,
						With its verdant shadows waving in the water's silver sheen;
						And the graceful swallows twittering and sailing light and free,
						Dipping down to kiss the wavelets as they dance away in glee.
					
					
						Oh the old St. Jo--
						Oh, the shady swimming bayou where the boys were wont to go--
						Oh, the happiness of childhood, oh, the joy we held most dear,
						The pleasure of disporting in the waters bright and clear.

						

						Forgetfulness may claim all else, but time can never dim
						The memory of a boy's delight-- a good old-fashioned swim.
					
					
						Oh, the old St. Jo--
						When Luna's beaming beauty sheds a soft refulgent glow;
						Oh, the music of the waters as they improvise a trill
						In a running obligato to the plaintive whippoor-will;
						And the gentle zephyrs humming through the waving willow trees--
						How they fill the soul with echoes of a hundred harmonies.
					
					
						Oh, the old St. Jo--
						Like the future generations that are yet to come and go,
						Forever and forever shall its waters flow away 
						In a never-failing current as they flow along today,
						And lovers of old nature's brightest work shall learn to know
						The many matchless beauties of the old St. Jo.
					

					

					
						"Oh, the wealth of blooming bushes and of willows bending low."
					
				

				

				

				
					O HAPPY YOUTH.

					
						O HAPPY youth, when hearts are beating
						With rapturous joy and love divine,
						When days are short and nights are fleeting
						And warm affections intertwine;
						When hope looks forward to the morrow
						And stars of promise brightly beam--
						O joyous time, when care and sorrow
						Evanish like a passing dream.
					
					
						O sweetest youth, when life is teeming
						With happiness and joy complete.
						When faith is strong and hope is beaming.
						And lovers youthful lovers greet;
						O joyous time of health and pleasure
						When rays of hope are shining bright--
						Sweet memory's diadems to treasure--
						O halcyon days of keen delight.
					
				

				

				
					EASTER.
					
						HAVE courage, men,
						Tho' Christ is dead,
						For the Lord has said
						He shall rise again.
					
					
						'Tis Easter time
						And the music tells
						In the happy chime
						Of a thousand bells,
						That Christ the Lord again has risen.
					
				

				

				
					LIFE IS BUT A ROUND OF PLEASURE.

					
						LIFE is but a round of pleasure,
						Each can have a well tilled measure
						If he only wills that way;
						Then let's drive away grim sorrow,
						And let others trouble borrow
						Worry not about tomorrow,
						But well think about today.
					
					
						CHORUS.
						Drink, Drink, Drink and we'll be merry,
						Clink, Clink, Clink the time away,
						Drink, Drink, Drink the sparkling sherry,
						Think not of the morrow but about today.
					
					
						Happiness is ours to store it
						If we only labor for it
						With an honest, true intent:
						Then we'll start the blues a flying
						Substituting mirth for crying,
						Every hour and minute trying
						With our lot to be content.
					
				

				

				
					AT BLENHEIM CASTLE.

					
						HO! all Americans arise and shout with unanimity--
						Dispatches tell us something that approaches grand sublimity;
						The noble Prince of Wales, the perfect paragon of purity,
						Has raised our Consuelo from a level of obscurity.
					
					
						Tho' Consuelo's fame is now assured of perpetuity,
						The noble duke can tremble, for his Vanderbilt annuity,
						Though measured only by a most magnificent immensity,
						May not withstand the noble prince's borrowing propensity.
					
				

				

				
					A DREAM OF LIFE.

					
						I DREAMED that from another sphere,
						With clear discerning eye,
						I saw the flow of life below
						That moved unceasing by,
						Like some vast river sweeping out
						Into a boundless sea
						It hurried through the world into
						Unknown eternity.
					
					
						I saw the blush of innocence
						Upon a happy face,
						Where reeking sin had never been,
						And sorrow left no trace.
						O! happy hours! O! golden youth!
						What pangs thy memory cost,
						When deep in tears of after years
						We value what is lost.
					
					
						I saw Temptation's gilded form
						Along the path of youth,
						Guerilla-like, unceasing strike
						Integrity and truth;
						Ambition seemed to waver when
						Discretion fell a prey
						To Passion's guiles and luring smiles
						That sweep success away.
					

					

					
						I saw a gambler luring on
						The victim of his art,
						While there would rise before his eyes
						A brother's bleeding heart;
						I saw the novice, answering
						The baser passion's call,
						In eagerness of sure success,
						Advance-- and lose his all.
					
					
						I saw a thousand brothers stand
						Upon a thousand rocks,
						And none agreed the other's creed
						Was strictly orthodox:
						A Mussulman in rage decried
						The Christian's inspired work,
						While he in turn would madly spurn
						The Koran of the Turk.
					
					
						A drunken wretch reformed and cried
						That he was pure and free,
						And there was none-- not even one
						Was more revered than he:
						I saw an erring sister fall
						Upon her knees and pray,
						But worldly hate had sealed her fate
						Forever and for aye.
					
					
						A ship lay rolling helpless on
						The bosom of the deep;
						I saw the swell that rose and fell
						And heard the wild winds sweep:

						

						I saw that ship go down with full
						A thousand souls therein,
						And soon the sea appeared to me
						As if it had not been.
					
					
						I heard the church bells ringing out
						A welcome to a birth,
						And sharp and plain they rang again
						To swell the wedding mirth;
						I heard them toll and seeming say:
						"Ceased be his weary plod,
						"A brother wight has said good night,
						"And gone to meet his God."
					
					
						I saw the countless millions who
						Were battling with the tide,
						While grim and gaunt the spectre, Want
						Was ever at their side;
						I saw a millionaire unmoved
						Deny the starving band,
						While wealth untold of hoarded gold
						Invited his command.
					
					
						I saw cupidity and greed
						In every phase of life,
						Precipitate unyielding hate
						And never-ending strife;
						I heard the voice of Justice speak
						In ringing tones, and true:
						"God's boundless store was given for
						"The many-- not the few."
					

					

					
						I hailed a message as it fell
						From azure tinted skies,
						And soon I saw a heavenly law
						Dissensions harmonize;
						Each mortal owned his fellow-man
						A brother and a peer,
						And each one tried to swell the tide
						Of happiness and cheer.
					
					
						The world with purest deeds and thoughts
						Irradiant did gleam,
						And here and there, and everywhere
						Contentment reigned supreme;
						Existence seemed in every form
						From pain and sorrow free--
						When morning broke and I awoke
						To life's reality.
					
				

				

				
					AFTER WINTER COMES THE SPRING.

					
						WINTER'S whistling winds are here;
						Summer's sweetest scenes are fled;
						Autumn's fallen leaves are sere;
						Forest flowers all are dead.
						Still content-- aye, something more,
						Thoughts of buds and blossoms bring--
						Thoughts replete with pleasure, for
						After winter comes the spring.
					
					
						In the trials of your life;
						When despair holds potent sway;
						When your burdens in the strife
						Hide ambition's faintest ray;
						Let not honest courage wane,
						But to hope triumphant cling,
						For, like sunshine after rain,
						After winter comes the spring.
					
				

				

				
					IT MIGHT BE WORSE.

					
						I HATE the weepin' pessimist that's allus talkin' blue
						An' paintin' up his troubles with a cemetery hue;
						He never sees a rainbow, but he allus sees a cloud,
						An' tries to throw it over everybody like a shroud;
						He pounds away at all he meets an' tries to make 'em think
						That his has been the bitterest of bitter dregs to drink;
						He tells you that his trouble is an overpow'rin' curse,
						An' never stops to reason that it
						Might
						Be
						Worse.
					
					
						I like a noble fellow who can play a cheerful part,
						No matter if a hidden sob is wellin' up his heart,

						

						He makes you think a little grit will kinder ease yer woe,
						An' mebbe when tomorrow comes you'll stan' a better show;
						He'll allus take you by the hand an' soften down yer fears,
						An' make yer see a ray o' hope a-shinin' through yer tears;
						That's the kind o' fellow that can meet with a reverse--
						He can brace himself and say it
						Might
						Be
						Worse.
					
					
						Yer burden may be heavy, but you'll somehow find it true
						That ther' are others carryin' a bigger load than you;
						The world is blue enough, God knows, without yer gettin' down
						An' cryin' over trouble long afore it comes aroun';
						A faintin' heart was never known to bring a brighter day,
						An' weepin' an complainin' never drives the clouds away--
						So don't you advertise yer woe throughout the universe,
						But keep it to yourself an' say it
						Might
						Be
						Worse.
					

					

					
						If everybody's misery was written on his face,
						There'd be but little pleasure here among the human race;
						The glow o' cheerful happiness 'ud fade away and die,
						An' all the springs o' joy an' mirth 'ud soon be runnin' dry.
						So don't you grow discouraged, then, if every-thing goes wrong,
						For if you wait a streak o' joy'll surely come along;
						Don't keep a-mopin' all the time as mournful as a hearse,
						But gulp yer trouble down an' say it
						Might
						Be
						Worse.
					
				

				

				
					SINCE NELLIE WENT AWAY.
					
						THE homestead ain't ez bright an' cheerful ez it used to be,
						The leaves ain't growin' half so green upon the maple tree;
						The brook don't seem ter ripple like it used ter, down the hill--
						The bobolinks appear ter hev a some'at sadder trill;
						The wavin' corn hez lost its gold, the sunshine ain't so bright,
						The day is growin' shorter jest ter make a longer night;
						There's somethin' gnawin' at my heart I guess hez come ter stay--
						The world ain't been the same ter me since Nellie went away.
					
					
						The old piano over there I gave her when a bride--
						It ain't been played upon but once since she took sick an' died,
						An' then a neighbor's girl come in an' struck up "Old Black Joe"
						An' "When the Swallows Homeward Fly," an' somehow, don't you know,

						

						It almos' made me crazy wild with anguish an' dispair--
						I saw her sittin' at the keys, but knew she wasn't there:
						An' that is why I never want ter hear the old thing play--
						The music don't sound natural since Nellie went away.
					
					
						The parson tells me every man hez got ter hev his woe--
						His argument is good, perhaps, for he had orter know--
						But then it's hard for every one ter allers see the right
						In turnin' pleasure into pain an' sunshine into night;
						I guess it's all included in the Maker's hidden plan--
						It takes a heap o' grief an' woe ter temper up a man.
						I sympathize with any fellow when I hear him say
						The world don't seem the same ter him since some one went away.
					
					
						The Scripture says that in His own sweet way, if we but wait,
						The Lord'll take our burdens an' set crooked matters straight;

						

						An' there's a hope that all the grief an aching heart can hold
						Will be offset by happiness a hundred million fold,
						When we hev reached the end o' life's eventful voyage at last
						An' all our pain an' misery is buried in the past.
						An' so I'm lookin' for'ard to the dawnin' of a day
						When mebbe it won't seem so long since Nellie went away.
					
				

				

				
					YOU CAN'T PLEASE EVERY ONE.

					
						'TIS all we ask of you, my boy,
						To do the best you can--
						Perfection never fell within
						The heritage of man.
						Upon integrity rely
						In labors once begun,
						The hypercritical defy--
						You can't please every one.
					
					
						Invidious is the task of him
						In public life installed;
						His trivial faults are magnified,
						His buried deeds recalled;
						Though honest efforts end his course,
						In honesty begun,
						He clearly realizes that
						He didn't please every one.
					
					
						Then labor conscientiously
						To do your very best,
						And, that you try to fill your sphere,
						Let honest deeds attest--
						So that when in declining years,
						You view your labors done,
						Reproach can not be yours because
						You didn't please every one.
					
				

				

				
					A FRENCH IDYL.

					
						GOOD day, Mrs. Murphy; Oi jist saw ould Flynn,
						And he towled me yez had an addition loist night;
						So Oi sez to mesil': "Mrs. Whalan, step in
						An see phat a darlint hez brought 'em delight."
					
					
						Arrah, now, can Oi howld him-- the illegant boy!
						Faix, he's jest like his father, the little spalpeen!
						But, Oi say, Mrs. Murphy, exuberant joy
						Has given me thirst for a dhrop av poteen.
					
					
						Phat! not going to treat? Yez kin niver do that!
						Not a dhrop av poteen, because wages is shmall?
						Here, take your cadaverous, bull-headed brat--
						Sure, he don't look a bit like his father at, all!
					
				

				

				
					SMOKY RUN.

					
						IT was raining hard when the stranger came
						Through the tavern door at Smoky Run;
						He acted sick, an' we kinder thought
						That mebbe his strength was overdone.
					
					
						We tried to draw him into a talk,
						But it wan't no use-- he bowed his head
						In his trembling hands, an' only cried,
						"She'd be better dead-- oh better dead."
					
					
						For over a week he hung around
						In a sort of a melancholy way,
						Watchin' the stages come an' go,
						But never havin' a word to say.
					
					
						Well, Sunday noon of the second week,
						Since he come to stay at Smoky Run,
						We miners set on the tavern porch
						Tryin' to hide from the blazin' sun--
					
					
						When a man and a woman come along
						On a couple of bronchos side by side--
						They stopped at the door an' asked the road,
						Then traveled away toward Rocky Slide.
					
					
						It wan't two minutes hed passed us by
						When the stranger come with a jump an' bound
						Thro' the tavern door and started off
						Right after the pair like a Russian hound.
					

					

					
						Well, that was enough-- we miners knew
						That something was wrong an' trouble was near,
						So we got in line an' hustled away
						Down the mountain road like a lot of deer.
					
					
						We'd gone a mile-- to the bend in the pass,
						Where the roadway curves at Deep Ravine,
						When just as we turned there come to view
						The toughest thing I have ever seen--
					
					
						The woman lay at the stranger's feet
						An' her mate lay stretched beside her dead
						With an empty revolver near his head--
						" Killed himself," so the stranger said.
					
					
						"There ain't much room for doubt," we cried,
						"But tell us the reason he took his life?"
						The stranger lifted the woman up
						An' moaned, "God pity my faithless wife."
					
					
						He pressed her to him an' stroked her face
						An' cried: "Oh, God, she'd be better dead."
						"Stranger, who is this man?" we asked,
						"My youngest brother," was all he said.
					
					
						Well that was enough, we miners knew
						That we hadn't no voice in a family row,
						So we left them alone in the mountain pass
						To settle their trouble-- God knows how.
					
				

				

				
					THE WAKARUSA BAND.

					
						YOU talk about your Brooks's Band, and Boyer at his best--
						An' Thomas's big orchestry, an' Sousa an' the rest--
						Their hifalutin' music, I suppose, is good enough
						For city folks who educate on operatic stuff;
						But when you want to reach the heart and make it laugh an' sob,
						An' be in touch with nature like, and make it thrill an' throb
						With melody an' music that a child can understand,
						You ought to hear a concert by the Wakarusa Band.
					
					
						They ain't up on concertos an' cantatas an' the like--
						But you can't beat 'em grindin' out a quickstep on the pike;
						An' when they play "Old Nellie Gray" an' " Where the Daisies Grow,"
						My memory goes slidin' back to the long, long ago;
						An' music that'll work like that an' strike your very soul,
						An' flood you full of memories an' all your past unroll--
						That kind of music playin' fills its highest mission and
						That's why I like to listen to the Wakarusa Band.
					

					

					
						I saw the great directors in Chicago at the Fair,
						With all their fine musicianers annihilatin' air;
						A drum 'd bang, a horn 'd blat, a clarinet 'd shriek--
						An' ef you call that music, say, you ought to hear me speak;
						I want the kind of music that’l melt into the heart--
						I wouldn't give a picayune for all their classic art;
						Let educated critics gulp it down an' call it grand--
						But I'll just sit an' listen to the Wakarusa Band.
					
				

				

				
					TOAST TO THE LADIES.

					
						O WHO has not experienced the thrill of joy divine
						That permeates the soul like some intoxicating wine,
						That deep exquisite flood of bliss that fills the throbbing heart
						That only some true honest love of woman can impart;
						That fount of hope and joy and life, that something undefined
						That makes the timid strong and brave, the stern and cruel kind;
						That seems to draw forever inspiration from above,
						That boon of rich and poor alike, that priceless treasure, love?
					
					
						Your mind's eye ne'er could picture, nor Raphael e'er portray
						A scene where pure devotion exercised completer sway,
						Where messengers of peace and love in approbation smiled,
						Than that of some fond mother at the cradle of her child;
						The weary nights of vigil, the trials of the day
						Are but a task of happiness, they seem to fade away
						Before the gentle influence of that fond mother's love
						Like threatening clouds dissolve before the fierce heat from above.
					

					

					
						Go with me to the battle field where death is in control
						And mark the dying of the day with some poor weary soul,
						A ministering angel softly, gently passes by,
						There's courage in her bearing, there's pity in her eye.
						She has no thirst for glory, no vain desire for pelf,
						She sacrifices all she has, her home, her health, herself,
						Her very life she offers up like Him who led the way--
						God bless the Red Cross Angels forever and for aye.
					
					
						Sing not to me of valiant deeds of some brave knights of old,
						I sing to you of braver deeds a hundred thousand fold;
						Of some sweet bonnie bright-eyed lass whose heav'n inspired life
						Is consecrated to a toil of poverty and strife.
						Where poor humanity is weak with misery and sin,
						Where happiness and cheerfulness and hope have never been;
						Mock not the young salvationist, for even unto death
						She follows in the footsteps of Him of Nazereth.
					

					

					
						Perchance some Florence Nightingale within this banquet hall
						Is waiting with a willing heart for duty's trumpet call;
						God bless her, aye, a thousand times if any such there be,
						Her life will sooth the troubled waves upon the human sea,
						Where avarice unceasingly replenishes its store
						And princes blind cupidity throws nations into war;
						God bless her if her influence will bring a sweet surcease
						Of human slaughter and insure an everlasting peace.
					
					
						But this peculiar strain my friends, my lady friends, I know
						To place and audience is not exactly apropos;
						I toast your health, fair ladies, and may many banquets see
						Your gracious presence with us in the years that are to be,
						May all your friendships tried and true be bound by stronger ties,
						May all the future be to you as clear as summer skies;
						May fondest recollection shed its beaming soothing light
						When memory recalls to you the banquet of tonight.
					
				

				

				
					"WHIRRUL IT."

					
						IN sixty-three, when drafting was in vogue,
						And men of thirty (?) ceased to dye their hair,
						When many an honest man (and many a rogue)
						A military suit was forced to wear.
					
					
						Tom Flynn, with thumping heart and pallid face,
						Stood with the crowd upon the court-house floor,
						Crossing himself, and asking Heavenly grace
						To save him from the horrors of a war.
					
					
						Fresh from the drafting wheel each chosen name
						Was loudly shouted thro' the spacious hall;
						Another forced to fight sedition's flame!
						Another doomed to face the rebel ball!
					
					
						Anxious the while, poor Flynn with listening ear
						(And something different to a warrior's mien)
						Heard the clerk read in thunder tones and clear
						The old familiar name of "Mike Dineen."
					
					
						Swiftly toward the wheel he wildly ran,
						Thinking his name the next would surely be,
						And yelled: "O, whirrul it! whirrul it! whirrul it man!
						Ochone! That fellow lives nixt door to me!"
					
				

				

				
					OUR BOYS IN BLUE.

					
						HERE'S to the honest soldier lads,
						Here's to the hearts so true;
						Here's to the country's proudest hope,
						Here's to the boys in blue,
						Onward ever their battle cry,
						Never a one to lag;
						Ever ready to do and die
						Under their nation's flag.
					
					
						Here's to the honest soldier lads,
						Hearts as true as steel;
						Human battlements brave and firm
						Guarding their country's weal;
						Sweeping liberty's foes aside,
						Planting a standard new,
						Freedom's champions every one,
						Here's to the boys in blue.
					
					
						God be with our soldier lads
						Till peace floods forth her light,
						And nerve their souls with courage true
						In the cause of human right,
						Give cheer to a mother's anxious heart,
						And cheer to a sweetheart's too;
						God grant them all a safe return,
						Our loyal boys in blue.
					
				

				

				
					LULLABY.

					
						PEACE be unto thee-- hush my child--
						Heaven's little one undefiled;
						Nestle close to your mother's breast,
						Sail away to the land of rest:
						Sweetest blessing from paradise--
						Rest my little one; close your eyes;
						Angels ever their vigils keep--
						Sleep, my precious, my baby, sleep.
						Sleep, baby, sleep;
						Mother dear will hold thee;
						Sleep, baby, sleep;
						Mother's arms enfold thee.
						Sleep, my little one, sleep, my precious one--
						Sleep, baby, sleep.
					
					
						Peace be unto thee, gift divine;
						Sweet and innocent baby mine.
						Never a royal diadem
						Held so pure a priceless gem.
						All the world is as naught to me--
						Mother's baby-- compared to thee.
						Sweetest blessing from paradise--
						Rest, my little one; close your eyes.
					
				

				

				
					SANTIAGO.

					
						FULL fierce and fast the battle raged-- the very jaws of hell
						Were opened wide and pouring out a storm of shot and shell;
						The scorching tropic sun beat down its streams of molten fire
						Until it seemed that fate had made a giant funeral pyre.
						But onward, onward, inch by inch they mov'd with courage true
						Like some vast living wall of might-- the loyal boys in blue.
						No murmuring, no faltering, and when the day was done--
						Hurrah! hurrah!-- a thousand times-- the victory was won.
					
					
						For freedom and humanity, equality and right
						We'll ne'er forget the heroes bold who battled in that fight;
						For all that independence loves-- for all we hold most dear
						Forever and forever shall the, world their names revere;
						On monuments enduring fast, as with a burning pen
						Let history recount their sacrifice for fellow men;
						And let a grateful nation drop a tear in memory's urn
						For all those loyal boys in blue who never will return.
					
				

				

				
					THE PRIVATES AND THE CREW.

					
						GIVE honor to the gallant Schley to whom all honors are,
						And sing the praises of heroic Hobson near and far:
						Shout loud huzzas of gratitude for Dewey brave and true--
						But don't forget our heroes bold-the privates and the crew.
					
					
						For them no hope of station high where grateful plaudits sound--
						For them no honored place on Fame's eternal camping ground;
						A plain and simple duty theirs-- defying shot and shell--
						Theirs but the thought of having done that simple duty well.
					
					
						The private, sailor and marine, when all is said and done--
						The engineer and fireman-- are heroes every one;
						For them no hope of lasting names on an immortal roll-- 
						Their only inspiration an undying valor's soul.
					

					

					
						Let honest merit meet reward in high or low estate;
						Let Justice ever point the way where praise and glory wait--
						So while we give a thousand cheers for all the leaders true,
						We'll not forget our heroes bold-- the privates and the crew.
					
				

				

				
					FROG QUARTET.

					THE CROAKER.
					
						A BULL frog croaked in a lonely marsh
						On a dark and dismal night.
						He had a cold and his voice was harsh,
						But he croaked with all his might.
						And he woke the birds and he woke the bees
						Slumbering quietly in the trees;
						And the things that fly and the things that creep
						Prayed in vain for a wink of sleep,
						But the frog, he kept on croaking.
					
					CHORUS.
					
						Jug a rum, jug a rum, jug a rum, jug a rum,
						On the midnight ozone rang;
						Jug a rum, jug a rum, jug a rum, jug a rum,
						Was the song that bull frog sang.
					
					
						Now a lovely pelican flying along
						On that dark and dismal night,
						Pricked up his ears when he heard that song,
						And he hurried him in his flight;
						Then he halted him quick with a sudden jerk
						Where the croaker was doing his solo work.
						And he settled himself on the end of a log,
						And he didn't do a thing to that foolish frog--
						For the frog did no more croaking.
					

					

					
						There's a moral I think that all can see
						In the story I've brought out.
						And all the facts I swear to be
						Above the slightest doubt.
						The fellow who croaks with a long drawn face
						In the battle of life is out of place.
						If a pelican happens to come his way,
						He'll soon discover it doesn't pay
						To be forever croaking.
					
				

				

				
					THE CLOCK.

					
						I HEARD the old clock ticking near my open chamber door
						In a soft and mellow voice-like tone I never heard before;
						In rythm sweet indelibly it marked upon my mind
						A truth that old eternity can never leave behind--
						This truth, as old as Father Time, that for a thousand years
						Has fallen on a myriad of dull, unheeding ears:
						"Whether it be of sunshine, or whether it be of rain,
						"The hour that is passing by will never come again."
					
					
						And a hurried rush of vain regrets came o'er me thick and fast
						As the old clock resurected the dead and buried past,
						For in the panorama that my flitting fancy made
						Procrastination, like a fiend, was vividly portrayed;
						And springing from my restless couch I cried: "O Time, delay?"
						But the old clock seemed to answer: "Tomorrow is today--
						"Whether it be of happiness or whether it be of pain,
						"The hour that is passing by will never come again."
					

					

					
						But ambition swelled within me as the future 'rose to view
						With munificent reward for perseverance strong and true;
						And with grim determination I resolved that every day
						Should record a labor well performed-- and the old clock seemed to say:
						"Dwell with the resolution, and hold it strong and fast,
						"Till the life that is gliding from you lies buried in the past;
						"For whether it mark a credit, or whether it brand a stain,
						"The hour that is passing by will never come again."
					
				

				

				
					THE TYPICAL TRAMP.

					
						I'M a typical tramp, the people say
						In an off-hand sort of a careless way;
						An' I guess they're right-- but say, dy'e know
						That I've got a heart if it doesn't show?
						I ain't been like this all my life
						On the under side of care and strife;
						I used to have ambition, and
						A good supply of grit and sand.
						But fate's peculiar-- some'll run
						Along the light of the golden sun,
						And others, no matter how true and proud
						Are always somehow under a cloud.
						Well, I'm not going to wear you out
						With a long drawn history about
						Myself, but say, perhaps you'll wait
						Till you hear the typical tramp relate
						A few of the things that put him where
						He is today. She was young and fair--
						My wife, I mean, and God knows I'd
						Ha' sacrificed myself and died
						For her and the little baby, he
						Bright and chipper as he could be.
						Well I, when all is said and done
						Was about the same as the common run;
						And she, my wife I mean, why she
						Seemed to swear by the kid and me.
						Week in and out I worked away
						And I never lost a single day
						In three long years, and tried to do
						My honest duty through and through;
						And I was the happiest man on earth--

						

						Life was flowing with joy and mirth;
						My hope was there without alloy
						In my loving wife and my baby boy.
						But things was going too smooth, I guess--
						Too much pleasure and happiness;
						Too much home-like harmony
						For an ordinary man like me.
						Things had to change, as they sometimes will--
						I quit my work at the rolling mill
						One summer night, and drew my pay--
						Seems like it was yesterday--
						And I went to the store and bought a dress--
						A sort of a gingham one, I guess--
						I don't remember-- I never could--
						I knew she'd think it was just as good
						As a silk or satin. And then I went
						Straight to my cottage home hell bent,
						Going to surprise my wife, you know--
						And I wanted to hear the baby crow;
						And I wanted, O well, I wanted to be
						In the only place in the world for me.
						Well it wasn't long till I struck the door
						Of my cottage home-- there's not much more
						To tell about-- she wasn't there--
						And the baby was gone-- on a kitchen chair
						I found this paper, and God! if you
						Have never had a knife run through
						Your very heart you can never know
						The force of the pain and grief and blow:
						"Dear Tom," she wrote, " I've gone away
						"To never come back-- don't lose a day
						"Trying to find me-- I always knew

						

						"I never was good enough for you."
						Well that was all-- I discovered soon
						That early along in the afternoon
						A fellow I counted my warmest friend
						Had brought my hopes to a bitter end;
						Like a poisonous snake in a sneaky way
						He had stolen my baby and wife away.
					
					
					
						Four years I've drunk from sorrow's cup
						With one ambition to hold me up--
						A hope that sometime, in some place,
						I'll meet that fellow face to face,
						And it won't take very long, you bet
						For me to partly pay the debt
						I owe him. Now I guess I've done--
						My strain's too blue for the average run,
						And the world ain't got no use today
						For a tramp's emotions anyway.
					
				

				

				
					AS WE ARE.

					
						OUR social status now we view with something like tranquility,
						For finally we have attained alliance with nobility;
						The old world's crumbling castles and dilapidated terraces
						Are being put in shape again by our ambitious heiresses;
						They marry condescending dukes whose pedigrees will antidate
						The time of antiquated Noah who piloted the ship of state--
						And pedigree is all they've got-- but surely you will all agree
						That this is just exactly right in all high toned society.
					
					
						There's many a social gathering we call a missionary tea
						That ever has productive been of true unbounded harmony--
						Where tender hearted ladies meet to sup their fragrant Oolong, and
						Discuss the unbelievers in some distant, wooly foreign land.
						They gather contributions and they ship out every cent they can
						To China's suffering heathen and the great unwashed of Hindoostan--
						Which eminently proper is-- I never entertain a doubt
						For we have no domestic needy hottentots to think about.
					

					

					
						Who'er says politicians are dishonest gabbles gammon, he
						Has never read the history of our beloved Tammany,
						For its officials who attain a most surprising altitude
						To loyalty and honesty are firmly and forever glued.
						And in the old United States, e'er since the government began
						There's no exception to the rule-- the office always seeks the
							man;
						And that is why election day when we select a president
						You never see the slightest sign of any money being spent.
					
					
						Society is managed in a marvelously perfect way,
						And fashion's devotees admit that everything is recherche--
						In fact the swim of higher life could never, never, never yield
						More satisfactory results if chaperoned by Chesterfield.
						You never heard Miss So and So relate in edifying glee
						That Mrs. Smith or Mrs. Brown's no better than she ought to be--
						In fact you hear no gossiping at any of our tete-a-tetes--
						It strictly is prohibited throughout the whole United States.
					

					

					
						I might sing on forever in my quiet unassuming way
						About the old United States where justice holds a potent sway;
						Where altruistic doctors in a field of usefulness abound
						Who make mistakes-- but when they do-- they promptly put them under ground;
						Where lawyer's honest faces beam with floods of concientious light
						And wreathes of beatific smiles-- at their inherent sense of right--
						But modesty forbids-- besides, to what advantage could I sing--
						When everybody knows that we are perfect quite in everything?
					
				

				

				
					DEWEY'S COMIN' HOME.

					
						FROM Maine to California throughout our mighty land
						There's somethin' agitatin' us a child could understand--
						A patriotic sentiment as strong an' warm an' true
						As ever cheered the heart of man an' thrilled it through and through.
						No partisan or race or creed, or low or 'upper crust
						Can gather in this feelin' an' control it with a trust;
						An' pretty soon, from mine pit up to heaven's distant dome,
						That pent-up feelin' will explode-- for Dewey's coming' home.
					
					
						There's never been an Admiral who had a better way
						Of takin' up an argument an' settlin' it to stay;
						For when his side has had its say-- his broadside in a word--
						The opposition argument is very seldom heard.
						You never hear him quibble, an' he never hesitates,
						When he is makin' history for the United States.
						Oh, talk of cheerin' Ceaser once upon a time in Rome!
						We'll knock that cheerin' galley west-- for Dewey's coming' home.
					

					

					
						He's modest as they make 'em, an' there's no one charges that
						Since he has won his victory he wears a bigger hat.
						He's had all kinds of trials, an' there's no one ever said
						That he was ever rattled or he ever lost his head.
						No wonder that his countrymen will swear that he's about
						As perfect an American as ever was ground out.
						So, speed away Olympia, an' churn the briny foam,
						An' everybody whoop 'er up-- for Dewey's coming' home.
					
				

				

				
					IT'S BETTER TO BELIEVE.

					
						THER' may be logic, truth an' sense an' argument an' wit
						In everything the infidels hev written on, but it
						Hez allers seemed uncommon queer an' strange ter me that they
						Don't ever give a substitute for what they take away.
					
					
						They take away the only balm thet fer a thousan' years
						Hez cheered a mother's faintin' heart an' dried a widow's tears:
						They shet out God's own sunshine thet penetrates the gloom
						Thet like a pall hangs over all within a mourner's room.
					
					
						They kill the hope thet came to birth when hearts were light an' free,
						An' children learned to lisp ther' prayers at ther' mother's knee,
						When all the future seemed as bright as any noonday sky,
						An' youth, in certainty of heaven, was not afraid to die.
					

					

					
						I hev a hope that something on the other side of life
						Will recompense a fellow for the pain an' care an' strife
						That this world starts on double quick to follow him an' his.--
						If there's not something in thet hope it's good to think there is.
					
					
						An' when you fold a pair of hands upon a lifeless breast,
						An' kiss thet sweet cold face again before its laid to rest,
						It somehow helps a fellow face the flow of sorrow's tide
						To think he'll meet his dear ones there upon the other side.
					
					
						Ther's some'll joke about the church an' laugh, an' jibe an' jeer,
						An' jump upon the minister an' say he ain't sincere--
						But they're the hypocrites themselves fer I hev allers found
						When troubles strike they somehow like to hev him come around.
					
					
						Ther's hypocrites in churches too-- its hard to keep 'em out--
						They'll steal ther' neighbors blind an' then get up an' pray an' shout,
						An' weep an' howl when Sunday comes-- but be it understood
						They wouldn't try and counterfeit a thing thet wasn't good.
					

					

					
						Supposin' Ingersol is right an' all he says is true,
						An' ther's nothing in the picture thet the old disciples drew,
						An' ther's nothin' in communion that'll banish grief an' care,
						An' ther's nothin' in the churches an' ther's nothin' in the prayer?--
					
					
						Ain't it better to believe that those you hold most dear an' fond
						Will be with you forever in a better place beyond?
						Ain't it better to send up a prayer with a dying breath?
						Ain't it better to hev something that removes the sting of death?
					
					
						The Faith may be all a pretty dream as Ingersoll has said--
						It may be hope is gone forever when a fellow's dead--
						It may be as he oft declares a most stupendous fake--
						But I'll continue dreaming on-an' he can stay awake.
					
				

				

				
					B. P. O. E.
					ACROSTIC.

					
						Born of true parentage-- fraternal love--
						Ever deep mindful of a brother's weal;
						Nursing no wrongs, but far and far above--
						Endorsing charity with earnest zeal.
						Vanity here strikes no responsive theme--
						Our order calls for manhood true and strong,
						Love of our fellow mortals reigns supreme,
						Enduring ever like a joyous song.
						No selfishness obtains within our plan,
						True friendship ever is exemplified,
					
					
						A blessed, lasting brotherhood of man--
						Never recording charity denied;
						Delighting in benevolence unseen,
					
					
						Providing where the world shall know it not,
						Rejoicing with a satisfaction keen
						Over an aided brother's bettered lot;
						True to its chosen sons forever, and
						Earnestly striving for them to obtain
						Continuing relief throughout our land
						That humankind may reach a higher plane;
						In true fraternal spirit giving deep
						Vitality to sad misfortune's own;
						Encouraging where grief and sorrow weep
					

					

					
						"Designed to live forever and a day."
					

					

					

					
						O'er sweet ambitious hope and pleasure flown.
						Replete with principles of high ideal,
						Designed to live forever and a day--
						Embracing questions of our common weal--
						Results attained to never pass away.
					
					
						Our order cherish-- do the best you can--
						For all its teachings lead you to the right;
					
					
						Encourage love-- and for your fellow man
						Let true fraternal spirit be your light;
						Keep faithfully its lessons-- you shall see
						Surpassing grandeur of B. P. O. E.
					
				

				

				
					MY LITTLE BABY BOY.

					
						THERE'S music in the babbling brook that hurries down the hill!
						There's music in the robin's song and in the linnet's trill;
						There's harmony in everything, but nothing has the half
						Of melody that ripples through my little baby's laugh.
					
					
						His eyes are like the stars at night; his pretty dimpled chin
						And delicate, soft, chubby hands would grace a cherubin;
						When he is nestled in my arms the world is full of joy,
						All centered in that gift divine-- my little baby boy.
					
					
						No monarch ever owned a gem with mine to half compare;
						No wealth of gold could buy a king a jewel half so fair;
						Oh, he is all the world to me-- content without alloy,
						And hope and love and happiness- -my little baby boy.
					
				

				

				
					Evolution of a laugh.-- "My Little Baby Boy."
				

				

				

				
					OUR OWN JACK TAR.

					
						THE Englishman's a stayer, the Italian likes a scrap,
						And you'll never catch a German or a Frenchman in a nap.
						With due respect to all of them to whom all honors are
						I call your kind attention to our own Jack Tar.
					

					CHORUS.

					
						He knows no fears
						When the bo'sn pipes
						But he gives three cheers
						For the Stars and Stripes
						And he stands by his guns with a courage grand
						For his honor, his flag and his native land.
					
					
						Our navy isn't very old-- a hundred years or so-- 
						But records count for everything, and we have one to show;
						Since independence came to us no history can mar
						The patriotic bearing of our own Jack Tar.
					
					
						In all of the engagements we've been called upon to fight
						The enemy acknowleged that we entertained 'em right;
						And ever since those little entertainments near and far
						They all take off their chapeaus to our own Jack Tar.
					
				

				

				
					OLD GLORY.

					
						WITH Old Glory waving o'er us
						We our joyous voices raise,
						And in patriotic chorus
						We will sing our country's praise.
						From the old Penobscot river
						To the far Pacific slope
						May the stars and stripes forever
						Fill our hearts with pride and hope.
					

					CHORUS.

					
						Hip, Hip, hurrah for the flag of our nation,
						Hip, Hip, hurrah for the flag of the free,
						Wave it on high o'er the whole of creation--
						Bear it in triumph o'er mountain and sea.
					
					
						Dearest emblem that we cherish
						Harbinger of hope and light--
						Not a star shall ever perish
						While we have a hand to fight.
						No oppressor shall assail thee
						While a dear bought freedom reigns,
						Brave defenders ne'er shall fail thee
						While a spark of life remains.
					
				

				

				
					"Spattin' in the rushes with an old cane pole."
				


				

				

				
					THE OLD CANE POLE.

					
						OH, the old cane pole-- how my heart beat high
						When I used to swing it in the days gone by
						Where the bending rushes and the long lake grass
						Furnished hiding places for the hungry bass!
						When a great big lunker that was tempting fate
						Telegraphed a message that he had the bait
						'Twas a sweet sensation that'd stir the soul-- 
						Spattin' in the rushes with an old cane pole.
					
					
						My whole anatomy with laughter thrills
						To see a rod and reel and the other frills
						The hifalutin' artist brings into play
						To snake out bass in a scientific way.
						He'll look around with a pitying smile
						At the fellow fishing in the good old style,
						But in every case I will bet my roll
						That he won't be in it with the old cane pole.
					
					
						Oh, the old cane pole-- there's nothing so fine
						As to feel a bass tug on a good stout line,
						For if you've got your nerve and you work it right
						You are sure to land him in a good square fight;
						And when you're going home you won't have to guess
						Where your fish are coming from-- you'll have a mess.
						So let the fancy fisherman cast and troll,
						But I will spat the rushes with an old cane pole.
					
				

				

				
					TALE OF THE TYRO.

					
						IH, they thump you and lambaste you,
						And they jump you and they paste you
						In an edifying fashion that'll make you pale and wan;
						And you'll tumble in a minute
						That you're nicely, strictly in it
						When you learn the inner workings of the gentle Khorassan.
					
					
						Then you'll think that something bit you
						And you'll know that something hit you
						Like an embryonic cyclone from the wild and wooly west:
						And with apprehension growing
						You'll imagine you are going
						Where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest.
					
					
						And they'll think perhaps you oughter
						Take a bath in Zem Zem water
						And they'll give you good and plenty for there's none to say you nay;
						And you'll want your courage handy
						In the desert hot and sandy
						When the camel gets a hump on and you journey on your way.
					

					

					
						"when the camel gets a hump on and you journey on your way."
					

					


					

					
						Oh, the unrestricted pleasure
						And enjoyment without measure
						That awaits the poor deluded, unsophisticated man
						Who in mental weak condition
						Has a lingering suspicion
						He'd enjoy the metamorphosis that makes a Khorassan.
					
					
						Oh, the Arabs, how they bless you
						And how gently they caress you
						With a kindness born of altruism's highest, truest aim:
						How they take you with them roaming,
						In the morning, in the gloaming--
						And although you lack experience you get there just the same.
					
					
						What a pleasure there is for you--
						What exquisite joy comes o'er you
						When you realize the cherished shining pinnacle is gained;
						When your journey is completed
						Though you're somewhat overheated
						Still you doubt not for a minute you've been nicely entertained
					
					
						When the razzle dazzle's ended
						It is always comprehended
						That your stock of Arab knowledge has amazingly increased;
						Still your physical condition
						Might create a dim suspicion
						That you have the same ambition as a gentleman deceased.
					

					

					
						Take a twenty and you bet it
						That you never will forget it
						The initiation proper and the many funny cracks;
						Your unbounded joy will fire you
						And experience inspire you
						With a firm belief you got it where the chicken got the ax.
					
					
						But I'll tell you on the level
						Notwithstanding all the revel
						Incidental to the doing of a victim good and brown,
						There is something that will reach you-- 
						'Tis a lesson that will teach you
						Of the charity that aids a man when he is broken down.
					
					
						So with all the variegated
						Joy and pleasure I have stated
						You can put it down for certain since old history began-- 
						There is none among the others
						Like our band of Arab brothers-- 
						And I toast the health and happiness! of ev'ry Khorassan.
					
				

				

				
					LEFEBRE.

					
						I CAN always sit and listen to the soft and mellow note
						That in rippling, bubbling music gushes from the linnet's throat;
						And I love to hear the chatter of the purling crystal rill
						As in and out it winds about and hurries down the hill.
						And I love to hear a singer who with pathos warm and true
						Can awaken in your memory your childhood scenes anew;
						And in honesty of spirit an acknowledgement I own
						An enthusiastic liking for Lefebre's saxophone.
					
					
						And I will give all honor, too, wherever it is due,
						And so, my dear Lefebre, I now give the same to you;
						To praise with fulsome flattery I surely don't intend,
						But every one who knows you, you can schedule as a friend;
						There's a hundred thousand heard you, and a hundred thousand more,
						And you can multiply the same by more than twenty-four,
						And still you haven't half enough-- an honest man must own--
						Who sat enraptured hearing your inspiring saxophone.
					

					

					
						May time deal with you leniently, and may the future bless
						Your useful years that are to be with peace and happiness;
						And may the power you possess-- the master's highest art,
						Remain with you for years and years to gladden every heart.
						And now I toast your health, old friend, with sentiment sincere--
						Long lease of life and happiness and hope and joy and cheer:
						You've earned this eulogy, my friend, and I would have it known
						There's only one Lefebre ever played the saxophone.
					
				

				

				
					WASHINGTON.

					
						FIRST in war-- no task how e'er so great
						But he accomplished, and his work survives;--
						He gave us freedom's independent state-- 
						A legacy more precious than our lives.
					
					
						First in peace-- his clear unruffled mind
						Inspired the infant government with zeal;
						Strong and yet gentle, steadfast and yet kind
						He solved the problem of our common weal.
					
					
						First in our hearts forever and a day
						His light shall shine like some refulgent sun--
						A beacon light to guide us on the way
						Our own revered, immortal, Washington.
					
				
			
		
	

