
     ----CITATION----
        Luke, Stephanie Maureen. Introduction to Going West. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB1828_intro
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                Introduction to Going West
                By Stephanie Luke
                
                
                    An Expanding Nation
                    Alexander's Going
                                West recounts an era in American history that was
                        defined by rapid growth and national expansion. The country was moving away
                        from an agrarian to an industrial and urban society. Long-established cities
                        like New York were struggling (and often failing) to meet the needs of
                        larger and larger populations. Railroads crisscrossed the country, taming
                        the once "wild" West. A new generation of prospectors, like
                        Alexander’s characters Joe Clifford and Mr. Brown, dreamed of striking it
                        rich in one of the newly established mining towns, like Leadville, Colorado
                        (scene of the latest "rush" in Going
                                West), and of joining the ranks of self-made
                        millionaires like "Stewart, Astor, and Vanderbilt."
                    By 1870, there was over 50,000 miles of railroad track laid across the
                        country. By 1879, the year in which the events of Going
                                West take place, over 100,000 miles of telegraph
                        lines allowed Americans to learn of events hundreds of miles away, even as
                        the nation expanded further and further west. By 1870, the demand for
                        newspapers outpaced even the substantial upward trend of population growth
                        of America. In comparison to fifty years before, by that year the number of
                        daily newspapers increased from 42 to 574, and the number of weeklies
                        increased from 512 to 5,091.
                    Alexander's novel is a fictionalization of the historical theme of
                        expansionism—of country, industry, and press. Alexander"s background as
                        a journalist, and her attention to journalism within the novel, offer the
                        reader a distinct view of the history and growth of the American press
                        following the conclusion of the Civil War. As Perry J. Ashley notes:
                        "During the last three decades of the nineteenth century, the American
                        newspaper was going through the final stages of its evolution from a vehicle
                        of opinion into a vehicle which emphasized news, human interest, and
                        entertainment." The records of Alexander’s career as a journalist,
                        especially her time as a special correspondent to the Indianapolis Times,
                        show that these were the stories that she was interested in reporting.
                    Alexander's inspiration for Going
                                West, the newspaper report in the New York
                                Herald-Tribune given at the end of this
                        introduction, is indicative of this transitional period in the American
                        press. It was published in 1879 on April 23 (not 25, as she has it), the
                        third in a series that followed groups of boys who had been relocated from
                        New York City to the Midwestern states by the Children's Aid Society, a
                        private charitable institution still in existence. Newspapers of this period
                        often supported such reform movements, as Ashley notes, "through their
                        famous editorial crusades and campaigns aimed at making life better for all
                        … the New York World campaigned for funds to
                        build a pedestal for the Statue of Liberty; the Kansas City
                                Star promoted community improvements and helped run
                        the gamblers out of the city; and the Chicago Daily
                                News advocated fresh-air sanatoriums."
                    The press's role as champion of the people was important in a period
                        suffering from the growing pains accompanying quick national expansion.
                        Journalists like Whitelaw Reid, the editor of the
                                Tribune in 1879, had a voice in debates
                        of national importance. Reid, in particular, became so well-known through
                        his work at the Tribune that he would later run
                        on the presidential ticket with Benjamin Harrison and serve as ambassador
                        first to France and then to the United Kingdom. Alexander's
                                Going West vividly illustrates the importance of the
                        press to this era in American history.
                
                
                    Growing Pains
                    Going
                                West offers a portrait of the negative consequences
                        of industrialization and urbanization. By the end of the nineteenth century,
                        the nation's population would be double what it was in the wake of the
                        Civil War. Local and federal governments were ill-equipped to handle the
                        rise in population. The urban poor and new immigrants were most affected by
                        overpopulation. New York City stood as the foremost example of the
                        consequences of unchecked growth. In 1852, the city's chief of police
                        estimated that out of a population of five hundred thousand, there were over
                        ten thousand homeless or orphaned children. Statistics for the same year
                        show that almost eighty percent of those prosecuted for felonies in the city
                        were minors. By the time Alexander took up the cause, the figures were much
                        worse.
                    Governmental aid for homeless or orphaned children would not be established
                        until the beginning of the twentieth century. State and federal systems of
                        foster-care and adoption were not pursued until 1909. The only options
                        offered to such children were state-run orphan asylums, almshouses, or
                        prisons. Many homeless children survived as newsboys or boot-blacks or sold
                        matches on the street. With little or no public support, private charities
                        and individual philanthropy were central to social welfare. One such charity
                        made a significant impact in placing children in better environments than
                        the slums and tenement houses of New York.
                    In 1853, Charles Loring Brace, a Methodist minister who worked the Five
                        Points district, founded the New York Children's Aid Society (CAS). The
                        Society was at the forefront of child welfare reform. By 1879, the year in
                        which Alexander's novel takes place, like the report on which it is
                        based, CAS had opened lodging houses for boys and girls, established
                        industrial schools where children could learn a trade, begun the tradition
                        of "fresh air" vacations, and launched over thirty schools that
                        offered day or night classes to immigrants who wished to learn English. But
                        the CAS program that is most well-known today is the Emigration or
                        "Placing-Out" program, more familiarly known as the "Orphan
                        Train Movement."
                    The "orphan trains" placed impoverished and orphaned children in
                        homes outside the city. The program was active for over seventy years, from
                        1853 to 1929, placing over one hundred thousand children in forty seven
                        states. Other major cities established similar private children's aid
                        societies to assist the urban poor in making a better life for themselves.
                        The families that took the children were expected to clothe, feed, and
                        educate them. They were not obligated to adopt them, although many did.
                    CAS tried to place children three times a month. The groups could be as small
                        as three or as large as one hundred and fifty; one placing agent estimated
                        that the average number was twenty-eight. As the
                                Tribune indicates, sometimes adults or
                        whole families were placed. The Tribune article
                        Alexander quotes in her introduction and from which spring key moments of
                        her plot, describes the journey of one party of boys who were sent to
                        Parsons, Kansas—although one boy will turn out not to be what he seems, by a
                        peculiar and quite impressive twist of Alexander's quirky imagination,
                        and the novel gets railroaded halfway through by an insatiable appetite for
                        romance and adventure. Whitelaw Reid gave a short speech and advice to the
                        real boys of the orphan train before they started their journey from the
                        city. He told them that "the gentlemen to whose gifts they were
                        indebted for the opportunity of leaving New-York for Western homes would
                        watch their future course with interest, would have the name and address of
                        each, would get reports about them, and would feel amply repaid if they were
                        always said to be doing well." Alexander's novel, in many ways, is that
                        report to history, and is as full of can-do attitude as Reid's
                        newspaper and the nation it served.
                    Alexander's personal generosity to her small town of Mt. Vernon, Indiana
                        reflects the attitudes of Reid, Brace, and the Children’s Aid Society.
                        Although her donations appear small in comparison to the large programs of
                        the CAS, she shared their purpose in providing education and opportunities
                        to younger generations of Americans, and deserves the remembrance offered by
                        this text.
                
                
                    Bibliography
                    
                        Ashley, Perry. American Newspaper
                                Journalists, 1690-1872. Ed. Perry J.
                            Ashley. Dictionary of Literary Biography Vol.
                                43. Detroit: Gale
                                Research, 1985. 
                        Brace, Charles Loring. The Best
                                Method of Disposing of Our Pauper and Vagrant Children.
                                New York: Wynkoop, Hallenkoop &
                                Thomas, 1859. 
                        --. Short Sermons to Newsboys: With a History of the
                                Formation of the News Boys’ Lodging-House. New
                                York: Charles Scribner & Co.,
                                1866. 
                        --. The Dangerous Classes of New York and Twenty
                                Years Works Among Them. New York:
                                Wynkoop & Hallenbeck,
                            1872.
                        --. The Life of Charles Loring Brace: Chiefly Told in
                                His Own Letters. Ed. Emma Brace.
                                New York: Charles Scribner’s
                                Sons, 1894.
                        Bamford, Lawrence. Streets from
                                Silver: Leadville’s History through Its Built Environment.
                                Colorado Heritage (1 December
                                1987). 2-11. 
                        The Boys In The West Heard From. Twenty-Nine Of The
                                Last Party In Parsons, Kansas.
                            New York
                            Herald-Tribune (30 April 1879).
                                5.
                        The Committee in the History of Child-Saving Work.
                                History of Child-Saving in the United States. At
                                the Twentieth National Conference of Character and
                                Correction. Chicago, June 1893.
                                Boston: Geo. H. Ellis,
                                1893. 
                        Finley, J.P. Tornadoes of May 29th
                                and May 30th 1879, in Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, and Iowa.
                                Professional Paper No. 4. U.S. Signal
                                Service. 1881.
                        Fitzsimmons, Kathleen. Silver
                                City.
                            American Heritage
                            51.2 (April 2000).
                                70.
                        Further Reports of the Terrible Tornado.
                            Indianapolis Daily Sentinel (2 June
                                1879). 1.
                        Homes for the Homeless. A Second Party Sent to the
                                West. Thirty-Eight Destitute Boys.
                            New York
                            Herald-Tribune (23 April 1879).
                                5.
                        Homes in the West. Poor City Boys in Kansas. Fortunes
                                of the Party of Boys.
                            New York
                            Herald-Tribune (19 April 1879).
                                2, 8.
                        Leffel, John C., ed. History of
                                Posey County, Indiana. Chicago:
                                Standard Publishing Company,
                                1913. 
                        Leonard, W.P. History of Posey
                                County Indiana. Evansville, Indiana:
                                A.C. Isaacs, 1882.
                        The Oxford English Dictionary Online.
                                Second edition, 1989; online
                                version, November 2010. <http://www.oed.com>
                        A Terrible Cyclone. Marshall County, Kan., Visited by
                                a Disastrous Storm. Fifty People Killed.
                            New York
                            Herald-Tribune (1 June 1879).
                                11.
                        United State Department of the Interior. Annual Report of the Secretary of the Interior on the
                                Operations of the Department for the Year Ended June 30,
                                1879. In Three Volumes. Volume 1.
                                Washington: Government Printing
                                Office, 1879.
                        United State Office of Indian Affairs. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the
                                Secretary of the Interior for the Year 1879.
                                Washington: Government Printing
                                Office, 1879. 
                        A Western Cyclone.
                            New York
                            Herald-Tribune (1 June 1879).
                                10.
                        Wheeler, Leslie. Orphan
                                Trains.
                            American History Illustrated
                            18.8 (August 1983).
                                11-23.
                    
                
            
        
    
